 
 
 
 
Date: 4th July, 2024 
 
To, 
 
 
 
 
 
To, 
BSE Limited  
 
 
 
 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
P. J. Towers, Dalal Street, Fort,  
 
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Mumbai – 400 001. 
 
 
 
Bandra (East), Mumbai-400 051. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ref.: BSE Scrip Code No. “533138” 
 
Ref.: “ASTEC” 
 
Debt Segment NSE: 
NCD-ASTEC-ISIN: INE563J08015 
 
Dear Sir / Madam, 
 
Subject: (1) Annual Report for the Financial Year 2023-24 
(2) Notice of 30th (Thirtieth) Annual General Meeting 
(3) Notice of Book Closure 
 
In continuation to our letter dated 28th June, 2024 and pursuant to Regulation 30 read with Para A of Part A 
of Schedule III and Regulation 34 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), please find enclosed herewith, the 
Annual Report of Astec LifeSciences Limited  (“Company”) for the Financial Year 2023-24, containing inter 
alia, the Notice of the 30th (Thirtieth) Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company scheduled to be 
held on Monday, 29th July, 2024 at 4.00 p.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing (“VC”) / Other Audio Visual 
Means (“OAVM”). 
 
The Annual Report of the Company for the Financial Year 2023-24 [comprising of, inter alia, Audited 
Standalone and Consolidated Financial Statements, Reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory 
Auditors for the said Financial Year, Notice of the AGM], is also available on the website of the Company, 
viz., www.godrejastec.com. 
 
We further wish to inform that pursuant to Section 91 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 42 of the 
Listing Regulations, the Register of Members and the Share Transfer Books of the Company will remain 
closed for the purpose of the 30th (Thirtieth) AGM from Wednesday, 24th July, 2024 to Sunday, 28th July, 
2024 (both days inclusive). 
 
The remote e-voting period commences on Wednesday, 24th July, 2024 at 9.00 a.m. (IST) and ends on 
Sunday, 28th July, 2024 at 5.00 p.m. (IST). During this period, the Shareholders of the Company, holding 
shares either in physical form or in dematerialized form, as on the cut-off date, i.e., Monday, 22nd July, 
2024, may cast their votes by remote e-voting. 
 
Please take note of the above. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For Astec LifeSciences Limited  
 
 
 
 
 
Tejashree Pradhan 
 
 
 
 
 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
(FCS 7167) 
 
Encl.: As above 
Tejashree Rohan 
Pradhan
Digitally signed by Tejashree Rohan Pradhan 
DN: c=IN, o=Personal, title=1500, 
pseudonym=6772abaea05446e9af7db0d1485a0332, 
2.5.4.20=7e85e7813cc0727379015ad6d28a3b65295c6375608d78aea1ca
152cafefaf7f, postalCode=400606, st=Maharashtra, 
serialNumber=cc444393f2150dc819f3d8164db345c555b40cb184b6ae86
11cda7b9d64587a7, cn=Tejashree Rohan Pradhan 
Date: 2024.07.04 20:35:01 +05'30'
ANNUAL REPORT
2023-24
Disclaimer 
The statements in the “Management Discussion and Analysis Report” describe your Company's objecƟves, projecƟons, esƟmates and 
expectaƟons which may be “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the applicable laws and regulaƟons. The actual results 
could diﬀer materially from those expressed or implied, depending upon the economic and climaƟc condiƟons, government policies, 
taxaƟon and other laws and other incidental factors. 
 
Inside the Report ...
01
Business Overview
2
Our Values
4
Board of Directors
6
From CEO’s Desk
8
About Us
9
Geographical Footprints
10
Corporate Information
12
Astec LifeSciences - At a Glance
13
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
02
Statutory Reports
33
AGM Notice
45
Directors’ Report
73
Corporate Governance Report
107
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
03
Financial Statements
143
Standalone Financials and Auditors’ Report
211
Consolidated Financials and Auditors’ Report
Annual Report 2023-24
1
Annual Report 2023-24
2
THE
GODREJ
WAY
To live our purpose,
we need to ensure that we are
guided by the right values
-  We hold ourselves to the highest standards of personal and business integrity
-  Our word is stronger than any contract
-  We put people and our planet alongside profits
-  We have bold ambitions.We set the bar high. We outperform expectations.
-  We adapt, We are agile and resilient.
-  We continuously innovate. We champion new ideas. We take risks.
-  We place our consumers at the heart of all we do.
-  We obsess over current and future needs of our consumers. And then deliver
-  We offer consumers amazing quality products at great value.
Trust
Our Values
Be Bold
Create Delight
Annual Report 2023-24
3
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
-  We are 100/0. Take 100% accountability with 0 excuses.
-  We speak our mind. We challenge the status quo.
-  We focus on the details, but never forget the bigger picture.
-  We own up to and learn from our mistakes.
-  We ask for feedback. And then grow with it
-  We give credit wherever due.
-  We treat people like we would want to be treated
-  We embrace and celebrate diversity
-  We foster collaboration
Own It
Be Humble
Show Respect
Annual Report 2023-24
4
Mr. Nadir Burjor Godrej
Chairman - Non Executive
Mr. B. S. Yadav
Non-Executive Director
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas
Independent Director
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot
Independent Director
BOARD OF
 
Audit CommiƩee 
 
CSR CommiƩee 
 
NominaƟon & RemuneraƟon CommiƩee 
 
 
M 
C
M 
C
M
M 
C
C 
M 
M
M 
M
M 
M 
Annual Report 2023-24
5
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
 
Stakeholders’ RelaƟonship CommiƩee 
 
Risk Management CommiƩee 
 
Managing CommiƩee 
 
 
M 
M 
DIRECTORS
Mr. Burjis Godrej
Non Executive Director
Mr. Anurag Roy
Whole-Time Director & 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Independent Director 
Mr. Nandkumar Vasant Dhekne
Independent Director 
Ms. Anjali Rajesh Gupte
Independent Director 
M
C
C
M 
M 
Annual Report 2023-24
6
the spillover effects of global headwinds, such as rising interest rates and commodity price volatility, posed 
potential risks to India's growth trajectory towards the latter part of the fiscal year. Overall, India continues 
to be the fastest-growing major economy with positive assessments of the growth outlook for the current 
financial year, by international organisations and Reserve Bank of India. 
The global agrochemical sector faced significant headwinds in FY 2023-24, marked by a strong destocking 
trend. This was triggered by an accumulation of excess inventory from previous years, compounded by a 
substantial increase in interest rates. As a result, demand contracted sharply, leading to a decline in both 
global sales volumes and product pricing across the agrochemical industry. The combination of inflated 
inventories and higher borrowing costs prompted stakeholders to reduce their stock levels, exerting 
downward pressure on the markets.
Unlock boundless future possibilities with future-ready R&D facility  
With foresight and a progressive mindset, your Company has proactively invested in the future by 
commissioning the new state-of-the-art Adi Godrej Center for Chemical Research and Development in 
Rabale, Maharashtra back in April 2023. This world-class facility, established ahead of its time, exemplifies 
your Company's steadfast commitment to long-term growth and value creation, even amidst challenging 
external circumstances. The launch of this cutting-edge R&D Center marks a pioneering milestone for Astec 
LifeSciences and the Godrej Group, positioning them at the forefront of providing advanced solutions to 
customers. By prioritizing green chemistry and sustainability, Astec has embarked on an innovative and 
transformative journey well before its time.
With an intensified focus on the Contract Manufacturing (CDMO) business, coupled with the newly 
commissioned state-of-the-art R&D facility, we are poised to accelerate our new product development 
efforts significantly. This strategic combination will enable us to expedite the commercialization of innovative 
products, propelling our growth in the CDMO domain. Leveraging the cutting-edge infrastructure and 
capabilities of our R&D Center, we aim to bolster our new product pipeline, catalysing the swift transition 
from research to market-ready solutions for our valued customers
Financial Performance for FY 2023-24 – Focus on resilient CDMO business and new 
products pipeline 
After challenging first nine months marred by severe price correction across Enterprise products portfolio, 
your Company reported a recovery in Q4 FY24 due to new product launches and higher salience of Contract 
From CEO's Desk
Dear Shareholders,
I hope this letter finds you and your families well and safe.
The global economic landscape in FY 2023-24 was marked by a 
gradual recovery from the pandemic-induced downturn, supply 
chain disruptions, elevated inflation levels, and geopolitical 
tensions. Globally, inflation management continues to remain a key 
priority. 
Against this backdrop, the Indian economy exhibited remarkable 
buoyancy, emerging as a bright spot on the global stage. Fuelled by 
robust domestic consumption, a resurgent manufacturing sector, 
and the Government's pro-growth initiatives, India's GDP growth 
rate is projected to have surpassed 8.2% in FY 2023-24. However, 
Annual Report 2023-24
7
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
Manufacturing (CDMO). Severe demand supply imbalance adversely impacted the profitability of the 
Enterprise product portfolio in both domestic as well as international markets. Your Company has been 
actively focusing on putting some of the new CDMO products in pipeline with the intention to get the 
products commercialised at the earliest opportunity.
Contract Manufacturing (CDMO) Business - Key focus area
While the Enterprise business faced dual challenges of lower demand and low realisations, your Company 
achieved strong growth in its Contract Manufacturing (CDMO) segment. This robust topline performance 
was complemented by enhanced profitability driven by a focus on process efficiencies. Your Company has 
commissioned an herbicide plant which will enable the Company to become a partner of choice for global 
innovator companies.
Embracing Sustainability, the Godrej Legacy
Despite the year's significant volatilities and unexpected challenges, Astec LifeSciences maintained an 
unwavering commitment to the highest standards of Environment, Health and Safety (EHS). Your Company's 
safety record remained exemplary, with zero lost time injuries in FY 2023-24. Aligning with the Godrej Group's 
'Good and Green' philosophy, Astec made meaningful strides towards achieving its long-term sustainability 
objectives by 2026. Through its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, your Company implemented 
projects focused on agriculture and rural livelihoods, women empowerment, education, entitlements, and 
community development. These CSR programs positively impacted the livelihoods of over 10,000 households 
and benefited more than 1,100 students.
Way Forward
Our long-standing specialization in complex agrochemical active ingredients at scale has solidified our 
reputation over the years. The strategic expansion into the herbicides domain, complemented by our 
state-of-the-art R&D capabilities, has positioned us aptly within the agrochemicals sector at an opportune 
juncture. Moving forward, your Company will channel our energies for adopting cutting-edge technologies 
and bolstering our research competencies. Leveraging the Godrej Group's legacy, our focal point for the 
upcoming year is to establish ourselves as a trusted partner for multinational innovator companies, furnishing 
them with tailored solutions. Our investments over the last couple of years will empower us to provide 
comprehensive end-to-end solutions, spanning R&D to product commercialization, while expediting time-to-
market through operational excellence and a customer-centric approach.
Concurrently, we acknowledge the necessity for diversification within our existing Enterprise portfolio. Our 
endeavour remains to sustain market leadership in the Enterprise segment through process innovations 
while exploring new market segments and chemistries.
As the Indian agrochemical sector emerges as a global manufacturing hub for innovators, we, at Astec 
LifeSciences, are confident in our ability to deliver on our commitment of proudly manufacturing in India for 
the world.
Note of Thanks to all our Stakeholders 
In closing, on behalf of the Board of Directors and the Management team, I would like to extend my sincere 
appreciation and deep gratitude to all our employees, business partners, customers, vendors, valued 
shareholders and other stakeholders, for their continued trust, efforts and contribution to the Company. 
As we embark on the next phase of our journey, I am confident that the Company will continue to push the 
boundaries of innovation and redefine industry standards.
Regards,
Anurag Roy
Chief Executive Officer
Annual Report 2023-24
8
              Astec LifeSciences Limited 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Proud Member of the Godrej Family  
 
Since our establishment in 1994, Astec LifeSciences Limited has undergone substantial growth, solidifying 
its position as a prominent player within the agrochemical and intermediate sector. In 2015, we became 
a majority-owned subsidiary of Godrej Agrovet Limited, aligning ourselves with the Godrej way of doing 
business. Drawing from nearly three decades of experience in the development and production of various 
chemicals, Astec has cultivated enduring relationships with global organizations.
We specialize in manufacturing agrochemical active ingredients (technical), bulk formulations and intermediate 
products, maintaining a balanced sales mix of both exports and domestic sales. Our robust export presence 
spans across 17 countries worldwide, including the United States of America, Europe, West Asia, Southeast 
Asia, Latin America and Africa. We have also developed capabilities and infrastructure which enables us to 
undertake contract development and manufacturing services for a diverse range of agrochemicals, catering 
to the needs of global innovators in the sector.
About Us
World of Astec LifeSciences
Annual Report 2023-24
9
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registered Oﬃce – Godrej One, Vikhroli (East), Mumbai 
4 Manufacturing Plants – All are in Mahad, Maharashtra 
1 New R&D Centre - in Rabale, Maharashtra 
(commissioned in FY 2022-23)
Exports vs. Domestic
Domestic
28%
Enterprise
40%
Contract 
Manufacturing 
60%
Exports
72%
Segment Breakdown
Geographical Footprints
Key Revenue Split
Annual Report 2023-24
10
 
Corporate Information
Mr. Nadir B. Godrej 
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath 
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav 
Mr. Burjis Godrej 
Mr. Anurag Roy 
Mr. R. R. Govindan 
Mr. Vijay K. Khot (Upto 2 nd May, 2024) 
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas 
Mr. Nandkumar Dhekne 
Ms. Anjali Gupte 
B S R & Co. LLP, 
Chartered Accountants
NNT & Co., 
Cost Accountants
Bigshare Services Private Limited
Ofﬁce No S6-2, 6 th Floor, 
Pinnacle Business Park, 
Next to Ahura Centre, Mahakali Caves Road, 
Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 093,
Maharashtra, India
Tel. No.: 022 – 6263 8200, 
Fax No.: 022 – 6263 8299
Website: www.bigshareonline.com
E-mail: investor@bigshareonline.com
Board of Directors
Statutory Auditors
Cost Auditors
Secretarial Auditors
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Ofﬁcer
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
“Godrej One”, 3 rd Floor, 
Pirojshanagar, Eastern Express Highway, 
Vikhroli (East), Mumbai – 400 079, 
Maharashtra, India
Telephone No.: 022 – 2518 8010
Fax No.: 022 – 2261 8289
Website: www.godrejastec.com 
E-mail:  astecinfo@godrejastec.com / 
 
astecinvestors@godrejastec.com 
Corporate Identity Number (CIN): L99999MH1994PLC076236
Registered Ofﬁce
BNP & Associates, 
Company Secretaries
Mr. Madhur Gundecha 
(Upto 2 nd May, 2023)
Mr. K. Suryanarayan
(W.e.f. 3 rd May, 2023 upto 3 rd May, 2024)
Ms. Tejashree Pradhan
Bankers
ICICI Bank Limited 
HDFC Bank Limited 
Axis Bank Limited
RBL Bank Limited
Annual Report 2023-24
11
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
Corporate Information
Audit Committee:
Mr. R. R. Govindan (Chairman)
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas
 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee:
Mr. R. R. Govindan  (Chairman)
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot 
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee:
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav (Chairman)
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot  
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee:
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath (Chairman)
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Mr. R. R. Govindan 
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas  
Risk Management Committee:
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath (Chairman)
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Managing Committee:
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav (Chairman)
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
Mr. Burjis Godrej 
Mr. Anurag Roy 
Board Committees
Factories
(1) Plot Nos. B-16, B-17, B-18 & B-21, 
MIDC Mahad, Birwadi Industrial Area, 
Taluka Mahad, 
District Raigad – 402 302, 
Maharashtra
(2) Plot No. K-2/1/1, 
Additional MIDC Mahad,
Village Kalinj, 
Taluka Mahad, 
District Raigad – 402 302, 
Maharashtra
(3) Plot No. K-2/1/2, 
Additional MIDC Mahad,
Village Kalinj, 
Taluka Mahad, 
District Raigad – 402 302, 
Maharashtra
(4) Plot No. K-2/2, K-2/3/1, 
Additional MIDC Mahad,
Village Kalinj, 
Taluka Mahad, 
District Raigad – 402 302, 
Maharashtra
Plot No. B-23, T.T.C, Pipeline 
Road, TTC Industrial Area, 
Airoli, Navi Mumbai – 400 708, 
Maharashtra
Research & Development Centre
Annual Report 2023-24
12
 Strong Parentage as a part of Godrej Group 
₹ 464 Cr.
AA- (Stable)
17 Countries
#4
Herbicide Plant
PIONEER
A1+
₹ 273 Cr.
Consolidated Total Income 
in FY 2023 – 24
ICRA Long term Rating 
Exports to
Product Diversiﬁcation Through 
planned expansion of 
Manufacturing Plants 
in Maharashtra
in Triazole Fungicides
in India and Globally
ICRA Short term Rating 
Contract Manufacturing (CDMO) 
Revenue in FY 2023– 24
700+
Regular Employee force
Astec LifeSciences - At a Glance
Annual Report 2023-24
13
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
Management Discussion and Analysis
Economic and Industry Overview
Global Economy and Outlook
Despite gloomy predictions, the world economy proved remarkably resilient in FY 2023-24 with steady growth 
and inflation slowing almost as quickly as it rose. The journey has been eventful, starting with supply chain 
disruptions in the aftermath of the pandemic, an energy and food crises triggered by Russia – Ukraine War, a 
considerable surge in Inflation, followed by a globally synchronized monetary policy tightening.
The baseline forecast for the World Economy is to continue growing at 3.2% during 2024 and 2025, at the 
same pace as in 2023. The forecast for global growth for 5 years from now – at 3.1% - is at its lowest in 
decades. A slight acceleration for Advanced Global Economies – where growth is expected to rise from 1.7% 
in 2024 to 1.8% in 2025 – will be offset by a modest slowdown in emerging market and developing economies 
from 4.3% in 2023 to 4.2% in both FY 2023-24 and FY 2024-25. The Global inflation is forecasted to decline 
from 5.9% in FY 2023-24 to 4.5% in FY 2024-25, with advances economies returning to their inflation targets 
sooner than emerging economies. 
Indian Economy and Outlook
Despite continued inflationary pressures, tightened Liquidity Policy by Reserve Bank of India (RBI), continuous 
currency depreciation and rising geo-political tensions, India has maintained its position of the fastest growing 
economy in the world for the last couple of years. The real Gross Domestic product (GDP) is projected to expand 
at 7.6% in 2023-24 on the back of buoyant domestic demand. India's economy is expected to grow at a slightly 
slower pace of 6.8% in FY 2024-25. This moderation is due to higher interest rates reducing borrowing and 
spending, and less government economic stimulus, which together are likely to temper overall demand. 
This was a result of buoyant private consumption and strong capital formation bolstered by the Government’s 
continued capital expenditure push even during the pandemic period. Government’s continued policy thrust 
on capital expenditure through infrastructure spending was visible in the Union Budget for FY 2024-25 as well 
with increased capital investment outlay by ~11% to `11.11 Lakh Crore.
With overall rainfall in monsoon season 2023 falling below normal levels (led by El-Nino), Agriculture and 
allied sectors’ incremental growth stalled to around 1% in 2023-24 as compared to more than 4% in previous 
year. India’s total food grain production is estimated to have declined by around 6% in 2023-24 season due 
to lower rainfall and less water storages in reservoirs during rabi sowing season. Despite global economic 
challenges, India's total merchandise exports have sustained near its record high level at $433.1 billion in FY 
2023-24, which is marginally lower from $443.7 billion shipped in FY 2022-23.
The sustained resilience of Indian economy amidst global uncertainties is expected to continue in FY 2024-
25 as well. As per consensus forecasts, India’s GDP growth in FY 2024-25 is expected to be in the range 
of 6.5% - 7%. The primary growth drivers include strong domestic demand, Government’s firm focus on 
infrastructure spending and a rising work age population. CRISIL, in its India Outlook Report, said that the 
nature of Government spending will provide some support to the investment cycle and rural incomes.
Agrochemical Industry and Implications for the Company
India currently holds the distinction of being the world’s fourth-largest producer of agrochemicals and the 
12th largest exporter of chemicals (excluding pharmaceuticals). The Indian agrochemicals sector is witnessing 
a resurgence after experiencing a subdued performance during the COVID-19 pandemic, embarking on a 
trajectory of robust growth. 
Annual Report 2023-24
14
As of 2024, the domestic agrochemicals market stands at an estimated $8.22 billion and is poised to reach 
$13.08 billion by 2029, boasting a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 4% during the forecast period 
(2024 - 2029). This upsurge is driven by practical factors, including significant Research and Development 
(R&D) efforts and key policy reforms affecting trade, marketing, production, manufacturing, product registration 
and intellectual property rights. 
The increasing use of herbicides is notably driving the market development. Huge investments are being 
made in the development of new varieties of herbicides that are more effective and eco-friendly. Most modern 
herbicides are formulated to decompose within a short span after application. Applications of herbicides are 
spread across varieties of crops, including cereals, grains, fruits, vegetables, oilseeds and pulses.
However, the industry faces challenges such as stiff competition from cheap imports, particularly from China, 
which can impact profit margins for Indian producers. Moreover, global economic slowdowns, continued 
geo-political tensions and unpredictable weather patterns pose additional challenges by causing fluctuations 
in demand for agrochemicals. Despite these challenges, the Indian agrochemicals sector remains resilient, 
driven by innovation, strategic investments and a favourable regulatory environment.
KEY DRIVERS 
• India ranks amongst the lowest in terms of application of crop protection chemicals per hectare as compared 
  to other advanced agriculture producing nations. At the same time, India also has one of the lowest yields
  per hectare amongst its global peers. Given the high focus on increasing the yield per hectare, limited arable 
  land and rising labour costs, there is a huge growth potential for crop protection products in the country.
• In terms of exports, Indian agrochemical companies have been witnessing sharp rise in demand for crop 
  protection intermediates and active ingredients. As per the CRISIL research, the uptick in demand is being 
  driven by multiple tailwinds such as ‘China plus one strategy’ adopted by global companies to reduce 
  dependency on Chinese markets. This along with growing operational and compliance costs in China, import 
  substitution and favourable currency are driving demand growth.
• Furthermore, Indian companies also benefit from R&D expertise, skilled manpower and improving regulatory 
  framework.
Your Company is one of the leading players in triazole fungicides and is well placed to capitalize on opportunities 
arising in the domestic as well as the international markets with well-established market credentials. The 
Company has 4 (four) manufacturing facilities in Mahad, Maharashtra and has recently commissioned a 
state-of-the-art Research and Development (R&D) Center which will further augment your Company’s R&D 
capabilities. Your Company has also commissioned another herbicide facility, which will be operational in 
FY 2024-25, to cater to growing Contract Manufacturing business. The Company has already built a strong 
reputation for its specialisation in multi-step synthesis undertaking complex chemical reactions with a focus 
on developing innovative manufacturing processes. Astec’s strong progress made in backward integration 
projects is also expected to aid in margin expansion. While demand for triazole fungicides is expected to 
remain strong in both global as well as domestic markets, your Company is also focused on diversifying its 
operations by increasing proportion of contract manufacturing business.  
Company’s Financial and Operational Performance
 
In FY 2023-24, your Company recorded Total Income of `46,382.46 Lakh as compared to `64,122.63 Lakh 
in FY 2022-23 and Profit after Tax of `(4,689.10) Lakh in FY 2023-24 as compared `2,559.39 Lakh in FY 
2022-23. 
Your Company, in line with the long-term strategic ambitions, continued to focus on Contract Development 
and Manufacturing Operations (CDMO) segment and achieved 1.7x growth in revenues from the segment 
as compared to the previous year. Share of CDMO sales increased to 60% in FY 2023-24 from 26% in FY 
Annual Report 2023-24
15
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
2022-23. The capacity utilisation of the herbicide facility, which was commissioned in FY 2021-22, further 
increased supporting growth in CDMO sales. Your Company has completed Herbicide II plant, which would be 
operational in Q1 FY 2024-25, further enhancing Company’s ability to cater to the market demand in CDMO 
Segment.
Your Company’s enterprise business, however, faced volume headwinds in both exports as well as domestic 
markets. Unprecedented drop in volumes, primarily in the second half of the year, for key enterprise products 
was attributed to high inventories with customers and in the channel as well. At the same time, market prices 
of some of the triazole fungicides corrected sharply in the second half from last year’s high base leading to 
continued reduced realisations in FY 2023-24. As a result, your Company reported decline in revenues and 
margins in FY 2023-24 as compared to last year.
Geographically, export sales declined by 14.3% year-on-year while domestic sales fell by 47.1% year-on-year 
due to lower volumes of key enterprise products. Proportion of exports in total sales increased to 72% in FY 
2023-24 from 61% in the previous year. Domestic share was at 28% of total sales in FY 2023-24.
Gross margin stood at 30.3% in FY 2023-24 as compared to 36.1% in FY 2022-23. EBITDA margin declined 
to (0.1)% in FY 2023-24 from 13.9% in the previous year. Reduced realisations of key enterprise products and 
high cost inventories led to lower margins in FY 2023-24 as compared to the previous year. Higher salience in 
revenues and relatively stable profitability of CDMO business supported overall margin profile in an otherwise 
challenging year.
In April 2023, your Company also inaugurated a state-of-the-art Research & Development Center, named “Adi 
Godrej Center for Chemical Research and Development” in Rabale, Maharashtra. The facility, equipped with 
synthesis lab, formulation lab as well as sophisticated safety infrastructure, will enable your Company to expand 
offerings in CDMO space. This investment is ahead of time which will further aid your Company in improving 
product development, providing access to advanced equipment and facilities, fostering collaboration, and 
driving innovation. With improved capability to reduce the time-to-market for innovative solutions and provide 
end- to-end solutions supported by advanced labs and analytical instruments, the R&D Center will also make 
your Company a partner of choice for innovator companies across the globe. Astec’s substantial investment 
in a future-ready R&D Center reflects its unwavering commitment towards long-term value creation despite 
challenges in the short run.
In the next Financial Year, Astec LifeSciences will continue to focus on scaling up R&D projects, diversification 
into other molecules as well as chemistries and expanding its customer base for contract manufacturing 
business. During the year, your Company also initiated expansion of herbicides plant at existing Mahad facility. 
With steadfast focus on R&D, business diversification and future-ready investments, your Company remains 
committed to maximising shareholder value in the medium to long-term.
Godrej Agrovet Limited, the Holding Company has maintained its shareholding in your Company of 1,26,99,054 
Equity Shares (64.76% as on 31st March, 2024 and 64.77% as on 31st March, 2023).
Key Financial Highlights
Particulars (in ₹ Lakh)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Income
46,382.46
64,122.63
Earnings Before Exceptional Items, Interest, Tax, Depreciation and 
Amortization
(26.87)
8.931.40
Profit Before Tax
(6,174.79)
3,494.73
Profit After Tax
(4,689.10)
2,559.40
Total Comprehensive Income
(4,747.68)
2,537.58
Annual Report 2023-24
16
Key Financial Ratios
The key financial ratios for Consolidated financials are as per the below table:        
The Inventory Turnover ratio has decreased in FY 2023-24 due to sharp fall in demand of few products during the year
The Return on Net Worth, Operating Margin and Net Profit ratio for FY 2023-24 are negative due to sharp decline in 
profit for the year due to challenging market conditions as mentioned above.
The formulae used for computation of key financial ratios are as follows:
Particulars 
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Debtors Turnover Ratio
2.83
2.93
Inventory Turnover Ratio
1.30
1.67
Interest Coverage Ratio
-1.45
2.69
Current Ratio
1.00
0.95
Debt Equity Ratio
1.34
0.81
Operating Margin (%)
-7.97%
8.86%
Net Profit Margin (%)
-10.23%
4.07%
Return on Net worth (%)
-11.89%
6.27%
Debtors Turnover Ratio
Net Sales / Average Trade Receivable
Inventory Turnover Ratio
Cost of Goods sold / Average Inventory
Interest Coverage Ratio
Profit Before Interest and Taxes / Finance Costs
Current Ratio
Current Assets / Current Liabilities
Debt Equity Ratio
Total Debt / Shareholders’ Equity
Operating Profit Margin (%)
Profit Before Interest and Taxes / Net Sales
Net Profit Margin (%)
Profit After Tax / Net Sales
Return on Net Worth (%)
Profit After Tax / Average of Total Equity
Annual Report 2023-24
17
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
Opportunities, Strengths and Concerns
 
Opportunities:
 
Indian chemical companies are expected to rapidly gain market share on the back of multiple favourable 
factors listed below:
•	
China plus one strategy - As global companies look for alternate manufacturing locations outside China, 
the opportunity available to Indian manufacturers, including your Company, will be huge. Organizations 
with deep expertise in respect of technical or intermediate chemistries are likely to gain from this shift / 
diversification of the manufacturing base.
•	
Growth expectation in Exports - 50% of the Indian agrochemical industry’s value is derived from exports 
which are expected to grow at a faster pace in the coming years, as compared to the domestic market 
owing to improved agricultural policies and reforms by the Government aiming to double India’s share in 
world’s agri-exports.
•	
Strong R&D and manufacturing capabilities of domestic players – Government has a huge focus on R&D 
within the sector. This factor coupled with the R&D skills and relatively lower labour costs in India sets a 
good platform to capitalise on the new opportunities in the agrochemical space.
•	
Improving domestic business environment - led by Government’s focus on Make-in-India / Atmanirbhar 
Bharat projects / Performance Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes and ease of doing business, opens new 
doors for the Indian agrochemical players, including your Company.
•	
Ingredients going off-patent - Globally, around 22 active ingredients are expected to go off-patent over 
the next 10 years. The estimated market size for these products will be around $4.1 billion by 2026. Indian 
chemical sector is well placed to capitalise on such opportunities and to build a strong manufacturing 
base.
•	
Growing population and food security for the world - The agrochemicals have a significant role to play in 
supporting the agriculture sector thus contributing towards catering to the food and nutritional needs of 
the rising population of the world.
•	
Pest attacks due to climate change conditions - There is an increase in the emergence of pests-attacks 
and occurrence of diseases in plants due to the fluctuating climatic patterns emanating from the climate 
change. A substantial percentage of agricultural yield is lost to the pest attacks each year.
•	
Low consumption in India - India has relatively low per capital consumption of agrochemicals leaving 
room for a significant upside.
Strengths:
•	
Your Company has established presence in agrochemical business, leadership position in triazole 
fungicides manufacturing coupled with reputed clientele, comprising MNCs in domestic and export 
markets.
•	
Your Company’s new state-of-the-art R&D centre will provide strong impetus to cater to rapidly growing 
Contract Development and Manufacturing Operations (CDMO) business and attract large numbers of 
innovators across the globe. By entering into partnerships with innovators at an early stage of a product 
cycle, we intend to build a stable and sustainable business.
Annual Report 2023-24
18
•	
The herbicide plant commissioned in August 2021 is enabling in diversification of product portfolio and 
augmenting your Company’s manufacturing capacity.
•	
Strong balance sheet with short term credit rating of A1+ from ICRA Limited.
Concerns:
•	
Unfavourable and erratic weather patterns and monsoon failure – Agrochemical sector is highly vulnerable 
to unfavourable local and global weather patterns since it directly impacts the application of crop 
protection products. Erratic and uneven South West monsoon can have material adverse impact on the 
overall demand for the products of the agrochemical companies. Your Company’s presence into wider 
geographies through exports limits the risk, to a significant extent.
•	
Unavailability of raw materials - A large part of your Company’s operations is dependent on imports of 
raw materials which may not be available in the domestic market. Your Company is exposed to risks 
associated with the non-availability of these materials from overseas markets.
•	
Foreign currency volatility and interest rates – Company’s exports to the foreign markets leads to profits 
getting impacted by the volatility in the foreign currency and the interest rates. Company has foreign 
exchange policy in place to hedge the risk.
 
Segment-wise Performance or Product-wise performance:
Your Company has only 1 (One) reportable segment, i.e., Agrochemicals. The Total Income from Agrochemicals 
was `46,382.46 Lakh for the FY 2023-24.
Internal Control System:
Your Company has adequate internal controls in place designed and developed to:
a) Safeguard its assets from unauthorised use or losses
b) Conduct its business operations efficiently in line with the Company’s policies
c) Maintain accuracy, completeness and reliability of the financial and accounting records
d) Comply with the applicable laws, rules and regulations
e) Detect and prevent any fraud the frauds in the accounting and reporting system
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors oversees and evaluates the internal financial controls and risk 
managements system as well as spearheads the internal audit mechanism, on a regular basis.
Human Resources
The Company has adopted progressive Human Resources (HR) policies to develop and empower its valuable 
employee force. We provide ample, equal and fair opportunities to groom our employees and put them on 
career progression paths, without any form of discrimination in terms of religion, gender, race, colour, caste, 
etc. We take several initiatives to inspire our workforce and to care for them. As a part of Godrej Group, we 
have Whistleblower Policy and Prevention of Sexual Harassment Act Policy to empower our employees to be 
able to identify and report any wrong doings in the system. The Company believes in being an employer that 
provides all tools and guidance to its employees so that they can discover their full potential and add value to 
the organization through their skills and behaviour.
Annual Report 2023-24
19
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
• Our specialization in multi-step synthesis undertaking complex chemical reactions 
   to produce key specialty chemicals with a focus on developing innovative 
   manufacturing processes
• Our proven track record of timely delivery of products and services to our partners 
   without compromising on compliance and quality, despite of tight deadlines
• Astec LifeSciences is a ‘Responsible Care’ Company
• DuPont’s 14 element-based Process Safety Management System implemented 
   across our Plants to ensure Safe Operations
• Adi Godrej Center for Chemical Research and Development, equipped with best-in 
   class research infrastructure 
• Laboratories for Product Synthesis, Analytical method development, Process 
   Safety, Fluorination, Kilo & Flow Chemistry, and Formulation Development
• 4 multipurpose and multi-product manufacturing plants rendering us ability to 
   handle multi-synthesis and complex chemistries
• A dedicated Herbicide manufacturing facility with high-potency blocks and 
   zero-Liquid discharge facility 
• All the manufacturing plants are fully/semi-automated with the DSC system to 
   ensure best practices process monitoring and operations
• Best in class accreditations including Responsible Care, ISO 14001:2015 (EMS), 
   ISO 9001:2015 (QMS), OHSAS 18001:2007 (OHSAS), for all our manufacturing l
   ocations
• Our team of visionary leaders along with the strong and dedicated management as 
   well as highly experienced R&D & technology team together plan, develop and 
   deliver solutions tailored to ﬁt the needs of the customer.
Deep Knowledge
Timely Delivery 
Focus on Safety
State of the art 
R&D centre
Assets – Infrastructure 
and Capability
Quality Governance
Strong Team
Our Value Proposition
Annual Report 2023-24
20
The increasing diversification of global chemical supply chains due to events over the past two years has 
positioned India at the vanguard of the global chemicals industry. With the Indian agrochemicals sector witnessing 
a robust influx of lucrative opportunities, Astec LifeSciences Limited continues to prioritize the expansion of its 
Contract Development and Manufacturing Operations (CDMO) portfolio. This expansion is backed by prudent 
manufacturing capacity coupled with state-of-the-art research and development capabilities. We are confident 
that these factors will drive our medium to long-term growth.
In our pursuit of growth, we have strategically selected growth enablers with the vision of creating a diverse 
portfolio of chemistries, products, and solutions to meet the demands of tomorrow. Our growth trajectory will be 
reinforced by fortifying our intangible assets, built upon the foundational pillars of our values – safety, responsibility, 
sustainability, quality, cost leadership and speed to market.
Key Growth Drivers
Foresight and the ability to anticipate future trends - 
Key determinants of success
Manufacturing Capacity
and Product Portfolio
Diversiﬁcation
Research &
Development
Contract Development
Manufacturing (CDMO)
Portfolio Expansion
Annual Report 2023-24
21
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
China plus one
diversiﬁcation
strategy by global 
crop protection
businesses
 
 
 
 
 
 
Competitive 
pricing through
backward intergration
of input supplies 
& in-house product 
develpoment 
capabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
3
Prudent 
investments 
to step up R&D and 
Manufacturing 
capabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
Digital Initiatives 
for better customer 
reach & internal 
streamlining of 
processes
5
Deep expertise in 
undertaking complex
chemistries and 
developing 
innovative processes 
6
Governments focus
through Atmanirbhar
Bharat and Go Global
initiatives
The Global Agrochemicals market size is expected 
to grow to USD 328.52 billion by 2033, at a CAGR of 
3.5% during the projected period. The global Contract 
Development and Manufacturing Operations (CDMO) 
market is poised to grow at a CAGR of 10% up to 2029. 
The global innovators are increasingly harnessing the cost 
effectiveness of CDMO model wherein Indian companies 
are emerging as preferred partners in this outsourcing 
boom. Your Company is strategically positioned to 
address the rapidly escalating market demand for 
outsourced development and manufacturing of intricate 
chemistries to support novel products within our sector. 
Your Company is actively developing a robust pipeline for 
its CDMO business. Underpinned by our agile approach, 
we emphasize cost and quality leadership, dynamic 
research infrastructure and a deeply ingrained culture 
of trust and integrity across all our practices. These 
attributes render Astec LifeSciences an attractive partner 
for companies seeking outsourcing solutions.
Contract Development and Manufacturing 
Operations (CDMO) Highlights – FY 2023-24
• Our CDMO business achieved 1.7x growth 
in revenues in FY 2023-24 to reach `273 
Crore in topline, accounting for 60% of the 
total revenues
• Capacity utilization at our herbicides plant 
remained on track, meeting our expected 
performance levels
Way forward...
• Effective utilisation of the new R&D Centre 
with word-class infrastructure will boost our 
efforts towards adding new customers 
• Capacity expansion of Herbicides facility 
is in-line as per our plans 
Contract Development and 
Manufacturing (CDMO)
Factors favouring our CDMO play
Annual Report 2023-24
22
In April 2023, your Company unveiled a pioneering, advanced Research & Development Center in Maharashtra. 
Christened the "Adi Godrej Center for Chemical Research and Development", this future-ready facility exemplifies 
your Company's steadfast commitment to offering cutting-edge solutions. With an unwavering focus on green 
chemistry, sustainability and accelerating go-to-market strategies for innovators, this investment is a testament 
to our forward-thinking approach, well ahead of current industry standards.
The R&D Center boasts state-of-the-art infrastructure, including a synthesis lab for product development and 
a formulation lab dedicated to crafting novel formulations within the crop protection domain. Complemented 
by advanced analytical instruments to drive research and development efforts, the Center further houses 
sophisticated process safety infrastructure to facilitate safe and sustainable chemical reactions.
Envisioned as a hub for cutting-edge research and development and equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, 
this investment will significantly augment our capabilities, solidifying our position as an attractive partner for 
Contract Development and Manufacturing Operations (CDMO) requirements of multinational companies of all 
sizes worldwide. This strategic investment underscores our commitment to staying ahead of the curve, paving 
the way for a promising future marked by innovation and growth.
Adi Godrej Center for Chemical Research 
and Development
Annual Report 2023-24
23
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
     “For us, Safety is not just a  
  priority but the core value
 upon which we have created   
      our high-functioning  
         culture.”
Safety goes beyond Statistics and reflects 
through behavior and culture…
Our approach to EHS
Process Safety is of paramount importance in Agrochemicals
sector. Astec LifeSciences is committed to create operations that
focus on the well-being of our employees and the communities. It is
widely recognized and proven that managing EHS risks have a positive impact
on staff morale and employee productivity, in addition to improved financial performance.
We continue to go the extra mile in ensuring the health, safety and well-being of our workforce.
For our business to flourish sustainably, our operations need to be conducted in a responsible
manner. And for our talent to thrive, it is imperative that we provide our people with a safe working environment. 
Therefore, we continuously strive to build a culture of safety which goes beyond mere statistics. We believe 
that any amount of profits and progress is not more than the safety of the people.
Our EHS Policy 
demonstrates our 
commitment towards 
Health & Safety 
of employees and 
communities, which is 
integral to our operations.
Safety is a Law
We continuously strive to 
improve our performance 
on EHS parameters. 
By being signatory to 
‘Responsible Care’, we 
demonstrate our….
Commitment to 
Sustainability
We impart Safety trainings 
followed by refresher 
trainings to our employees 
to inculcate the…
Behavior of Safety
Safety, Health and 
Environment Policy (EHS)
Commitment for 
improvement
Knowledge 
Dissemination
Health and Safety
Annual Report 2023-24
24
2.93 Million Hrs
Zero
Safe Man-Hours Worked
55%
UA/UC Compliance
100%
safe disposal of 2837.51 MT of 
Hazardous waste
Process Automation 
of critical Reactors to eliminate the 
risk of a runaway reaction
Lost Time Injury
78%
Safety And Health Management System 
Score showing 7% rise from 
FY 2021-22 (revised base)
All our manufacturing plants are certified on EHS Management Standards. Competent teams are tasked with 
the responsibility for the implementation of the management system and continuous improvement of the plans 
in each site.
Our management systems ensure that we go one step further from mere compliance to local laws and 
regulations to exceeding the expectations of the regional rules, Astec’s internal requirements and customer 
expectations.
Safety has no price, It is Priceless
 
Focus on Process Safety across our manufacturing plants is our key strategy for ensuring safe operations. 
At Astec, our continued exemplary safety performance is driven by Dupont’s world class PSM system which 
lends us an important competitive edge in the market. The System focuses on 14-elements of process safety 
and helps us achieve Operational Excellence through Operational Discipline. Process Safety Management is 
increasingly becoming the standard that is applied to many hazardous processes around the globe. Process 
safety principles and systems not only help manage our risks, they are effective tools for increasing the safety 
of our operations while also improving productivity, cost efficiency and quality.
Safety Credentials for FY 2023-24
Annual Report 2023-24
25
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
29,750 MT of CO2 sequestered through watershed project in FY 2023-24 
(accounting for 28% of our Carbon Footprint)
Targeting Carbon Neutrality by FY 2034-35
1st Agri company in India to set Greenhouse Gas emissions reduction 
target and action plan in line with SBTi’s Well Below 20 C scenario
Committed to reduce absolute Scope 1 & Scope 2 GHG emissions by 
37.5% and Scope 3 emissions by 16.0% by FY 2034-35
Leadership band for CDP Climate change Disclosure – “A-” which is well 
ahead of Asia Regional and the Global average score of "C" 
CDP Forest (Palm Oil) & Water Disclosure Score – “B” which is above the Asia 
Regional and the Global average score of "C"
20x water positive company; sequestered 37 million m3 water 
~77% energy used in our manufacturing plants comes from the renewable 
sources; Installed Solar rooftops at 20+ manufacturing sites
~100% of energy used in our Vegetable Oil business from the renewable 
portfolio of boiler fuel through waste of fruit bunches
CDP Disclosure Score
Submission of GHG 
reduction roadmap
Carbon Neutrality
A Water Positive 
Company
Increase in the share of 
Renewable Energy
Less is What You Need More 
Your Company is committed towards reducing the environment 
stress and demonstrating highest standards of Health, Safety and 
Environmental Sustainability. We, being the part of the Godrej 
legacy, see sustainability at the nucleus and not just the periphery
 of our business. We are a sensitive and Responsible Company 
allowed to use the ‘Responsible Care’ logo until 2024. We are 
making conscious efforts towards reducing our carbon footprint by 
bringing down our energy consumption, waste generation and 
water consumption/wastage. The Company has a dedicated 
team that focuses on cleaner production technologies with higher yields and minimum waste generation 
supporting principles of waste reduction, recycle and reuse to demonstrate its commitment to "Good and 
Green". All the manufacturing activities of the Company conform to statutory Pollution Control Standards.
At the Group level, Godrej Agrovet, our major stakeholder, has set clear cut sustainability targets for 2026 to 
reduce the environmental impact
Rooted in the principle of 
Godrej Group’s ‘Good & Green’, 
Astec LifeSciences is focused 
on creating a more inclusive & 
greener India and protecting 
the environment and assorted 
resources of the Mother Earth.
Environmental Sustainability and CSR 
Annual Report 2023-24
26
Building sustainable supply chain
Long-term sustainable development of our suppliers is critical to our joint success, and we value our relationship 
with suppliers who share the same approach and vision towards doing business. In line with our commitment, 
we have developed a Responsible Procurement Policy, which is an extension of our values and is applicable 
to all our suppliers. We expect our suppliers to operate in accordance with the principles as outlined in this 
Policy and adhere to all applicable laws and regulations. This Policy goes beyond mere compliance with the 
law by drawing upon internationally recognized standards in order to identify and define best practices from 
across the globe. This Policy outlines our expectations with regards to ethics, business integrity, human 
rights, health and safety, environment, the local community and quality of product and operations.
We have received signed code of conduct from ~75 suppliers, which covers our ~70% of procurement 
spends. We are in progress of assessing our suppliers on ESG. We have also integrated ESG clause into our 
PO.
Case Study
Annual Report 2023-24
27
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
Catalyst for Change
At Astec LifeSciences, we understand the value of investing in our communities and our environment, the two 
pillars that underpin our business. Through the CSR programmes, our purpose is to actively improve the lives 
of the communities we work with and to promote the protection of ecosystems and our natural capital. In a 
year of unprecedented challenges, we came together to deliver on our purpose.
At Astec, we are committed to being good corporate citizens with a positive impact on the communities 
and environment we operate in. Through our Good and Green CSR policy we align our CSR strategy with 
the Godrej group's Good and Green vision and goals of creating a more inclusive and greener India. The 
policy focuses on addressing critical social, environmental and economic needs of the marginalized and 
underprivileged sections of the society.
Astec’s CSR Policy, approved by the Board of Directors, guides the activities it undertakes to positively impact 
its identified stakeholders. These programmes fall within the purview of Schedule VII read with Section 135 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. 
The key areas of CSR focus include Agriculture and Rural Livelihoods, Women Empowerment, Education and 
Community Development. 
Bamboo Development: 
Building climate resilience through bamboo afforestation project
This flagship initiative of Astec involves building the skills and capacities of marginal and small men and 
women farmers to diversify their income sources by adapting bamboo cultivation and train them on climate 
resilient agricultural practices to improve water availability throughout the year. The programme focuses on 
engaging with farmers and educating them on bamboo cultivation and facilitate in leveraging govt. subsidies 
on bamboo cultivation. 
This year, we delivered capacity building programmes to 669 farmers in 100 villages. 125 farmers started 
bamboo cultivation with 76,940 bamboo plant covering 69 hectare with the survival rate of 95%.
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Annual Report 2023-24
28
Astec actively supports schools in our communities for facilitating a better 
environment for holistic education
746+
Students
•	
We supported the needs of digital education of 746 students from grades 6th - 10th in Maharashtra.
•	
Astec has set up Digital Cafes in Mahad at 3 locations with pre-loaded syllabus in Tablets 
•	
Digital Cafe facilitates online classes to students as per their need and requirements
Pragati: Community based Education
Digital Cafe Initiative to support students outside the classroom
Annual Report 2023-24
29
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143-280
1-30
31-142
Community Development
•	 Facilitating Government Entitlements
•	 Set up a Science Laboratory
•	 Scholarship to Women on STEM education
The lack of knowledge about social service schemes and their respective application processes create barriers 
amongst rural communities to benefit from available entitlements. Through entitlement program, Astec aims 
to facilitate smooth enrollments under such schemes for local communities.
2,605 Households benefited from the entitlement awareness facilitated in communities. Unlocked total 
insurance coverage of `87 Crore across 16 villages. 111 individuals benefited from the pre- cancer screening 
camp conducted by Tata Memorial Hospital.
Astec set up the science lab at Ambedkar college in Raigad District which is helping them by getting hands-
on experience and deepen their understanding of scientific concepts. 150+ students are getting benefitted 
from the same.
With an intent to realize an "equal opportunity" approach in accessing higher education so as to make higher 
education more inclusive accessible, and affordable for marginalized sections of the society, we have given 
scholarship for STEM higher education to 73 students. 78% of these students are first generation learners in 
the formal education system.
Annual Report 2023-24
30
Indian agriculture predominately relies on rainfall. In Maharashtra, data from Agriculture Department revealed 
the adverse impact of deficient rainfall on crop production. Astec’s CSR team started a strategic afforestation 
through bamboo coupled with leveraging the benefits of schemes like MGNREGA that grant income security 
to farmers that they earlier were unaware of.
The global bamboo market is projected to increase by more than 40% from 2019. The project aims to provide 
an additional income source and taps into the growing market for bamboo in construction, packaging, and 
biofuel, thereby securing livelihoods for farmers through skill development. Bamboo also has environmental 
benefits, such as preventing water runoff, carbon sequestration, ability to grow on degraded land with less 
water and air purification.
The project is creating awareness among farmers on bamboo cultivation, capacity building of farmers and 
Government stakeholders like the district administrators and facilitating to unlock Government funds for 
farmers under the MGNREGA scheme up to `5 Crore. As of March 2024, 336 small and marginal farmers have 
been sanctioned as eligible to receive and unlock the funds from the MGNREGA scheme and 74,000 bamboo 
saplings have been planted. The project is committed to continuing its implementation and scaling impact by 
covering 8,000 farmers by the Financial Year 2025-26.
Case Study
STATUTORY REPORTS
This page is intentionally left Blank
Annual Report 2023-24
33
NOTICE
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
ASTEC LIFESCIENCES LIMITED
Corporate Identity Number (CIN): L99999MH1994PLC076236 
Registered Office: “Godrej One”, 3rd Floor, Pirojshanagar,
Eastern Express Highway, Vikhroli (East), Mumbai – 400 079, Maharashtra, India
Tel.: +91 22 2518 8010; Fax: +91 22 2261 8289;
Website: www.godrejastec.com; E-mail: astecinvestors@godrejastec.com 
NOTICE OF THE 30TH (THIRTIETH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
NOTICE is hereby given that the 30th (THIRTIETH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“30th AGM”) of the Shareholders of ASTEC LIFESCIENCES 
LIMITED (“Company”) will be held on Monday, 29th July, 2024 at 4.00 p.m. (IST) through Video Conferencing (“VC”) / Other Audio-Visual Means 
(“OAVM”), to transact the following business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
Adoption of Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024:
	
To consider and adopt the Audited Financial Statements (including Standalone and Consolidated Financial Statements) of the Company 
for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024 and the Reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory Auditors thereon, including 
Annexures thereto.
2.	
Re-appointment of Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath (DIN: 00349345) as a “Director”, liable to retire by rotation, who has offered himself for 
re-appointment:
 
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath [Director Identification Number (DIN): 00349345)], Non-Executive & Non-Independent 
Director, who retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment, as a “Director” of the Company and if thought fit, to 
pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 152 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and/or the Rules 
framed thereunder, the approval of the Shareholders of the Company be and is hereby accorded to the re-appointment of Mr. Ashok V. 
Hiremath [Director Identification Number (DIN): 00349345)] as a “Director” of the Company, who shall be liable to retire by rotation.”
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
3.	
Ratification of Remuneration of Mr. Paresh Jaysih Sampat, Cost Accountant, Mumbai as the “Cost Auditor” of the Company for 
the Financial Year ending 31st March, 2025:
	
To consider and ratify the remuneration of Mr. Paresh Jaysih Sampat, Cost Accountant, Mumbai as the “Cost Auditor” of the Company for 
the Financial Year ending 31st March, 2025 and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable provisions of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory amendment(s) or 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force) and based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee and the 
Board of Directors, the remuneration of Mr. Paresh Jaysih Sampat, Cost Accountant, Mumbai (Membership No.: 33451 & Firm Registration 
No.: 102421), the “Cost Auditor” appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company, for conducting the Cost Audit of the Company for 
the Financial Year ending 31st March, 2025, upto `1,50,000/- (Rupees One Lakh Fifty Thousand Only) per annum, plus `15,000/- (Rupees 
Fifteen Thousand Only) towards XBRL compilation, plus Goods & Service Tax (GST), as applicable and reimbursement of out-of-pocket 
expenses at actuals, be and is hereby ratified and approved.”
	
"RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors and/or the Chief Financial Officer and/or the Company Secretary be and is hereby authorized 
to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things to take all such steps as may be necessary, proper or expedient to give effect to this resolution.”
By the Order of the Board of Directors
For Astec LifeSciences Limited
Tejashree Pradhan
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
(FCS 7167)
Mumbai, 2nd May, 2024
Registered Office:
“Godrej One”, 3rd Floor, 
Pirojshanagar, Eastern Express Highway, 
Vikhroli (East), Mumbai – 400 079, 
Maharashtra, India
Tel. No.: 022 - 2518 8010 
Fax No.: 022 - 2261 8289
Website: www.godrejastec.com
E-mail: astecinvestors@godrejastec.com 
CIN: L99999MH1994PLC076236
Annual Report 2023-24
34
NOTES:
1.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has, vide its General Circular No. 14/2020 dated 8th April, 2020, General Circular No.17/2020 
dated 13th April, 2020, General Circular No. 20/2020 dated 5th May, 2020, General Circular No.02/2021 dated 13th January, 2021, General 
Circular No. 19/2021 dated 8th December 2021, General Circular No. 21/2021 dated 14th December, 2021, General Circular No. 2/2022 
dated 5th May, 2022, General Circular No. 10/2022 dated 28th December, 2022 and General Circular No. 09/2023 dated 25th September, 2023 
(collectively referred to as “MCA Circulars”), permitted the holding of the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) through Video Conferencing 
(“VC”) or Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”), without the physical presence of the Shareholders at a common venue. In compliance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/
Pod-2/P/CIR/2023/4 dated 5th January, 2023 and Circular No. SEBI/HO/DDHS/P/CIR/2023/0164 dated 7th October, 2023 and Regulation 
44 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing 
Regulations”) and MCA Circulars, the 30th (Thirtieth) AGM of the Company is being held through VC / OAVM. 
 
The National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) will be providing facility for voting through remote e-voting, for participation in the AGM 
through VC / OAVM facility and for e-voting during the AGM. The procedure for participating in the AGM through VC / OAVM is explained 
hereunder and is also available on the website of the Company, viz., www.godrejastec.com.
2.	
The relative Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, setting out all the material facts relating to the 
Special Business to be transacted at the AGM, as set out in this Notice, is annexed hereto.
	
Further, additional information pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings 
(“SS-2”) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”), in respect of Director seeking re-appointment at the AGM as 
mentioned in Item No. 2 of this AGM Notice is also annexed hereto.
3.	
Since the AGM is being held pursuant to the MCA Circulars through VC / OAVM, physical attendance of the Shareholders has been 
dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of proxies by the Shareholders will not be available for the AGM and hence the 
Proxy Form, Attendance Slip and Route Map are not annexed to this Notice.
4. 
Institutional / Corporate Shareholders [i.e., other than individuals, Hindu Undivided Family (HUF), Non Resident Indian (NRI), etc.] intending 
to appoint their Authorized Representative(s) to attend the AGM, pursuant to the provisions of Section 113 of the Companies Act, 2013, are 
requested to send to the Scrutinizer (Mr. Vikas R. Chomal, Practicing Company Secretary), NSDL and the Company, a scanned certified 
true copy of the Board Resolution with attested Specimen Signature of the duly authorized signatory(ies) / Authorized Representative(s) 
who are authorized to attend and vote on their behalf at the AGM. The said Resolution / authorization shall be sent by e-mail to Mr. Vikas 
R. Chomal, Scrutinizer on csvrca@gmail.com, through the registered e-mail address of the corporate Shareholder, with a copy marked to 
evoting@nsdl.com and agm.astec@godrejastec.com.
5.	
In case of joint Shareholders attending the AGM, only such joint Shareholder who is higher in the order of the names will be entitled to vote.
6.	
The attendance of the Shareholders attending the AGM through VC / OAVM will be counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under 
Section 103 of the Companies Act, 2013.
7.	
Any request for inspection of the Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their Shareholding maintained under Section 170 
of the Companies Act, 2013, the Register of Contracts and Arrangements in which the Directors are Interested maintained under Section 
189 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Certificate from the Secretarial Auditors of the Company in accordance with the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021, may please be sent to agm.astec@
godrejastec.com.
8.	
The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of the Company will remain closed from Wednesday, 24th July, 2024 to Sunday, 28th 
July, 2024 (both days inclusive) for annual closing.
9. 
All the documents in connection with the accompanying Notice and Explanatory Statement are available for inspection through electronic 
mode on the basis of request being sent on agm.astec@godrejastec.com.
10.	
Shareholders are requested to register / intimate changes, if any, pertaining to their name, postal address, e-mail address, telephone / 
mobile numbers, Permanent Account Number (PAN), bank details including change in bank account number, IFSC Code, MICR Code, 
name of bank and branch details:
	
a)	
In case of Equity Shares held in Electronic form: To their Depository Participant(s) (DPs);
	
b)	
In case of Equity Shares held in Physical form: To the Company or Bigshare Services Private Limited, Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent of the Company (“Bigshare”) in prescribed Form ISR–1 and other forms pursuant to Circular issued by the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), bearing No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/655 dated 3rd November, 2021, 
read with SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/35 dated 16th March, 2023. The formats of the forms are 
available on the Company’s website at https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/investor-service-request and on the website of the 
Bigshare at www.bigshareonline.com.
11. 
Shareholders are also requested to note that SEBI, vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_ RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated 25th January, 
2022 has mandated the listed companies to issue securities in dematerialized form only while processing service requests, viz., issue of 
duplicate share certificate, claim from unclaimed suspense account, renewal / exchange of share certificate, endorsement, sub-division, 
splitting of share certificate, consolidation of share certificates / folios, transmission and transposition. Accordingly, the Shareholders are 
Annual Report 2023-24
35
NOTICE
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
requested to make service requests by submitting a duly filled and signed Form ISR–4, the format of which is available on the Company’s 
website at https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/investor-service-request and on the website of the Bigshare at www.bigshareonline.com.
12. 
In accordance with the General Circular No. 20/2020 dated 5th May, 2020, General Circular No.02/2021 dated 13th January, 2021, General 
Circular No. 19/2021 dated 8th December, 2021, General Circular No. 21/2021 dated 14th December, 2021 and General Circular No. 2/2022 
dated 5th May, 2022 and General Circular No. 10/2022 dated 28th December, 2022 issued by the MCA, Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/
CIR/P/2020/79 dated 12th May, 2020, Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated 15th January, 2021, Circular No. SEBI/HO/
CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated 13th May, 2022 and Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/Pod-2/P/CIR//2023/4 dated 5th January, 2023 issued 
by SEBI and Sections 101 and 136 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the relevant Rules framed thereunder, the Standalone and 
Consolidated Audited Financial Statements of the Company for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024, including the Report of Board 
of Directors, Statutory Auditors’ Report (along with Annexures thereto) and/or other documents required to be attached therewith and the 
Notice of AGM are being sent through electronic mode to Shareholders whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company or the 
Depository Participant(s) or Bigshare. Shareholders are requested to support the “Green Initiative” by registering / updating their e-mail 
address(es) in the manner specified in Point No. 10 above, to enable the Company to send electronic communications.
13. 
Shareholders may also note that the Notice of 30th AGM and the Annual Report for the Financial Year 2023-24 will be available on the 
Company’s website www.godrejastec.com, on the websites of the Stock Exchanges where the Equity Shares of the Company are listed, 
i.e., National Stock Exchange of India Limited (at www.nseindia.com) and BSE Limited (at www.bseindia.com) and on the website of NSDL 
at www.evoting.nsdl.com.
14.	
Compulsory Transfer of Equity Shares to Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) & Unpaid / Unclaimed Dividend:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (as amended), all the Equity Shares of the Company on which dividend has not 
been paid or claimed for 7 (Seven) consecutive years or more shall be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) 
established by the Central Government in terms of Section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013, after complying with the procedure laid down 
under the said Rules.
	
Since there was no dividend amount paid for the Financial Year 2015-16, there was no unclaimed amount for more than 7 (Seven) 
consecutive years due for transfer to IEPF, after the 29th (Twenty-Ninth) Annual General Meeting of the Company, during the Financial Year 
2023-24.
	
Unclaimed / Unpaid Dividend:
	
Shareholders are informed that the dividend amount for the Financial Year 2016-17 remaining unclaimed shall become due for transfer to 
IEPF on 28th August, 2024, upon expiry of 7 (Seven) years from the date of its declaration, in terms of Section 124 of the Companies Act, 
2013.
	
Complying with various requirements set out in the Companies Act, 2013 and the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (as amended), the Company has sent individual communication to the concerned 
Shareholders, at their latest available address(es) registered with the Company or Bigshare, whose Dividend has remained unpaid or 
unclaimed for the Financial Year 2016-17 and onwards and therefore, whose Equity Shares are liable to be transferred to IEPF during 
the Financial Year 2024-25, giving them the opportunity to claim the Unclaimed Dividend and Equity Shares, latest by Wednesday, 28th 
August, 2024, to avoid transfer to IEPF, by making an application to the Company or the Company’s Registrar & Transfer Agent, Bigshare, 
along with all the requisite documents. The concerned Shareholders are requested to send their claims preferably by Friday, 16th August, 
2024 in order to allow sufficient time for processing their claims.
 
The Company has uploaded the list of Shareholders containing details of the names of the Shareholders, Folio Number or DP ID and Client 
ID and the number of Equity Shares due for transfer to IEPF on its website www.godrejastec.com, which the Shareholders are requested to 
verify.
	
Shareholders holding Equity Shares in physical form and whose Equity Shares are liable to be transferred to IEPF may note that the 
Company will be issuing Duplicate Share Certificate(s) in lieu of the Original Share Certificate(s) held by them for the purpose of transfer of 
such Equity Shares to IEPF and consequently the Original Share Certificate(s) will stand automatically cancelled and be deemed to be non-
negotiable. The Shareholders may further note that the details of the concerned Shareholders uploaded on the website should be regarded 
and shall be deemed adequate notice in respect of issue of Duplicate Share Certificate(s) by the Company for the purpose of transfer of 
Equity Shares to IEPF. Shareholders holding Equity Shares in dematerialized mode / electronic mode, may note that the Equity Shares shall 
be directly transferred to IEPF, with the help of Depository Participants by way of corporate action, without any further notice.
	
It may be further noted that, in case no valid claims in respect of such Equity Shares are received from the Shareholders by the due date 
or such other date as may be extended under the provisions of law, the Company shall be compelled to transfer the Equity Shares to IEPF 
by the due date, as per stipulated procedure, without any further notice. No claim shall lie against the Company in respect of Unclaimed 
Dividend amount(s) and/or Equity Shares transferred to IEPF.
 
Thereafter, all the future benefits, including but not limited to, Dividend(s) arising on such Equity Shares transferred to IEPF would also be 
credited to IEPF. Shareholders may also note that both the Unclaimed Dividend and the Equity Shares transferred to IEPF, including all 
benefits accruing on such Equity Shares, if any, can be claimed back by them from IEPF after following the procedure prescribed in the 
Rules, the details of which are available at www.iepf.gov.in. 
Annual Report 2023-24
36
 
For any information / clarifications on the subject matter, concerned Shareholders may write to the Company at astecinvestors@godrejastec.
com or contact Bigshare at Office No. S6-2, 6th Floor, Pinnacle Business Park, Next to Ahura Centre, Mahakali Caves Road, Andheri (East), 
Mumbai – 400093, Maharashtra, India, Tel. No.: 022-62638200, E-mail: investor@bigshareonline.com.
	
The details of unpaid / unclaimed dividend since the Financial Year 2016-17 are given below:
Financial Year
Date of Declaration 
of Dividend
Dividend 
(%)
Dividend per Equity 
Share 
(in `)
Amount lying in the Unpaid 
Dividend Account as on   
31st March, 2024  (in `)
Last Date for claiming 
Unpaid / Unclaimed 
Dividend
2016-17
28.07.2017
15.00
1.50
1,38,600.00
28.08.2024
2017-18
01.08.2018
15.00
1.50
1,24,203.00
01.09.2025
2018-19
26.07.2019
15.00
1.50
83,547.00
26.08.2026
2019-20
22.07.2020
15.00
1.50
54,482.00
22.08.2027
2020-21
28.07.2021
15.00
1.50
37,115.50
27.08.2028
2021-22
25.07.2022
15.00
1.50
22,734.50
25.08.2029
2022-23
27.07.2023
15.00
1.50
20,944.50
27.07.2030
15.	
Shareholders who have not encashed the demand drafts / dividend warrants for the previous year(s) so far, are requested to make their 
claim with Bigshare at their Office No. S6-2, 6th Floor, Pinnacle Business Park, Next to Ahura Centre, Mahakali Caves Road, Andheri 
(East), Mumbai – 400093, Maharashtra, well in advance of the above due dates. Pursuant to the provisions of the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, the Company has uploaded the details of unpaid 
and unclaimed dividend amount(s) lying with the Company as on 27th July, 2023 (date of last AGM) on the website of the Company, viz., 
www.godrejastec.com.
16.	
SEBI, vide its Circulars dated 3rd November, 2021, 15th December, 2021 and 16th March, 2023, read with Master Circular No. SEBI/
HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2023/70 dated 17th May, 2023, has mandated the submission of Permanent Account Number (“PAN”) by every 
participant in securities market. Shareholders holding shares in dematerialized form are, therefore, requested to submit / update their PAN 
to the Depository Participant(s) with whom they are maintaining their dematerialized accounts. Shareholders holding shares in physical form 
are requested to submit / update their PAN and KYC details to Bigshare at investor@bigshareonline.com. The forms for updating the same 
are available at https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/investor-service-request.
17.	
Shareholders can avail the facility of nomination in respect of shares held by them in physical form, pursuant to the provisions of Section 72 
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Rules framed thereunder and the SEBI Circular dated 3rd November 2021. Shareholders desiring 
to avail of this facility may send their nomination in the prescribed Form No. SH-13 duly filled in, to Bigshare. If a Shareholder desires to 
‘Opt Out’ or ‘Cancel the nomination’ or ‘Change the nomination’, he/she may submit the same in Form ISR-3 or SH-14 as the case may be, 
the format of which is available on the Company’s website at https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/investor-service-request and on the 
website of the Bigshare at www.bigshareonline.com. Shareholders holding shares in electronic form may contact their respective Depository 
Participants for availing this facility.
18. 
The Certificates with respect to Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) on Final Dividend paid by the Company for the Financial Year 2022-23, as 
declared by the Shareholders at the previous 29th AGM held on 27th July, 2023 (payment made during the Financial Year 2023-24), are 
available for the concerned Shareholders to download from the Company’s website at the weblink https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/
tds-certificates-shareholders, through a simple and secure OTP-based downloading process. In case of any doubt / query / difficulty, the 
concerned Shareholder(s) may please write to us at agm.astec@godrejastec.com.
19. 
As per Regulation 40 of SEBI Listing Regulations (as amended), securities of listed companies can be transferred only in dematerialized 
form with effect from 1st April, 2019, except in case of request received for transmission or transposition and re-lodged transfers of securities. 
Further, SEBI, vide its Circular No. SEBI/ HO/MIRSD/RTAMB/ CIR/P/2020/236 dated 2nd December, 2020, had fixed 31st March, 2021 as the 
cut-off date for re-lodgement of transfer deeds and the shares that are re-lodged for transfer shall be issued only in demat mode. In order to 
avail various benefits of dematerialization and to eliminate all risks associated with physical shares and for ease of portfolio management, 
Shareholders are advised to dematerialize shares held by them in physical form. Shareholders can contact the Company or Bigshare for 
assistance in this regard.
	
Shareholders holding shares in more than one folio in the same name(s) are requested to send the details of their folios along with Share 
Certificates so as to enable the Company to consolidate their holding into one folio.
20. 
Shareholders are requested to send in their queries at least a week in advance of the AGM, to the Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
at agm.astec@godrejastec.com, in order to facilitate clarifications during the AGM.
21.	
The venue of the 30th AGM shall be deemed to be the Registered Office of the Company at “Godrej One”, 3rd Floor, Pirojshanagar, Eastern 
Express Highway, Vikhroli (East), Mumbai – 400 079, Maharashtra, India.
Annual Report 2023-24
37
NOTICE
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
22.	
INSTRUCTIONS FOR E-VOTING AND JOINING THE AGM:
	
a)	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 (as amended) and Regulation 44 of SEBI Listing Regulations (as amended), and the Circulars issued by 
the MCA, the Company is providing facility of remote e-voting to its Shareholders in respect of the business to be transacted at the 
ensuing 30th AGM. For this purpose, the Company has entered into an agreement with NSDL for facilitating voting through electronic 
means, as the authorized agency. The facility of casting votes by a Shareholder using remote e-voting system as well as e-voting on 
the day of the AGM will be provided by NSDL.
	
b)	
The remote e-voting period commences on Wednesday, 24th July, 2024 at 9.00 a.m. (IST) and ends on Sunday, 28th July, 2024 
at 5.00 p.m. (IST). The remote e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter. The Shareholders, whose names 
appear in the Register of Members / Beneficial Owners as on the record date (cut-off date), i.e., Monday, 22nd July, 2024, may cast 
their vote electronically.
	
c)	
The voting rights of Shareholders shall be in proportion to their share in the Paid-up Equity Share Capital of the Company as on the 
cut-off date, i.e., Monday, 22nd July, 2024.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR SHAREHOLDERS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING AND JOINING AGM:
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting system?
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system consists of 2 (Two) steps which are mentioned below:
STEP 1: ACCESS TO NSDL E-VOTING SYSTEM
A.	
Login Method for e-Voting and joining Virtual Meeting for Individual Shareholders holding Securities in Demat mode:
	
In terms of SEBI Circular dated 9th December, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by listed companies, Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in dematerialized form are allowed to vote through their Demat Account maintained with Depositories and Depository Participants. 
Shareholders are advised to update their Mobile No. and E-mail Id in their Demat Account, in order to access e-Voting facility.
	
Login method for Individual Shareholders holding securities in dematerialized form is given below:
Type of Shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders holding Securities in 
Demat Mode with NSDL
1. 
If you are already registered for NSDL IDeAS facility, please visit the 
e-Services website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. 
Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” 
icon under “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section. A new screen 
will open, wherein you will have to enter your User ID and Password. After 
successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services under 
Value added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services 
and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on options available against 
Company name or e-Voting service provider - NSDL and you will be re-directed 
to NSDL e-Voting website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting 
period or joining virtual AGM and voting during the AGM.
2.	
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click 
at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/ IdeasDirectReg.jsp
3. 
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following 
URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a 
mobile. Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the 
icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new 
screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e., your 16-digit demat 
account number held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as 
shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be redirected 
to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on options 
available against Company name or e-Voting service provider - NSDL and 
you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during 
the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual AGM and voting during AGM.
Annual Report 2023-24
38
Type of Shareholders
Login Method
4. 
Shareholders / Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL 
Speede” facility by scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless 
voting experience.
Individual Shareholders holding Securities in 
Demat mode with CDSL
Existing users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest can login through their User 
Id and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without 
any further authentication. The users can login to Easi / Easiest on CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon and New System Myeasi tab. Then the user 
can use his/her existing Myeasi Username and Password.
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for 
eligible companies where the e-voting is in progress as per the information provided 
by company. On clicking the e-voting option, the user will be able to see e-voting page 
of the e-voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period 
or joining virtual meeting and voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is also link 
provided to access the system of all e-voting service providers, so that the user can 
visit the e-voting service providers’ website directly.
If the user is not registered for Easi / Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL 
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then 
click on registration option.
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by providing Demat Account 
Number and PAN from an e-voting link available on the homepage of CDSL’s 
website www.cdslindia.com. The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP 
on registered mobile and e-mail as recorded in the Demat Account. After successful 
authentication, user will be able to see the e-voting option where the e-voting is in 
progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-voting Service Providers.
Individual Shareholders (holding Securities in 
Demat mode) login through their Depository 
Participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your 
Depository Participant registered with NSDL / CDSL for e-Voting facility. Once login, 
you will be able to see e-voting option. Once you click on e-voting option, you will be 
redirected to NSDL / CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, wherein 
you can see e-Voting feature. Click on options available against the company name 
or e-Voting service provider - NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website 
of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual AGM 
and voting during the AGM.
	
Important Note: Shareholders who are unable to retrieve User ID / Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget Password 
options available at abovementioned website.
	
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding Securities in Demat Mode for any technical issues related to Login through Depository, i.e., 
NSDL and CDSL:
Login type
Helpdesk Details
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in Demat mode with NSDL
Shareholders facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request 
at evoting@nsdl.com or call at 022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000.
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in Demat mode with CDSL
Shareholders facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request 
at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 1800 22 55 33.
Annual Report 2023-24
39
NOTICE
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
B.	
Login Method for E-Voting and joining virtual AGM for Shareholders other than Individual Shareholders holding Securities in 
Demat Mode and Shareholders holding Securities in Physical Mode:
	
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
 
1. 
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a 
Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ 
section.
 
3. 
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen.
	
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices, i.e., IDEAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your existing 
IDEAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your log-in credentials, click on e-Voting and you can proceed to Step 
2, i.e., Cast your vote electronically.
	
4.	
Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding Shares, i.e., Demat  
(NSDL or CDSL) or Physical
Your User ID is:
a)	
For Shareholders who hold shares in Demat 
Account with NSDL
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example, if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** 
then your user ID is IN300***12******.
b)	
For Shareholders who hold shares in Demat 
Account with CDSL
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example, if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your user 
ID is 12**************
c)	
For Shareholders holding shares in Physical Form
EVEN Number (128934) of the Company, followed by Folio Number 
registered with the Company
For example, if Folio Number is 001*** and EVEN is 128934 then user 
ID is 128934001***
	
5.	
Password Details for Shareholders other than Individual Shareholders are given below:
	
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-Voting, then you can user your existing password to login and cast your vote.
 
 
b) 
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’ which was 
communicated to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the system 
will force you to change your password.
	
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
	
i)	
If your e-mail ID is registered in your Demat Account or with the Company, your ‘initial password’ is communicated 
to you on your e-mail ID. Trace the e-mail sent to you from NSDL from your mailbox. Open the email and open 
the attachment, i.e., a .pdf file. Open the .pdf file. The password to open the .pdf file is your 8-digit Client ID for 
NSDL Account, last 8 digits of Client ID for CDSL account or Folio Number for shares held in physical form. The 
.pdf file contains your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial password’.
	
	
	
ii)	
If your e-mail ID is not registered, please follow steps mentioned below in process for those shareholders whose 
email ids are not registered.
	
6.	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the “Initial password” or have forgotten your password:
 
 
a) 
Click on “Forgot User Details/ Password?” (If you are holding shares in your Demat Account with NSDL or CDSL) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
b)	
Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are holding shares in Physical mode) option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the password by aforesaid two options, you can send a request at evoting@nsdl.com mentioning 
your Demat Account number / Folio Number, your PAN, your name, your registered address etc.
 
 
d) 
Shareholders can also use the OTP (One Time Password) based login for casting the votes on the e-Voting system of NSDL.
Annual Report 2023-24
40
	
7.	
After entering your password, tick on “Agree to Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
 
8. 
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
	
9.	
After you click on the “Login” button, Home page of e-Voting will open.
	
STEP 2: CAST YOUR VOTE ELECTRONICALLY AND JOIN THE AGM ON NSDL E-VOTING SYSTEM:
	
How to cast your vote electronically and join the AGM on NSDL e-Voting system?
 
1. 
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all the companies “EVEN” in which you are holding shares and whose 
voting cycle and General Meeting is in active status.
 
2. 
Select “EVEN” of the Company, which is 128934, for which you wish to cast your vote during the remote e-voting period or cast 
your vote during the AGM. For joining virtual AGM, you need to click on “VC / OAVM” link placed under “Join Meeting”.
 
3. 
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page opens.
	
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options, i.e., Assent or Dissent, verify / modify the number of Equity Shares for which 
you wish to cast your vote and click on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
 
5. 
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully” will be displayed.
 
6. 
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by clicking on the print option on the confirmation page.
 
7. 
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
	
GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR SHAREHOLDERS:
 
1. 
Institutional / Corporate Shareholders (i.e., other than individuals, Hindu Undivided Family (HUF), NRI etc.) are required to 
send scanned copy (PDF/JPG format) of the relevant Board Resolution / Power of Authority / Authority Letter, etc., with attested 
specimen signature of the duly authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer (Mr. Vikas R. Chomal, 
Practicing Company Secretary) by e-mail to csvrca@gmail.com, with a copy marked to agm.astec@godrejastec.com and 
evoting@nsdl.com. Such Shareholders can also upload their Board Resolution / Power of Authority / Authority Letter, etc. by 
clicking on “Upload Board Resolution / Authority Letter” displayed under “e-voting” tab in their login.
	
2.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep your password 
confidential. Login to the e-voting website will be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct password. In 
such an event, you will need to go through the “Forgot User Details / Password?” or “Physical User Reset Password?” option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
	
3.	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and E-voting User Manual for 
Shareholders available at the download section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on.: 022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000 or 
send a request to NSDL at evoting@nsdl.com.
	
PROCESS FOR THOSE SHAREHOLDERS WHOSE E-MAIL IDS ARE NOT REGISTERED WITH THE DEPOSITORIES FOR 
PROCURING USER ID AND PASSWORD AND REGISTRATION OF E-MAIL IDS FOR E-VOTING FOR THE RESOLUTIONS SET 
OUT IN THE NOTICE OF THE AGM:
 
1. 
In case shares are held in physical mode, please provide Folio No., Name of Shareholder, scanned copy of the Share Certificate 
(front and back), Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card (self-attested scanned copy), Aadhaar Card (self-attested scanned 
copy) to Bigshare on its website at www.bigshareonline.com.
 
2. 
In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide DPID-CLID (16-digit DPID + CLID or 16-digit beneficiary ID), Name, 
client master or copy of Consolidated Account statement, PAN (self-attested scanned copy), Aadhaar Card (self-attested 
scanned copy) to your Depository Participant (DP). If you are an Individual shareholder holding securities in demat mode, you 
are requested to refer to the login method explained at Step 1 (A), i.e., Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual AGM for 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode.
	
3.	
Alternatively, a Shareholder may send a request to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring User Id and Password for e-voting by 
providing above mentioned documents in advance.
	
4.	
In terms of SEBI Circular dated 9th December, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by listed companies, Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in Demat mode are allowed to vote through their Demat account maintained with Depositories and Depository 
Participants. Shareholders are required to update their mobile number and e-mail ID correctly in their Demat account in order 
to access e-Voting facility.
Annual Report 2023-24
41
NOTICE
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
INSTRUCTIONS FOR SHAREHOLDERS FOR E-VOTING ON THE DAY OF THE AGM:
	
1.	
The procedure for e-voting on the day of the AGM is same as the instructions mentioned above for remote e-voting.
	
2.	
Only those Shareholders, who will be present in the AGM through VC / OAVM facility and have not casted their vote on the 
Resolutions through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote through e-Voting 
system in the AGM.
	
3.	
Shareholders who have voted through Remote e-Voting will be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will not be eligible to 
vote at the AGM.
	
4.	
The details of the person who may be contacted for any grievances connected with the facility for e-Voting on the day of the 
AGM shall be the same person mentioned for Remote e-voting.
	
INSTRUCTIONS FOR SHAREHOLDERS FOR ATTENDING THE AGM THROUGH VC / OAVM:
 
1. 
Shareholders will be provided with a facility to attend the AGM through VC / OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting system. They 
may access by following the steps mentioned above for access to NSDL e-Voting system. After successful login, you can see 
link of “VC/OAVM link” placed under “Join Meeting” menu against the Company’s name. You are requested to click on VC / 
OAVM link placed under Join General Meeting menu. The link for VC / OAVM will be available in Shareholder / Member login 
where the EVEN of Company (128934) will be displayed. Please note that the Shareholders who do not have the User ID and 
Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve the same by following the remote e-Voting 
instructions mentioned in the AGM Notice to avoid last minute rush.
	
2.	
Shareholders can join the AGM in the VC / OAVM mode 30 (Thirty) minutes before and after the scheduled time of commencement 
of the AGM, by following the procedure mentioned in the Notice. The facility of participation at the AGM through VC / OAVM 
will be made available for 1,000 Shareholders on “first come, first served” basis. This will not include large Shareholders 
(Shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding), Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, the 
Chairpersons of the Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, 
Auditors, etc. who are allowed to attend the AGM without restriction on account of first come first served basis.
	
3.	
Shareholders are encouraged to join the AGM through laptops for better experience. Further, Shareholders will be required to 
allow Camera and use Internet with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during the AGM. Please note that Shareholders 
connecting from Mobile Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio / Video loss 
due to fluctuation in their respective network. It is, therefore, recommended to use a stable Wi-Fi or LAN connection to mitigate 
any kind of aforesaid glitches.
	
4.	
Shareholders who would like to express their views / have questions may send their questions in advance, mentioning their 
name Demat Account number / Folio Number, e-mail Id, mobile number at agm.astec@godrejastec.com. The same will be 
replied by the company suitably, either in advance or at the time of AGM.
	
5.	
Further, Shareholders who would like to express their views or ask questions during the AGM may register themselves as 
a speaker by sending their request from their registered e-mail address mentioning their name, DP ID and Client ID / Folio 
Number, PAN, mobile number at agm.astec@godrejastec.com from Monday, 22nd July, 2024 (9.00 a.m. IST) to Thursday, 25th 
July, 2024 (5.00 p.m. IST).
	
	
Those Shareholders who have registered themselves as a speaker will only be allowed to express their views / ask questions 
during the AGM. The Company reserves the right to restrict the number of speakers depending on the availability of time for 
the AGM.
 
6. 
Shareholders who need assistance before or during the AGM, can contact NSDL at the designated e-mail ID: 
evoting@nsdl.com.
	
7.	
Any Shareholder holding Shares in physical form and non-individual Shareholder, who acquires shares of the Company and 
becomes a Shareholder of the Company after the Notice of AGM is sent through e-mail and holding Shares as of the Cut-off 
date, i.e., Monday, 22nd July, 2024, may obtain the login ID and password by sending a request on evoting@nsdl.com or to 
the Company or Bigshare. However, if he/she is already registered with NSDL for remote e-voting, then he/she can use his/her 
existing User ID and password for casting the vote. If he/she has forgot his/her password, he/she can reset his/her password 
by using “Forgot User Details/Password” or “Physical User Reset Password” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com or call 
on toll free no. 1800 1020 990 and 1800 22 44 30. In case of Individual Shareholder holding securities in demat mode who 
acquires Shares of the Company and becomes a Shareholder of the Company after sending of the Notice of AGM and holding 
Shares as of the Cut-off date, i.e., Monday, 22nd July, 2024 may follow steps mentioned in the Notice of the AGM under 
“Access to NSDL e-Voting system”.
Annual Report 2023-24
42
23. 
Mr. Vikas R. Chomal, Practicing Company Secretary (Certificate of Practice No. 12133) has been appointed as the Scrutinizer to 
scrutinize the remote e-voting process and e-voting to be conducted at the AGM, in a fair and transparent manner.
 
The Scrutinizer shall, after the conclusion of voting at the AGM, unblock and count the votes cast during the AGM and through remote 
e-voting and shall make a consolidated Scrutinizer’s report of the total votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or a 
Director or Company Secretary authorized in writing, who shall countersign the same and declare the result of the voting forthwith.
24.	
The Results shall be declared not later than 2 (Two) working days of the conclusion of the AGM. The Results declared along with the 
Scrutinizer’s Report shall be placed on the website of the Company at www.godrejastec.com immediately after the Result is declared 
by the Chairman and will simultaneously be submitted to BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited, the Stock 
Exchanges where the Equity Shares of the Company are listed.
25.	
Subject to receipt of requisite number of votes, the Resolutions shall be deemed to be passed on the date of the AGM, i.e., Monday, 
29th July, 2024.
By the Order of the Board of Directors
For Astec LifeSciences Limited
Tejashree Pradhan
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
(FCS 7167)
Mumbai, 2nd May, 2024
Registered Office:
“Godrej One”, 3rd Floor, 
Pirojshanagar, Eastern Express Highway, 
Vikhroli (East), Mumbai – 400 079, 
Maharashtra, India
Tel. No.: 022 - 2518 8010 
Fax No.: 022 - 2261 8289
Website: www.godrejastec.com
E-mail: astecinvestors@godrejastec.com 
CIN: L99999MH1994PLC076236
Annual Report 2023-24
43
NOTICE
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE OF THE  30TH (THIRTIETH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (AGM) OF ASTEC LIFESCIENCES LIMITED
Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Companies Act, 2013
The following Explanatory Statement in terms of the provisions of Section 102(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, sets out all material facts relating 
to the Business mentioned in Item No. 3 of the accompanying Notice for convening the 30th (Thirtieth) Annual General Meeting of Astec 
LifeSciences Limited to be held on Monday, 29th July, 2024 at 4.00 p.m. (IST):
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
Ordinary Resolution under Item No. 3:
Ratification of Remuneration of Mr. Paresh Jaysih Sampat, Cost Accountant, Mumbai as the “Cost Auditor” of the Company for the 
Financial Year ending 31st March, 2025:
The Board of Directors of the Company, based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, has appointed Mr. Paresh Jaysih Sampat, Cost 
Accountant, Mumbai (Membership No.: 33451 & Firm Registration No.: 102421), as the “Cost Auditor” of the Company for the Financial Year 2024-
25, pursuant to Section 148 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 and the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, at its Meeting held on 2nd May, 2024.
Pursuant to Rule 14 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the remuneration upto `1,50,000/- (Rupees One Lakh Fifty Thousand 
Only) per annum plus `15,000/- (Rupees Fifteen Thousand Only) towards XBRL compilation, plus Goods & Service Tax (GST), as applicable and 
reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses at actuals, payable to the Cost Auditor, as recommended by the Audit Committee and approved by the 
Board of Directors, shall be subject to ratification by the Shareholders of the Company.
Based on the certification received from the Cost Auditor, it may be noted that:
(a) 
the Cost Auditor holds a valid Certificate of Practice as a Cost Accountant;
(b) 
the Cost Auditor does not suffer from any disqualifications as specified under Sections 139(1) and 141(3) of the Act;
(c) 
the appointment is in accordance with the limits specified in Section 141(3)(g) of the Act;
(d)	
he is not holding any securities of the Company carrying voting rights;
(e) 
he is an independent firm of Cost Accountants and is at arm’s length relationship with the Company.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set forth in Item No. 3 for approval of the Shareholders.
None of the Directors / Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their relatives is, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, 
in the proposed Resolution set out in Item No. 3.
By the Order of the Board of Directors
For Astec LifeSciences Limited
Tejashree Pradhan
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
(FCS 7167)
Mumbai, 2nd May, 2024
Registered Office:
“Godrej One”, 3rd Floor, 
Pirojshanagar, Eastern Express Highway, 
Vikhroli (East), Mumbai – 400 079, 
Maharashtra, India
Tel. No.: 022 - 2518 8010 
Fax No.: 022 - 2261 8289
Website: www.godrejastec.com
E-mail: astecinvestors@godrejastec.com 
CIN: L99999MH1994PLC076236
Annual Report 2023-24
44
BRIEF RESUME OF DIRECTOR SEEKING RE-APPOINTMENT AT THE 30TH (THIRTIETH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF THE COMPANY
[Pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India  (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015]
Name of Director
Mr. Ashok Vishwanath Hiremath
Director Identification Number (DIN)
00349345
Date of Birth (DD/MM/YYYY)
31/05/1955
Age (in Years)
69
Nationality
Indian
Date of Appointment (DD/MM/YYYY)
• 
25th January, 1994 (Original Date of Appointment)
• 
1st April, 2022 (Appointed as a Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director)
Tenure on the Board of Directors of the 
Company
More than 30 years
Percentage of Shareholding in the Company
1.99% as on 31st March, 2024
Qualification
Graduate of the Institution of Engineers, Australia, Bachelor of Arts from University of Oxford, 
Master’s degree of Arts (Engineering) from the University of Oxford and Post Graduate 
Diploma in Chemical Engineering from University of London
Nature of Expertise in Specific Functional Areas
About 44 years of experience in agrochemical manufacturing industry
Possesses expertise in the following functional areas:
• 
Strategy and Business
• 
Industry Expertise
• 
Market Expertise
• 
Technological Expertise
• 
Governance, Finance & Risk
Number of Equity Shares held in the Company
3,90,802 (Three Lakh Ninety Thousand Eight Hundred and Two) Equity Shares as on 31st 
March, 2024
Number of Board Meetings attended during the 
Financial Year 2023-24
4 out of 4
Directorships held in Other Companies *
Dai-Ichi Karkaria Limited
Chairmanships 
of 
Committees 
in 
Other 
Companies**
Dai-Ichi Karkaria Limited:
• 
Audit Committee (Chairman)
• 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee (Chairman)
• 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (Chairman)
Memberships 
of 
Committees 
in 
Other 
Companies**
Dai-Ichi Karkaria Limited:
• 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee (Member)
Relationships 
between 
Directors 
of 
the 
Company inter-se
None
Brief Profile of the Director
Mr. Ashok Vishwanath Hiremath was formerly the “Managing Director” of Astec LifeSciences 
Limited and is now a Non-Executive Director. He brings with him several years of rich 
experience in the Chemical Industry. He has a Master’s degree in Engineering from University 
of Oxford and a Post Graduate Diploma in Chemical Engineering from the University of 
London. He founded Astec LifeSciences Limited in 1994. He has been actively involved in 
the affairs of the Company and has played a key role in the growth of the Company. He was 
awarded the Dombivli Giants Award for Industry in 2008 and the Udyog Rattan Award by the 
Institute of Economic Studies in 2010 and several other awards for his excellence in chemical 
Industry.
Names of the Listed Entities from which the 
Appointee has resigned in the past 3 (Three) 
years
Nil
Terms and Conditions of Re-appointment, 
along with Details of Remuneration sought to 
be paid and Remuneration last drawn by the 
Appointee
The re-appointment is in terms of the Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company, 
as displayed on the Company’s website (i.e., www.godrejastec.com ).
No remuneration is drawn by Mr. Ashok Hiremath from the Company in his capacity as a “Non-
Executive Director” of the Company.
*Includes names of Public Companies in which the person holds directorship.
**The directorships, Committee Memberships and Chairmanships do not include positions in foreign companies and private companies and 
position in companies registered under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Annual Report 2023-24
45
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ASTEC LIFESCIENCES LIMITED 
[Corporate Identity Number (CIN): L99999MH1994PLC076236]
For the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024
TO THE MEMBERS:
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting this 30th (Thirtieth) Directors’ Report along with the Audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year 
ended 31st March, 2024.
1.	
HIGHLIGHTS OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE:
 
Your Company’s financial performance during the Financial Year 2023-24 as compared to that of the previous Financial Year 2022-23 is 
summarized below:
(` in Lakh)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
2023-24
2022-23
2023-24
2022-23
Revenue from Operations
45,818.07
62,816.62
45,818.07
62,816.62
Other Income
558.36
1,303.62
564.39
1,306.01
Total Income
46,376.43
64,120.24
46,382.46
64,122.63
Total Expenses
52,564.06
60,635.33
52,557.25
60,627.90
Profit / (Loss) Before Tax
(6,187.63)
3,484.91
(6,174.79)
3,494.73
Less: Current Tax
-
-
3.66
2.67
Less: Deferred Tax
(1,488.92)
932.87
(1,489.35)
932.67
Profit / (Loss) After Tax
(4,698.71)
2,552.04
(4,689.10) 
2,559.39
Other Comprehensive Income (Net of Tax)
(56.92)
(22.88)
(58.58)
(21.82)
Total Comprehensive Income
(4,755.63) 
2,529.16
(4,747.68)
2,537.58
Total Comprehensive Income attributable to:
- Owners of Astec LifeSciences Limited
(4,755.63)
2,529.16
(4,751.53)
2,534.67
- Non-controlling interests
N.A.
N.A.
3.85
2.90
 
(N.A.: Not Applicable)
2.	
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS / STATE OF AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES:
	
Review of Operations / State of Affairs of the Company:
	
Your Company manufactures agrochemical active ingredients (technical), bulk and formulations, intermediate products and sells its products 
in India as well as exports them to approximately 17 countries.
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, your Company recorded Total Income of `463.82 Crore as compared to `641.23 Crore during the 
Financial Year 2022-23 and Profit/(Loss) After Tax of `(46.89) Crore as compared to `25.59 Crore during the Financial Year 2022-23.
 
Your Company continued to focus on Contract Development & Manufacturing Organization (CDMO) segment and achieved 1.7x growth 
in revenues from the segment as compared to the previous Financial Year. Share of CDMO sales increased to 60% in the Financial Year 
2023-24 from 26% in the Financial Year 2022-23. The capacity utilization of the herbicide facility, which was commissioned in the Financial 
Year 2021-22, further increased supporting growth in CDMO sales. 
	
Your Company’s enterprise business, however, faced volume headwinds in both exports as well as domestic markets. Unprecedented drop 
in volumes, primarily in the second half of the year, for key enterprise products was attributed to high inventories with customers and in the 
channel as well. At the same time, market prices of some of the triazole fungicides corrected sharply in the second half from last year’s high 
base leading to continued reduced realizations in the Financial Year 2023-24. As a result, your Company reported decline in revenues and 
margins in the Financial Year 2023-24 as compared to the previous Financial Year 2022-23.
Annual Report 2023-24
46
	
Geographically, export sales declined by 14.3% year-on-year while domestic sales fell by 47.1% year-on-year due to lower volumes of key 
enterprise products. Proportion of exports in total sales increased to 72% in the Financial Year 2023-24 from 61% in the previous Financial 
Year 2022-23. Domestic sales were at 28% of total sales in the Financial Year 2023-24.
	
Gross margin stood at 30.3% in the Financial Year 2023-24 as compared to 36.1% in the previous Financial Year 2022-23. Earnings Before 
Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) margin declined to 0.1% in the Financial Year 2023-24 from 13.9% in the previous 
Financial Year 2022-23. Reduced realizations of key enterprise products and high cost inventories led to lower margins in the Financial Year 
2023-24 as compared to the previous Financial Year 2022-23. 
 
In April 2023, your Company inaugurated a state-of-the-art Research & Development (R&D) Center, named “Adi Godrej Center for Chemical 
Research and Development” in Rabale, Maharashtra. The facility, equipped with synthesis lab, formulation lab as well as sophisticated 
safety infrastructure, will enable your Company to expand offerings in CDMO space. The R&D Center will further aid your Company in 
improving product development, providing access to advanced equipment and facilities, fostering collaboration, and driving innovation. With 
improved capability to reduce the time-to-market for innovative solutions and provide end- to-end solutions supported by advanced labs 
and analytical instruments, the R&D Center will also make your company a partner of choice for innovator companies across the globe. 
Your Company’s substantial investment in a future-ready R&D Center reflects its unwavering commitment towards long-term value creation 
despite challenges in the short run.
	
There has been no change in the nature of business of your Company during the Financial Year 2023-24.
	
Review of Operations / State of Affairs of the Subsidiaries of the Company:
 
The financial performance of the following 2 (Two) subsidiaries of your Company during the Financial Year (F.Y.) 2023-24 is summarized 
below:
	
(i)	
Behram Chemicals Private Limited:
	
	
Behram Chemicals Private Limited, a subsidiary of your Company, has given its plot of land at Mahad (Maharashtra) to your 
Company on leave and license basis.
 
 
During the Financial Year 2023-24, Behram Chemicals Private Limited reported Profit Before Tax of `14.98 Lakh, as compared to 
Profit Before Tax of `11.22 Lakh during the previous Financial Year 2022-23.
	
(ii)	
Comercializadora Agricola Agroastrachem Cia Ltda (Bogota, Columbia):
 
 
Comercializadora Agricola Agroastrachem Cia Ltda is a foreign subsidiary company, having its Registered Office in Bogota, Colombia 
and is engaged in the business of obtaining product registrations in conformity with local laws of the said country. This company is 
yet to start any major commercial activity.
	
	
For the year ended 31st March, 2024, Comercializadora Agricola Agroastrachem Cia Ltda reported Profit/ (Loss) Before Tax of NIL, 
as compared to Profit/(Loss) Before Tax of NIL reported during the previous year ended 31st March, 2023.
3.	
DIVIDEND:
	
Your Board does not recommend any Final Dividend for the Financial Year 2023-24. 
	
In terms of Regulation 43A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, the Dividend Distribution Policy of the Company is made available on the website of the Company and is available on the web link 
https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-policies. 
4.	
TRANSFER TO RESERVES:
	
Your Board does not propose to transfer any amount to reserves during the Financial Year 2023-24.
5.	
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, INVESTMENTS AND GUARANTEES:
	
As required to be reported pursuant to the provisions of Section 186 and Section 134(3)(g) of the Companies Act, 2013, the particulars of 
loans, guarantees and investments by your Company under the aforesaid provisions during the Financial Year 2023-24, have been provided 
in the Notes to the Financial Statement.
6.	
FINANCE AND CREDIT RATING:
 
Your Company continues to manage its treasury operations efficiently and has been able to borrow funds for its operations at competitive 
rates.
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, ICRA Limited has assigned Credit Ratings in respect of `981 Crore of Line of Credit (LOC) and `300 
Crore of Commercial Paper Programme availed by the Company, as under:
 
a) 
Rating of “[ICRA] AA- (Stable)” (pronounced “ICRA double A minus”) for long term bank facilities of `556 Crore;
 
b) 
Rating of “[ICRA] A1+” (pronounced “ICRA A one plus”) for short term bank facilities of `425 Crore;
 
c) 
Rating of “[ICRA] A1+” (pronounced “ICRA A one plus”) for Commercial Paper Programme of `300 Crore.
Annual Report 2023-24
47
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
In accordance with the Credit Rating assigned to the Commercial Paper Programme of your Company as above, the Board of Directors has 
granted its approval for borrowing by way of issuance of Commercial Papers upto an aggregate limit of `300 Crore.
 
Moreover, India Ratings and Research Private Limited, a Fitch Group Company, has assigned Credit Rating of “IND AA- / Stable” in respect 
of the Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”) upto an issue size of `50 Crore (Rupees Fifty Crore Only). During the Financial Year 2023-24 
and as on 31st March, 2024, NCDs of `50 Crore have been issued by your Company.
7.	
INFORMATION SYSTEMS:
	
In your Company, information is considered as an important business asset and Information Security recommendations are implemented to 
provide adequate security to critical information assets across the organization. 
 
Industry’s best security solutions & Tools are implemented to ensure zero trust security in endpoints, servers, networks and cloud 
infrastructure with 24X7 monitoring mechanism to ensure secure environment and high availability of digital resources. Your Company 
has stringent cyber security policy and the same is monitored and managed by competent professionals round the clock. For Network 
security, your Company has a ZERO tolerance policy, and all critical applications are accessible through secure Virtual Private Network 
(VPN). Data Loss Prevention (DLP) tool is being implemented in your Company to ensure stringent security to important information in 
the organization. Integrated Risk Management (IRM) tool is implemented in Research & Development (R&D) to ensure high security 
to confidential information. Disaster Recovery Site is maintained for critical business applications & Disaster Recovery (DR) Drills are 
conducted as per audit recommendations to ensure business continuity and compliance. 
	
Digital transformation initiatives are in progress across businesses which include deployment of web-based and mobile applications and 
automation of business processes using Robotic Process Automation to bring in operational efficiency and be a future ready resilient 
organization. Your Company is also working on Cloud adoption to strengthen infrastructure availability and provide better manageability, 
thereby ensuring business continuity. Use of the latest technologies like Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI/ML) & Predictive 
analytics is in place.
8.	
SHARE CAPITAL:
 
The Authorized Equity Share Capital of your Company as on 31st March, 2024 stood at `25,00,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty-Five Crore Only), 
comprising of 2,50,00,000 (Two Crore Fifty Lakh) Equity Shares of Face Value of `10/- (Rupees Ten Only) each.
	
The Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Equity Share Capital of the Company as on 31st March, 2024 was `19,60,92,060/- (Rupees Nineteen 
Crore Sixty Lakh Ninety-Two Thousand Sixty Only) comprising of 1,96,09,206 (One Crore Ninety-Six Lakh Nine Thousand Two Hundred 
and Six) Equity Shares of Face Value of `10/- (Rupees Ten Only) each.
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, the Company has allotted 3,546 (Three Thousand Five Hundred and Forty-Six) Equity Shares of Face 
Value of `10/- (Rupees Ten Only) each, ranking pari passu with the existing Equity Shares, out of which:
	
(a)	
1,546 (One Thousand Five Hundred and Forty-Six) Equity Shares were allotted pursuant to exercise of Options at an exercise price 
of `10/- (Rupees Ten Only) each under amended Employees Stock Option Plan, 2012 (“amended ESOP 2012”);
	
(b)	
2,000 (Two Thousand) Equity Shares were allotted pursuant to exercise of Options at an exercise price of `387.35 (Rupees Three 
Hundred Eighty-Seven and Paise Thirty-Five Only) each under the Employees Stock Option Scheme, 2015 (“ESOS 2015”).
 
Further, during the Financial Year under review, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of your Company 
has granted 1,856 (One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-Six) Options convertible into 1,856 (One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-
Six)) Equity Shares at an Exercise Price of `10/- (Rupees Ten Only) under the amended ESOP 2012.
	
During the Financial Year under review, no options were granted under ESOS 2015.
9.	
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT:
	
The Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the Financial Year 2023-24, as stipulated under Regulation 34(2) of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, forms a part of the Annual Report.
10.	
HOLDING COMPANY:
 
Godrej Agrovet Limited, a Listed Company (listed on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited), is, inter alia, engaged in 
the business of manufacturing and marketing of Animal Feeds, Agricultural Inputs and Oil Palm and continues to be the Holding Company 
of your Company. The shareholding of Godrej Agrovet Limited in your Company as on 31st March, 2024 was 64.76% [i.e., 1,26,99,054 (One 
Crore Twenty-Six Lakh Ninety-Nine Thousand Fifty-Four) Equity Shares of Face Value of `10/- (Rupees Ten Only) each] of the Issued, 
Subscribed and Paid-up Equity Share Capital of the Company.
 
Godrej Agrovet Limited, in turn, is a subsidiary of Godrej Industries Limited, a listed company (listed on BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited). Godrej Industries Limited, thus, continues to be the Ultimate Holding Company of your Company.
11.	
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES:
	
Your Company had the following 2 (Two) Subsidiary Companies throughout the Financial Year 2023-24:
	
(a)	
Behram Chemicals Private Limited, Maharashtra, India (in which your Company holds 65.63% of the Paid- up Equity Share Capital); 
and
Annual Report 2023-24
48
 
(b) 
Comercializadora Agricola Agroastrachem Cia Ltda, Bogota, Columbia (in which your Company holds 100% of the Paid-up Equity 
Share Capital).
 
A report on the financial position and performance of each of the Subsidiary Companies in Form AOC-1 for the Financial Year 2023-24 forms 
a part of the Directors’ Report and is annexed herewith as ‘Annexure A’.
12.	
JOINT VENTURES OR ASSOCIATE COMPANIES:
	
Your Company did not have any Joint Ventures or Associate companies during the Financial Year 2023-24.
13.	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
	
The Consolidated Financial Statements of your Company for the Financial Year 2023-24 are prepared in accordance with the relevant Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS), i.e., Ind AS 110 issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and form part of this Annual 
Report. Accordingly, the Annual Report of your Company does not contain the Financial Statements of its 2 (Two) Subsidiary Companies, 
viz., Behram Chemicals Private Limited and Comercializadora Agricola Agroastrachem Cia Ltda (Bogota, Columbia).
	
The Annual Financial Statements and related information of your Company’s Subsidiaries will be made available upon request. Also, in 
accordance with Section 136 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Audited Financial Statements, including Consolidated Financial Statements 
and related information of your Company and Financial Statements of each of the Subsidiaries, are hosted on the Company’s website, 
viz., www.godrejastec.com and can be accessed through the web link https://www.godrejastec.com/Investors/financial-updates. These 
documents will also be available for inspection during all days except Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays between 10.00 a.m. (IST) 
to 4.00 p.m. (IST) at the Company’s Registered Office in Mumbai, Maharashtra, subject to restrictions, if any, as may be imposed by the 
Government(s) and/or local authority(ies) from time to time. If any Shareholder is interested in inspecting and obtaining a copy thereof, such 
Shareholder may write an e-mail to agm.astec@godrejastec.com.
14.	
DISCLOSURE AS PER PART G OF SCHEDULE V TO THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (LISTING OBLIGATIONS 
AND DISCLOSURES REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015:
	
The Company has been informed by way of a family letter dated 30th April, 2024 issued jointly by Mr. Adi Godrej (ABG), Mr. Nadir Godrej 
(NBG), Mrs. Smita Godrej Crishna (SVC) and Mr. Jamshyd Godrej (JNG) that the Godrej family members have entered into a family 
settlement agreement and a brand & non-compete agreement on 30th April, 2024. The Company is not a party to these agreements.
	
The settlement contemplates a realignment of, inter alia, the shareholding of Godrej Industries Limited, which is the Ultimate Holding 
Company of your Company, subject to applicable regulatory approvals. Pursuant to the realignment, the management and control of the 
Company will continue with the ABG / NBG family, and the JNG / SVC Family will not be involved in the management and operations of the 
Company.
 
Currently, there are no members of the JNG / SVC Family who are Directors on the Board of Directors of the Company.
15.	
DIRECTORS:
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, at the 29th (Twenty Nineth) Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of your Company held on 27th July, 
2023, Mr. Balram Singh Yadav [Director Identification Number (DIN: 00294803)], Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director, who was 
liable to retire by rotation, was re-appointed by the Shareholders. 
 
Further, Mr. Anurag Roy [Director Identification Number (DIN: 07444595)] has been re-appointed as a “Whole Time Director & Chief 
Executive Officer” of the Company for a term of 3 (Three) years with effect from 28th July, 2024 upto 27th July, 2027 by the Shareholders 
of the Company upon passing a Special Resolution through a Postal Ballot, the results of which were declared on 9th March, 2024.
	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 152(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Articles of Association of the Company, Mr. 
Ashok Vishwanath Hiremath [Director Identification Number (DIN: 00349345)], Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director of the Company 
is liable to retire by rotation at the ensuing 30th (Thirtieth) AGM, and being eligible, has offered himself for re-appointment. Appropriate 
resolution for re-appointment of Mr. Ashok Vishwanath Hiremath is being moved at the ensuing 30th (Thirtieth) AGM, which the Board of 
Directors recommends for your approval.
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Company has obtained a Certificate from Mr. Vikas Chomal, a Company Secretary in 
Practice certifying that none of the Directors of your Company has been debarred or disqualified by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (SEBI) or by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) or by any such statutory authority, from being appointed or continuing as a Director 
of any company. The said Certificate is annexed to the Corporate Governance Report of the Company for the Financial Year 2023-24.
16.	
MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
	
The Meetings of the Board of Directors are pre-scheduled and intimated to all the Directors in advance, in order to enable them to plan their 
schedule. However, in case of special and urgent business needs, approval is taken either by convening Meetings at a shorter notice with 
consent of all the Directors or by passing a Resolution through Circulation.
	
The Board of Directors of your Company met 4 (Four) times during the Financial Year 2023-24 (on 2nd May, 2023, 27th July, 2023, 27th 
October, 2023 and 25th January, 2024). The details of Board Meetings and the attendance of the Directors thereat are provided in the 
Corporate Governance Report. The intervening time gap between two consecutive Meetings of the Board of Directors was within the limit 
Annual Report 2023-24
49
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013, i.e., the same was not exceeding 120 (One Hundred Twenty) days.
17.	
BOARD EVALUATION:
	
The Board of Directors has carried out a detailed annual evaluation of the performance of its own, its Committees as well as the Directors 
individually. A structured questionnaire was circulated after taking into consideration various aspects of the Board’s functioning, composition 
of the Board and its Committees, culture, execution and performance of specific duties, obligations and governance. The performance 
evaluation of the Chairman and Non-Independent Directors was carried out by the Independent Directors. The confidential online 
questionnaire was responded to by all the Directors and vital feedback was received from them on how the Board and its Committees 
currently function and suggestions to improve their effectiveness.
	
The process of annual evaluation of Directors’ performance and the feedback received therefrom has been discussed and noted at the 
Meetings of the Independent Directors, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors.
	
The Directors have expressed their overall satisfaction with the performance evaluation process.
18.	
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS:
	
All the Independent Directors of your Company during the Financial Year 2023-24 and as on 31st March, 2024, viz., Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas, 
Mr. R. R. Govindan, Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (*), Mr. Nandkumar Vasant Dhekne and Ms. Anjali Rajesh Gupte have registered themselves 
with the databank maintained by the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (“IICA”), in terms of the provisions of Rule 6 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Creation and Maintenance of Databank of Independent 
Directors) Rules, 2019.
 
In terms of the provisions of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014 dealing with the requirement for 
Independent Directors to pass Proficiency Test conducted by IICA:
 
z
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas, Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (*) and Mr. Nandkumar Vasant Dhekne are exempt from appearing for the 
Proficiency Test;
 
z
Mr. R. R. Govindan and Ms. Anjali Rajesh Gupte have successfully cleared / completed the Proficiency Test within the mandatory 
timelines applicable to each of them.
	
( *) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of business hours on 
2nd May, 2024.
 
Your Company has received declarations from all the Independent Directors confirming that they meet the criteria of independence as 
prescribed under Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the same have been taken on record by the Board of Directors after 
undertaking due assessment of the veracity of the same.
 
The criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of Directors is provided in the Nomination and Remuneration 
Policy of the Company which is available on your Company’s website, viz., www.godrejastec.com at the web link https://www.godrejastec.
com/investors/codes-and-policies.
	
All the Independent Directors of your Company have duly complied with the Code for Independent Directors as prescribed in Schedule IV 
to the Companies Act, 2013. The details of familiarization programmes attended by the Independent Directors during the Financial Year 
2023-24 are available on the website of your Company, viz., www.godrejastec.com at the web link https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/
compliance.
	
The Independent Directors met once during the Financial Year 2023-24, i.e., on 2nd May, 2023, pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 25 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Schedule IV to the 
Companies Act, 2013. The Meeting of the Independent Directors was conducted without the presence of the Chairman, Whole Time Director 
and Non-Executive Directors and the members of your Company’s Management.
19.	
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), your Directors, to the best of their knowledge and ability, 
confirm as under:
	
a)	
that in the preparation of the Annual Accounts for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024, the applicable Accounting Standards 
have been followed along with proper explanation relating to material departures, if any;
	
b)	
that such accounting policies have been selected and applied consistently, and such judgments and estimates have been made that 
are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31st March, 2024 and the 
profit of the Company for the Financial Year ended as at that date;
 
c) 
that proper and sufficient care has been taken for the maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions 
of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company, for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
	
d)	
that the Annual Accounts for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024 have been prepared on a going concern basis;
Annual Report 2023-24
50
 
e) 
the Directors had laid down internal financial controls to be followed by the Company and that such internal financial controls are 
adequate and were operating effectively;
	
f)	
that proper systems are in place to ensure compliance of all laws applicable to the Company and that such systems are adequate 
and operating effectively.
20.	
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL:
	
The following were the Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) of your Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 203 of the Companies Act, 
2013, during the Financial Year 2023-24:
 
1. 
Mr. Anurag Roy, Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer
	
2.	
Mr. Madhur Gundecha, Chief Financial Officer (upto 2nd May, 2023)
 
 
Mr. K. Suryanarayan, Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f. 3rd May, 2023) 
 
3. 
Ms. Tejashree Pradhan, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
 
z
Mr. Madhur Gundecha resigned as the “Chief Financial Officer” w.e.f. the close of business hours on 2nd May, 2023. 
 
z
Mr. K. Suryanarayan has been appointed by the Board of Directors as the “Chief Financial Officer” w.e.f. 3rd May, 2023, based on the 
recommendations made by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee. Further, Mr. K. Suryanarayan 
shall cease to be the “Chief Financial Officer” of the Company with effect from the close of the business hours on 3rd May, 2024 
on account of resignation.
21.	
STATUTORY AUDITORS:
 
B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants, Mumbai (Firm Registration Number: 101248W/W-100022) are the “Statutory Auditors” of your 
Company.
	
At the 28th (Twenty-Eighth) Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 25th July, 2022, B S R & Co. LLP have been re-appointed 
as the “Statutory Auditors” for a second term of 5 (Five) years, to hold office from the conclusion of the 28th (Twenty-Eighth) Annual General 
Meeting till the conclusion of the 33rd (Thirty-Third) Annual General Meeting (i.e., from the Financial Year 2022-23 upto the Financial Year 
2026-27), based on the recommendation made by the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors at their respective Meetings held on 
2nd May, 2022.
 
B S R & Co. LLP have provided a written confirmation that they are eligible to continue to act as the Statutory Auditors of the Company for 
the Financial Year 2024-25, in terms of the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules framed thereunder.
22.	
COST AUDITORS:
	
Pursuant to Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 and the Companies (Cost 
Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, the cost records are required to be maintained by your Company and the same are required to be audited. 
Your Company, accordingly, maintains the required cost accounts and records.
	
Your Board of Directors had, upon recommendation of the Audit Committee, at its Meeting held on 2nd May, 2023, re-appointed M/s. 
NNT & Co., Cost Accountants, Mumbai (Firm Registration Number: 100911) as the “Cost Auditors” of the Company for the Financial 
Year 2023-24 and their remuneration was duly ratified by the Shareholders at the 29th (Twenty Ninth) Annual General Meeting held on 
27th July, 2023.
	
Your Board of Directors has, upon recommendation of the Audit Committee, at its Meeting held on 2nd May, 2024, appointed Mr. Paresh 
Jaysih Sampat, Cost Accountant, Mumbai (Membership No.: 33451 & Firm Registration No.: 102421), who has provided his consent and 
confirmed his eligibility, as the “Cost Auditor” of your Company for the Financial Year 2024-25, for newer insights, subject to ratification of 
his remuneration by the Shareholders at the ensuing 30th (Thirtieth) Annual General Meeting.
23.	
SECRETARIAL AUDITORS AND SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, your Board of Directors had, upon recommendation of the Audit Committee, at its Meeting held on 2nd 
May, 2023, appointed M/s. BNP and Associates, Company Secretaries (Firm Registration Number: P2014MH037400), Mumbai to undertake 
Secretarial Audit of your Company for the Financial Year 2023-24.
 
The Secretarial Audit Report issued by M/s. BNP and Associates, Secretarial Auditors for the Financial Year 2023-24, which is an unqualified 
report, is annexed herewith as ‘Annexure B’.
	
Your Board of Directors has, upon recommendation of the Audit Committee, at its Meeting held on 2nd May, 2024, re-appointed M/s. BNP 
and Associates, who have provided their consent and confirmed their eligibility, as the “Secretarial Auditors” of your Company for the 
Financial Year 2024-25.
Annual Report 2023-24
51
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
24.	
COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECRETARIAL STANDARDS:
	
Your Company is in compliance with the Secretarial Standards on Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and Secretarial Standards on 
General Meetings (SS-2), as issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI), as applicable.
25.	
AUDIT COMMITTEE:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013, Rule 6 of the Companies (Meetings of Board and Its Powers) Rules, 
2014 and Regulation 18 read with Part C of Schedule II to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, your Company has constituted Audit Committee of the Board of Directors comprising of the following 
Members as on 31st March, 2024:
Sr. No.
Name of the Member
Designation & Category
1.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Chairman (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
2.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
Member (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
3.
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (*)
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
4.
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
	
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of business hours on 2nd 
May, 2024.
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, there was no change in the composition of the Audit Committee.
	
Audit Committee Meetings were held 4 (Four) times during the Financial Year 2023-24 (on 2nd May, 2023, 27th July, 2023, 27th October, 
2023 and 25th January, 2024). The Statutory Auditors, Internal Auditors and Chief Financial Officer attend the Audit Committee Meetings 
as invitees. The Statutory Auditors and the Internal Auditors, inter alia, present their observations on adequacy of internal financial controls 
and the steps necessary to bridge gaps, if any. Accordingly, the Audit Committee makes observations and recommendations to the Board of 
Directors of your Company. The Board has accepted all the recommendations of the Audit Committee during the Financial Year 2023-24.
 
The Company Secretary & Compliance Officer acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
26.	
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013, Rule 6 of the Companies (Meetings of Board and Its Powers) Rules, 
2014 and Regulation 19 read with Part D of Schedule II to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, your Company has constituted Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors 
comprising of the following Members as on 31st March, 2024:
Sr. No.
Name of the Member
Designation & Category
1.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Chairman (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
2.
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (*)
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
3.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Member (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
	
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of business hours on 2nd 
May, 2024.
 
During the Financial Year 2023-24, there was no change in the composition of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee Meetings were held 2 (Two) times during the Financial Year 2023-24 (on 2nd May, 2023 and 25th 
January, 2024).
27.	
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (“CSR”) & CSR COMMITTEE:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 
2014, your Company has constituted Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee of the Board of Directors comprising of the following 
Members as on 31st March, 2024:
Sr. No.
Name of the Member
Designation & Category
1.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
Chairman (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
2.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Member (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
3.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
4.
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
Annual Report 2023-24
52
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, there was no change in the composition of the CSR Committee.
	
CSR Committee Meetings were held 2 (Two) times during the Financial Year 2023-24 (on 2nd May, 2023 and 25th January, 2024).
	
CSR Policy and Areas of CSR Expenditure:
 
As a responsible corporate citizen, your Company recognizes CSR as integral to the way it does its business and strives to engage, connect 
and uplift the community in and around the areas in which your Company operates. The CSR Policy of your Company aligns itself with the 
Godrej Group’s ‘Good and Green’ vision of creating a more inclusive and greener India. Each of your Company’s CSR projects are aligned 
with the ‘Good and Green’ goals of the Godrej Group and correspond to different items listed in Schedule VII to the Companies Act, 2013, 
which create social, environmental and economic value for the society.
	
Your Company aspires and consistently moves in the direction to become a sustainable company through leadership commitment, multiple 
stakeholder engagements and disciplined value chain mechanisms. Your Company’s holistic approach towards sustainability not only 
manages its externalities but also provides tangible solutions for the benefit and upliftment of the communities around its manufacturing 
sites. The CSR Policy of your Company outlines programmes and projects which the Company undertakes to create a positive impact 
on its stakeholders, taking into account the priorities of the nation and the needs of the local communities in order to deliver high- impact 
programmes that are easy to scale up.
	
Under its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities, the Company worked on projects in the area of agriculture, women empowerment, 
education, entitlements and community development. The various CSR programmes of the Company have positively impacted livelihoods 
for 3,149 individuals and 1,159 students.
 
The CSR Policy of your Company is uploaded on the website, viz., www.godrejastec.com and can be accessed through the web link 
https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-policies. 
	
Amount of CSR Spending:
	
Your Company was required to spend `163.94 Lakh towards CSR Activities in terms of the provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, during the Financial Year 2023-24, out of which your Company 
has spent `161.01 Lakh towards CSR Activities. Your Company took up different projects pertaining to raising livelihoods of communities, digital 
education, etc. The shortfall of `2.93 Lakh in the amount of CSR spending is attributable to ongoing projects which will be completed by the 
Company in due course and the same has been duly transferred to Unspent CSR Account within the prescribed time limit.
	
Annual Report on CSR Activities:
	
The Annual Report on CSR Activities for the Financial Year 2023-24 is annexed herewith as ‘Annexure C’.
28.	
RISK MANAGEMENT & THE RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 21 read with Part D of Schedule II to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, your Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors 
comprising of the following Members as on 31st March, 2024:
Sr. No.
Name of the Member
Designation & Category
1.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
Chairman (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
2.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Member (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
3.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, there was no change in the composition of the Risk Management Committee.
	
Risk Management Committee Meetings were held 2 (Two) times during the Financial Year 2023-24 (on 12th September, 2023 and 5th 
March, 2024).
	
The detailed terms of reference of the Risk Management Committee are set out in the Corporate Governance Report forming a part of the 
Annual Report.
	
Your Company considers ongoing risk management to be a core component of the management and functioning of the Company and 
understands that the Company’s ability to identify and address risks is essential for achieving its corporate objectives. Your Company has, 
therefore, developed and implemented a Risk Management Policy. Your Company has formulated a series of processes, structures and 
guidelines which assist the Company to identify, assess, monitor and manage its business risks. In order to achieve this objective, your 
Company has clearly defined responsibility and authority of the Company’s Board of Directors and of the Risk Management Committee, to 
oversee and manage the risk management programme, while conferring responsibility and authority on the Company’s senior management, 
to develop and maintain the risk management programme in light of the day-to- day emerging needs of the Company. Regular communication 
and review of risk management practices provides your Company with important checks and balances to ensure the efficacy of its risk 
management. Detailed and meaningful discussions on risk factors and mitigation measures for the same take place at the meetings of the 
Risk Management Committee.
Annual Report 2023-24
53
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 
At present, there are no identified elements of risks, which, in the opinion of the Board, may threaten the existence of the Company.
29.	
STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 20 read with Part D of Schedule II to the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, your Company has constituted a 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of the Board of Directors, comprising of the following Members as on 31st March, 2024:
Sr. No.
Name of the Member
Designation & Category
1.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Chairman (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
2.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
3.
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (*)
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
	
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of business hours on 2nd 
May, 2024.
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, there was no change in the composition of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee.
 
Meeting of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee was held once during the Financial Year 2023-24 (viz., on 25th January, 2024).
 
Ms. Tejashree Pradhan, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer is the Secretary to Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee. She has 
attended the Meeting of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee held during the Financial Year 2023-24.
	
The details of Investor Complaints during the Financial Year 2023-24 are as follows:
Complaints outstanding as on 1st April, 2023
0
(+) Complaints received during the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024
2
(-) Complaints resolved during the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024
2
Complaints outstanding as on 31st March, 2024
0
	
There are no pending share transfers as on 31st March, 2024.
30.	
MANAGING COMMITTEE:
	
Your Company has constituted a Managing Committee of the Board of Directors, which comprised of the following Members as on 31st 
March, 2024:
Sr. No.
Name of the Member
Designation & Category
1.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Chairman (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
2.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
Member (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
3.
Mr. Burjis Godrej
Member (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
4.
Mr. Anurag Roy
Member (Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer)
 
During the Financial Year under review, the Managing Committee has been reconstituted, i.e., Mr. Burjis Godrej, Non-Executive & Non-
Independent Director and Mr. Anurag Roy, Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer, have been appointed as the Members of the 
Managing Committee w.e.f. 27th October, 2023, pursuant to approval of the Board of Directors of the Company at its Meeting held on 27th 
October, 2023.
	
The terms of reference of the Managing Committee include handling of various administrative and other matters of the Company, which have 
been delegated to the Managing Committee by the Board of Directors from time to time.
31.	
PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT AT WORKPLACE AND INTERNAL COMPLAINTS COMMITTEE:
	
Your Company, as a part of the Godrej Group, is committed to creating and maintaining an atmosphere in which employees can work 
together without fear of sexual harassment, exploitation or intimidation and there is zero tolerance towards any such unwarranted instances. 
The values of mutual trust and respect are considered by your Company as fundamental to its existence.
	
The Board of Directors of your Company has constituted Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) pursuant to the provisions of the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Rules framed thereunder, comprising of the 
following Members for Head Office as on 31st March, 2024:
 
1. 
Ms. Mallika Mutreja, Presiding Officer
	
2.	
Mr. Arijit Mukherjee, Member
Annual Report 2023-24
54
	
3.	
Mr. Tarun Surya, Member
	
4.	
Ms. Tejashree Pradhan, Member
	
5.	
Ms. Prarthana Uppal, Member
	
6.	
Ms. Sharmila Kher, External Member
	
The Company has formulated and circulated to all the employees, a Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace, which 
provides for a proper mechanism for redressal of complaints of sexual harassment.
	
The details of complaints with the ICC during the Financial Year 2023-24 are as follows:
Complaints outstanding as on 1st April, 2023
0
(+) Complaints received during the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024
1
(-) Complaints resolved during the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024
1
Complaints outstanding as on 31st March, 2024
0
	
The Company has complied with the applicable provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Rules framed thereunder.
32.	
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS:
	
All Related Party Transactions entered into by your Company during the Financial Year 2023-24 were on arm’s length basis and in the 
ordinary course of business. There were no material significant Related Party Transactions entered into by the Company with its Promoters, 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or other designated persons which may have a potential conflict with the interest of the Company. 
Approval of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors was obtained for all the Related Party Transactions. Accordingly, as per provisions 
of Section 134(3)(h) and Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, disclosure 
of Related Party Transactions in Form AOC-2 is not applicable. Attention of the Shareholders is also drawn to the disclosure of transactions 
with Related Parties as set out in Note No. 51 of the Standalone Financial Statements, forming part of the Annual Report. None of the 
Directors have any pecuniary relationships or transactions vis-à-vis the Company during the Financial Year 2023-24.
33.	
DISCLOSURES OF TRANSACTIONS OF THE COMPANY WITH ANY PERSON OR ENTITY BELONGING TO THE PROMOTER / 
PROMOTER GROUP:
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, the Company has entered into Related Party Transactions with Godrej Agrovet Limited, its Promoter and 
Holding Company, based on considerations of various business exigencies, such as synergy in operations and the same are in line with 
the Company’s long-term strategy. 
	
All such Related Party Transactions during the Financial Year under review are in the ordinary course of business, on arm’s length basis and 
are intended to further the Company’s interests. The same have been disclosed in the Financial Statement.
34.	
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE:
	
In accordance with Regulation 34 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), a detailed report on Corporate Governance is included in the Annual Report. M/s. BNP & 
Associates, Company Secretaries, Mumbai, who are also the “Secretarial Auditors” of your Company, have certified that your Company 
is in compliance with the requirements of Corporate Governance in terms of Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations and their Compliance 
Certificate is annexed to the Report on Corporate Governance.
35.	
POLICIES OF THE COMPANY:
	
The Companies Act, 2013, the Rules framed thereunder and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”) have mandated the formulation of certain policies for all listed 
companies and/or unlisted companies. All our Policies are available on the Company’s website, viz., www.godrejastec.com and can be 
accessed through the web link https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-policies. The Policies are reviewed periodically by the 
Board and its Committees and are updated based on the need and new compliance requirements.
The major Policies which have been adopted by your Company as on 31st March, 2024 are as follows:
1.
Risk Management Policy
The Company has in place, a Risk Management Policy which has been framed by the 
Board of Directors of the Company, based on the recommendation made by the Risk 
Management Committee. This Policy deals with identifying and assessing risks such 
as operational, strategic, financial, security, cyber security, property, legal, regulatory, 
reputational and other risks and the Company has in place an adequate risk management 
infrastructure capable of addressing these risks.
Annual Report 2023-24
55
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
The major Policies which have been adopted by your Company as on 31st March, 2024 are as follows:
2.
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Policy
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee has formulated and recommended to the 
Board of Directors, a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, indicating the activities to be 
undertaken by the Company as corporate social responsibility, which has been approved 
by the Board. This Policy outlines the Company’s strategy to bring about a positive impact 
on society through various activities and programmes relating to livelihood, healthcare, 
education, sanitation, environment, etc.
3.
Policy 
for 
Determining 
Material 
Subsidiaries
This Policy is used to determine the material subsidiaries of the Company in order to 
comply with the requirements of Regulation 16(1)(c), Regulation 24 and Regulation 24A 
of the Listing Regulations. As on 31st March, 2024, your Company does not have any 
material subsidiary.
4.
Nomination and Remuneration Policy
This Policy approved by the Board formulates the criteria for determining qualifications, 
competencies, positive attributes and independence of a Director and also the criteria 
for determining the remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other 
Senior Management Personnel.
5
Whistle 
Blower 
Policy 
Vigil 
Mechanism
The Company has a Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy. The purpose of this Policy is 
to enable employees to raise concerns regarding unacceptable improper practices and/or 
any unethical practices, violation of any law, rule or regulation, in the organization without 
the knowledge of the Management. The Policy provides adequate safeguards against 
victimization of persons who use such mechanism and makes provision for direct access 
to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee, in appropriate or exceptional cases.
6.
Policy on Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment at Workplace
The Company has in place, a Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace, 
which provides for a proper mechanism for redressal of complaints of sexual harassment 
and thereby helps to create and maintain an atmosphere in which employees can work 
together without fear of sexual harassment, exploitation or intimidation and places 
emphasis on the Company’s zero tolerance towards any incidents of sexual harassment.
7.
Policy on Materiality of Related 
Party Transactions and Dealing with 
Related Party Transactions
This Policy regulates all transactions between the Company and its Related Parties, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the Rules framed thereunder 
and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time.
8.
Code of Conduct for Insider Trading
This Policy sets up an appropriate mechanism to curb Insider Trading, in accordance 
with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time.
9.
Policy on Criteria for Determining 
Materiality of Events
This Policy applies to disclosure of material events affecting the Company. This Policy 
warrants disclosure to investors and has been framed in compliance with the emerging 
requirements of the Listing Regulations.
10.
Policy 
for 
Maintenance 
and 
Preservation of Documents
The purpose of this Policy is to specify the type of documents and time period for 
preservation thereof based on the classification mentioned under Regulation 9 of the 
Listing Regulations. This Policy covers all business records of the Company, including 
written, printed and recorded matter and electronic forms of records.
11.
Archival Policy
This Policy is framed pursuant to the provisions of the Listing Regulations. As per this 
Policy, all such events or information which have been disclosed to the Stock Exchanges 
are required to be hosted on the website of the Company for a minimum period of 5 (Five) 
years and thereafter in terms of the Policy.
12.
Dividend Distribution Policy
This Policy is framed by the Board of Directors in terms of the Listing Regulations. The 
focus of the Company is to have a Policy on distribution of dividend so that the investors 
may form their own judgment as to when and how much dividend they may expect.
13.
Code of Practices and Procedures for 
Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information (UPSI)
This Policy / Code is framed by the Board of Directors in terms of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018. 
It aims to strengthen the Internal Control System and curb / prevent leak of Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information (“UPSI”) without a legitimate purpose. The Policy / Code 
intends to formulate a stated framework and policy for fair disclosure of events and 
occurrences that could impact price discovery in the market for the Company’s securities. 
In general, this Policy aims to maintain transparency and fairness in dealings with all the 
stakeholders and to ensure adherence to applicable laws and regulations.
Annual Report 2023-24
56
The major Policies which have been adopted by your Company as on 31st March, 2024 are as follows:
14.
Code of Conduct for the Board of 
Directors and Senior Management 
Personnel
The Company has in place, a Policy / Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors and 
Senior Management Personnel which reflects the legal and ethical values to which the 
Company is strongly committed. The Directors and Senior Management Personnel of 
your Company have complied with the Code during the Financial Year 2023-24.
15.
Policy to Promote Board Diversity
This Policy endeavours to promote diversity at Board level, with a view to enhance its 
effectiveness.
16.
Policy on Familiarization Programmes 
for Independent Directors
Your Company has a Policy on Familiarization Programmes for Independent Directors, 
which lays down the practices followed by the Company in this regard, on a continuous 
basis.
17.
Human Rights Policy
Your Company has in place, a Human Rights Policy which demonstrates your Company’s 
commitment to respect human rights and treat people with dignity and respect in the 
course of conduct of its business and operations.
36.	
MANAGERIAL REMUNERATION:
	
The remuneration paid to Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other employees of the Company during the Financial Year 2023-
24 was in conformity with the Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company. The disclosure as per the provisions of Section 197 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is annexed 
herewith as ‘Annexure D’.
37.	
PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES:
	
The disclosure as per Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(2) and Rule 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, in respect of employees of your Company, is available for inspection by the 
Shareholders at the Registered Office of the Company, during business hours, i.e., between 10.00 a.m. (IST) to 5.00 p.m. (IST), on all 
working days (i.e., excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays), upto the date of the ensuing 30th (Thirtieth) Annual General Meeting, 
subject to restrictions (if any) as may be imposed by the Government(s) and/or local authority(ies) from time to time. If any Shareholder is 
interested in inspecting and obtaining a copy thereof, such Shareholder may write an e-mail to agm.astec@godrejastec.com.
38.	
DEPOSITS:
	
Your Company has not accepted any deposits covered under Chapter V of the Companies Act, 2013, [(i.e., deposits within the meaning of 
Rule 2(1)(c) of the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014)], during the Financial Year 2023-24. Thus, the details of deposits 
required as per the provisions of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2013 are as follows:
(a)	
Deposits accepted during the Financial Year 2023-24
:
Nil
(b)	
Deposits remained unpaid or unclaimed during the Financial Year 2023-24
:
Nil
(c)
Whether there has been any default in repayment of deposits or payment of interest thereon during the 
Financial Year 2023-24 and if so, number of such cases and total amount involved:
(i)	
At the beginning of the Financial Year
:
Nil
(ii)	
Maximum during the Financial Year
:
Nil
(iii)	
At the end of the Financial Year
:
Nil
(d)	
Details of Deposits which are not in compliance with the requirements of Chapter V of the Companies Act, 
2013
:
Nil
39.	
ADEQUACY OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS WITH REFERENCE TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENT:
 
In the opinion of the Board of Directors of your Company, adequate internal financial controls are available and operative, with reference to 
the preparation and finalization of the Financial Statements for the Financial Year 2023-24.
40.	
ANNUAL RETURN:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Amendment Rules, 2021, Annual Return in Form MGT-7 will be hosted on the website of the Company, viz., www.godrejastec.com at the 
web link https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/other-updates. 
41.	
INVESTOR EDUCATION AND PROTECTION FUND (IEPF):
	
Compulsory Transfer of Equity Shares to Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) Account:
	
In accordance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), all the Unpaid or Unclaimed Dividends are required to be transferred 
to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) established by the Central Government, upon completion of 7 (Seven) years. The 
Company is in compliance with the aforesaid provisions and the IEPF Rules.
Annual Report 2023-24
57
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
Unclaimed / Unpaid Dividend:
	
The dividend amount for the Financial Year 2016-17 remaining unclaimed shall become due for transfer to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund (“IEPF”) established by the Central Government in terms of Section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013, on 28th August, 2024, 
upon expiry of 7 (Seven) years from the date of its declaration. The Company has sent reminders to all such Shareholders at their registered 
addresses for claiming the unpaid / unclaimed dividend, which will be transferred to IEPF in the due course.
	
The detailed dividend history, due dates for transfer to IEPF, and the details of unclaimed amounts lying with the Company in respect of 
dividends declared are available on website of the Company, www.godrejastec.com at the web link https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/
unclaimed-dividend. Also, pursuant to the provisions of Section 124(2) of the Companies Act, 2013, your Company has uploaded the details 
of unpaid and unclaimed amounts lying with the Company in respect of dividends declared for the Financial Year 2022-23, on the website 
of the Company.
42.	
EXPLANATION OR COMMENTS BY THE BOARD ON EVERY QUALIFICATION, RESERVATION OR ADVERSE REMARK OR 
DISCLAIMER MADE BY THE STATUTORY AUDITORS, SECRETARIAL AUDITORS AND COST AUDITORS:
 
There are no qualifications, reservations, adverse remarks and disclaimers of the Statutory Auditors in their Auditors’ Reports (Standalone and 
Consolidated) on the Financial Statements for the Financial Year 2023-24.
 
There are no qualifications, reservations, adverse remarks and disclaimers of the Secretarial Auditors in their Secretarial Audit Report for 
the Financial Year 2023-24.
 
There are no qualifications, reservations, adverse remarks and disclaimers of the Cost Auditors in their Cost Audit Report on the Cost 
Records for the Financial Year 2022-23 (noted during the Financial Year 2023-24). The Cost Audit Report for the Financial Year 2023-24 will 
be received in due course.
43.	
SIGNIFICANT REGULATORY OR COURT ORDERS:
 
During the Financial Year 2023-24 and thereafter till the date of this Report, there have been no significant and material orders passed by 
the regulators or Courts or Tribunals which can adversely impact the going concern status of your Company and its operations in future.
44.	
MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENTS, IF ANY, AFFECTING THE FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE COMPANY WHICH HAVE 
OCCURRED BETWEEN THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2023-24 TO WHICH THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RELATE AND THE 
DATE OF THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT (I.E., FROM 1ST APRIL, 2024 UPTO 2ND MAY, 2024), IF ANY:
 
There are no material changes and commitments affecting the financial position of your Company which have occurred between the end 
of the Financial Year 2023-24 to which the Financial Statements relate and the date of the Directors’ Report (i.e., from 1st April, 2024 upto 
2nd May, 2024).
45.	
EMPLOYEES STOCK OPTION PLAN, 2012 AND EMPLOYEES STOCK OPTION SCHEME, 2015:
	
Your Company has introduced and implemented the following Employees Stock Option Plan and Scheme:
Sr No.
Name of the Plan / Scheme
Date of Shareholders’ Approval
Exercise Price per Option
1.
Employees Stock Option Plan, 
2012 
(“ESOP 2012”)
Original Scheme approved vide Special 
Resolution passed at the Extra-ordinary 
General Meeting held on 27th March, 2012 
Amended Scheme approved vide Special 
Resolution passed on 26th September, 2021, 
through Postal Ballot, the results of which 
were declared on 27th September, 2021
`34/- (Rupees Thirty-Four Only) as per 
the Original Scheme
`10/- (Rupees Ten Only) as per the 
Amended Scheme
2.
Employees Stock Option Scheme, 
2015 
(“ESOS 2015”)
Special Resolution passed at the 21st (Twenty 
First) Annual General Meeting held on 
22nd September, 2015
The Company shall use Fair Value 
Method to value its Options. The Exercise 
Price for the Options will be the Closing 
Market Price of the Equity Shares of the 
Company listed on the recognized Stock 
Exchange as on the date immediately 
prior to the relevant date of the grant of 
the Options to the Eligible Employees and 
Eligible Directors.
 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors administers and monitors the ESOP 2012 and ESOS 2015.
 
Your Company has received a certificate from M/s. BNP & Associates, Company Secretaries, Mumbai and the Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company that ESOP 2012 and ESOS 2015 have been implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and the resolutions passed by the Shareholders. Any 
request for inspection of the said Certificate may please be sent to agm.astec@godrejastec.com. The disclosures as per Regulation 14 of 
Annual Report 2023-24
58
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 have been put on the 
website of the Company, viz., www.godrejastec.com at the web link https://www.godrejastec.com/Investors/corporate-announcements.
46.	
FRAUD REPORTING:
	
There have been no instances of frauds reported by the Statutory Auditors under the provisions of Section 143(12) of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the Rules framed thereunder, either to the Company or to the Central Government, during the Financial Year 2023-24.
47.	
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
	
The additional information required to be given under the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder, has been laid out in the 
Notes attached to and forming part of the Financial Statements. The Notes to the Financial Statements referred to the Auditors’ Report are 
self-explanatory and therefore, do not call for any further explanation.
48.	
LISTING FEES:
 
Your Company has paid requisite annual listing fees to BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE), the Stock 
Exchanges where its securities are listed.
49.	
DEPOSITORY SYSTEM:
 
Your Company’s Equity Shares are available for dematerialization through National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) and Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”). The ISIN Number of your Company for both NSDL and CDSL is INE563J01010.
50.	
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT:
 
Your Company continues to focus on Research and Development (“R&D”) and strongly believes that productive R&D is a key ingredient for 
success. In April 2023, your Company inaugurated a state-of-the-art Research & Development (R&D) Center, named “Adi Godrej Center 
for Chemical Research and Development” in Rabale, Maharashtra. The facility, equipped with synthesis lab, formulation lab as well as 
sophisticated safety infrastructure, will enable your Company to expand offerings in Contract Development & Manufacturing Organization 
(CDMO) space. The R&D Center will further aid your Company in improving product development, providing access to advanced equipment 
and facilities, fostering collaboration, and driving innovation. With improved capability to reduce the time-to-market for innovative solutions 
and provide end- to-end solutions supported by advanced labs and analytical instruments, the R&D Center will also make your Company a 
partner of choice for innovator companies across the globe. Your Company’s substantial investment in a future-ready R&D Center reflects 
its unwavering commitment towards long-term value creation despite challenges in the short run.
51.	
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND OUTGO:
	
The information on conservation of energy, technology absorption and foreign exchange earnings and outgo as stipulated under Section 
134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is annexed herewith as ‘Annexure E’.
52.	
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT:
 
The Company has prepared its Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) for the first time for the Financial Year 2023-24, 
in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 34(2) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, read with Circular No. SEBI/ HO/CFD/CMD-2/P/CIR/2021/562 dated 10th May, 2021 issued by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). The said Circular mandates BRSR for top 1000 listed companies (by market capitalization) 
in place of erstwhile Business Responsibility Report. The BRSR is prepared in accordance with the 9 (Nine) principles of the ‘National 
Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct’ (NGBRCs) and forms part of this Annual Report.
 
Further, SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated 12th July, 2023, has introduced BRSR Core for 
assurance by the listed entities and disclosures and assurance for the value chain of listed entities, as per the BRSR Core. The BRSR 
Core is a sub-set of the BRSR, consisting of a set of Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) / metrics under 9 (Nine) Environmental, Social & 
Governance (ESG) attributes. Keeping in view the relevance to the Indian / emerging market context, few new KPIs have been identified for 
assurance. The disclosure will be applicable in a phased manner and on the basis of market capitalization of the listed entity.
53.	
SCHEME OF AMALGAMATION / ARRANGEMENT:
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, your Company has not proposed or considered or approved any Scheme of Merger / Amalgamation / 
Takeover / De-merger / Arrangement with its Members and/or Creditors.
54.	
DETAILS OF APPLICATION MADE OR ANY PROCEEDING PENDING UNDER THE INSOLVENCY AND BANKRUPTCY CODE, 2016, 
DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR ALONG WITH THEIR STATUS AS AT THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR:
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, there was no application made and proceeding initiated / pending by any Financial and/or Operational 
Creditors against your Company under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
	
As on the date of this Report, there is no application or proceeding pending against your Company under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code, 2016.
Annual Report 2023-24
59
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
55.	
DETAILS OF DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE AMOUNT OF VALUATION AT THE TIME OF ONE-TIME SETTLEMENT AND THE 
VALUATION DONE AT THE TIME OF TAKING A LOAN FROM THE BANKS OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ALONG WITH THE 
REASONS THEREOF:
 
During the Financial Year 2023-24, the Company has not made any settlement with any bank or financial institution for any loan / facility availed 
by it or/and still in existence.
56.	
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS:
 
Your Company is committed to constantly improve the effectiveness of internal financial controls and processes for efficient conduct of its 
business operations and ensuring security to its assets and timely preparation of reliable financial information.  In the opinion of the Board, 
the internal financial control system of your Company commensurate with the size, scale and complexity of business operations of your 
Company. The Company has a proper system of internal controls to ensure that all the assets are safeguarded and protected against loss 
from unauthorized use or disposition and that transactions are authorized, recorded and reported correctly. Your Company’s Corporate 
Audit & Assurance team issues well-documented operating procedures and authorities, with adequate in-built controls at the beginning of 
any activity and during the continuation of the process, if there is a major change. The internal control is supplemented by an extensive 
programme of internal, external audits and periodic review by the Management. This system is designed to adequately ensure that financial 
and other records are reliable for preparing financial statements and other data and for maintaining accountability of assets.
	
The Statutory Auditors and the Internal Auditors are, inter alia, invited to attend the Audit Committee Meetings and present their observations 
on adequacy of Internal Financial Controls and the steps required to bridge gaps, if any. Accordingly, the Audit Committee makes observations 
and recommendations to the Board of Directors of your Company.
57.	
HUMAN RESOURCES:
	
Your Company continues to have amicable employee relations at all locations and would like to place on record its sincere appreciation for the 
unstinted support it continues to receive from all its employees. Your Company drives interventions to enhance the workforce productivity in 
the business and also makes concrete efforts to improve the employee engagement and connect. Your Company is committed to building 
and maintaining a safe and healthy workplace. There are several policies formulated for the benefit of employees, which promote gender 
diversity, equal opportunity, prevention of sexual harassment, safety and health of employees. Your Company constantly makes concerted 
efforts towards creating learning and development opportunities on a non-discriminatory basis, that continually enhance the employee value 
in line with the organizational objectives. The total number of permanent employees on the rolls of your Company as on 31st March, 2024 
was 421.
58.	
APPRECIATION:
	
Your Board of Directors wishes to place on record its sincere appreciation and gratitude for the continued support and co-operation received 
from the various Central and State Government Departments, organizations and agencies. The Directors also gratefully acknowledge all 
stakeholders of the Company, viz., Shareholders, customers, dealers, vendors, banks, credit rating agencies and other business partners 
for the excellent support received from them during the Financial Year 2023-24. Your Directors also express their warm appreciation to all the 
employees of the Company for their unstinted commitment and continued contribution in the performance of the Company.
59.	
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT:
	
The statements in the Board’s Report describing the Company’s objectives, expectations or forecasts may be forward-looking within the 
meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed herein. Important factors 
which could influence the Company’s operations include global and domestic demand and supply conditions affecting selling prices of 
finished goods, input availability and prices, changes in government regulations, tax laws, economic developments within the country and 
other factors such as litigations and industrial relations.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Astec LifeSciences Limited
	
Anurag Roy	
Balram Singh Yadav
Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer	
Director
(DIN: 07444595) 	
(DIN: 00294803)
	
Date: 2nd May, 2024
Place: Mumbai
Annual Report 2023-24
60
ANNEXURE ‘A’
To Directors’ Report
FORM NO. AOC-1
For the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024
Statement containing Salient Features of the Financial Statement of Subsidiaries / Associates / Joint Ventures 
[Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with  
Rule 5 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014]
PART A
Information in respect of Subsidiaries:
(` in Lakh)
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Names of Subsidiary Companies
Behram Chemicals Private 
Limited  (India)
Comercializadora Agricola 
Agroastrachem Cia Ltda  
(Bogota, Columbia)
1.
Reporting Period
From 1st April, 2023 upto  
31st March, 2024
From 1st April, 2023 
Upto 31st March, 2024
2.
Reporting Currency & Exchange Rate as on last date of the 
relevant Financial Year
Indian Rupees
Columbian Peso 
(Exchange Rate: 0.02149)
3.
Share Capital
60.00
1.00
4.
Reserves & Surplus
73.11
(10.39)
5.
Total Assets
136.82
0.19
6.
Total Liabilities
3.71
9.58
7.
Investments
-
-
8.
Turnover
-
-
9.
Profit Before Taxation
14.98
-
10.
Provision for Taxation
3.77
-
11.
Adjustment of Tax for earlier years
-
-
12.
Profit After Taxation
11.21
-
13.
Other Comprehensive Income
-
-
14.
Total Comprehensive Income
11.21
-
15.
Proposed Dividend
-
-
16.
% Shareholding
65.63%
100.0%
Notes:
1.	
Names of Subsidiaries which are yet to commence Operations:
 
Comercializadora Agricola Agroastrachem Cia Ltda (Bogota Columbia), is a 100% Subsidiary, which has not commenced its operations.
2.	
Names of Subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the Year:
 
None of the subsidiaries of the Company have been liquidated or sold during the year under review.
Annual Report 2023-24
61
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
PART B
Information in respect of Associates and Joint Ventures:
Not Applicable since the Company does not have any Associates and Joint Ventures.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Astec LifeSciences Limited
(CIN: L99999MH1994PLC076236)
Anurag Roy
Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer
(DIN: 07444595)
Balram Singh Yadav  
Director
(DIN: 00294803)
K. Suryanarayan 
Chief Financial Officer
(ICAI Membership No.: 101853)
Date: 2nd May, 2024 
Place: Mumbai
Tejashree Pradhan
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer  
(ICSI Membership No.: FCS 7167)
Annual Report 2023-24
62
ANNEXURE ‘B’
To Directors’ Report
FORM NO. MR-3 
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and  
Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Astec LifeSciences Limited
“Godrej One”, 3rd Floor, 
Pirojshanagar, Eastern Express Highway, 
Vikhroli (East), 
Mumbai - 400 079.
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of compliance of the applicable statutory provisions and adherence to good corporate practices by Astec 
LifeSciences Limited [CIN: L99999MH1994PLC076236] (hereinafter called the “Company”) for the audit period from April 1, 2023 to March 31, 
2024 (‘the year’/ ‘audit period’/ ‘period under review’). 
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit in a manner that provided us with a reasonable basis for evaluating the Company’s corporate conducts / 
statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
We are issuing this Report based on:
(i) 
our verification of the books, papers, minute books, soft copy as provided by the Company and other records maintained by the Company 
and furnished to us, forms / returns filed and compliance related action taken by the Company during the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2024 as well as before the issue of this Report;
(ii)	
Compliance Certificates confirming compliance with all laws applicable to the Company given by Key Managerial Personnel / senior 
managerial personnel and taken on record by Audit Committee / Board of Directors; and
(iii)	
Representations made, documents shown, and information provided by the Company, its officers, agents, and authorized representatives 
during our conduct of Secretarial Audit.
We hereby report that in our opinion, during the audit period covering the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024, the Company has:
(i)	
Complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder, and 
(ii)	
Adhered to Board-processes and compliance mechanism in place  to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
The Members are requested to read this Report, along with our letter of even date annexed to this Report as Annexure - A.
1.	
Compliance with specific statutory provisions
We further report that:
1.1.	
We have examined the books, papers, minute books and other records maintained by the Company and the forms, returns, reports, 
disclosures and information filed or disseminated during the year according to the applicable provisions / clauses of:
	
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the Rules framed thereunder;
	
ii.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (“SCRA”) and the Rules framed thereunder;
	
iii.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
	
iv.	
The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Overseas Direct 
Investment;
	
v.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (“SEBI Act”):
	
	
a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
	
	
b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
 
 
c) 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
Annual Report 2023-24
63
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
	
d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993; and 
	
	
e)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”).
 
vi. 
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“Secretarial Standards”) which have been notified 
under Section 118(10) of the Act and are mandatorily applicable to the Company.
1.2.	
During the period under review, and also considering the compliance related action taken by the Company after March 31, 2024, but 
before the date of issue of this Report, the Company has, to the best of our knowledge and belief and based on the records, information, 
explanations and representations furnished to us:
	
i.	
Complied with the applicable provisions/clauses of the Act, Rules and SEBI Regulations mentioned under sub-paragraphs (ii), (iii) 
and (v) of paragraph 1.1 above.
	
ii.	
Complied with the applicable provisions/ clauses of:
	
	
a)	
The Act and Rules mentioned under paragraph 1.1 (i); and 
	
	
b)	
The Secretarial Standards on Meetings of the Board of Directors (SS-1) and Secretarial Standards on General Meetings 
(SS-2) mentioned under paragraph 1.1 (vi) above, to the extent applicable to Board Meetings and Committee Meetings 
held during the review period and the 29th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on 27th July, 2023. The Compliance of the 
provisions of the Rules made under the Act [paragraph 1.1(i)] and SS-1 [paragraph 1.1(vi)] with regard to the Board Meetings 
and Committee Meetings held through video conferencing during the review period were verified based on the Minutes of the 
Meetings provided by the Company.
1.3.	
We are informed that, during the year, the Company was not required to initiate any compliance related action in respect of the following 
laws/rules/regulations/standards, and was consequently not required to maintain any books, papers, minute books or other records or file 
any form/ returns thereunder:
	
i.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment 
and External Commercial Borrowings;
	
ii.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the SEBI Act:
	
	
a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of lndia (lssue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;
	
	
b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of lndia (lssue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;
	
	
c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of lndia (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; and 
	
	
d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of lndia (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998.
1.4. 
Based on the nature of business activities of the Company, the Insecticides Act, 1968 and the Rules framed thereunder are specifically 
applicable to the Company, which has been duly complied with based on a test check of the records pertaining thereto.
2.	
Board processes
We further report that
2.1.	
The Board of Directors of the Company as on March 31, 2024, comprised of:
 
i. 
One Executive Director i.e. Mr. Anurag Roy (DIN: 07444595);
 
ii. 
Four Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors i.e. Mr. Nadir B. Godrej (DIN: 00066195), Mr. Balram S. Yadav (DIN: 00294803), Mr. 
Ashok Hiremath (DIN: 00349345), Mr. Burjis Godrej (DIN: 08183082); and
 
iii. 
Five Non-Executive Independent Directors i.e. Mr. Brahma Nand Vyas (DIN: 02796071), Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (DIN: 03520249), 
Mr. Rishinaradamangalam Ramakrishna Govindan (DIN: 02148801), Mr. Nandkumar Dekhne (DIN: 02189370) including a Woman 
Independent Director i.e. Ms. Anjali Rajesh Gupte (DIN: 00104884).
2.2.	
The processes relating to the following changes in the composition of the Board of Directors during the year were carried out in compliance 
with the provisions of the Act and LODR:
 
i. 
Re-appointment of Mr. Balram Singh Yadav (DIN: 00294803) as a director, liable to retire by rotation, who has offered himself for 
re-appointment at the 29th Annual General Meeting held on 27th July, 2023;
	
ii.	
Resignation of Mr. Madhur Gundecha, CFO of the company with effect from 2nd May, 2023;
	
iii.	
Appointment of Mr. K. Suryanarayan, CFO of the company with effect from 3rd May, 2023.
2.3.	
Adequate notice was given to all Directors of the Company to schedule the Board Meetings (including Committees), Agenda and detailed 
notes on Agenda were sent at least 7 (seven) days in advance, and where the same were given at shorter notice than 7 (seven) days, more 
than one Independent Director was present at the Board Meeting as required under Section 173(3) of the Act and Secretarial Standard 
relating to Board Meetings. 
Annual Report 2023-24
64
2.4. 
A system exists for Directors to seek and obtain further information and clarifications on the Agenda items before the Meetings and for their 
meaningful participation at the Meetings. 
2.5.	
Decisions at the Meetings of the Board of Directors of the Company were carried through on the basis of majority. There were no dissenting 
views by any member of the Board of Directors during the Audit Period.
3.	
Compliance mechanism
 
There are reasonably adequate systems and processes in the Company, commensurate with its size and operations, to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines. 
4.	
Specific event(s)/action(s)
 
During the year, the following specific events/actions having a major bearing on the Company’s affairs took place, in pursuance of the above 
referred laws, rules, regulations and standards:
	
i.	
The Management Committee of the Board of Directors at their meeting held on 22nd August,2023 approved allotment of 4,900 Rated, 
Listed, Unsecured, Redeemable, Taxable, Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCD”) of nominal value of `1,00,000 (Rupees One Lakh 
Only) each aggregating to `49,00,00,000 (Rupees Forty-Nine Crore only) and these NCD’s are listed on NSE w.e.f. 18th August, 
2023;
	
ii.	
The Members of the Company through Postal Ballot approved by way of Special Resolution Re-appointment of Mr. Anurag Roy as 
Whole-Time Director and Chief Executive Officer for a period of 3 (Three) years, w.e.f. 28th July, 2024 upto 27th July, 2027;
	
iii.	
The Company has allotted 1,546 equity shares of Face Value of `10/- each under Employee Stock Option Plan, 2012 (ESOP 2012);
	
iv.	
The Company has allotted 2,000 equity shares of Face Value of `10/- each to under Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS 2015);
	
v.	
The Board of Directors at their meeting held on 27th July, 2023 granted approval for investment of surplus funds of the Company in 
Mutual Funds and/or Liquid Funds and/or Fixed Deposits, upto a limit of ` 50 Crore (Rupees Fifty Crore Only).
	
vi.	
The Board of Directors at their meeting held on 27th October, 2023 granted approval for making further offer(s) or invitation(s) to 
subscribe to Secured/ Unsecured Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCD’s”) including but not limited to, subordinated 
debentures, bonds and/or other debt securities on private placement basis, upto an additional amount not exceeding `100 Crore 
(Rupees One Hundred Crore only), over and above the earlier limit of `50 Crore (Rupees Fifty Crore Only) (approved by the Board 
at its meeting held on 30th January, 2023) i.e., upto an aggregate amount of ` 150 Crore (Rupees One Hundred Fifty Crore Only), in 
one or more tranches and/ or series at par or premium or discount either at issue or redemption, on a private placement basis.
	
vii.	
As per the provisions of section 135 of Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility) Rules, 2014 
the Board of Directors of the Company, has approved the budget of `1,68,62,546 (Rupees One Crore Sixty-Eight Lakh Sixty-Two 
Thousand Five Hundred and Forty-Six only). This is towards Corporate Social Responsibility activities. The Company has spent 
`1,60,61,402 (One Crore Sixty Lakh Sixty-One Thousand Four Hundred and Two only) towards ongoing project and the remaining 
amount of `8,01,144 (Eight Lakh One Thousand One Hundred and Forty – Four only) has been transferred towards Unspent CSR 
Account.
	
viii.	
During the year, the Company issued Commercial Paper/s of face value of `5,00,000/- each, amounting to `735 Crore and 
Commercial Papers for aggregate value of `565 Crores have been redeemed, leaving Commercial Paper/s of `170 Crore are 
outstanding as of March 31, 2024 and the same are listed on NSE; 
	
ix.	
On 6th December, the Company had received an order dated 3rd October, 2023 from the Office of Commissioner of Central Goods & 
Service Tax and Central Excise, Raigad, confirming levy of Central Excise duty of `0.64 Crore, payable along with interest thereon 
and imposing a penalty of `0.64 Crore for short payment at the time of debonding. We are informed that the Company has filed an 
appeal on 5th February 2024.
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
[Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
PR No. 637/2019
 
Avinash Bagul 
Partner
FCS: 2440 CP No.19862
UDIN: F005578F000289721
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 2, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
65
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
ANNEXURE A TO SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
To,
The Members,
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Our Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
The Company’s management is responsible for maintenance of secretarial records and compliance with the provisions of corporate and 
other applicable laws, rules, regulations and standards. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the secretarial records produced for 
our audit.
2.	
We have followed such audit practices and processes as we considered appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the secretarial records. 
3.	
While forming an opinion on compliance and issuing this Report, we have also considered compliance related action taken by the Company 
after March 31, 2024, but before the issue of this report.
4.	
We have considered compliance related actions taken by the Company based on independent legal /professional opinion obtained as being 
in compliance with law. 
5. 
We have verified the secretarial records furnished to us on a test basis to see whether the correct facts are reflected therein. We also 
examined the compliance procedures followed by the Company on a test basis. We believe that the processes and practices we followed, 
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
6. 
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and books of accounts of the Company.
7.	
We have obtained the management’s representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of events, wherever 
required.
8. 
Our Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For BNP & Associates
Company Secretaries
[Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400]
PR No. 637/2019 
 
Avinash Bagul 
Partner
FCS: 2440 CP No.19862
UDIN: F005578F000289721
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 2, 2024
 
Annual Report 2023-24
66
ANNEXURE ‘C’
TO DIRECTORS’ REPORT	
ANNUAL REPORT ON
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) ACTIVITIES 
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2023-24
1.	
Brief Outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
 
The Company is committed to the Godrej Group's 'Good & Green' vision of creating a more inclusive and greener India. Our strategic 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) projects, undertaken as part of our overall sustainability framework, actively work towards the Godrej 
Group’s Good & Green goals.
	
The CSR initiatives of the Company focus on holistic development of host communities and create social, environmental and economic 
value to the society. In order to pursue these objectives, the Company, as a responsible corporate citizen, constantly endeavours to:
 
z
Uphold and promote the principles of inclusive growth and equitable development;
 
z
Identify and develop project plans based on thorough understanding of the needs and priorities of different communities surrounding 
its manufacturing locations and measure the effectiveness of projects implemented, in a timely manner;
 
z
Target few crucial areas for conducting CSR activities such as entrepreneurship and employability, livelihoods and income generation, 
women empowerment, good agricultural practices, waste management, rural development projects, medical aid, conservation of 
natural resources, disaster relief management, etc.;
 
z
Interact regularly with all stakeholders regarding the CSR initiatives, in order to devise ways and means to continuously enhance 
their effectiveness.
2.	
Composition of CSR Committee:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation /  
Nature of Directorship
Number of 
Meetings of CSR 
Committee held 
during the Year
Number of 
Meetings of 
CSR Committee 
attended during 
the Year
1.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
Chairman of the Committee 
(Non-Executive,
Non-Independent Director)
2
2
2.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Member
(Non-Executive,
Non-Independent Director)
2
2
3.
Mr. Rishinaradamangalam Ramakrishna Govindan
Member
(Non-Executive, 
Independent Director)
2
2
4.
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas
Member
(Non-Executive,
 Independent Director)
2
2
3.	
Web-link where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by the Board are disclosed on the 
website of the Company:
	
The weblinks where information pertaining to composition of the CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by the Board of 
Directors are disclosed on the website of the Company are as follows:
	
For Composition of the CSR Committee: https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/board-committees 
	
For CSR Policy: https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-policies 
	
For CSR Projects approved by the Board of Directors: https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/annual-reports, https://www.godrejastec.com/
sustainability/corporate-social-responsibility 
4.	
Details of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance of Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable:
 
Not Applicable
Annual Report 2023-24
67
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
5.	
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of Rule 7(3) of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the Financial Year, if any:
 
Not Applicable
6.	
Average Net Profit of the Company as per Section 135(5) of the Companies Act, 2013: `81,97,32,038/-
7.	
(a)	
Two percent of Average Net Profit of the Company as per Section 135(5) of the Companies Act, 2013: `1,63,94,641/-
	
(b)	
Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or Programmes or Activities of the Previous Financial Years: Not Applicable
	
(c)	
Amount required to be set off for the Financial Year, if any: Not Applicable
	
(d)	
Total CSR Obligation for the Financial Year (7a+7b-7c): `1,63,94,641/-
8.	
(a)	
CSR Amount Spent or Unspent for the Financial Year:
Total Amount Spent for 
the Financial Year
(in `)
Amount Unspent
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per Section 135(6) of the 
Companies Act, 2013
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to Section 135(5) of 
the Companies Act, 2013
Amount 
(in `)
Date of Transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount 
(in `)
Date of 
Transfer
1,61,01,208
8,01,144
25/04/2024
-
-
-
	
(b)	
Details of CSR Amount spent against Ongoing Projects for the Financial Year:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Project
Item from 
the List of 
Activities 
in Schedule 
VII to the 
Companies 
Act, 2013
Local 
Area 
(Yes / 
No)
Location of the Project
Project 
Duration (in 
months)
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
Project 
(in `)
Amount 
spent in 
the current 
Financial 
Year
(in `)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account for the 
Project as per 
Section 135(6) of 
the Companies 
Act, 2013
(in `)
Mode of 
Implementation - 
Direct (Yes / No)
Mode of Implementation – Through 
Implementing Agency
State
District
Name
CSR 
Registration 
Number
1.
Digital Cafes
ii
Yes
Maharashtra
Raigad
12
34,04,113
34,04,113
0
Yes
N/A
N/A
2.
Entitlement Programme
i
Yes
Maharashtra
Raigad
9
29,61,000
29,61,000
0
No
Nirman Bahuuddeshiya 
Vikas Sanstha
CSR00005227
3.
Community Development - Local 
Infrastructure
ii
Yes
Maharashtra
Raigad
3
85,499
85,499
0
Yes
N/A
N/A
4.
Community Development - Green 
Energy Livelihood Assessment
i
Yes
Maharashtra
Raigad
8
4,50,994
4,50,994
0
No
Mlinda Charitable Trust CSR00041889
5.
Community Development -Hearing 
Aid to Children
ii
Yes
Maharashtra Navi Mumbai
8
3,60,000
3,60,000
0
Yes
N/A
N/A
6.
Community Development – 
Scholarship to Women
ii
Yes
Maharashtra
Raigad
7
20,67,900
20,67,900
0
No
Youth Dreamers 
Foundation
CSR00001022
7.
Community Development - Library
ii
Yes
Maharashtra
Raigad
12
1,25,000
1,25,000
0
No
Swades Foundation
CSR00000440
8.
Science Laboratory Revamp
ii
Yes
Maharashtra
Raigad
15
7,24,967
7,24,967
0
Yes
N/A
N/A
9.
Bamboo Development
iv
No
Maharashtra
Latur
48
56,18,784
48,17,640
8,01,144
No
Phoenix Foundation 
Sanstha
CSR00034514
TOTAL
1,57,98,257
1,49,97,113
8,01,144
 
(‘N/A’ denotes ‘Not Applicable’.)
	
Note: Amount of `17,621/- earned as Bank Interest in the Community Development – Scholarship to Women Programme (implemented 
through Youth Dreamers Foundation) has been utilized in the same project.
Annual Report 2023-24
68
	
(c)	
Details of CSR Amount spent against other than Ongoing Projects for the Financial Year:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Sr. 
No.
Name of the 
Project
Item from 
the List of 
Activities 
in Schedule 
VII to the 
Companies 
Act, 2013
Local 
Area 
(Yes / 
No)
Location of the Project
Amount 
spent for the 
Project (in `)
Mode of 
Implementation – 
Direct (Yes / No)
Mode of Implementation 
– Through Implementing 
Agency
State
District
Name
CSR
Registration
Number
1.
Third Party Audit
iv
Yes
Maharashtra
Latur, 
Raigad
10,65,933
Yes
N/A
N/A
TOTAL
10,65,933
 
(‘N/A’ denotes ‘Not Applicable’.)
	
(d)	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: `38,162/-
	
(e)	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Not Applicable
	
(f)	
Total Amount spent for the Financial Year (8b + 8c+ 8d + 8e): `1,61,01,208/-
	
(g)	
Excess Amount for set off, if any: Not Applicable
Sr. No.
Particulars
Amount  
(in `)
(i)
Two per cent of Average Net Profit of the Company as per Section 135(5) of the Companies Act, 2013
Not 
Applicable
(ii)
Total Amount Spent for the Financial Year
(iii)
Excess Amount Spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or Programmes or Activities of the previous Financial Years, if any
(v)
Amount available for set-off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
9.	
(a)	
Details of Unspent CSR Amount for the preceding three Financial Years:
Sr. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year 
Amount transferred 
to Unspent CSR 
Account under 
Section 135 (6) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 
(in `)
Amount 
spent in the 
reporting 
Financial 
Year 2023-24 
(in `)
Amount transferred to any fund specified 
under Schedule VII as per Section 135(6) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, if any
Amount remaining 
to be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial Years 
(in `)
Name of the 
Fund
Amount (in `)
Date of Transfer
1.
2020-21
1,15,182
1,15,182
N/A
0
2.
2022-23
38,73,699
38,73,699
N/A
0
TOTAL
39,88,881
39,88,881
0
 
(‘N/A’ denotes ‘Not Applicable’.)
	
(b)	
Details of CSR Amount spent in the Financial Year for Ongoing Projects of the Preceding Financial Year(s):
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Sr. 
No.
Project ID
Name of the 
Project
Financial Year 
in which the 
Project was 
commenced
Project 
Duration 
(in 
months)
Total Amount 
allocated for 
the Project 
Financial 
Year 2023-24
(in `)
Amount spent 
on the Project 
in the reporting 
Financial Year  
2023-24 
(in `)
Cumulative 
amount spent 
at the end 
of reporting 
Financial Year 
(in `)
Status 
of the 
Project – 
Completed / 
Ongoing
1.
FY31.03.2021_2
Capacity 
Building, 
Training for 
Young Women
2020-21
36
1,15,182
1,15,182
1,15,182
Completed
2.
FY31.03.2023_5
Livelihoods
2022-23
24
12,10,664
12,10,664
12,10,664
Completed
Annual Report 2023-24
69
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Sr. 
No.
Project ID
Name of the 
Project
Financial Year 
in which the 
Project was 
commenced
Project 
Duration 
(in 
months)
Total Amount 
allocated for 
the Project 
Financial 
Year 2023-24
(in `)
Amount spent 
on the Project 
in the reporting 
Financial Year  
2023-24 
(in `)
Cumulative 
amount spent 
at the end 
of reporting 
Financial Year 
(in `)
Status 
of the 
Project – 
Completed / 
Ongoing
3.
FY31.03.2023_6
Science 
Laboratory 
Revamp
2022-23
15
11,48,314
11,48,314
11,48,314
Completed
4.
FY31.03.2023_7
Afforestation
2022-23
48
15,14,721
15,14,721
15,14,721
Ongoing
TOTAL
39,88,881
39,88,881
39,88,881
10.	
In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR Spend in 
the Financial Year:
 
Not Applicable
11.	
Specify the Reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the Average Net Profit as per Section 135(5) of the 
Companies Act, 2013:
	
The Company took up different projects pertaining to raising livelihoods of communities, digital education, etc. The shortfall of `2.93 Lakh in 
the amount of CSR spending is attributable to ongoing projects which will be completed by the Company in due course and the same has 
been duly transferred to Unspent CSR Account within the prescribed time limit.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Ashok V. Hiremath
Director & Chairman of CSR Committee
(DIN: 00349345)
Balram Singh Yadav
Director & Member of CSR Committee
(DIN: 00294803)
Date: 2nd May, 2024 
Place: Mumbai
Annual Report 2023-24
70
ANNEXURE ‘D’
TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Disclosure of Remuneration of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel as per the provisions of Section 197 of the Companies Act, 
2013 and Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 for the Financial Year 2023-24
(i) 
Percentage Increase in Remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary during the Financial Year 2023-24 and 
the Ratio of the Remuneration of each Director to the Median Remuneration of the Employees of the Company for the Financial Year 2023-24:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director / Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) & 
Designation
% Increase in 
Remuneration in the 
Financial Year 2023-24
Ratio of Remuneration of 
each Director to Median 
Remuneration of Employees
1.
Mr. Nadir B. Godrej,
Chairman, Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
-
-
2.
Mr. Anurag Roy,
Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer
(19.05%)
59.06:1
3.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath,
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
-
-
4.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav,
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
-
-
5.
Mr. Burjis Nadir Godrej,
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
-
-
6.
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas,
Non-Executive, Independent Director
-
-
7.
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot,
Non-Executive, Independent Director (*)
-
-
8.
Mr. R. R. Govindan,
Non-Executive, Independent Director
-
-
9.
Mr. Nandkumar Vasant Dhekne
Non-Executive, Independent Director
-
-
10.
Ms. Anjali Rajesh Gupte
Non-Executive, Independent Director
-
-
11.
Mr. Madhur Gundecha
Chief Financial Officer (upto 2nd May, 2023)
(6.27%)
Not Applicable
12.
Mr. K. Suryanarayan (#)
Chief Financial Officer (from 3rd May, 2023)
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
13.
Ms. Tejashree Pradhan,
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
(14.55%)
Not Applicable
	
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of business hours on 
2nd May, 2024.
 
(#) Mr. K. Suryanarayan shall cease to be the “Chief Financial Officer” of the Company with effect from the close of the business hours on 
3rd May, 2024 on account of resignation.
(i)
Percentage Increase in the Median Remuneration of Employees during the 
Financial Year 2023-24
27%
(ii)
Number of Permanent Employees on the rolls of Company as on 31st March, 2024
623 as on 31st March, 2024
(iii)
Average percentile increases already made in the salaries of Employees other than 
the managerial personnel in the last Financial Year and its comparison with the 
percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and 
point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial 
remuneration
Average percentile increase in Remuneration 
of Employees during the Financial Year 
2023-24 was 9% as compared to Average 
percentile increase in remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel which was 9%.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of 
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Anurag Roy
Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer 
(DIN: 07444595)
Date: 2nd May, 2024 
Place: Mumbai	
Balram Singh Yadav 
Director
(DIN: 00294803)
Annual Report 2023-24
71
Directors’ Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
ANNEXURE ‘E’
TO THE DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Information as per Section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 forming part of the 
Directors’ Report for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024
1.	
Conservation of Energy:
 
Your Company has maintained manufacturing units well-equipped with modernized technological installations that meet global quality 
standards and which are regularly reviewed and recognized by various authorities and customers across the world. Your Company also 
continues with its focus on environmental sustainability as a responsible corporate citizen and as part of the Godrej Group and stays 
committed to achieve conservation of energy in each of its areas of operations.
	
Several measures have been adopted by your Company for continuous monitoring and conservation of energy during the Financial Year 
2023-24.
 
The steps taken by your Company for conservation of energy and the benefits derived therefrom were as follows:
	
(a)	
Introduction of fuel additives (heat sticks) in boiler fuel, in order to reduce boiler shutdown frequency coal consumption
	
(b)	
Replacement of natural draft cooling towers by forced draft cooling towers initiated
 
(c) 
Interconnection of instrument air compressor for boiler to enable utilization of compressor for boiler as well as plant
 
(d) 
Modification in cooling water system to make optimal use of pumps installed for ensuring power saving, reduced CO2 emission and 
cost saving
 
(e) 
Implementing energy efficient technology, increasing renewable energy mix in overall energy and shifting towards clean fuel
	
The capital investment on energy conservation equipment during the Financial Year 2023-24 was ` 17,98,200/- (Rupees Seventeen Lakh 
Ninety Eight Thousand Two Hundred Only).
2.	
Technology Absorption:
	
(i)	
Methods / Measures adopted / Efforts made & Benefits thereof:
 
 
Your Company continues to be a technology-driven organization and has developed core competence in vital areas of process 
research, process development, analytical development and process engineering. Over the years, it has developed in-house 
capabilities to design, develop, execute and commission production plants of its own and continuously strives to introduce or 
implement technological upgradation in several ways. The technologies adopted by the Company are not only energy efficient but 
also more reliable and meeting the quality expectations of all customers globally, with a view to create customer delight.
	
(ii)	
Details of Imported Technology:
	
	
Most of the technologies adopted by your Company are developed by in-house Technology transfer and Projects team and the 
Research and Development (R&D) team. Over past several years, your Company has developed complex chemistries in its 
laboratory and successfully transferred to manufacturing through dedicated, highly qualified and experienced team of chemists and 
engineers. Products developed in the laboratory are scaled-up in the pilot plant and learnings are captured before introduction in 
the manufacturing. Your Company also ensures that detailed chemical reaction hazards and fire and explosion hazards are duly 
addressed for every product through systematic process risk systems.
	
	
Your Company also believes in collaborating with global customers to develop newer technologies for the introduction and supply of 
new products in shortest duration of time. At various stages, your Company works closely with customers for contract manufacturing. 
Some processes have been provided by potential customers and those have been suitably absorbed.
	
(iii)	
Expenditure on Research and Development (R&D):
 
 
Your Company’s Expenditure on R&D during the Financial Year 2023-24, in comparison with the figures for the previous Financial 
Year 2023-24 was as follows:
Particulars
2023-24
(` in Lakh)
2022-23
(` in Lakh)
Capital
1,966.78
6,844.35
Recurring
3,011.39(*)
858.15
Total
4,978.17
7,702.50
Total R&D Expenditure as a Percentage of Total Turnover
10.88%
12.26%
	
	
(*) Figure is inclusive of depreciation.
Annual Report 2023-24
72
3.	
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo:
	
Your Company has developed enduring relationships and strategic alliances with large and small companies all over the world, with over 
two decades of experience in development and production of selected chemicals. Your Company’s products are exported to several 
countries and product registrations are being obtained in various parts of the world.
 
Your Company’s foreign exchange earnings and outgo during the Financial Year 2023-24, in comparison with the figures for the previous 
Financial Year 2022-23 were as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
2023-24
(` in Lakh)
2022-23
(` in Lakh)
1.
Foreign Exchange Earned
28,967.16
47,580.11
2.
Foreign Exchange Used
20,770.81
37,731.95
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Anurag Roy
Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer 
(DIN: 07444595)
Date: 2nd May, 2024 
Place: Mumbai
Balram Singh Yadav 
Director
(DIN: 00294803)
Annual Report 2023-24
73
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
For the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024
In accordance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“Listing Regulations”), the Board of Directors of Astec LifeSciences Limited (“the Company”) have pleasure in presenting the Company's 
Report on Corporate Governance for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024.
1.	
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE:
	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) has introduced a Code of Corporate Governance for listed entities, which is 
implemented through the Listing Regulations. The Listing Regulations are in addition to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 
Act”) and the Rules framed thereunder, which envisage several requirements with respect to good governance of listed entities in India.
	
Corporate Governance is integral to the very existence of a company and a crucial factor in shaping its success and the overall goodwill it 
enjoys amongst its stakeholders and the public at large. It is a set of systems, procedures and practices essential to ensure that the affairs 
of the Company are being conducted in a manner which ensures accountability, transparency, disclosure and fairness in all its transactions 
and operations in the widest sense and meet its stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations. Good governance practices stem from 
the culture and mindset of the organization and the Company is committed to meet the aspirations of all its stakeholders, as a responsible 
corporate citizen. This spirit is reflected in Shareholder value, governance processes and an entrepreneurial performance focused work 
environment. The Company’s customers, whether in India or across the globe, have benefited from high quality products delivered at the 
most competitive prices. The demands of Corporate Governance require professionals to raise their competency and capability levels to 
meet the expanding expectations in managing the business and its resources optimally and effectively, while following the highest standards 
of ethics.
 
The Company firmly believes that good Corporate Governance leads to consistent corporate growth and long-term gain in Shareholder 
value. The Company is committed to maintain the highest standards of Corporate Governance in its conduct towards Shareholders, 
Employees, Customers, Suppliers, Bankers and other stakeholders at large.
	
The Company has pleasure to report that it is in compliance with the requirements of Corporate Governance as prescribed under the Listing 
Regulations.
2.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
	
A.	
Board Structure:
	
	
The Board of Directors is the apex governing body constituted by the Shareholders for overseeing the Company’s overall functioning 
and is also expected to play a pivotal role in ensuring highest levels of Corporate Governance. The Board provides, monitors and 
evaluates the Company’s strategic directions, management policies and their effectiveness, and ensures that the Shareholders’ 
long-term interests are being safeguarded and served in the best possible manner. The Director(s) in whole time employment of the 
Company is / are assisted by Senior Management Personnel in overseeing the functional and operational matters of the Company.
	
	
The Board of Directors of the Company comprised of 10 (Ten) Directors as on 31st March, 2024, being an optimum mix of Executive, 
Non-Executive and Independent Directors, diverse in terms of qualifications, competencies, professional experience and expertise. 
The detailed profile of the Directors is available on the Company’s website www.godrejastec.com and available on web-link 
https://www.godrejastec.com/know-us/leadership.
	
	
The composition of the Board of Directors as on 31st March, 2024, comprising of 10 (Ten) Directors, is summarized below:
Number of Directors
Designation
1 (One)
Chairman (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
1 (One)
Whole Time Director (Executive, Non-Independent Director)
3 (Three)
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Directors
5 (Five) (*)
Non-Executive, Independent Directors [including 1 (One) Woman Director]
 
 
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of the business 
hours on 2nd May, 2024. Consequently, the number of Non-Executive, Independent Directors is now 4 (Four). The Management of 
the Company is taking the necessary steps / actions to ensure that the composition of the Board of Directors and its Committees to 
be in accordance with the Listing Regulations.
	
B.	
Inter-se Relationships amongst Directors:
 
 
Mr. Burjis Nadir Godrej, Non-Executive Director is a son of Mr. Nadir Godrej, Chairman & Non-Executive Director of the Company. 
None of the other Directors is related to any other Director on the Board nor related to the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company 
in terms of the provisions of the Act and the Rules framed thereunder.
Annual Report 2023-24
74
	
C.	
Matrix of Skills / Expertise / Competencies for the Board of Directors:
 
 
The list of core skills / expertise / competencies for the Board of Directors have been identified by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and approved by the Board of Directors, in general and also in the context of the Company’s business and sector in 
particular, which is as follows:
Expertise
Description of Skills
Strategy & Business
 
z
Is or has been the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, or held any other leadership 
position in an organization, leading to significant experience in strategy or business management
 
z
	Brings ability to identify and assess strategic opportunities and threats in the context of the 
business
Industry Expertise
 
z
Expertise with respect to the sector in which the organization operates
 
z
Has an understanding, of the ‘big picture’ in the given industry
 
z
Recognizes the development of industry segments, trends, emerging issues and opportunities
Market Expertise
 
z
Expertise with respect to the geography in which the organization operates
 
z
Understands the macro-economic environment, the nuances of the business, consumers and 
trade in the geography
 
z
Has the knowledge of the regulations and legislations of the market(s) in which the business 
operates
Technology Perspective
 
z
Expertise with respect to business specific technologies such as in the field of research and 
development, manufacturing, etc.
 
z
Has experience and adds perspective on the future ready skills required by the organization 
such as e-commerce, digitalization, sustainability, etc.
People & Talent 
Understanding
 
z
Experience in human resource management which brings in a considered approach to the 
effective management of people in an organization
Governance, Finance 
& Risk
 
z
Understanding of the law and application of Corporate Governance principles in a commercial 
enterprise of similar scale
 
z
Capability to provide inputs for strategic financial planning, assess financial statements and 
oversee budgets for the efficient use of resources
 
z
Ability to identify key risks for the business in a wide range of areas, including legal and 
regulatory
Diversity of Perspective
 
z
Provides a diversity of views to the Board that is valuable to manage the interests of 
Shareholders, customers, consumers, employees and other key stakeholders
	
	
The details of skills / expertise / competence possessed by Directors as on 31st March, 2024 are given below:
Sr. 
No.
Director
Strategy & 
Business
Industry 
Expertise
Market 
Expertise
Technology 
Perspective
People & Talent 
Understanding
Governance, 
Finance & 
Risk
Diversity of 
Perspective
1.
Mr. Nadir B. Godrej





2.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath





3.
Mr. Anurag Roy





4.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav





5.
Mr. Burjis Nadir Godrej





6.
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas





7.
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (*)




8.
Mr. R. R. Govindan




9.
Mr. Nandkumar Dhekne




10.
Ms. Anjali Rajesh Gupte




	
	
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of the business 
hours on 2nd May, 2024.
Annual Report 2023-24
75
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
D.	
Board Induction and Training:
	
	
At the time of appointing a Director, a formal Letter of Appointment is given to him / her, which, inter alia, explains the role, functions, 
duties and responsibilities of a Director of the Company. The Director is also briefed about the compliances required from him / her 
under the Act and the Listing Regulations and other relevant Regulations and his / her confirmation / affirmation is taken with respect 
to the same.
	
E.	
Familiarization Programmes for Independent Directors:
 
 
All Directors, including Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors are provided with the necessary documents, reports and 
internal policies to enable them to familiarize with the Company’s procedures and practices. Periodic presentations are made at the 
Meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Committees thereof, on business and performance updates of the Company, business 
strategy and risks involved. Quarterly updates on relevant statutory changes covering important applicable laws are discussed at the 
Meetings of the Board of Directors. Visits of Independent Directors to the Company’s factory locations or Research & Development 
(R&D) Centre are also arranged as a part of the familiarization programmes.
 
 
The details of familiarization programmes for Independent Directors are hosted on the website of the Company, viz., www.godrejastec.
com and available on web link https://www.godrejastec.com/ investors/compliance.
	
F.	
Meetings of the Board of Directors – Procedure & Attendance:
	
	
The Board of Directors, inter alia, focuses on and oversees strategic planning, risk management, compliance, corporate governance, 
financial controls, succession planning for Directors, etc., with high standards of ethical conduct and integrity, in order to protect the 
best interests of all the stakeholders, including Shareholders.
 
 
The Board of Directors meets at regular intervals to discuss and decide on business strategies or policies and reviews the financial 
and operational performance of the Company and its subsidiaries. In case of business exigencies, the Board’s approval is taken 
through Resolutions by Circulation, which are then noted at subsequent Board Meetings.
	
	
The Agendas for the Meetings of the Board of Directors, along with the relevant supporting documents, are circulated in advance to 
the Directors as per the provisions of the Act and the Rules framed thereunder and Secretarial Standard – 1 (“SS-1”) issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) (which prescribes a set of principles for convening and conducting Meetings of the 
Board of Directors and matters related thereto) in order to ensure that sufficient time and information is provided to the Directors to 
prepare for the Meetings. This ensures in-depth discussions and well-informed, timely decisions by the Board.
	
	
The Board of Directors meets at least once in a Quarter to, inter alia, review, approve and take note of the Quarterly / Half-Yearly / 
Annual Standalone and Consolidated Financial Results of the Company (along with the Reports of the Statutory Auditors thereon) 
(as may be applicable), Cost Audit Report, Secretarial Audit Report, annual operating plan and budgets, capital budgets and updates 
thereon, various compliance report(s) under the applicable laws, major legal issues, regulatory developments, Minutes of the 
Meetings of the Board of Directors and its Committees and those of its Subsidiary Companies, Significant Transactions entered into 
with Related Parties and compliances with the Act, the Listing Regulations and other law(s) as may be applicable to the Company 
and various other matters.
	
	
Interested Directors, if any, neither participate in discussions, nor do they vote on such matters at the Meetings of the Board of 
Directors or of the Committees thereof.
 
 
The Meetings of the Board of Directors are usually held at the Registered Office of the Company at “Godrej One”, Pirojshanagar, 
Eastern Express Highway, Vikhroli (East), Mumbai – 400 079 (Maharashtra). During the Financial Year 2023-24, considering the 
convenience of all the Directors and Invitees, the Company had facilitated an option of attendance of Directors and invitees at Board 
Meetings through Video Conferencing.
 
 
The Company Secretary & Compliance Officer attends all the Meetings of the Board and is, inter alia, responsible for recording 
the Minutes of such Meetings. The draft Minutes of the Meetings of the Board are sent to the Directors for their comments in 
accordance with SS-1 and then, the Minutes are entered in the Minutes Book within 30 (Thirty) days of the conclusion of the 
Meetings, subsequent to incorporation of the comments, if any, received from the Directors.
	
	
The Company complies with the provisions of the Act read with the Rules framed thereunder, SS-1 and the Listing Regulations with 
respect to convening and holding of the Meetings of the Board of Directors and its Committees.
	
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, 4 (Four) Board Meetings were held (on 2nd May, 2023, 27th July, 2023, 27th October, 2023 and 25th 
January, 2024), in compliance with the provisions of SS-1. The maximum time gap between 2 (Two) consecutive Board Meetings 
held during the said Financial Year was not more than 120 (One Hundred and Twenty) days. The requisite quorum was duly present 
for all the Meetings.
Annual Report 2023-24
76
	
	
Details of Composition of the Board of Directors and their Attendance at the Board Meetings held during the Financial Year 
2023-24 and at the previous 29th (Twenty-Ninth) Annual General Meeting (“29th AGM”):
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Nature of 
Directorship
Appointment / Cessation 
during the Financial Year 
2023-24
No. of Board 
Meetings 
attended during 
the Financial Year 
2023-24
Whether attended 
29th AGM held 
on 27th July, 2023 
(Present / Absent)
1.
Mr. Nadir B. Godrej
(DIN: 00066195)
Chairman,
Non-Executive,
Non-Independent 
Director
-
4/4
Present
2.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath 
(DIN: 00349345)
Non-Executive,
Non-Independent 
Director (Promoter)
-
4/4
Present
3.
Mr. Anurag Roy
(DIN: 07444595)
Whole Time 
Director &
Chief Executive 
Officer
Re-appointed 
for 
a 
further term of 3 (three) 
years with effect from 28th 
July, 2024 upto 27th July, 
2027, by way of a Special 
Resolution through Postal 
Ballot on 9th March, 2024
4/4
Present
4.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
(DIN: 00294803)
Non-Executive,
Non-Independent 
Director
Re-appointed 
as 
a 
Director liable to retire by 
rotation at the 29th Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) 
held on 27th July, 2023
4/4
Present
6.
Mr. Burjis Nadir Godrej
(DIN: 08183082)
Non-Executive,
Non-Independent 
Director
-
4/4
Present
7.
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas 
(DIN: 02796071)
Non-Executive,
Independent 
Director
-
4/4
Present
8.
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (*)
(DIN: 03520249)
Non-Executive,
Independent 
Director
-
4/4
Present
9.
Mr. R. R. Govindan 
(DIN: 02148801)
Non-Executive,
Independent 
Director
-
4/4
Present
10.
Mr. Nandkumar Dhekne
(DIN: 02189370)
Non-Executive,
Independent 
Director
-
4/4
Present
11.
Ms. Anjali Rajesh Gupte
(DIN: 00104884)
Non-Executive, 
Independent 
Director (Woman 
Director)
-
4/4
Present
	
	
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of the business 
hours on 2nd May, 2024.
Annual Report 2023-24
77
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
G.	
Directorships and Committee Positions of Directors:
 
 
None of the Directors of the Company is:
	
	
(a)	
a Director in more than 10 (Ten) public limited companies - As per Section 165 of the Act;
	
	
(b)	
a Director in more than 7 (Seven) listed companies - As per Regulation 17A of the Listing Regulations;
	
	
(c)	
an Independent Director in more than 7 (Seven) listed companies OR 3 (Three) listed companies (in case he / she serves as 
a Whole Time Director / Managing Director in any listed company) - As per Regulation 17A of the Listing Regulations;
	
	
(d)	
a member of more than 10 (Ten) Committees and Chairperson of more than 5 (Five) Committees across all the listed entities 
in which he / she is a Director – As per Regulation 26 of the Listing Regulations.
	
	
The details of outside directorships held by the Directors of the Company, along with the Board / Committee Chairmanships / 
Memberships held by them as on 31st March, 2024 are given hereunder:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
No. of 
Directorships 
held as on 31st 
March, 2024 (*)
No. of Board 
Committees of 
Companies in which a 
Member / Chairman as 
on 31st March, 2024 (^)
Names of Listed Companies in which Directorship is 
held & Category of Directorship
1.
Mr. Nadir B. Godrej
7
Member in 2 
out of which 
Chairman in 1
 
z
Astec LifeSciences Limited (Non-Executive, Non-
Independent Chairman)
 
z
Godrej Agrovet Limited (Non-Executive, Non-
Independent Chairman)
 
z
Godrej Industries Limited (Managing Director & 
Chairman)
 
z
Godrej 
Consumer 
Products 
Limited 
(Non-
Executive, Non-Independent Director)
 
z
Godrej Properties Limited (Non-Executive, Non-
Independent Director)
2.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
2
Member in 3 
out of which 
Chairman in 1
 
z
Astec LifeSciences Limited (Non-Executive, Non- 
Independent Director)
 
z
Dai-Ichi Karkaria Limited (Independent Director)
3.
Mr. Anurag Roy
1
Member / Chairman 
in NIL
 
z
Astec LifeSciences Limited (Whole Time Director & 
Chief Executive Officer)
4.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
5
Member in 3 
out of which 
Chairman in 1
 
z
Astec LifeSciences Limited (Non-Executive, Non-
Independent Director)
 
z
Godrej Agrovet Limited (Managing Director)
5.
Mr. Burjis Nadir Godrej
2
Member / Chairman 
in NIL
 
z
Astec LifeSciences Limited (Non-Executive, Non- 
Independent Director)
 
z
Godrej Agrovet Limited (Executive Director)
6.
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas
1
Member in 1 
out of which 
Chairman in NIL
 
z
Astec LifeSciences Limited (Independent Director)
7.
Mr. Vijay K. Khot (#)
1
Member in 2 
out of which 
Chairman in NIL
 
z
Astec LifeSciences Limited (Independent Director)
8.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
1
Member in 2 
out of which 
Chairman in 1
 
z
Astec LifeSciences Limited (Independent Director)
9.
Mr. Nandkumar Dhekne
4
Member in 1 
out of which 
Chairman in NIL
 
z
Astec LifeSciences Limited (Independent Director)
 
z
John Cockerill India Limited (Independent Director)
 
z
Elantas Beck India Limited (Independent Director)
10. Ms. Anjali Rajesh Gupte
1
Member / Chairperson 
in NIL
 
z
Astec LifeSciences Limited (Independent Director)
	
	
(*) Excludes alternate directorship and directorship in foreign companies, private companies and companies governed by Section 8 
of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
	
(^) In accordance with Regulation 26 of the Listing Regulations, Membership(s) / Chairmanship(s) of only Audit Committees and 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committees in all public limited companies (including Astec LifeSciences Limited) have been considered.
Annual Report 2023-24
78
	
	
(#) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of the business 
hours on 2nd May, 2024.
	
H.	
Directors with Materially Significant Related Party Transactions, Pecuniary or Business Relationship with the Company:
	
	
Except for drawing remuneration by the Whole Time Director and payment of Sitting Fees to Independent Directors, none of the 
Directors have any other material significant Related Party Transactions, pecuniary or business relationship with the Company.
 
 
Attention of the Shareholders is drawn to the disclosures of transactions with Related Parties set out in Note No. 51 to the Standalone 
Financial Statement for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024, forming a part of the Annual Report.
	
	
In the preparation of the Financial Statements, the Company has adopted accounting policies which are in line with the Indian 
Accounting Standards notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read together with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015. The significant accounting policies, which are consistently applied, have been set out in the Notes to the 
Financial Statements. Appropriate disclosure as required by the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind-AS 24) has also been made in the 
Notes to the Financial Statements.
	
I.	
Number of Equity Shares held by Directors and Dividend paid during the Financial Year 2023-24:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Director
No. of Equity Shares held
Dividend paid during the 
Financial Year 2023-24
(Amount in `)
As on  
31st March, 2023
As on  
31st March, 2024
1.
Mr. Nadir B. Godrej
0
0
0.00
2.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
3,90,802
3,90,802
5,86,203.00
3.
Mr. Anurag Roy
1,105
2,510
2,107.50
4.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
3,390
0
0.00
5.
Mr. Burjis Nadir Godrej
0
0
0.00
6.
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas
0
0
0.00
7.
Mr. Vijay K. Khot (*)
0
0
0.00
8.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
0
0
0.00
9.
Mr. Nandkumar Dhekne
0
0
0.00
10.
Ms. Anjali Rajesh Gupte
0
0
0.00
	
	
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of the business 
hours on 2nd May, 2024.
	
J.	
Employees Stock Option to Directors:
	
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, the Company has allotted 3,546 (Three Thousand Five Hundred and Forty-Six) Equity Shares of 
Face Value of `10/- (Rupees Ten Only) each, ranking pari passu with the existing Equity Shares, out of which:
 
z
1,546 (One Thousand Five Hundred and Forty-Six) Equity Shares were allotted pursuant to exercise of Options at an exercise 
price of `10/- (Rupees Ten Only) each under amended Employees’ Stock Option Plan, 2012 (“amended ESOP 2012”);
 
z
2,000 (Two Thousand) Equity Shares were allotted pursuant to exercise of Options at an exercise price of `387.35 (Rupees 
Three Hundred Eighty-Seven and Paise Thirty-Five Only) each under the Employees Stock Option Scheme, 2015 (“ESOS 
2015”).
 
 
Further, during the Financial Year under review, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of the 
Company has granted 1,856 (One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-Six) Options convertible into 1,856 (One Thousand Eight 
Hundred and Fifty-Six) Equity Shares at an Exercise Price of `10/- (Rupees Ten Only) under the amended ESOP 2012.
	
	
During the Financial Year under review, no options were granted under ESOS 2015.
	
K.	
Director seeking Re-appointment at the ensuing 30th (Thirtieth) Annual General Meeting:
	
	
Mr. Ashok Vishwanath Hiremath (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director):
	
	
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath, Director, is liable to retire by rotation at the ensuing 30th (Thirtieth) Annual General Meeting of the Company 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 152 of the Act and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
 
 
Mr. Ashok Vishwanath Hiremath was formerly the “Managing Director” of Astec LifeSciences Limited and is now a Non-Executive 
Director. He brings with him several years of rich experience in the Chemical Industry. He has a Master’s degree in Engineering 
Annual Report 2023-24
79
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
from University of Oxford and a Post Graduate Diploma in Chemical Engineering from the University of London. He founded Astec 
LifeSciences Limited in 1994. He has been actively involved in the affairs of the Company and has played a key role in the growth 
of the Company. He was awarded the Dombivli Giants Award for Industry in 2008 and the Udyog Rattan Award by the Institute of 
Economic Studies in 2010 and several other awards for his excellence in chemical Industry.
3.	
COMMITTEES CONSTITUTED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
	
A.	
Composition of the Committees of the Board of Directors during the Financial Year 2023-24:
Name of Director
Independent / Non- 
Independent
Position in Committee (whether Chairperson / Member)
Audit 
Committee
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee
Risk 
Management 
Committee
Managing 
Committee
Mr. Nadir B. Godrej
Non-Independent
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
Non-Independent
Member
Chairman
N.A.
N.A.
Chairman
Member
Mr. Anurag Roy
Non-Independent
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Member
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Non-Independent
N.A.
Member
Member
Chairman
Member
Chairman
Mr. Burjis Nadir Godrej
Non-Independent
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Member
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas
Independent
Member
Member
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (*)
Independent
Member
N.A.
Member
Member
N.A.
N.A.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Independent
Chairman
Member
Chairman
Member
Member
N.A.
Mr. Nandkumar Dhekne
Independent
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Ms. Anjali Gupte
Independent
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
 
 
(N.A. indicates not a Member / Chairperson of the Committee.)
	
	
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of the business 
hours on 2nd May, 2024.
 
 
Ms. Tejashree Pradhan, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to all the Committees of the Board of Directors. 
She has attended all the Meetings of the Board of Directors and the Committees thereof during the Financial Year 2023-24.
	
B.	
Attendance Details of the Meetings of Committees during the Financial Year 2023-24:
Particulars
Audit Committee
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee
Risk 
Management 
Committee
Number of Meetings held
4
2
2
1
2
Attendance of Directors:
Mr. Nadir B. Godrej
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
4
2
N.A.
N.A.
2
Mr. Anurag Roy
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
N.A.
2
2
1
2
Mr. Burjis Nadir Godrej
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas
4
2
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (*)
4
N.A.
2
1
N.A.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
4
2
2
1
2
Mr. Nandkumar Dhekne
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
Ms. Anjali Rajesh Gupte
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
 
 
(N.A. indicates not a Member of the Committee.)
	
	
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of the business 
hours on 2nd May, 2024.
Annual Report 2023-24
80
	
C.	
Audit Committee:
	
	
Composition of the Audit Committee:
	
	
In terms of Regulation 18 of the Listing Regulations and Section 177 of the Act, the Audit Committee comprised of the following 4 
(Four) Directors as Members during the Financial Year 2023-24 and as on 31st March, 2024:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Member
Designation & Category
1.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Chairman (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
2.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
Member (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
3.
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (*)
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
4.
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
	
	
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of the business 
hours on 2nd May, 2024.
 
 
All the Members of the Audit Committee possess the requisite qualification for appointment as Members of the said Committee and 
also possess sound knowledge of finance, accounting practices and internal controls.
	
	
Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee:
	
	
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are wide and in line with the regulatory requirements mandated by Section 177 of the 
Act and Part C of Schedule II and other applicable provisions of the Listing Regulations. These terms of reference are as follows:
 
 
(a) 
To oversee the Company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that the 
Financial Statements are correct, sufficient and credible;
	
	
(b)	
To recommend the appointment, remuneration and terms of appointment of the Auditors of the Company, as may be applicable;
	
	
(c)	
To approve payment to the Statutory Auditors for any other services rendered by the Statutory Auditors;
	
	
(d)	
To review and monitor the Auditors’ independence and performance, and the effectiveness of audit process;
	
	
(e)	
To examine / review the Financial Statements and the Auditors’ Reports thereon with the management, before submission to 
the Board of Directors for approval, with particular reference to:
	
	
	
i.	
matters required to be included in the Directors’ Responsibility Statement to be included in the Board’s Report in terms 
of clause (c) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Act;
	
	
	
ii.	
changes, if any, in the accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same;
	
	
	
iii.	
major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by the Management;
 
 
 
iv. 
significant adjustments made in the Financial Statements arising out of audit findings;
	
	
	
v.	
compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to Financial Statement;
	
	
	
vi.	
disclosure of any Related Party Transactions; and
 
 
 
vii. 
modified opinion(s) in the draft Audit Report;
	
	
(f)	
To review, with the Management, the quarterly Financial Statements before submission to the Board of Directors for approval;
 
 
(g) 
To grant approval for or any subsequent modification of transactions of the Company with Related Parties;
 
 
(h) 
To scrutinize inter-corporate loans, deposits and investments;
	
	
(i)	
To consider valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary;
 
 
(j) 
To evaluate internal financial controls and risk management systems;
	
	
(k)	
To review, with the Management, the statement of uses / application of funds raised through an issue (public issue, rights 
issue, preferential issue, etc.), the statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer document / 
prospectus / notice and the report submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring the utilization of proceeds of a public or 
rights issue, and making appropriate recommendations to the Board of Directors to take up steps in this matter;
	
	
(l)	
To monitor the end use of funds raised through public offers and related matters;
	
	
(m)	
To review, with the Management, performance of Statutory and Internal Auditors, adequacy of the internal control systems;
Annual Report 2023-24
81
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 
 
(n) 
To review the adequacy of Internal Audit function, including the structure of the Internal Audit Department, staffing and 
seniority of the official heading the department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of Internal Audit;
 
 
(o) 
To discuss with the Internal Auditors on any significant findings and follow-up thereon;
 
 
(p) 
To review the findings of any internal investigations by the Internal Auditors into matters where there is suspected fraud or 
irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material nature and reporting the matters to the Board of Directors;
	
	
(q)	
To discuss with the Statutory Auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well as post-audit 
discussion to ascertain any area(s) of concern;
	
	
(r)	
To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, Shareholders (in case 
of non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors;
	
	
(s)	
To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower mechanism;
 
 
(t) 
To approve appointment of Chief Financial Officer, after assessing the qualifications, experience, background, etc. of the 
candidate;
	
	
(u)	
To investigate into any of the above matters or matters referred to it by the Board of Directors and for this purpose, to have 
full access to information contained in the records of the Company and external professional advice, if necessary;
	
	
(v)	
To mandatorily review the following information:
 
 
 
i. 
Management Discussion and Analysis of financial condition and results of operations;
 
 
 
ii. 
Statement of significant Related Party Transactions (as defined by the Audit Committee), submitted by the 
Management;
	
	
	
iii.	
Management letters / letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the Statutory Auditors;
	
	
	
iv.	
Internal Audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses;
	
	
	
v.	
Review of the appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Internal Auditor;
	
	
	
vi.	
Statements of deviations:
 
z
Quarterly statement of deviation(s) including report of monitoring agency, if applicable, submitted to Stock 
Exchange(s) in terms of Regulation 32(1) of the Listing Regulations; and
 
z
Annual statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the document / prospectus / notice 
in terms of Regulation 32(7) of the Listing Regulations.
	
	
(w)	
To review Financial Statements, in particular, the investments made by the Company’s unlisted subsidiaries;
 
 
(x) 
To note report of the Compliance Officer as per Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015;
	
	
(y)	
To formulate the scope, functioning, periodicity of and methodology for conducting the Internal Audit;
 
 
(z) 
To review show cause, demand, prosecution notices and penalty notices, which are materially important;
 
 
(aa) 
To review any material default in financial obligations to and by the Company, or substantial non- payment for goods sold by 
the Company;
	
	
(ab)	
To review any issue, which involves possible public or product liability claims of substantial nature, including any judgment 
or order which, may have passed strictures on the conduct of the Company or taken an adverse view regarding another 
enterprise that may have negative implications on the Company;
	
	
(ac)	
To review details of any Joint Venture or Collaboration Agreement;
	
	
(ad)	
To review sale of investments, subsidiaries, assets which are material in nature and not in normal course of business;
	
	
(ae)	
To review quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the steps taken by the Management to limit the risks of 
adverse exchange rate movement, if material;
 
 
(af) 
To review the utilization of loan(s) and/or advance(s) and/or deposit(s) and/or investment(s) by the Company in the subsidiary 
exceeding `100 Crore (Rupees One Hundred Crore Only) or 10% (Ten per cent) of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever 
is lower, including existing loan(s) and/or advance(s) and/or deposit(s) and/or investment(s);
	
	
(ag)	
To review compliance with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015 at least once in a Financial Year and verify that the systems for internal control are adequate and are 
operating effectively;
Annual Report 2023-24
82
	
	
(ah)	
To make necessary amendments / revisions in the Policy on Materiality of Related Party Transactions and Dealing with 
Related Party Transactions of the Company and the Whistle Blower Policy of the Company, as it may deem fit from time to 
time;
 
 
(ai) 
To consider and comment on rationale, cost-benefits and impact of schemes involving merger, demerger, amalgamation, etc. 
on the Company and its Shareholders;
	
	
(aj)	
To perform such other functions and duties as may be required to be performed by the Audit Committee under the applicable 
provisions of the Act and/or the Rules framed thereunder and/or the Listing Regulations, including any amendment(s) thereto, 
as prevailing from time to time.
	
	
Further, in terms of the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, the Company maintains cost records in its books of accounts for the Financial Year 2023-24 in respect of its business of 
manufacturing of agrochemicals. The Cost Audit Report issued by the Cost Auditors of the Company is placed for review by the Audit 
Committee and the same is recommended to the Board of Directors for its approval.
	
	
Meetings of the Audit Committee:
 
 
There were 4 (Four) Audit Committee Meetings held during the Financial Year 2023-24, viz., on 2nd May, 2023, 27th July, 2023, 27th 
October, 2023 and 25th January, 2024, at which all the Members were duly present.
	
	
The representatives of the Statutory Auditors and the Internal Auditors are invited to attend the Audit Committee Meetings. They 
have attended all the Meetings during the Financial Year 2023-24 and have shared their observations before the Audit Committee.
	
	
The Audit Committee has made recommendations to the Board of Directors at its every Meeting and the Board of Directors has duly 
noted and accepted the same during the Financial Year 2023-24.
	
D.	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee:
	
	
Composition of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee:
 
 
In terms of Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations and Section 178 of the Act, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, 
during the Financial Year 2023-24 and as on 31st March, 2024, comprised of the following 3 (Three) Directors as Members:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Member
Designation & Category
1.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Chairman (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
2.
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (*)
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
3.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Member (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
	
	
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of the business 
hours on 2nd May, 2024.
	
	
Terms of Reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee:
 
 
The terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee are in conformity with the regulatory requirements mandated 
by Section 178 of the Act and Part D of Schedule II and other applicable provisions of the Listing Regulations. These terms of 
reference are as follows:
 
 
(a) 
To formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a Director and recommend to 
the Board of Directors, a Policy relating to the Appointment and Remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
and other Senior Management Personnel;
	
	
(b)	
To formulate criteria for evaluation of performance of Independent Directors and the Board of Directors in accordance with 
the Nomination and Remuneration Policy;
	
	
(c)	
To devise a Policy on Diversity of Board of Directors;
 
 
(d) 
To identify persons who are qualified to become Directors and who may be appointed in senior management in accordance 
with the criteria laid down and to recommend to the Board of Directors, their appointment and / or removal;
	
	
(e)	
To consider extension or continuation of the term of appointment of the Independent Directors on the basis of the report of 
performance evaluation of Independent Directors;
	
	
(f)	
To specify the manner for effective evaluation of performance of Board, its Committees and individual Directors to be carried 
out either by the Board, by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee or by an independent external agency and review 
its implementation and compliance;
	
	
(g)	
To recommend / review remuneration of the Managing Director(s), Whole Time Director(s) and Executive Director(s) based 
on their performance and defined assessment criteria;
Annual Report 2023-24
83
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
	
(h)	
To recommend to the Board of Directors, all remuneration, in whatever form, payable to senior management;
	
	
(i)	
To consider grant of stock options to eligible Directors and employees, to formulate detailed terms and conditions of Employees 
Stock Option Plan (ESOP) / Employees Stock Option Scheme (ESOS) and to administer and exercise superintendence over 
ESOP / ESOS;
 
 
(j) 
To make necessary amendments / revisions in the Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company, as it may deem fit 
from time to time;
	
	
(k)	
For every appointment of an Independent Director, to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board 
and on the basis of such evaluation, to prepare a description of the role and capabilities required by an Independent Director;
	
	
(l)	
To carry out any other function as may be mandated by the Board of Directors from time to time and / or enforced by any 
statutory notification(s), amendment(s) or modification(s) as may be applicable.
	
	
Meetings of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee:
 
 
There were 2 (Two) Meetings of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee held during the Financial Year 2023-24, viz., on 2nd 
May, 2023 and 25th January, 2024, at which all the Members were duly present.
	
	
Criteria for Performance Evaluation of Independent Directors:
 
 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee has laid down the following criteria for evaluation of performance of the Independent 
Directors:
	
	
1.	
Attendance and contribution at the Meetings of the Board of Directors and its Committees;
	
	
2.	
Stature, appropriate mix of expertise, skills, behaviour, experience, leadership qualities, sense of sobriety and understanding 
of business, strategic direction to align with the Company’s values and standards;
 
 
3. 
Knowledge of finance, accounts, legal, investment, marketing, foreign exchange / hedging, internal controls, risk management 
assessment and mitigation, business operations, processes and Corporate Governance;
	
	
4.	
Ability to create a performance culture that drives value creation and a high quality of debate with robust and probing 
discussions;
	
	
5.	
Effective decision-making ability to respond positively and constructively to implement the same in order to encourage more 
transparency;
	
	
6.	
Open channels of communication with executive management and other colleagues on the Board to maintain high standards 
of integrity and probity;
 
 
7. 
Recognizing the role which he / she is expected to play, internal Board relationships to make decisions objectively and 
collectively in the best interest of the Company, to achieve organizational success and harmonizing the Board;
 
 
8. 
Global presence, rational, physical and mental fitness, broader thinking, vision on Corporate Social Responsibility, etc.;
 
 
9. 
Quality of decision-making and inputs on source and procurement of raw materials, export marketing, understanding financial 
statements and business performance, raising of finance, best source of finance, working capital requirement, forex dealings, 
geopolitics, human resources, etc.;
 
 
10. 
Ability to monitor the performance of the management and satisfy himself / herself with integrity of the financial controls and 
systems in place by ensuring right level of contact with external stakeholders;
	
	
11.	
Contribution to enhance overall brand image of the Company.
	
E.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee:
	
	
Composition of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee:
	
	
In terms of Regulation 20 of the Listing Regulations and Section 178 of the Act, the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, during 
the Financial Year 2023-24 and as on 31st March, 2024, comprised of the following 3 (Three) Directors as Members:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Member
Designation & Category
1.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Chairman (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
2.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
3.
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (*)
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
	
	
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of the business 
hours on 2nd May, 2024.
Annual Report 2023-24
84
 
 
Ms. Tejashree Pradhan, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer is the Secretary to Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
and has attended the Meeting of the Committee held during the Financial Year 2023-24. Terms of Reference of the Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee:
	
	
Terms of Reference of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee:
	
	
The terms of reference of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee are in conformity with the regulatory requirements mandated by 
Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 20 read with Part D of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations. These terms of reference are as 
follows:
	
	
(a)	
To oversee and review all matters connected with transfer of Company’s securities;
 
 
(b) 
To approve issue of duplicate of shares / debentures certificates;
	
	
(c)	
To oversee the performance of the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agent;
	
	
(d)	
To resolve the grievances of the security holders of the Company, including complaints related to transfer/ transmission 
of shares, non-receipt of Annual Report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new / duplicate certificates, General 
Meetings, etc.;
	
	
(e)	
To investigate into complaints relating to allotment of shares, approval of transfers or transmission of shares, debentures or 
any other securities;
	
	
(f)	
To review the measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by Shareholders;
	
	
(g)	
To review adherence to the service standards adopted by the Company in respect of various services being rendered by the 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent and recommend methods to upgrade the service standards adopted by the Company;
	
	
(h)	
To review various measures and initiatives taken by the Company for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and 
ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants / annual reports / statutory notices by the security holders of the Company;
	
	
(i)	
To carry out any other function as is mandated by the Board of Directors from time to time and / or enforced by any statutory 
notification(s), amendment(s) or modification(s) as may be applicable;
 
 
(j) 
To specifically look into various aspects of interest of Shareholders, debenture-holders and other security holders.
	
	
Meetings of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee:
 
 
There was 1 (One) Meeting of the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee held during the Financial Year 2023-24, viz., on 25th 
January, 2024.
	
	
The details of Investor Complaints received and resolved during the Financial Year 2023-24 are as follows:
Particulars
No. of Complaints
Complaints outstanding as on 1st April, 2023
0
(+) Complaints received during the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024
2
(-) Complaints resolved during the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024
2
Complaints outstanding as on 31st March, 2024
0
	
	
There are no pending share transfers as on 31st March, 2024.
	
F.	
Risk Management Committee:
	
	
Composition of the Risk Management Committee:
	
	
In terms of Regulation 21 of the Listing Regulations, the Risk Management Committee comprised of the following 3 (Three) Members 
as on 31st March, 2023:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Member
Designation & Category
1.
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
Chairman (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
2.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Member (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
3.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
Annual Report 2023-24
85
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
	
Terms of Reference of the Risk Management Committee:
	
	
The terms of reference of the Risk Management Committee are in conformity with the regulatory requirements mandated by 
Regulation 21 of the Listing Regulations. These terms of reference are as follows:
 
 
(a) 
To lay down procedures to inform the Board Members about the risk assessment and minimization procedures;
	
	
(b)	
To ensure that appropriate methodology, processes and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks associated with 
the business of the Company;
 
 
(c) 
To frame, implement, review and monitor the risk management plan for the Company, specifically covering cyber security;
 
 
(d) 
To make necessary amendments / revisions the risk management plan of the Company, as it may deem fit from time to time;
	
	
(e)	
To monitor and oversee implementation of the Risk Management Policy, including evaluating the adequacy of risk management 
systems;
	
	
(f)	
To periodically review the Risk Management Policy, at least once in two years, including by considering the changing industry 
dynamics and evolving complexity;
	
	
(g)	
To keep the Board of Directors informed about the nature and contents of its discussions, recommendations and actions to 
be taken;
 
 
(h) 
To review the appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any);
	
	
(i)	
To carry out any other function as is mandated by the Board of Directors from time to time and / or enforced by any statutory 
notification(s), amendment(s) or modification(s) as may be applicable or as may be necessary or appropriate for the 
performance of its duties.
	
	
The Board and the senior management are regularly briefed on the risks assessed and the measures adopted by the Company to 
mitigate the same.
	
	
Meetings of the Risk Management Committee:
 
 
There were 2 (Two) Meetings of the Risk Management Committee held during the Financial Year 2023-24, viz., on 12th September, 
2023 and 5th March, 2024.
	
G.	
Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee:
	
	
Composition of the CSR Committee:
	
	
In terms of Section 135 of the Act, the CSR Committee, during the Financial Year 2023-24 and as on 31st March, 2024, comprised 
of the following 4 (Four) Directors as Members:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Member
Designation & Category
1
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
Chairman (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
2
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Member (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
3
Mr. R. R. Govindan
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
4
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas
Member (Non-Executive, Independent Director)
	
	
Terms of Reference of the CSR Committee:
	
	
The terms of reference of the CSR Committee are in conformity with the regulatory requirements mandated by Section 135 of the 
Act read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. These terms of reference are as follows:
	
	
(a)	
To formulate and recommend to the Board of Directors, the CSR Policy, indicating the CSR activities to be undertaken;
	
	
(b)	
To recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the CSR activities;
	
	
(c)	
To monitor the CSR Policy and its implementation by the Company from time to time;
	
	
(d)	
To constitute a transparent monitoring mechanism for implementation of CSR projects or programmes or activities undertaken 
by the Company;
	
	
(e)	
To review, approve and sign the Annual Report on CSR to be annexed to the Board’s Report; and
	
	
(f)	
To perform such other functions or responsibilities and exercise such other powers as may be conferred upon the CSR 
Committee in terms of the provisions of Section 135 of the Act and the Rules framed thereunder.
Annual Report 2023-24
86
	
	
Meetings of the CSR Committee:
 
 
There were 2 (Two) Meetings of the CSR Committee held during the Financial Year 2023-24, viz., on 2nd May, 2023 and 25th January, 
2024.
	
H.	
Managing Committee:
	
	
Composition of the Managing Committee:
	
	
The Managing Committee comprised of the following 4 (Four) Directors as Members as on 31st March 2024:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Member
Category
1
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
Chairman (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
2
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath
Member (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
3
Mr. Burjis Nadir Godrej
Member (Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director)
4
Mr. Anurag Roy 
Member (Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer)
 
 
Mr. Burjis Nadir Godrej, Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director and Mr. Anurag Roy, Whole Time Director & Chief Executive 
Officer, have been appointed as the Members of the Managing Committee w.e.f. 27th October, 2023 upon the approval of the Board 
of Directors of the Company at its Meeting held on 27th October, 2023.
	
	
Terms of Reference of the Managing Committee:
	
	
The terms of reference of the Managing Committee include handling of various administrative and other matters of the Company, 
which have been delegated to the Managing Committee by the Board of Directors from time to time.
	
I.	
Meeting of Independent Directors:
	
	
In compliance with the provisions of Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations, not less than one-half of the composition of the Board 
of Directors as on 31st March, 2024 consists of Independent Directors. There were no changes in the Independent Directors of the 
Company during the Financial Year 2023-24.
	
 	
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of the business 
hours on 2nd May, 2024. Consequently, the number of Independent Directors stands reduced to 4 (Four). The Management of the 
Company is taking the necessary steps / actions to ensure that the composition of the Board of Directors and its Committees to be 
in accordance with the Listing Regulations.
	
	
The Board of Directors is of the opinion that all the Independent Directors of the Company satisfy the criteria for independence and 
the conditions specified in the Listing Regulations for appointment as Independent Directors and that they are independent of the 
Management of the Company.
	
	
During the year under review, 1 (One) Meeting of the Independent Directors was held on 2nd May, 2023, at which all the Independent 
Directors were present.
	
	
The Independent Directors, inter alia, discussed the following:
 
z
Evaluation of performance of Non-Independent Directors and the Board of Directors as a whole;
 
z
Evaluation of the performance of the Chairman of the Company, taking into account the views of the Executive and Non-
Executive Directors;
 
z
Evaluation of the quality, content and timeliness of flow of information between the Management and the Board of Directors 
that is necessary for the Board to effectively and reasonably perform its duties.
	
	
All Independent Directors of the Company are provided with the necessary documents, reports and internal policies to enable them 
to familiarize with the Company’s procedures and practices.
	
	
Periodic presentations are made at the Meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Committees thereof, on business and 
performance updates of the Company, business strategy and risks involved. Quarterly updates on relevant statutory changes 
covering important applicable laws are discussed at the Meetings of the Board of Directors. Visits of Independent Directors to the 
Company’s factory locations are also arranged as a part of the familiarization programmes.
 
 
The details of familiarization programmes for Independent Directors are hosted on the website of the Company, viz., www.godrejastec.
com and available on the web link https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/compliance.
Annual Report 2023-24
87
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
4.	
SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL:
	
The particulars of the Senior Management Personnel of the Company as on 31st March, 2024 are as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Name
Designation
1.
Mr. Arijit Mukherjee 
Chief Operating Officer
2.
Mr. Vivek Thorat
Associate Vice President – Operations / Projects
3.
Dr. Valmik Dhakane
Associate Vice President – Research & Development
4.
Mr. K. Suryanarayan(#)
Chief Financial Officer 
5.
Mr. Vivek Verma
General Manager – Operations 
6.
Mr. Tarun Surya 
General Manager – Sales
7.
Ms. Neeyati Shah(*)
General Manager – Human Resources
8.
Mr. Pushkar Pendse 
Deputy General Manager – Systems
9.
Ms. Shailee Khandelwal 
Deputy General Manager – Business Development
10.
Mr. Subhash Gunjal
Deputy General Manager – Environment, Health & Safety
11.
Ms. Tejashree Pradhan
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
12.
Mr. Shekhar Vanage 
Manager – Purchase
13.
Mr. Vinay Gupta 
Manager – Environment Liasoning & Consents
14.
Mr. Rohan Patil 
Manager – Regulatory Affairs
	
(*) Ms. Neeyati Shah has ceased to be in the employment of the Company with effect from the close business hours on 26th April, 2024.
 
(#) Mr. K. Suryanarayan has ceased to be the “Chief Financial Officer” with effect from the close of the business hours on 3rd May, 2024, due 
to resignation.
	
The details of the changes in the Senior Management Personnel during the Financial Year 2023-24, are as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Name
Designation
Appointment / Cessation
1.
Mr. Madhur Gundecha
Chief Financial Officer
Ceased to be the “Chief Financial Officer” with effect from 
the close of the business hours on 2nd May, 2023, due to 
resignation.
2.
Mr. K. Suryanarayan
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed as the “Chief Financial Officer” with effect from 
3rd May, 2023.
5.	
APPOINTMENT, REMUNERATION & PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF DIRECTORS:
	
A.	
Policy for Selection and Appointment / Re-appointment of Directors:
 
 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee has adopted a Policy which, inter alia, deals with the manner of selection or 
appointment of Directors on the Board, including the Managing Director and the Whole Time Director, if any, and their remuneration. 
This Policy is available on the website of the Company, viz., www.godrejastec.com and available on web link https://www.godrejastec.
com/ investors/codes-and-policies.
 
 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is required to ensure that the candidate identified for appointment as a 'Director’ is 
not disqualified for appointment under Section 164 of the Act and the applicable provisions of the Listing Regulations.
 
 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee considers the following attributes / criteria, while recommending to the Board of 
Directors, the candidature for appointment as a ‘Director’ and his / her remuneration:
 
 
i. 
Qualification, knowledge, skills, expertise and experience possessed by the appointee;
	
	
ii.	
Personal, professional and business standing of the appointee;
 
 
iii. 
Capabilities identified by the Company which are possessed by the appointee;
	
	
iv.	
Diversity of the Board of Directors.
 
 
In case of re-appointment of a Director, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors also take into 
consideration the performance evaluation of the Director.
Annual Report 2023-24
88
	
	
Criteria of Selection of Non-Executive and Independent Directors:
 
 
(a) 
Non-Executive Directors shall be persons of high integrity, with relevant knowledge, skills, expertise and experience so as 
to have a diverse Board, with Directors having expertise in the fields of manufacturing, marketing, finance, taxation, law, 
governance and general management.
 
 
(b) 
In case of appointment of Independent Directors, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall satisfy itself with regard 
to the independence of the Directors vis-à-vis the Company, so as to enable the Board to discharge its functions and duties 
effectively.
	
	
(c)	
In particular, an Independent Director shall be a person who shall:
	
	
	
i.	
uphold ethical standards of integrity and probity;
	
	
	
ii.	
act objectively and constructively while exercising his / her duties;
 
 
 
iii. 
exercise his / her responsibilities in a bona fide manner in the interest of the Company;
 
 
 
iv. 
devote sufficient time and attention to his / her professional obligations for informed and balanced decision-making;
	
	
	
v.	
not allow any extraneous considerations that will vitiate his / her exercise of objective independent judgment in the 
paramount interest of the Company as a whole, while concurring in or dissenting from the collective judgment of the 
Board of Directors in its decision-making;
	
	
	
vi.	
not abuse his / her position to the detriment of the Company or its Shareholders or for the purpose of gaining direct or 
indirect personal advantage or advantage for any associated person;
	
	
	
vii.	
refrain from any action that would lead to loss of his / her independence;
	
	
	
viii.	
where circumstances arise, which make an Independent Director lose his / her independence, the Independent 
Director must immediately inform the Board accordingly;
	
	
	
ix.	
assist the Company in implementing the best Corporate Governance practices.
	
	
Criteria for Selection of Managing Director / Executive Director / Whole Time Director:
	
	
For the purpose of selection of the Managing Director or Executive Director or Whole Time Director (as the case may be), the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall identify persons of integrity who possess relevant qualifications, knowledge, skills, 
expertise, experience and leadership qualities required for the position and shall take into consideration the recommendation(s), 
if any, received from any Member of the Board of Directors. The Committee shall also ensure that the appointee fulfils such other 
criteria with regard to age and other qualifications as laid down under the Act or the Listing Regulations or any other applicable laws.
	
B.	
Remuneration of Directors and Senior Management Personnel:
	
	
Policy for Determining Remuneration of Managing Director / Executive Director / Whole Time Director:
 
 
The remuneration to Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer comprises of a fixed salary and other perquisites, allowances, 
contribution to Provident Fund, Performance Linked Variable Remuneration, employee stock options / grants, Long Term Incentives 
etc. which are paid / allowed as per the Company’s rules and policies prevailing from time to time. The remuneration paid is subject 
to tax as per the applicable Income Tax laws.
	
	
At the time of appointment or re-appointment, Whole Time Director is paid such remuneration as may mutually be agreed between 
the Company (which includes the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and / or the Board of Directors) and the Whole Time 
Director, subject to the overall provisions of the Act and / or the Rules framed thereunder.
 
 
In determining the remuneration, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall ensure / consider the following points:
 
 
(a) 
Qualification, knowledge, skills, expertise and experience possessed by the Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer;
	
	
(b)	
Clarity in the relationship between remuneration and performance benchmarks;
 
 
(c) 
Balance between fixed and incentive pay, reflecting short term and long-term performance objectives, appropriate to the 
working of the Company and its goals;
 
 
(d) 
Responsibility required to be shouldered by the Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer, the industry benchmarks and 
the current trends.
	
	
Policy for Determining Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors:
 
 
Non-Executive, Independent Directors are entitled to receive remuneration by way of sitting fees for attending the Meetings of the 
Board of Directors and Committees thereof, of such sums as may be approved by the Board of Directors, within the overall limits 
prescribed under the Act and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014.
Annual Report 2023-24
89
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 
 
Non-Executive Directors shall also be allowed reimbursement of expenses for participation in the Meetings of the Board of Directors 
and Committees thereof.
 
 
Further, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee may recommend to the Board of Directors, payment of commission to Directors, 
to reinforce the principles of collective responsibility of the Board. In determining the quantum of commission, if recommended, the 
Committee shall take into consideration, the overall performance of the Company and the onerous responsibilities required to be 
shouldered by the Directors.
	
	
Policy for Determining Remuneration of Senior Management Personnel:
	
	
In determining the remuneration of the Senior Management Personnel (i.e., the Key Managerial Personnel and other senior 
management employees), the Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall ensure / consider the following:
 
 
(a) 
Qualifications, knowledge, skills, expertise and experience possessed by the Senior Management Personnel;
	
	
(b)	
Clarity in the relationship between remuneration and performance benchmarks;
 
 
(c) 
Balance between fixed and incentive pay, reflecting short term and long term performance objectives, appropriate to the 
working of the Company and its goals;
 
 
(d) 
Division of remuneration between two components, viz., fixed component comprising of salaries, perquisites and retirement 
benefits and variable component comprising of performance bonus, employee stock options or grants and long term 
incentives;
	
	
(e)	
Remuneration and annual increment to be decided based on the criticality of the roles and responsibilities, the Company’s 
performance vis-à-vis the annual budget achievement, individual’s performance, industry benchmark and current 
compensation trends in the market.
 
 
The Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer shall ensure that an individual performance review of the Senior Management 
Personnel is carried out, based on the standard appraisal matrix and shall take into account, the appraisal score and other factors 
mentioned hereinabove, whilst recommending the annual increment and performance incentive or any long-term incentive to the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee for its review and approval.
	
C.	
Terms of Current Tenure of Appointment of Mr. Anurag Roy, Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer:
Particulars
Terms of Current Tenure of Appointment
Period of Appointment (*)
3 (Three) years w.e.f. 28th July, 2021, i.e., upto 27th July, 2024
Basic Salary
In the range of `6,50,000/- (Rupees Six Lakh Fifty Thousand Only) to 
`9,00,000/- (Rupees Nine Lakh Only) per month, with such increment(s) each 
year, as may be decided by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and/
or the Board of Directors
Other Benefits, Perquisites and Allowances
As may be determined by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and/ 
or the Board of Directors, from time to time, as per the Rules of the Company
Bonus / Performance Linked Incentives / Long 
Term Incentives
Based on performance criteria laid down by the Board of Directors and/ or the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Contribution to Provident Fund and Gratuity 
Fund
As per the Rules of the Company
Notice Period, if any
3 (Three) months
Service Contract
Agreement executed by and between the Company and Mr. Anurag Roy
Minimum Remuneration
Where in any Financial Year during the currency of the tenure of Mr. Anurag 
Roy, the Company has no profits or its profits are inadequate, the Company 
will pay remuneration by way of salary, perquisites and allowances, including 
variable pay and Long Term Incentives (LTI) as specified above, subject to 
compliance with the applicable provisions of Schedule V to the Companies 
Act, 2013, if and to the extent necessary, subject to requisite approvals being 
obtained.
 
 
(*) Re-appointment of Mr. Anurag Roy (DIN: 07444595) as the “Whole-Time Director & Chief Executive Officer” of the Company for 
a further term of 3 (three) years with effect from 28th July, 2024 upto 27th July, 2027, has been approved by the Shareholders by way 
of a Special Resolution through conduct of Postal Ballot on 9th March, 2024.
Annual Report 2023-24
90
	
D.	
Remuneration of Whole Time Director & Non-Executive Directors during the Financial Year 2023-24:
	
	
Remuneration paid to Whole Time Director:
 (` in Lakh)
Name of the Director
Gross 
Earnings
Perquisites
Employee Stock 
Options
Gratuity
Total
Mr. Anurag 
Roy, 
Whole 
Time 
Director & Chief Executive Officer
212.28
1.07
20.81
3.87
238.03
TOTAL
212.28
1.07
20.81
3.87
238.03
	
	
Remuneration paid to Non-Executive Directors:
 
 
All Non-Executive, Independent Directors were paid sitting fees for attending the Meetings of the Board of Directors and Committees 
thereof during the Financial Year 2023-24, as follows:
Sr. No.
Name of the Independent Director
Sitting Fees
(Amount in `)
1.
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas
7,00,000
2.
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot (*)
7,50,000
3.
Mr. R. R. Govindan
9,50,000
4.
Mr. Nandkumar Dhekne
4,00,000
5.
Ms. Anjali Rajesh Gupte
4,00,000
TOTAL
32,00,000
	
	
(*) Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of the business 
hours on 2nd May, 2024.
 
 
No Commission was paid to Directors during the Financial Year 2023-24.
6.	
GENERAL MEETINGS & POSTAL BALLOT:
	
A)	
Details of Preceding 3 (Three) Annual General Meetings (AGMs):
	
	
The date, time and venue of Annual General Meetings held during the preceding 3 (Three) Financial Years and the Special 
Resolution(s) passed thereat are as follows:
Financial Year
Venue
Date & Day
Time
Special Resolutions passed
2020-21
Through Video 
Conferencing (VC)
28th July, 2021 
(Wednesday)
4.00 p.m. (IST)
-
2021-22
Through Video 
Conferencing (VC)
25th July, 2022 
(Monday)
4.00 p.m. (IST)
Approval for Increase in Remuneration of 
Mr. Anurag Roy, Whole Time Director & Chief 
Executive Officer
2022-23
Through Video 
Conferencing (VC)
27th July, 2023 
(Thursday)
4.00 p.m. (IST)
-
	
B)	
Details of Special Resolutions passed at the Extra-Ordinary General Meetings (EGM) in the Preceding 3 (Three) Financial 
Years:
 
 
No Extra-Ordinary General Meetings were held during the preceding 3 (Three) Financial Years.
	
C)	
Postal Ballot & Procedure thereof:
	
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, pursuant to the provisions of Section 110 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules 2014, a Special Resolution was passed by Shareholders on 9th March, 2024 through Postal 
Ballot, the results of which were declared on 9th March, 2024.
 
 
The Notice of Postal Ballot was sent by e-mail to all the Shareholders having their e-mail addresses registered and notice thereof 
was published in the newspapers. The Notice of Postal Ballot was also made available on the websites of the Company, the Stock 
Exchanges where the Equity Shares of the Company are listed (viz., BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited) and 
National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”). E-voting facility was provided through NSDL to the eligible Shareholders, in order 
to enable them to cast their votes electronically.
Annual Report 2023-24
91
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 
 
Mr. Vikas R. Chomal, Practicing Company Secretary (Certificate of Practice No. 12133), was appointed as the ‘Scrutinizer’ for the 
Postal Ballot, who submitted the report to Mr. Balram Yadav, Non-Executive Director. The details of the Postal Ballot results are given 
below:
Date of Passing of 
Resolution
Date of 
Announcement 
of Result
Type of 
Resolution
Item
Total No. of 
Votes polled
% of 
Votes in 
Favor
% of 
Votes 
Against
9th March, 2024
9th March, 2024
Special 
Resolution
Re-appointment 
of 
Mr. 
Anurag Roy (DIN: 07444595) 
as “Whole Time Director & 
Chief Executive Officer” of 
the Company for a term of 3 
(Three) years with effect from 
28th July, 2024, i.e., upto 27th 
July, 2027
1,49,96,082
99.59
0.41
	
	
The procedure which is adopted by the Company whenever such resolutions are passed by Postal Ballot is as follows:
	
	
i.	
The Board of Directors, at its Meeting, approves the items to be placed for approval of the Shareholders through Postal 
Ballot and the draft of the Postal Ballot Notice and also authorizes any of the Directors and the Company Secretary to be 
responsible for the conduct of the entire process of Postal Ballot.
	
	
ii.	
A professional such as a Company Secretary in practice, who is not in employment of the Company, is appointed as the 
“Scrutinizer” for the Postal Ballot process.
 
 
iii. 
Notice of Postal Ballot is sent to the Shareholders. An advertisement is published in a national newspaper and a vernacular 
newspaper about the dispatch of Notice of Postal Ballot. The Notice of Postal Ballot is also filed with the Stock Exchanges 
and hosted on the Company’s website.
	
	
iv.	
E-voting facility is offered to eligible Shareholders to enable them to cast their votes electronically. Members who may not be 
able to access e-voting facilities are allowed to cast their votes by physical Postal Ballot.
 
 
v. 
Upon completion of voting, the Scrutinizer gives his / her report and the results of the Postal Ballot are announced. The 
results are intimated to the Stock Exchanges and are hosted on the Company’s website.
7.	
DISCLOSURES:
	
A.	
Material Related Party Transactions:
 
 
All transactions entered into with Related Parties as defined under the Act and the Listing Regulations during the Financial Year 
2023-24 were in the ordinary course of business, at arm’s length price and intended to further the Company’s interests.
	
	
In the preparation of the Financial Statements, the Company has adopted accounting policies which are in line with the Indian 
Accounting Standards notified under Section 133 of the Act, read together with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015. The significant accounting policies, which are consistently applied, have been set out in the Notes to the Financial 
Statements. Suitable disclosure as required by the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind-AS 24) has been made in the Notes to the 
Financial Statements. Attention of the Shareholders is drawn to the disclosure of Related Party Transactions set out in Note No. 51 
of the Standalone Financial Statements, forming a part of the Annual Report.
 
 
None of the transactions with any of the Related Parties during the Financial Year 2023-24 were in conflict with the interests of the 
Company.
	
	
The Company’s major Related Party Transactions are with Godrej Agrovet Limited, its Promoter and Holding Company. The Related 
Party Transactions are entered into based on considerations of various business exigencies, such as synergy in operations and the 
Company’s long term strategy.
	
	
Except for drawing remuneration by the Whole Time Director and payment of sitting fees to Independent Directors, none of the 
Directors have any other material significant Related Party Transactions, pecuniary or business relationship with the Company.
 
 
The Company has formulated a Policy on Materiality and Dealing with Related Party Transactions which specifies the manner of 
dealing with Related Party Transactions. This Policy has been put up on the website of the Company, viz., www.godrejastec.com 
and available on web link https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-policies.
	
B.	
Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy:
	
	
The Company promotes and creates a conducive environment and culture for ethical and legally compliant behavior in all its 
business activities and operations and has put in place a proper mechanism of reporting illegal, unethical behavior and actual or 
suspected fraud or violations of the Company’s Code of Conduct.
Annual Report 2023-24
92
	
	
The Company has a Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy in place, wherein the employees are free to report violations of laws, 
rules, regulations or unethical conduct to the Whistle Blowing Officer of the Company. The employees of the Company do have 
access to the Audit Committee of the Company in the matters of Whistle Blower or Vigil Mechanism. The confidentiality of the 
reported violations, if any, is maintained and the employees reporting violations are not subjected to any discriminatory practice.
 
 
Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy is posted on the website of the Company, viz., www.godrejastec.com and available on web 
link https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-policies.
	
C.	
Policy for Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace:
	
	
The Company is committed to creating and maintaining an atmosphere in which employees can work together, without any fear of 
sexual harassment, exploitation or intimidation. Every employee is made aware that the Company is strongly opposed to sexual 
harassment and that such behavior is prohibited. The Company has constituted an Internal Complaints Committee (“ICC”) pursuant 
to the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“the said 
Act”). While the said Act is applicable only to the women employees, the Company’s Policy covers all employees.
	
	
The details of complaints received and resolved by the ICC during the Financial Year 2023-24 are as follows:
Particulars
No. of Complaints
Complaints outstanding as on 1st April, 2023
0
(+) Complaints received during the Financial Year 2023-24
1
(-) Complaints resolved during the Financial Year 2023-24
1
Complaints outstanding as on 31st March, 2024
0
	
	
The Company has complied with the applicable provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Rules framed thereunder.
	
D.	
Details of Non-Compliance on Matters related to Capital Markets:
	
	
There has not been any non-compliance by the Company for which penalties or strictures were imposed on the Company by the 
Stock Exchange(s) or the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) or any statutory authority, on any matter related to capital 
markets, during the preceding 3 (Three) Financial Years.
	
E.	
Details of Utilization of Funds raised through Preferential Allotment or Qualified Institutions Placement as specified under 
Regulation 32 (7A) of the Listing Regulations:
	
	
During the Financial Year (F.Y.) 2023-24, the Company has not raised funds through any kind of issue (public issue, rights issue, 
preferential issue, etc.).
	
F.	
Certificate from a Company Secretary in Practice that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company have been 
debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of Companies by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (SEBI) / Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) or any such Statutory Authority:
	
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V to the Listing Regulations, the Company has obtained a 
Certificate from Mr. Vikas R. Chomal, a Company Secretary in Practice certifying that none of the Directors of the Company have 
been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (SEBI) or by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) or by any such statutory authority. The said Certificate is annexed to this 
Corporate Governance Report.
	
G.	
Disclosure about Instances where the Board of Directors had not accepted any Recommendation of any Committee of the 
Board which is mandatorily required, during the Financial Year 2023-24:
	
	
During the Financial Year (F.Y.) 2023-24, there were no instances reported / recorded, where the Board of Directors of the Company 
did not accept any recommendation(s) of any of its Committees.
	
H.	
Total Fees for all Services paid by the Company and its Subsidiaries, on a Consolidated basis, to the Statutory Auditors 
and all Entities in the Network Firm / Network Entity of which the Statutory Auditors are a part:
	
	
The Company has made the following payments to M/s. B S R and Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants, the Statutory Auditors of the 
Company during the Financial Year 2023-24:
Nature of Fees / Payment
Amount in `
Audit Fees
20,74,514
Certification Fees
1,25,000
Reimbursement of Expenses
1,87,030
TOTAL
23,86,544
Annual Report 2023-24
93
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
	
Behram Chemicals Private Limited, a Subsidiary of the Company, has made payment of `29,500/- (Rupees Twenty Nine Thousand 
Five Hundred Only) towards Audit Fees to M/s. Shah and Kathariya, Chartered Accountants, its Statutory Auditors, during the 
Financial Year 2023-24.
	
I.	
Disclosure by the Company and its Subsidiaries of Loans and Advances in the nature of Loans to Firms / Companies in 
which Directors are Interested:
	
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, neither the Company nor its Subsidiaries have given any loans and advances which are in the 
nature of loans, to any firms / companies in which Directors are interested.
	
J.	
Disclosure of Commodity Price Risk / Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging Activities:
	
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, the Company has managed Foreign Exchange Risk and hedged to the extent considered 
necessary. Net open exposures are reviewed regularly and covered through Forward Contracts. The details of Foreign Currency 
Exposure are disclosed in Note No. 40 to the Standalone Financial Statements. Further, raw material price risk is one of the risks 
for the Company. The Company has a framework and governance mechanism in place to ensure that the Company is adequately 
protected from market volatility in terms of raw material price and availability. The Company does not enter into any derivative 
instruments for speculative purposes.
	
K.	
Risk Management:
	
	
The Company considers ongoing risk management to be a core component of the management and functioning of the Company and 
understands that the Company’s ability to identify and address risks is central to achieving its corporate objectives. The Company 
has, therefore, developed and implemented a Risk Management Policy, which is hosted on the Company’s website at the weblink 
https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-policies.
	
	
The Company has formulated a series of processes, structures and guidelines which assist the Company to continuously identify, 
assess, monitor and manage its business risks. In order to achieve this objective, the Company has clearly defined responsibility 
and authority of the Company’s Board of Directors and of the Risk Management Committee, to oversee and manage the risk 
management programme, while conferring responsibility and authority on the Company’s senior management, to develop and 
maintain the risk management programme in light of the day-to-day emerging needs of the Company. All key functions and divisions 
are also independently responsible to monitor risks associated within their respective areas of operations such as production, 
insurance, legal and other issues like health, safety and environment. Regular communication and review of risk management 
practices provides the Company with important checks and balances to ensure the efficacy of its risk management.
	
	
The Risk Management Committee meets at regular intervals, to ensure that appropriate methodologies, processes and systems 
are in place to monitor and evaluate risks associated with the business of the Company and also to monitor and oversee the 
implementation of the Risk Management Policy.
	
	
The Board of Directors of the Company is of the opinion that, at present, there are no elements of risks which may threaten the 
existence of the Company.
	
L.	
Code of Conduct:
	
	
The Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors and the Senior Management Personnel has been disclosed on the website of the 
Company, viz., www.godrejastec.com. The web link to access the Code of Conduct is https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-
and-policies. The declaration by Mr. Anurag Roy, Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer stating that all the Board Members 
and Senior Management Personnel have affirmed their compliance with the laid down Code of Conduct for the Financial Year ended 
31st March, 2024, is annexed to this Corporate Governance Report.
	
M.	
Disclosures by the Management to the Board of Directors:
	
	
The Company had received disclosures from the Senior Management Personnel stating that none of them had any personal interest 
in any of the financial and commercial transactions entered into by the Company during the Financial Year 2023-24.
	
N.	
Public, Rights and Other Issues:
	
	
There were no Public, Rights and other issues during the Financial Year 2023-24, except allotment of 3,546 (Three Thousand Five 
Hundred and Forty-Six) Equity Shares of Face Value of `10/- (Rupees Ten Only) each, ranking pari passu with the existing Equity 
Shares, as follows:
	
	
(a)	
1,546 (One Thousand Five Hundred and Forty-Six) Equity Shares were allotted pursuant to exercise of Options at an exercise 
price of `10/- (Rupees Ten Only) each under amended ESOP 2012;
	
	
(b)	
2,000 (Two Thousand) Equity Shares were allotted pursuant to exercise of Options at an exercise price of `387.35 (Rupees 
Three Hundred Eighty-Seven and Paise Thirty-Five Only) each under the Employees Stock Option Scheme, 2015 (“ESOS 
2015”).
Annual Report 2023-24
94
	
	
CEO and CFO Certification:
 
 
Mr. Anurag Roy, Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer and Mr. K. Suryanarayan, Chief Financial Officer, have issued the 
Certificate in accordance with Regulation 17(8) of the Listing Regulations with regard to Quarterly and Annual Financial Statements 
for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024.
	
O.	
Management Discussion & Analysis Report:
 
 
The Management Discussion & Analysis Report for the Financial Year 2023-24 forms a part of the Annual Report.
	
P.	
Disclosure of Accounting Treatment in the Preparation of Financial Statements:
	
	
The Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(GAAP) in India and comply with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind-AS) specified under Section 133 of the Act.
	
Q.	
Compliance Certificate on Corporate Governance:
 
 
As per Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, the Certificate issued by M/s. BNP & Associates, Company Secretaries, Mumbai 
(who are also the Secretarial Auditors of the Company), regarding compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance for the 
Financial Year 2023-24 is annexed to this Corporate Governance Report.
	
R.	
Shareholders & Means of Communication:
 
 
All vital information relating to the Company and its performance, including Quarterly and Annual Financial Results, official press 
releases, information about analyst meets, etc. are hosted on the website of the Company, viz., www.godrejastec.com.
	
	
The Quarterly and Annual Financial Results of the Company’s performance are published in English daily newspaper ‘Business 
Standard’ and regional language daily newspaper ‘Mumbai Lakshadeep’. The Financial Results of the Company are also available 
on the websites of BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited, viz., www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com, 
respectively, being the Stock Exchanges where the Equity Shares of the Company are listed.
 
 
The Company files electronically the Quarterly and Annual Financial Results, Corporate Governance Report, Shareholding Pattern, 
etc. through BSE Listing Centre and NSE Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS) and/or NSE Digital Portal.
	
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, the Financial Results of the Company were announced as under:
Quarter
Date of Announcement on the Stock Exchanges
Date of Newspaper Publication
First Quarter
27th July, 2023
28th July, 2023
Half Year
27th October,2023
28th October, 2023
Third Quarter
25th January, 2024
26th January, 2024
Annual
2­ May, 2024
3rd May, 2024
8.	
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION:
	
i.	
Registered Office:
	
	
“Godrej One”, 3rd Floor, Pirojshanagar, Eastern Express Highway, Vikhroli (East), Mumbai – 400 079, Maharashtra, India
	
ii.	
30th (Thirtieth) Annual General Meeting:
Date
Day
Time
Venue
29th July, 2024
Monday
4.00 p.m. (IST)
Through Video Conferencing (VC) / Other 
Audio Visual Means (OAVM)
	
iii.	
Financial Year:
	
	
Financial Year: From 1st April to 31st March
	
iv.	
Book Closure Dates:
	
	
The Book Closure Dates are as under:
	
	
From Wednesday, 24th July, 2024 to Sunday, 28th July, 2024 (both days inclusive)
	
v.	
Corporate Identification Number (CIN):
 
 
The Company's CIN, allotted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs is L99999MH1994PLC076236. The Company is registered with the 
Registrar of Companies (ROC) - Mumbai in the State of Maharashtra, India.
Annual Report 2023-24
95
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
vi.	
Listing Information and Payment of Listing Fees:
 
 
The Company’s Equity Shares are listed on BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”).
Name of Stock Exchange
Stock Code
BSE Limited (BSE)
P. J. Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai – 400 001, Maharashtra, India
533138
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE)
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051, Maharashtra, India
ASTEC
 
 
The Company has duly paid the Annual Listing Fees to BSE and NSE.
	
vii.	
Payment of Depository Fees:
 
 
The ISIN Number of the Company for both National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited (CDSL) is INE563J01010.
 
 
Annual Custody / Issuer Fee for the Financial Year 2023-24 has been paid by the Company to National Securities Depository Limited 
(NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
	
viii.	
Stock Data:
 
 
The stock data pertaining to trading of Equity Shares of the Company on BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited (“NSE”) is as follows:
 
z
Tables 1 and 2 below, respectively give the monthly high and low prices and volumes of Equity Shares of the Company at 
BSE and NSE for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024.
 
z
Chart A below, compares the Company’s share price at the BSE versus the Sensex and Chart B below, compares the 
Company’s share price at the NSE versus NSE Nifty 50.
 
z
Tables 3 and 4 below respectively give the distribution of shareholding by size and by ownership as on 31st March, 2024.
	
	
Table 1: Monthly High and Low Prices and Trading Volumes of Equity Shares of the Company at BSE for the Financial Year 
2023-24:
Month
High
(in `)
Low
(in `)
Volume
(No. of Shares)
April 2023
1,414.00
1,296.00
30,944
May 2023
1,540.00
1,212.00
61,920
June 2023
1,536.00
1,299.05
59,335
July 2023
1,391.00
1,201.90
27,170
August 2023
1,488.00
1,228.50
54,964
September 2023
1,446.05
1,299.05
21,608
October 2023
1,382.60
1,152.00
16,645
November 2023
1,318.75
1,186.20
9,015
December 2023
1,229.10
1,086.05
41,996
January 2024
1,121.00
945.05
66,439
February 2024
980.00
826.15
91,216
March 2024
1,143.95
887.70
82,035
Annual Report 2023-24
96
	
	
Table 2: Monthly High and Low Prices and Trading Volumes of Equity Shares of the Company at NSE for the Financial Year 
2023-24:
Month
High
(in `)
Low
(i n`)
Volume
(No. of Shares)
April 2023
1,415.00
1,296.05
4,46,873
May 2023
1,541.65
1,211.55
9,14,985
June 2023
1,538.70
1,299.00
5,70,305
July 2023
1,395.40
1,190.00
4,50,765
August 2023
1,490.00
1,225.00
12,81,683
September 2023
1,450.00
1,325.00
2,15,012
October 2023
1,385.05
1,149.10
1,96,626
November 2023
1,303.00
1,186.00
1,46,609
December 2023
1,225.00
1,085.50
4,16,188
January 2024
1,124.45
945.00
11,66,353
February 2024
980.00
825.05
11,00,688
March 2024
1,147.00
889.55
16,86,912
	
	
Tables showing the Performance of the Share Price of the Company in comparison with the Broad-based Indices (BSE 
Sensex and Nifty):
	
	
Chart A – Company’s Share Performance compared to BSE Sensex for the Financial Year 2023-24:
Month
ASTEC Monthly Close Price on BSE
BSE Monthly Sensex Close
April 2023
1,329.95
61,112.44
May 2023
1,390.95
62,622.24
June 2023
1,328.30
64,718.56
July 2023
1,253.20
66,527.67
August 2023
1,440.45
64,831.41
September 2023
1,336.05
65,828.41
October 2023
1,219.90
63,874.93
November 2023
1,191.00
66,988.44
December 2023
1,097.40
72,240.26
January 2024
961.85
71,752.11
February 2024
881.50
72,500.30
March 2024
1,062.05
73,651.35
Annual Report 2023-24
97
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
	
Monthly Close Share Price in comparison with BSE Sensex for the Financial Year 2023-24:
Price of Shares
BSE SENSEX
Price of Shares
Month
BSE SENSEX
0
10000
20000
30000
40000
50000
60000
70000
80000
Mar-24
Feb-24
Jan-24
Dec-23
Nov-23
Oct-23
Sep-23
Aug-23
Jul-23
Jun-23
May-23
Apr-23
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
	
	
CHART B – Company’s Share Performance compared to NSE Nifty 50 for the Financial Year 2023-24:
Month
ASTEC Monthly Close Price on NSE
NSE NIFTY 50
April 2023
1,331.95
18,065.00
May 2023
1,393.65
18,534.40
June 2023
1,327.85
19,189.05
July 2023
1,252.15
19,753.80
August 2023
1,439.60
19,253.80
September 2023
1,323.65
19,638.30
October 2023
1,220.45
19,079.60
November 2023
1,190.10
20,133.15
December 2023
1,095.25
21,731.40
January 2024
967.45
21,725.70
February 2024
889.75
21,982.80
March 2024
1,067.45
22,326.90
	
	
Monthly Close Share Price in comparison with NSE Nifty 50 for the Financial Year 2023-24:
0
5000
10000
15000
20000
25000
Mar-24
Feb-24
Jan-24
Dec-23
Nov-23
Oct-23
Sep-23
Aug-23
Jul-23
Jun-23
May-23
Apr-23
Price of Shares
NIFTY 50
Price of Shares
Month
Nifty 50
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
Annual Report 2023-24
98
	
	
Table 3: Distribution of Shareholding by Size as on 31st March, 2024:
Distribution of Shareholding
(No. of Shares held)
Number of 
Shareholders
Percentage to the Total 
Number of Shareholders
Paid-up Share 
Capital held
(In `)
Shareholding %
1 - 5000
19,404
95.87
1,05,88,790.00
5.40
5001 - 10000
408
2.02
31,80,230.00
1.62
10001 - 20000
202
1.00
29,93,920.00
1.53
20001 - 30000
69
0.34
16,82,510.00
0.86
30001 - 40000
33
0.16
11,76,730.00
0.60
40001 - 50000
27
0.13
12,62,290.00
0.64
50001 - 100000
42
0.21
31,66,340.00
1.61
100001 and above
54
0.27
17,20,41,250.00
87.73
TOTAL
20,239
100.00
19,60,92,060.00
100.00
	
	
Table 4: Distribution of Shareholding by Ownership as on 31st March, 2024:
Category
(as being reported to Stock Exchanges)
No. of Equity 
Shares
% of Shareholding
Promoters’ Holding
Individual Promoter (Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath)
3,90,802
1.99
Corporate Body(ies) (Godrej Agrovet Limited)
1,26,99,054
64.76
Institutions
Mutual Funds
15,26,592
7.79
Financial Institutions / Banks
300
0.00
Alternate Investment Funds
17,810
0.09
Foreign Portfolio Investors
2,45,908
1.25
Others
Corporate Bodies
3,98,532
2.03
Hindu Undivided Family (HUF)
2,16,131
1.10
Resident Individuals
38,47,625
19.62
Non-Resident Indians
2,37,558
1.21
Clearing Members
17,697
0.09
Trusts
10
0.00
Government Company (IEPF)
10,187
0.05
Proprietary Firm
1,000
0.01
Other Directors
0
0
TOTAL
1,96,09,206
100.00
	
	
Note: The details given above are as per Benpos received from Bigshare Services Private Limited, Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent of the Company as on 31st March, 2024.
	
ix.	
Shares held in Physical & Dematerialized Form:
	
	
As on 31st March, 2024, the break-up of Paid-up Equity Share Capital of the Company held in dematerialized or physical form (as 
per Benpos received from Bigshare Services Private Limited, Registrar and Share Transfer Agent) is as under:
Annual Report 2023-24
99
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Mode
No. of Equity Shares
Percentage
Demat shares with National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL)
1,82,89,978
93.27
Demat shares with Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL)
13,19,223
6.73
Shares held in Physical mode
5
0.00
TOTAL
1,96,09,206
100.00
	
x.	
Liquidity:
 
 
Higher trading activity is witnessed on National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE).
	
	
The relevant data for the daily turnover on Stock Exchanges for the Financial Year 2023-24 is given below:
Particulars
BSE
NSE
Total
Equity Shares (Nos.)
5,63,287
85,92,994
91,56,281
Value (` in Lakh)
6,708.86
1,01,900.81
1,08,609.67
	
xi.	
Corporate Benefits to Investors:
	
	
The details of Dividend declared by the Company for the last 10 (Ten) years is as under:
Financial Year
Dividend Declaration Date
Final Dividend Per Equity Share
(in `)
2022-23
27.07.2023
1.50
2021-22
25.07.2022
1.50
2020-21
28.07.2021
1.50
2019-20
22.07.2020
1.50
2018-19
26.07.2019
1.50
2017-18
01.08.2018
1.50
2016-17
28.07.2017
1.50
2015-16
-
-
2014-15
22.09.2015
1.25
2013-14
23.09.2014
1.00
2012-13
17.09.2013
0.75
	
xii.	
Compliance with Secretarial Standards:
	
	
The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI), a statutory body, has issued Secretarial Standards on various aspects of 
corporate law and practices. The Company has duly complied with the applicable Secretarial Standards.
	
xiii.	
Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report:
 
 
As stipulated by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), a qualified Practicing Company Secretary carries out Secretarial 
Audit to reconcile the total admitted capital with National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services 
(India) Limited (CDSL) and the total issued and listed capital. This Audit is carried out every Quarter and Report thereon is submitted 
to the Stock Exchanges where the Equity Shares of the Company are listed (viz., BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited). The Audit confirms that the total listed and paid-up capital is in agreement with the aggregate of the total number of shares 
in dematerialized form (held with NSDL and CDSL) and the total number of shares in physical form, as stated in the Reconciliation 
Share Capital Audit Reports submitted to the Stock Exchanges during the Financial Year 2023-24.
	
xiv.	
Outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any Convertible Instruments and their Impact on Equity:
	
	
The Company does not have any outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants / Convertible Instruments.
Annual Report 2023-24
100
	
xv.	
Registrar & Share Transfer Agents and Share Transfer System:
	
	
Share transfer is effected within a maximum period of 30 (Thirty) days from the date of receipt, subject to documents being valid 
and complete in all respects. The Board of Directors has delegated the authority for approving transfer, transmission, etc. of the 
Company’s shares to the Company Secretary / Authorised Representatives of Bigshare Services Private Limited, Registrar and 
Share Transfer Agent (“Bigshare”). A summary of transfer / transmission of shares of the Company so approved by the Company 
Secretary / Authorised Representatives of Bigshare is placed at the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee Meeting.
 
 
Moreover, the Company obtains from a Company Secretary in Practice, a Half Yearly Certificate to the effect that all certificates have 
been issued within 30 (Thirty) days of the date of lodgement of the transfer, sub- division, consolidation and renewal, as required 
under Regulation 40(9) of the Listing Regulations and files a copy of the said Certificate with the Stock Exchanges where the 
Company’s shares are listed.
	
	
The contact details of Bigshare Services Private Limited, the Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agents are as under:
	
	
Bigshare Services Private Limited
 
 
Office No S6-2, 6th Floor, Pinnacle Business Park,
 
 
Next to Ahura Centre,
	
	
Mahakali Caves Road,
	
	
Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 093,
	
	
Maharashtra, India
	
	
Tel. No.: 022 – 6263 8200, Fax No.: 022 – 6263 8299
	
	
Website: www.bigshareonline.com
	
	
E-mail: investor@bigshareonline.com
	
xvi.	
Credit Ratings:
 
 
The Company continues to manage its treasury operations efficiently and has been able to borrow funds for its operations at 
competitive rates.
 
z
Line of Credit (LOC) & Commercial Paper (CP):
	
	
	
As on 31st March, 2024, ICRA Limited has assigned Credit Ratings in respect of `981 Crore of Line of Credit (LOC) and `300 
Crore of Commercial Paper Programme availed by the Company, as under:
 
 
 
a) 
Rating of “[ICRA] AA- (Stable)” (pronounced “ICRA double A minus”) for Long Term Bank Facilities of `556.00 Crore;
 
 
 
b) 
Rating of “[ICRA] A1+” (pronounced “ICRA A one plus”) for Short Term Bank Facilities of `425.00 Crore;
 
 
 
c) 
Rating of “[ICRA] A1+” (pronounced “ICRA A one plus”) for Commercial Paper Programme of `300.00 Crore.
	
	
	
In accordance with the Credit Rating assigned to the Commercial Paper Programme of the Company as above, the Board of 
Directors have granted its approval for borrowing by way of issuance of Commercial Papers upto an aggregate limit of `300 
Crore.
 
z
	Non-Convertible Debentures (NCD):
	
	
	
As on 31st March, 2024, India Ratings & Research (Ind-Ra) has rated the Company’s Non-Convertible debentures (NCDs) 
as “IND AA-/ Stable” (pronounced “IND AA minus / Stable”). Further, the Board of Directors has granted its approval for 
borrowing by way of issuance of Non-Convertible Debentures upto an aggregate limit of `150 Crore.
	
xvii.	
Plant Locations:
	
	
The plant locations during the Financial Year 2023-24 were as follows:
 
 
1. 
Plot Nos. B-16, B-17, B-18 and B-21, MIDC Mahad, Birwadi Industrial Area, Taluka Mahad, District Raigad – 402 302, 
Maharashtra
 
 
2. 
Plot No. K-2/1/1, Additional MIDC Mahad, Village Kalinj, Taluka Mahad, District Raigad – 402 302, Maharashtra
 
 
3. 
Plot No. K-2/1/2, Additional MIDC Mahad, Village Kalinj, Taluka Mahad, District Raigad – 402 302, Maharashtra
 
 
4. 
Plot No. K-2/2, K-2/3/1, Additional MIDC Mahad, Village Kalinj, Taluka Mahad, District Raigad – 402 302, Maharashtra
	
xviii.	 Research and Development (R&D) Centre:
 
 
The locations of R&D Centre during the Financial Year 2023-24 is as follows:
 
 
1. 
Plot No. B-23, T.T.C, Pipeline Rd, TTC Industrial Area, Airoli, Navi Mumbai - 400708, Maharashtra
	
	
2.	
F-39, MIDC Phase – II, Dombivli (East), District Thane – 421 204, Maharashtra
Annual Report 2023-24
101
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
xix.	
Address for Correspondence:
	
	
Investor Correspondence should be addressed to:
	
	
Bigshare Services Private Limited (Registrar & Share Transfer Agent)
 
 
Office No S6-2, 6th Floor,
	
	
Pinnacle Business Park,
 
 
Next to Ahura Centre,
	
	
Mahakali Caves Road,
	
	
Andheri (East), Mumbai – 400 093
	
	
Maharashtra, India
	
	
Tel. No.: 022 – 6263 8200 Fax No.: 022 – 6263 8299
	
	
Website: www.bigshareonline.com
	
	
E-mail: investor@bigshareonline.com
	
	
Exclusive E-mail Id for Investors / Shareholders:
	
	
The Company has designated an e-mail Id to enable the Shareholders and investors to correspond with the Company. The e-mail id 
is astecinvestors@godrejastec.com.
	
	
Ms. Tejashree Pradhan, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
	
	
“Godrej One”, 3rd Floor,
	
	
Pirojshanagar, Eastern Express Highway, Vikhroli (East), Mumbai – 400 079, Maharashtra
	
	
Phone: 022 – 2518 8010; Fax: 022 - 2261 8289
	
	
E-mail id: tejashree.pradhan@godrejastec.com;
	
	
Website: www.godrejastec.com
	
	
Mr. K. Suryanarayan, Chief Financial Officer
	
	
(Resigned with effect from close of business hours on 3rd May, 2024)
	
	
“Godrej One”, 3rd Floor,
	
	
Pirojshanagar, Eastern Express Highway, Vikhroli (East), Mumbai – 00 079, Maharashtra
	
	
Phone: 022 – 2518 8010; Fax: 022 - 2261 8289
	
	
E-mail id: k.suryanarayan@godrejastec.com;
	
xx.	
SEBI Complaints Redressal System (SCORES):
 
 
The investor complaints are processed in a centralized web-based complaints redressal system. The salient features of this system 
are:
 
 
1. 
Centralized database of all complaints;
	
	
2.	
Online upload of Action Taken Reports (ATRs) by concerned companies; and
	
	
3.	
Online viewing by investors of actions taken on the complaint and its current status.
	
xxi.	
Material Unlisted Subsidiary Company:
	
	
The Company does not have material subsidiary Company whose turnover or net worth (i.e., paid-up capital and free reserves) 
exceeds 10% (Ten per cent) of the consolidated turnover or net worth respectively of the Company and its subsidiaries in the 
immediately preceding Financial Year.
	
	
The Annual Financial Statements of Subsidiary Companies are tabled at the Board Meetings. Copies of the Minutes of the Board 
Meetings of Subsidiary Companies are individually given to all the Directors and are tabled at the subsequent Board Meetings.
 
 
The Company has formulated a Policy for determining the Material Subsidiaries as defined in Regulation 16 of the Listing 
Regulations. This Policy has been hosted on the website of the Company, viz., www.godrejastec.com and available on the web link 
https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-policies.
	
xxii.	
Non-Compliance of any Requirement of Corporate Governance Report of sub-paras (2) to (10) of Para C to Schedule V to 
the Listing Regulations:
	
	
The Company has complied with all the requirements in this regard, to the extent applicable.
Annual Report 2023-24
102
	
xxiii.	 Disclosures of Compliance with Corporate Governance Requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and Regulation 
46(2)(b) to (i) of the Listing Regulations:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Regulation 
of the Listing 
Regulations
Compliance 
Status (Yes/ No/ 
N.A.)
Areas / Requirements with respect to which 
Compliance is observed
1.
Board of Directors
17 & 17A
Yes
 
z
Composition of the Board of Directors
 
z
Meetings of the Board of Directors
 
z
Review of compliance reports Plans for orderly 
succession for appointments
 
z
Code of Conduct
 
z
Fees / Compensation
 
z
Minimum Information to be placed before the 
Board of Directors
 
z
Compliance Certificate
 
z
Risk Assessment and Management
 
z
Performance 
Evaluation 
of 
Independent 
Directors
 
z
Explanatory Statement to be annexed to the 
Notice of General Meeting
 
z
Maximum Number of Directorships
2.
Audit Committee
18
Yes
 
z
Composition of the Audit Committee
 
z
Meetings of the Audit Committee
 
z
Powers of the Audit Committee
 
z
Role of the Audit Committee and Review of 
Information by the Committee
3.
Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee
19
Yes
 
z
Composition 
of 
the 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration Committee
 
z
Role of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee
 
z
Frequency of Meetings of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee
4.
Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee
20
Yes
 
z
Composition	
of	
the 
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee
 
z
Role 
of 
the 
Stakeholders’ 
Relationship 
Committee
 
z
Frequency	
of	
Meetings 
of 
the 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
5.
Risk Management 
Committee
21
Yes
 
z
Composition 
of 
the 
Risk 
Management 
Committee
 
z
Role of the Risk Management Committee
 
z
Frequency of Meetings of the Risk Management 
Committee
6.
Vigil Mechanism
22
Yes
 
z
Formulation of Vigil Mechanism / Whistle 
Blower Policy for Directors and Employees
 
z
Direct Access to Chairperson of the Audit 
Committee
Annual Report 2023-24
103
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Regulation 
of the Listing 
Regulations
Compliance 
Status (Yes/ No/ 
N.A.)
Areas / Requirements with respect to which 
Compliance is observed
7.
Related Party Transactions
23
Yes
 
z
Policy 
on 
Materiality 
of 
Related 
Party 
Transactions and on Dealing with Related Party 
Transactions
 
z
Review and Approval for Related Party 
Transactions
 
z
Disclosure of Related Party Transactions
8.
Corporate Governance 
requirements with respect 
to Subsidiary
24 & 24A
Yes
 
z
Review of Investments made by Unlisted 
Subsidiary Companies by the Audit Committee
 
z
Minutes of Meetings of Board of Directors 
of Unlisted Subsidiary Companies placed at 
the Meetings of the Board of Directors of the 
Company
 
z
Review 
of 
Significant 
Transactions 
and 
Arrangements entered into by the Unlisted 
Subsidiary Companies
9.
Obligations with respect to 
Independent Directors
25
Yes
 
z
Maximum Number of Directorships
 
z
Tenure of Independent Directors
 
z
Meetings of Independent Directors
 
z
Familiarisation Programmes for Independent 
Directors
 
z
Directors & Officers’ Liability Insurance
10.
Obligations with respect 
to Directors and Senior 
Management
26
Yes
 
z
Memberships / Chairmanships in Committees
 
z
Affirmation with respect to Compliance with the 
Code of Conduct and Ethics from Directors and 
Senior Management
11.
Other Corporate 
Governance Requirements
27
Yes
 
z
Compliance with discretionary requirements
 
z
Filing of Quarterly Compliance Report on 
Corporate Governance
12.
Website
46(2)(b) to (i)
Yes
 
z
Terms and Conditions of Appointment of 
Independent Directors
 
z
Composition of various Committees of Board of 
Directors
 
z
Code of Conduct and Ethics for Directors and 
Senior Management Personnel
 
z
Details of Establishment of Vigil Mechanism / 
Whistle Blower Policy
 
z
Policy 
on 
Materiality 
of 
Related 
Party 
Transactions and on Dealing with Related Party 
Transactions
 
z
Details of Familiarization Programmes for 
Independent Director
	
	
Note: Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot has ceased to be an “Independent Director” of the Company with effect from the close of the business 
hours on 2nd May, 2024. Consequently, the number of Non-Executive, Independent Directors is now 4 (Four). The Management of 
the Company is taking the necessary steps / actions to ensure that the composition of the Board of Directors and its Committees to 
be in accordance with the Listing Regulations.
Annual Report 2023-24
104
	
xxiv.	 Transfer of Unpaid / Unclaimed Amounts of Dividend to Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF):
	
	
Since there was no dividend amount paid for the Financial Year 2015-16, during the Financial Year 2023-24, no unclaimed amount 
for more than 7 (Seven) years were due for transfer to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) pursuant to Rule 5(4) of 
the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016.
	
xxv.	
Compliance with the Non - Mandatory Requirements:
	
	
The Company complies with all mandatory requirements and has also adopted some of the non - mandatory requirements as 
detailed under the head "Non - Mandatory Requirements".
	
	
1.	
Separate Positions of Chairperson and Chief Executive Officer:
 
 
 
The Company has separate positions for Chairperson and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Nadir B. Godrej is the “Chairman” of 
the Company. Mr. Anurag Roy is the “Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer” of the Company.
	
	
2.	
Reporting of Internal Auditors:
	
	
	
The Internal Auditors of the Company give their quarterly report / presentation to the Audit Committee and the same is taken 
for review at the time of Meetings of the Audit Committee.
	
xxvi.	 Disclosure as per Part G of Schedule V to the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosures Requirements) Regulations, 2015:
	
	
The Company has been informed by way of a family letter dated 30th April, 2024 issued jointly by Mr. Adi Godrej (ABG), Mr. Nadir 
Godrej (NBG), Mrs. Smita Godrej Crishna (SVC) and Mr. Jamshyd Godrej (JNG) that the Godrej family members have entered into 
a family settlement agreement and a brand & non-compete agreement on 30th April, 2024. The Company is not a party to these 
agreements.
	
	
The settlement contemplates a realignment of, inter alia, the shareholding of Godrej Industries Limited, which is the Ultimate Holding 
Company of the Company, subject to applicable regulatory approvals. Pursuant to the realignment, the management and control 
of the Company will continue with the ABG / NBG family, and the JNG / SVC Family will not be involved in the management and 
operations of the Company.
 
 
Currently, there are no members of the JNG / SVC Family who are Directors on the Board of Directors of the Company.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Anurag Roy
Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer 
(DIN: 07444595)
Date: 2nd May, 2024
Place: Mumbai
Balram Singh Yadav
Director
(DIN: 00294803)
Annual Report 2023-24
105
Corporate Governance
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
DECLARATION BY WHOLE-TIME DIRECTOR
WITH RESPECT TO COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF CONDUCT OF THE COMPANY
As provided under Regulation 34 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“the Listing Regulations”) read with Schedule V to the Listing Regulations, this is to confirm that all the Members of the Board of Directors 
and the Senior Management have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024.
For Astec LifeSciences Limited
Anurag Roy
Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer
Date: 2nd May, 2024
Place: Mumbai
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE OF CONDITIONS OF 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To,
The Members of 
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Godrej One, 3rd Floor, Pirojshanagar, 
Eastern Express Highway, Vikhroli (East), 
Mumbai - 400079, Maharashtra
We, BNP & Associates have examined all relevant records of Astec LifeSciences Limited (further known as “the Company”) for the purpose 
of certifying the compliance ensured by the Company for  disclosure requirements and Corporate Governance norms as specified for the Listed 
Companies as prescribed under Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 and Para  C, D and E of Schedule V 
of Chapter IV of the  Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘LODR’), for 
the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024. We have obtained all the information and explanations to the best of our knowledge and belief, which 
were necessary for the purpose of this certification. 
We state that completing compliance requirements of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management of the Company, and our 
examination is limited to procedures and implementation thereof as adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of the 
Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company has complied with the 
conditions of Corporate Governance as specified for listed Company in the LODR for Financial Year 2023-2024.
We further state that the above certification is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with 
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For BNP & Associates 
Company Secretaries 
[Firm Regn. No. P2014MH037400] 
PR No. 637/2019
Avinash Bagul
Partner 
FCS No.: 5578 / COP No.: 19862 
UDIN: F005578F000289785 
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 2, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
106
CERTIFICATE FROM A COMPANY SECRETARY IN PRACTICE THAT NONE OF THE DIRECTORS ON THE BOARD OF THE COMPANY HAVE 
BEEN DEBARRED OR DISQUALIFIED FROM BEING APPOINTED OR CONTINUING AS DIRECTORS OF COMPANIES BY THE SECURITIES 
AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (SEBI) / MINISTRY OF CORPORATE AFFAIRS (MCA) OR ANY SUCH STATUTORY AUTHORITY
We, Vikas R. Chomal and Associates, Practising Company Secretaries, hereby certify pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 34(3) read with 
Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 that, none of the 
following Directors of Astec LifeSciences Limited, viz.:
1.
Mr. Nadir B. Godrej
-
Chairman & Non-Executive Director
2.
Mr. Ashok Hiremath
-
Non–Executive Director
3.
Mr. Balram Singh Yadav
-
Non–Executive Director
4.
Mr. Burjis Nadir Godrej
-
Non–Executive Director
5.
Mr. Anurag Roy
-
Whole - Time Director & Chief Executive Officer
6.
Mr. Rishinaradamangalam Ramakrishna Govindan
-
Independent Director
7.
Mr. Vijay K. Khot
-
Independent Director
8.
Dr. Brahma Nand Vyas
-
Independent Director
9.
Mr. Nandkumar Dhekne
-
Independent Director
10.
Ms. Anjali Gupte
-
Independent Director
have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(SEBI) or the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) or any such statutory authority.
FOR VIKAS R. CHOMAL AND ASSOCIATES
Sd/-
VIKAS R. CHOMAL
PROPRIETOR
MEMBERSHIP NO.: 24941
CERTIFICATE OF PRACTICE NO.: 12133
(UDIN: F011623F000073707)
Date: 10th April, 2024
Place: Thane, Maharashtra
Annual Report 2023-24
107
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (BRSR)
For the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2024
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES:
I.	
Details of the Listed Entity:
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L99999MH1994PLC076236
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
ASTEC LIFESCIENCES LIMITED
3.
Year of Incorporation
1994
4.
Registered Office Address
“Godrej One”, 3rd Floor,
Pirojshanagar, Eastern Express Highway,
Vikhroli (East), Mumbai – 400 079,
Maharashtra, India
5.
Corporate Address
“Godrej One”, 3rd Floor,
Pirojshanagar, Eastern Express Highway,
Vikhroli (East), Mumbai – 400 079,
Maharashtra, India
6.
E-mail Address
astecinvestors@godrejastec.com
7.
Telephone No.
022 – 2518 8010
8.
Website
www.godrejastec.com
9.
Financial Year for which reporting is being done
From 1st April, 2023 upto 31st March, 2024
10.
Name(s) of the Stock Exchange(s) where Shares 
are listed
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
BSE Limited
11.
Paid-up Capital as on 31st March, 2024
`19,60,92,060/-
[Comprising of 1,96,09,206 Equity Shares of Face Value of `10/- each]
12.
Name and Contact Details (Telephone, E-mail 
Address) of the person who may be contacted in 
case of any queries on this Report
Name
Mr. Anurag Roy
Designation
Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer
DIN
07444595
Telephone No.
022 – 2518 8010
E-mail ID
anurag.roy@godrejastec.com
13.
Reporting Boundary - Are the disclosures under this 
Report made on a Standalone basis (i.e., only for 
the Entity) or on a Consolidated basis (i.e., for the 
Entity and all the entities which form a part of its 
Consolidated Financial Statements, taken together)
The disclosures under this Report are made on a Standalone basis, i.e., 
only for the Company.
14.
Name of the Assurance Provider
TUV India Pvt. Ltd. (in respect of data covered under Principle 6)
15.
Type of Assurance obtained
Limited Assurance (not mandatory for the Company) is in progress (in 
respect of data covered under Principle 6)
Annual Report 2023-24
108
II.	
Products / Services:
	
16.	
Details of Business Activities (accounting for 90% of the Turnover):
Sr. 
No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the Entity
1.
Agrochemicals
Manufacturing and Marketing of Agrochemicals
100%
	
17.	
Products / Services sold by the Entity (accounting for 90% of the Entity’s Turnover):
Sr.
No.
Product / Service
NIC Code
% of Total Turnover 
Contributed
1.
Fungicides and Insecticides
20211
64%
2.
Agrochemical Intermediates
20219
36%
III.	
Operations:
 
18. 
Number of Locations where Plants and/or Operations / Offices of the Entity are situated:
Location
No. of Plants
No. of Offices
No. of Research & 
Development Centers
Total
National
4
1
2
7
International
0
0
0
0
	
19.	
Markets served by the Entity:
 
 
a) 
Number of Locations:
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
15
International (No. of Countries)
17
	
	
b)	
Contribution of Exports as a Percentage of the Total Turnover of the Entity: 71.6%
	
	
c)	
A Brief on Types of Customers:
	
	
	
The Company manufactures a range of fungicides, insecticides, herbicides and intermediates for its local and global 
customers.
	
	
	
With over two decades of experience in development and production of selected chemicals, the Company has built enduring 
relationships with large and small companies all over the world. This is evident in the fact that more than half of the Company’s 
business comes from exports to about 17 (Seventeen) countries.
 
 
 
The Company is dedicated to offering products of superior quality that are customized to satisfy the expectations of 
its customers. Further, the Company strives to comply with all agreed specifications and standards for all the different 
applications.
	
	
	
The Company's analytical labs are equipped with sophisticated equipment to carry out all necessary analysis to ensure the 
highest standards and to support product development.
	
	
	
The Company also believes in collaborating with global customers to develop newer technologies for the introduction and 
supply of new products in shortest duration of time. At various stages, the Company works closely with its customers for 
contract manufacturing.
	
	
	
With a consistent track record of high level of customer satisfaction, the Company has established a reputation of reliability 
and quality which is backed by a very personal and committed service.
Annual Report 2023-24
109
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
IV.	
Employees:
	
20.	
Details as at the End of the Financial Year:
	
	
a)	
Employees and Workers (including Differently Abled):
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
421
368
87%
53
13%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
25
18
72%
7
28%
3.
Total Employees (D + E)
446
386
87%
60
13%
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
185
183
99%
2
1%
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
595
590
99%
5
1%
6.
Total Workers (F + G)
780
773
99%
7
1%
 
 
b) 
Differently Abled Employees & Workers:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
1
1
100%
0
0%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
0
0
0%
0
0%
3.
Total Employees (D + E)
1
1
100%
0
0%
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
0
0
0%
0
0%
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
0
0
0%
0
0%
6.
Total Workers (F + G)
0
0
0%
0
0%
	
21.	
Participation / Inclusion / Representation of Women (as on 31st March, 2024):
Particulars
Total (A)
No. & Percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
10
1
10%
Key Managerial Personnel
3
1
33.33%
	
22.	
Turnover Rate for Permanent Employees and Workers:
	
	
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
Particulars
Financial Year 2023-24 
(Turnover Rate in Current 
Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23 (Turnover 
Rate in Previous Financial Year)
Financial Year 2021-22 (Turnover 
Rate in the Year prior to Previous 
Financial Year)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent 
Employees
22%
38%
26%
22%
9%
21%
20%
19%
20%
Permanent 
Workers
1%
0%
1%
2%
0%
2%
3%
0%
3%
Annual Report 2023-24
110
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary & Associate Companies (including Joint Ventures):
 
23. 
(a)  
Names of Holding / Subsidiary / Associate Companies / Joint Ventures:
Sr.
No.
Names of the Holding / Subsidiary 
/ Associate Companies / Joint 
Ventures (A)
Whether Holding / 
Subsidiary / Associate
/ Joint Venture
% of 
Shares 
held by 
Listed 
Entity
Whether the Entity indicated at 
Column A, participates in the Business 
Responsibility Initiatives of the Listed 
Entity? (Yes / No)
1.
Godrej Industries Limited
Holding Company
N/A
No, the Holding Companies of the 
Company have their own business 
responsibility initiatives.
2.
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding Company
N/A
3.
Behram Chemicals Private Limited
Subsidiary Company
65.63%
No, none of the Subsidiary Companies 
of the Company are mandatorily required 
to comply with the provisions of Section 
135 of the Companies Act, 2013.
4.
Comercializadora 
Agricola 
Agroastrachem Cia Ltda (Bogota, 
Colombia)
Subsidiary Company
100.00%
 
 
(“N/A” denotes “Not Applicable”, since the Company does not hold any Shares of its Holding Companies.)
VI.	
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Details:
	
24.	
(i) 	
Whether CSR is applicable as per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013: Yes
	
	
(ii) 	
Turnover: ` 4,58,18,06,604/-
 
 
(iii)  
Net Worth: ` 3,68,67,65,060/-
VII.	
Transparency & Disclosures Compliances:
 
25. 
Complaints / Grievances on any of the Principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder Group 
from whom Complaint 
is received
Grievance Redressal Mechanism in 
place (Yes / No) (If Yes, web-link for 
Grievance Redressal Policy)
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Number of 
Complaints 
filed during 
the Year
Number of 
Complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
Year
Remarks
Number of 
Complaints 
filed during 
the Year
Number of 
Complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of the 
Year
Remarks
Communities
Not specific
0
0
-
0
0
-
Investors (other than 
Shareholders)
Not specific
0
0
-
0
0
-
Shareholders
Yes
2
0
Resolved
3
0
Resolved
Employees and Workers
https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/
codes-and-policies 
1
0
Resolved
0
0
-
Customers
Yes
15
0
Resolved
0
0
-
Value Chain Partners
https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/
codes-and-policies
0
0
-
0
0
-
Others
Not specific
0
0
-
0
0
-
Annual Report 2023-24
111
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
26.	
Overview of the Entity’s Material Responsible Business Conduct Issues:
	
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that 
present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with 
its financial implications, as per the following format:
Sr. 
No.
Material Issue 
Identified
Indicate 
whether 
Risk or 
Opportunity
(R / O)
Rationale for identifying the 
Risk / Opportunity
In case of Risk, Approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
Implications 
of the Risk or 
Opportunity 
(Positive 
or negative 
implications)
1.
Occupational 
Health & Safety
R
 
z
Direct 
potential 
impact 
on 
the 
Company’s 
operations, employees and 
communities at large.
 
z
Creating and maintaining 
a 
safe 
and 
healthy 
work 
environment 
for 
all 
employees 
and 
stakeholders
 
z
100% of the Company’s manufacturing 
locations are ISO 45001:2018 certified
 
z
Responsible 
Care 
logo 
holder 
organization since 2015, covering all 
sites and employees as well as labourers
 
z
Implemented DuPont Safety System 
(DSS) Protocol for process risk analysis
 
z
Robust Risk Management framework in 
place, with periodic audits
 
z
Digitized user-friendly platform to report, 
track and resolve safety incidents
Negative
2.
Climate Change 
Mitigation and 
Adaptation
O
 
z
Reduce Green House Gas 
(GHG) emissions
 
z
Reduce 
energy 
consumption and improve 
cost efficiency associated 
with production, processing 
and transportation
 
z
Focus on increasing renewable energy 
portfolio
 
z
Committed to reduce Scope - 1 & 2 
specific Green House Gas (GHG) 
emission by 37% by 2035, as per Science 
based target initiatives (SBTi) at a Godrej 
Agrovet Limited (Holding Company) level
 
z
Consistently focusing on installation of 
various energy efficient technologies
 
z
Evaluating projects such as solar roof top 
/ ground mounted or captive solar / hybrid 
for the Company’s manufacturing plants
Positive
3.
Product 
Stewardship and 
Supply Chain
O
 
z
Responsible management 
of a product throughout 
its entire lifecycle, from 
development to disposal
 
z
Sustainable supply chain 
management to ensure 
business continuity and 
enhancing 
customer 
delight
 
z
Being a Responsible Care organization, 
the Company agrees to commit itself 
to improve performance in the field of 
product stewardship and logistics
 
z
Strict compliance with Hazardous 
Waste 
Management 
Rules 
and 
Regulations
 
z
More than 80% of the facilities are 
equipped with zero liquid discharge 
facilities
 
z
Sustainable Sourcing Policy in place 
to minimize business disruption from 
environmental, social and economic 
impacts
 
z
Emergency response plan is developed 
in view of the risks, and regular training 
conducted with site teams
 
z
Service partners (logistics), undergo 
a selection process and are regularly 
audited
Positive
Annual Report 2023-24
112
Sr. 
No.
Material Issue 
Identified
Indicate 
whether 
Risk or 
Opportunity
(R / O)
Rationale for identifying the 
Risk / Opportunity
In case of Risk, Approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
Implications 
of the Risk or 
Opportunity 
(Positive 
or negative 
implications)
4.
Legal & Regulatory 
Compliance
R
 
z
Failure to comply with 
relevant 
laws 
and 
regulations may lead to 
adverse impact on brand 
image, legal & financial 
penalties, loss of market 
access
 
z
Robust compliance monitoring systems 
and strict adherence to the same
 
z
Regular employee awareness session
Negative
5.
Innovation and 
Technology
O
 
z
Product innovation to meet 
evolving customers’ needs 
and expectations
 
z
A state-of-the-art R&D Centre with 
sophisticated 
infrastructure 
for 
products and processes development 
and safety studies
 
z
A healthy pipeline of new products and 
processes development
Positive
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES:
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the National 
Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) Principles (P1 to P9) and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and Management Processes:
1. 	
a)	
Whether 
the 
Entity’s 
Policy 
/ 
Policies cover each Principle and 
core elements of the NGRBCs [Yes 
(Y) / No (N)]
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
b)	
Has the Policy been approved by 
the Board of Directors? [Yes (Y) / 
No (N)]
The Company has obtained approval of the Board of Directors for the Policies, wherever 
necessary.
	
c)	
Web Link of the Policies, if available
The Policies formulated and adopted by the Company are available on the website of the 
Company at the weblink https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-policies.
2.	
Whether the Entity has translated the Policy 
into procedures (Yes / No)
The Company endeavours to implement and translate all the Policies into procedures and 
practices in true letter and spirit.
3.	
Do the enlisted Policies extend to your 
Value Chain Partners? (Yes / No)
The Company encourages its value chain partners to uphold standards of ethics, fairness 
and transparency in all their dealings with the Company.
4. 
Name(s) of the National and International 
Codes / Certifications / Labels / Standards 
(e.g., 
Forest 
Stewardship 
Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) 
Standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, 
BIS) adopted by the Entity and mapped to 
each Principle
All the Company’s factories at Mahad (Maharashtra) and the Research & Development 
(R&D) Centre at Dombivali (Maharashtra) are ISO 9001, 14001 and 45001 certified.
The Company, as a signatory to ‘Responsible Care’ and user of ‘Responsible Care’ logo, 
stays committed to improve its performance in the fields of environmental protection, 
occupational safety and health protection, plant safety, product stewardship and logistics, 
as well as to continuously improve dialog with its neighbours and the public, independent 
of legal requirements.
5. 
Specific Commitments, Goals and Targets 
set by the Entity with defined timelines, if any
Yes, the Company makes specific commitments and defines goals and targets.
6. 
Performance of the Entity against the specific 
Commitments, Goals and Targets, alongwith 
Reasons in case the same are not met
The Company monitors and periodically reviews its performance with respect to 
sustainability goals and targets and the action plans drawn for achieving the same.
Annual Report 2023-24
113
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Governance, Leadership & Oversight:
7.	
Statement by Director responsible for the BRSR, highlighting ESG related Challenges, Targets and Achievements:
 
The Company, as a responsible corporate citizen, stays committed to ensure that its economic growth is socially and environmentally 
sustainable at all times.
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, the Company continued to maintain its highest level of unwavering dedication to Environment, Health 
and Safety (EHS) standards. The Company’s safety record continued to remain excellent and it had no lost time injuries during the 
Financial Year 2023-24 as well. The Company continues to be committed to Godrej Group’s Good and Green philosophy and has made 
substantial and meaningful progress towards achieving long-term sustainability objectives by 2026.
	
Under its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities, the Company worked on projects in the area of agriculture, women 
empowerment, education, entitlements and community development. The various CSR programmes of the Company have positively 
impacted livelihoods for 3,149 individuals and 1,159 students.
8.	
Details of the highest authority responsible 
for implementation and oversight of the 
Business Responsibility Policy (ies)
The implementation and oversight of the Company’s Policy towards business responsibility 
is regularly carried out by:
1. 
Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer
2.	
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee
3.	
Board of Directors
9. 
Does the Entity have a specified Committee 
of the Board / Directors responsible for 
decision making on sustainability related 
issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
The Company has a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy which approves and 
oversees CSR projects in line with the Company’s strategy to bring about a positive impact 
on the communities through various CSR programmes. Further, Mr. Anurag Roy, Whole 
Time Director & Chief Executive Officer also regularly looks into and monitors the CSR 
projects implemented by the Company.
10. 
Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for 
Review
Whether Review was undertaken by Director / Committee 
of the Board / any other Committee
Frequency
(Annual / Half-Yearly / Quarterly / Any other)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance 
against above 
Policies and 
follow-up action
The performance is regularly reviewed by:
1. 
Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer
2.	
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee
3.	
Board of Directors
The frequency of review is as follows:
1. 
Whole Time Director & Chief Executive Officer – 
Ongoing
2.	
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee – 
Usually twice in a year
3.	
Board of Directors – Quarterly, usually at every Board 
Meeting
Compliance 
with statutory 
requirements of 
relevance to the 
principles and 
rectification of any 
non-compliances
The compliance with the statutory requirements is monitored 
on a regular basis by:
1.	
Management
2.	
Audit Committee
3.	
Board of Directors
The frequency of review of compliance with the statutory 
requirements is as under:
1.	
Management – Ongoing
2.	
Audit Committee – Quarterly, at every Audit 
Committee Meeting
3.	
Board of Directors – Quarterly, at every Board 
Meeting
11.	
Has 
the 
Entity 
carried 
out 
independent 
assessment 
/ 
evaluation of the working of its 
policies by an external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the 
agency.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The working of all the Policies is internally monitored. Audit / evaluation by external agencies is 
carried out wherever necessary.
Annual Report 2023-24
114
12. 
If answer to Question (1) of Section B above is “No”, i.e., not all Principles are covered by a Policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The Entity does not consider the Principles 
material to its business.
(Yes / No)
Not Applicable
The Entity is not at a stage where it is in 
a position to formulate and implement the 
Policies on specified Principles.
(Yes / No)
The Entity does not have the financial, 
human and technical resources available 
for the task. (Yes / No)
It is planned to be done in the next Financial 
Year. (Yes / No)
Any Other Reason (please specify)
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE:
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and 
Accountable
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Percentage Coverage by Training and Awareness Programmes on any of the Principles during the Financial Year:
Segment
Total Number 
of Training and 
Awareness 
Programmes held
Topics / Principles covered under the Training and its Impact
% age of Persons 
in respective 
Segment covered 
by the Awareness 
Programmes
Board of Directors 
(BoD)
4
1.	
Corporate Law / Governance Updates
2. 
Environment, Health & Safety Updates
3.	
Risk Management Updates
4.	
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Updates
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP)
4
1.	
Corporate Law / Governance Updates
2. 
Environment, Health & Safety Updates
3.	
Risk Management Updates
4.	
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Updates
100%
Employees other 
than BoD and KMPs
1
1.	
Code of Conduct
2.	
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at the Workplace
3. 
Occupational Health & Safety
96%
Workers
20
1.	
Code of Conduct
2.	
Prevention	
of Sexual Harassment at the Workplace
3. 
Occupational Health & Safety
85%
Annual Report 2023-24
115
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
2.	
Details of Fines / Penalties / Punishment / Award / Compounding Fees / Settlement Amount paid in proceedings [by the Entity 
or by Directors / Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs)] with Regulators / Law Enforcement Agencies / Judicial Institutions, in the 
Financial Year, in the following format:
 
(Note: The Entity shall make disclosures on the basis of Materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the Entity’s website)
Particulars
Monetary
Non-Monetary
Penalty / 
Fine
Settlement
Compounding 
Fee
Imprisonment
Punishment
NGRBC Principle
Not Applicable
Name 
of 
Regulatory 
/ 
Enforcement 
Agencies / Judicial Institutions
Amount (INR)
Brief of Case
Has an Appeal been preferred (Yes / No)
3.	
Of the Instances pertaining to Fines / Penalties / Punishment / Award / Compounding Fees / Settlement Amount disclosed above, 
details of the Appeal / Revision preferred in Cases where Monetary or Non-Monetary Action has been appealed:
Case Details
Not Applicable
Name of the Regulatory / Enforcement Agencies / Judicial Institutions
4.	
Does the Entity have an Anti-Corruption or Anti-Bribery Policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a Web-link 
to the Policy:
 
The Company, as an organization rooted in and guided by the Godrej values, is committed to act as a responsible corporate citizen and 
recognizes the responsibility cast upon it, to uphold highest standards of integrity, ethics, fairness and transparency in all its business 
activities, operations and dealings. The Company strictly prohibits corruption or bribery of any kind in its dealings.
	
The Company has in place, a Code of Conduct which is applicable to all its employees as well as Directors and the same is available on the 
website of the Company (www.godrejastec.com) at the weblink https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-policies.
	
Under the Code of Conduct, every employee or Director of the Company is duty-bound to comply with the following:
 
z
To undertake due diligence specific to anti-bribery and corruption while evaluating mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures;
 
z
To prohibit money laundering and report unaccounted cash or suspicious transactions;
 
z
Not to use one’s official position in the Company to influence anyone for personal gains or favours;
 
z
Not to resort to any form of bribery to Government officials and their representatives and agents, whether directly or indirectly, nor 
accept bribe from anyone, for any reason whatsoever;
 
z
Not to accept, directly or indirectly, hospitality, gifts or donations which are intended for the purpose of obtaining business or might 
appear to incur an obligation.
	
Thus, accepting or giving any kind of bribe is strictly prohibited under the Company’s Code of Conduct and the Company is bound to 
demonstrate zero-tolerance towards any instances of violation.
 
The Company’s employees are also made to familiarize the Company’s business associates with the Company’s policies and expectations 
as to anti-bribery or anti-corruption. The Company encourages all its business partners, viz., group companies, joint ventures, suppliers, 
distributors, customers, contractors, etc. to follow ethics, transparency, fairness and accountability in their dealings with the Company.
Annual Report 2023-24
116
5.	
Number of Directors / Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs) / Employees / Workers against whom Disciplinary Action was taken by 
any Law Enforcement Agency for the Charges of Bribery / Corruption:
Particulars
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Board of Directors
Nil
Nil
Key Managerial Personnel
Nil
Nil
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
6.	
Details of Complaints with regard to Conflict of Interest:
Particulars
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of Complaints received in relation to Issues of Conflict of 
Interest of Directors
Nil
-
Nil
-
Number of Complaints received in relation to Issues of Conflict of 
Interest of Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs)
Nil
-
Nil
-
7.	
Details of any Corrective Action taken or underway on Issues related to Fines / Penalties / Action taken by Regulators / Law 
Enforcement Agencies / Judicial Institutions, on cases of Corruption and Conflicts of Interest:
 
Not Applicable
8.	
Number of Days of Accounts Payables ((Accounts Payable *365) / Cost of Goods/Services procured) in the following format:
Particulars
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial 
Year)
Number of Days of Accounts Payables
102
161
9.	
Open-ness of Business:
	
Provide details of Concentration of Purchases and Sales with Trading Houses, Dealers, and Related Parties, alongwith Loans and Advances 
& Investments, with Related Parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
Financial Year
2023-24
(Current Financial 
Year)
Financial Year
2022-23
(Previous Financial 
Year)
Concentration of 
Purchases
a.	
Purchases from Trading Houses as % of Total 
Purchases
61.00%
50.90%
b. 
Number of Trading Houses where Purchases are 
made from
72
62
c.	
Purchases from top 10 Trading Houses as a % of 
Total Purchases from Trading Houses
73.30%
78.10%
Concentration of Sales
a.	
Sales to Dealers / Distributors as % of Total Sales
-
-
b. 
No. of Dealers / Distributors to whom Sales are 
made
-
-
c.	
Sales to top 10 Dealers / Distributors as a % of Total 
Sales to Dealers / Distributors
-
-
Annual Report 2023-24
117
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Share of Related Party 
Transactions (RPTs) 
in –
a.	
Purchases (Purchases with Related Parties / Total 
Purchases)
0.10%
-
b.	
Sales (Sales to Related Parties / Total Sales)
7.80%
5.30%
c. 
Loans & Advances (Loans & Advances given to 
Related Parties / Total Loans & Advances)
-
-
d.	
Investments (Investments in Related Parties / Total 
Investments made)
-
-
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
Awareness Programmes conducted for Value Chain Partners on any of the Principles during the Financial Year:
Total No. of 
Awareness 
Programmes held
Topics / Principles covered under the Training
% of Value Chain Partners covered (by Value 
of Business done with such Partners) under 
the Awareness Programmes
1
Integrity, Ethics, Transparency, Accountability (including Code of 
Conduct)
75%
1
Sustainability & Safety (including Occupational Health & Safety)
75%
Does the Entity have Processes in place to avoid / manage Conflict of Interests involving Members of the Board of Directors? (Yes/No) 
and if yes, provide Details of the same:
The Company has formulated a Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and Senior Management Personnel, which clearly prohibits its Directors 
and Senior Management Personnel from engaging in any business, relationship or activity which detrimentally conflicts with the interest of the 
Company or brings discredit to it and further states that any situation that creates a conflict of interest between personal interests and the interests 
of the Company and its stakeholders must be avoided at all costs.
The Company obtains an annual declaration from its Directors and Senior Management Personnel to the effect that, during the Financial Year to 
which such declaration relates:
 
z
they affirm compliance with and have not violated any of the provisions of the Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and Senior Management 
Personnel; and
 
z
	they did not have any personal interest in any of the material, financial and commercial transactions of the Company, which would have had 
any potential conflict with the interest of the Company at large.
The Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and Senior Management Personnel is available on the website of the Company 
(www.godrejastec.com) at the weblink https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-policies.
PRINCIPLE 2: BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Percentage of Research & Development (R&D) and Capital Expenditure (Capex) Investments in Specific Technologies to improve 
the Environmental and Social Impacts of Product and Processes to Total R&D and Capex Investments made by the Entity, 
respectively:
Particulars
Financial Year
2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year
2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Details of Improvements in Environmental and Social 
Impacts
R&D
13.1%
17.40%
Solvent recovery and recycling across projects, Effluent 
Treatment, Investment in R&D equipment and technology 
focused on Green chemistries
CAPEX
0.7%
11.50%
Projects such as Biomass fired boiler, Multiple Effect 
Evaporator for maximum recycling of water, Equipment 
purchased for Safety and Circularity
2.	
a. 	
Does the Entity have Procedures in place for Sustainable Sourcing? (Yes / No)
	
b. 	
If yes, what Percentage of Inputs were sourced sustainably?
 
The Company has established well-defined framework for selection of suppliers which includes various parameters such as legal compliance, 
ISO certification, Environment Health & Safety practices, etc. The Company is a signatory to “Responsible Care” and holds Responsible 
Care® Logo since 2015. By virtue of the same, it agrees to commit itself to improve performance in the field of product stewardship and 
logistics. The Company is in the process of carrying out sustainable sourcing assessment of key suppliers.
Annual Report 2023-24
118
3.	
Describe the Processes in place to safely reclaim Products for Reusing, Recycling and Disposing at the end of life, for (a) Plastics 
(including Packaging) (b) E-Waste (c) Hazardous Waste and (d) Other Waste:
(a)	
Plastics (including Packaging)
The Company has an established framework for management of plastic and hazardous 
waste in line with the Government regulations. As part of the compliance with Plastic Waste 
Management guidelines, the Company engaged one of the leading pan India plastic waste 
reprocessing agency authorised by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for collection.
(b)	
E-Waste
E-Waste is handled as per corporate scrap procedure, by selling it to selected Government-
approved vendors and duly maintaining the required documentation.
(c) 
Hazardous Waste
Expired products and other hazardous waste are sent to authorized facilities in accordance 
with the Hazardous Waste Management Rules.
(d)	
Other Waste
Not Applicable
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the Entity’s Activities (Yes / No) and if yes, whether the Waste 
Collection Plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) Plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, 
Steps taken to address the same:
	
Yes, the Company is registered as Brand Owner as per the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) Regulations. Waste collection plan is 
in line with the Pollution Control Board guidelines.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
Has the Entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its Products (for Manufacturing Industry) or for its 
Services (for Service Industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format:
NIC Code
Name of Product / 
Service
% of Total Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for 
which the Life 
Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
Whether conducted 
by Independent 
External Agency
(Yes/No)
Results communicated in 
Public Domain (Yes/No)
If yes, provide the web-link
No
If there are any Significant Social or Environmental Concerns and/or Risks arising from Production or Disposal of your Products / 
Services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same, 
alongwith Action taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product / Service
Description of the Risk / Concern
Action Taken
Not Applicable
Percentage of Recycled or Reused Input Material to Total Material (by Value) used in Production (for Manufacturing Industry) or providing 
Services (for Service Industry):
NIL
Of the Products and Packaging reclaimed at End of Life of Products, Amount (in Metric Tonnes) Reused, Recycled and Safely Disposed, 
for the Current Financial Year and the Previous Financial Year:
Particulars
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Re-used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Re-used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including Packaging)
Not Applicable
E-Waste
Hazardous Waste
Other Waste
Reclaimed Products and their Packaging Materials (as Percentage of Products Sold) for each Product Category
Indicate Product Category
Reclaimed Products and their Packaging Materials as % of Total 
Products sold in respective Category
Not Applicable
Annual Report 2023-24
119
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES, INCLUDING THOSE IN THEIR 
VALUE CHAINS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
a.	
Details of Measures for the Well-being of Employees:
	
b.	
Details of Measures for the Well-being of Workers:
Category
Total (A)
Health Insurance
Accident Insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care Facilities
Number 
(B)
%
(B / A)
Number 
(C)
%
(C / A)
Number 
(D)
%
(D / A)
Number 
(E)
%
(E / A)
Number 
(F)
% (F / A)
PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
Male
368
368
100%
368
100%
N/A
N/A
368
100%
0
0%
Female
53
53
100%
53
100%
53
100%
N/A
N/A
0
0%
Total
421
421
100%
421
100%
53
12.59%
368
87.41%
0
0%
OTHER THAN PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
Male
18
0
0%
0
0%
N/A
N/A
0
0
0
0%
Female
7
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
N/A
N/A
0
0%
Total
25
0
0%
0
0%
0
0
0
0
0
0%
PERMANENT WORKERS
Male
183
183
100%
183
100%
N/A
N/A
183
100%
0
0%
Female
2
2
100%
2
100%
2
100%
N/A
N/A
0
0%
Total
185
185
100%
185
100%
2
1.08%
183
98.92%
0
0%
OTHER THAN PERMANENT WORKERS
Male
590
590
100%
590
100%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
0
0%
Female
5
5
100%
5
100%
5
100%
N/A
N/A
0
0%
Total
595
595
100%
595
100%
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
0
0%
 
(‘N/A’ denotes ‘Not Applicable’.)
	
c. 	
Spending on Measures towards Well-being of Employees and Workers (including Permanent and Other than Permanent) in 
the following format:
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Cost incurred on Well-being measures as a % of Total 
Revenue of the Company
0.5%
0.3%
Annual Report 2023-24
120
2.	
Details of Retirement Benefits, for the Current Financial Year and the Previous Financial Year:
Benefits
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
No. of Employees 
covered as 
a % of Total 
Employees
No. of Workers 
covered as 
a % of Total 
Workers
Deducted and 
Deposited with 
the Authority
(Y / N / N.A.)
No. of 
Employees 
covered as 
a % of Total 
Employees
No. of 
Workers 
covered as 
a % of Total 
Workers
Deducted and 
Deposited with 
the Authority
(Y / N / N.A.)
Provident Fund (PF)
100%
100%
Y
100%
100%
Y
Gratuity
100%
100%
Y
100%
100%
Y
Employees’ State 
Insurance (ESI)
0%
100%
Y
0%
100%
Y
Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
3.	
Accessibility of Workplaces:
	
Are the Premises / Offices of the Entity accessible to Differently abled Employees and Workers, as per the Requirements of the 
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any Steps are being taken by the Entity in this regard:
 
The Company’s Registered Office is accessible for differently abled employees and workers.
4.	
Does the Entity have an Equal Opportunity Policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a Web-
link to the Policy:
	
Yes, the Company’s Code of Conduct outlines its commitment to offering equal opportunities for all team members. Any form of discrimination 
against any team member or applicant for employment on the basis of nationality, race, colour, religion, caste, gender, gender identity / 
expression, sexual orientation, disability, age, or marital status is strictly prohibited. Godrej Group companies also subscribe to the CII-
ASSOCHAM Code of Conduct for Affirmative Action.
	
The Company’s Code of Conduct is available on the corporate website at the weblink: https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-
policies.
5.	
Return to Work and Retention Rates of Permanent Employees and Workers that took Parental Leave:
 Gender
Permanent Employees
Permanent Workers
Return to Work Rate
Retention Rate
Return to Work Rate
Retention Rate
Male
100%
100%
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Female
100%
100%
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Total
100%
100%
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Annual Report 2023-24
121
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
6.	
Is there a Mechanism available to receive and redress Grievances for the following Categories of Employees and Workers? If yes, 
give Details of the Mechanism in brief:
Category
Yes / No
If Yes, Details of the Mechanism in brief
Employees 
(Permanent 
& Other than 
Permanent) 
Yes
In line with the Godrej Philosophy, the Company has multiple engagement forums available for its 
employees to share their concerns, suggestions, etc. with line managers, Human Resource Departments 
and senior leadership team.
Policies related to Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace and Vigil Mechanism / Whistle 
Blower are also available to all employees and workers.
The Company is committed to creating and maintaining an atmosphere in which all employees can 
work together, without fear of sexual harassment, exploitation or intimidation. A gender-neutral Policy on 
Prevention of Sexual Harassment has been in place for years. All employees are required to go through 
mandatory training on Prevention of Sexual Harassment.
Whistle Blower Policy also enables employees to raise concerns about unacceptable, improper or 
unethical practices being followed in the organization, without necessarily informing their supervisors. A 
Whistleblowing Officer has been designated for the purpose of receiving and recording any complaints 
under this Policy. The Company has recently partnered with Deloitte, for setting up a new Whistleblower 
hotline tool for any Directors and employees to raise Whistleblower complaints / concerns. The 
mechanism for Whistleblower would involve the following 4 (four) reporting channels: (1) Toll Number; 
(2) E-mail; (3) Web Portal; (4) Chat Bot.
Workers 
(Permanent 
& Other than 
Permanent)
7.	
Membership of Employees and Workers in Association(s) or Union(s) recognized by the Entity, for the Current Financial Year and 
the Previous Financial Year:
 Category
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Total 
Employees 
/ Workers in 
respective 
category 
(A)
No. of Employees / 
Workers in respective 
category, who are part 
of Association(s) or 
Union 
(B)
%
(B / A)
Total 
Employees 
/ Workers in 
respective 
category 
(C)
No. of Employees / 
Workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of Association(s) 
or Union 
(D)
%
(D / C)
Total Permanent Employees
421
0
0
351
0
0
Male
368
0
0
310
0
0
Female
53
0
0
41
0
0
Total Permanent Workers
185
141
76%
200
140
70%
Male
183
141
77%
200
140
70%
Female
2
0
0%
0
0
0%
8.	
Details of Training given to Employees and Workers:
Category
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Total (A)
On Health & Safety 
Measures
On Skills Upgradation
Total (D)
On Health & Safety 
Measures
On Skills Upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C) 
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F) 
% (F/D)
EMPLOYEES
Male
368
368
100%
315
86%
310
258
83%
228
74%
Female
53
53
100%
46
87%
41
29
71%
24
59%
Total
421
421 
100% 
361 
86% 
351
287
82%
252
72%
WORKERS
Male
183
175
96%
150
82%
200
200
100%
73
37%
Female
2
2
100%
2
100%
0
0
0%
0
0%
Total
185 
177 
96% 
152 
82%
200
200 
100%
73 
37%
Annual Report 2023-24
122
9.	
Details of Performance and Career Development Reviews of Employees and Workers for Current and Previous Financial Years:
	
Performance and career development reviews have been conducted for all employees eligible during the Financial Year.
Category
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
EMPLOYEES
Male
 368
 323
88% 
310
256
83%
Female
 53
 38
 72%
41
32
78%
Total
 421
 361
 86%
351
288
82%
WORKERS
Male
Performance reviews of workers are determined on the basis of Long-Term Settlement Contracts.
Female
Total
10.	
Health and Safety Management System:
	
a.	
Whether an Occupational Health and Safety Management System has been implemented by the Entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, the 
Coverage of such System:
	
	
Yes, the Company has implemented occupational health and safety management system and 100% of its manufacturing locations 
are ISO 45001:2018 certified. Furthermore, the Company is Responsible Care logo holder organisation since 2015 and the coverage 
includes all sites and employees as well as labourers. Safety and health of all stakeholders is considered to be of paramount 
importance for sustainable growth of the Company. The Company carries a vision to bring about a strong Safety and Health culture 
across the organization and all companies remain committed to provide a safe and healthy work environment for the well-being 
of all stakeholders, namely, employees and workers, business associates, processors, contractors, sub-contractors, vendors, 
transporters, customers and visitors.
	
b.	
Processes used to identify Work-related Hazards and assess Risks on a Routine and Non-routine basis by the Entity:
	
	
In line with Godrej Group policies, the Company has a robust Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) risk management framework 
which is reviewed on a regular basis along with mitigation plans for identified routing and non-routine hazards. The Company has 
implemented various techniques such as Hazard Identification Risk Assessment (HIRA), Hazard and Operability Analysis (HAZOP), 
process safety management, design checklists and other consequence modelling studies. Strict adherence to standard operating 
procedures (SOPs) for workplace safety is followed on shop floors across our manufacturing locations. For all new projects, EHS 
compliance is ensured through mandatory Job safety analysis during the construction and operational phases. Periodic cross 
functional as well as inter-unit audits at a business and corporate levels are conducted for all of our manufacturing locations to 
identify hazards, design risk mitigation plans and to monitor compliance with policy standards. The Company has also received 
several awards for its Occupational Health and Safety management systems in the past from Indian Chemical Council and National 
Safety Council of India etc.
	
c.	
Whether the Entity has Processes for Workers to report the Work-related Hazards and to remove themselves from such 
Risks (Yes / No):
 
 
Yes, the Company follows digitized safety reporting system through the mobile application called “i-safe” which has been developed 
internally by Godrej Industries Limited (the Ultimate Holding Company) for its associated companies. Workers and employees 
across our manufacturing locations have access to this application to report all kinds of work-related unsafe acts and unsafe 
conditions. A well-defined Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) is in place for defining nature and severity of the reported incident 
as well as necessary corrective actions and continuous status monitoring of incidents raised on the platform. Furthermore, periodic 
EHS Committee Meetings are conducted on the shop floors where employee participation is encouraged to discuss safety related 
issues and promote a transparent safety culture across manufacturing facilities.
	
d.	
Do the Employees / Workers of the Entity have access to Non-Occupational Medical and Healthcare Services? (Yes / No)
 
 
Yes, all of the Company’s manufacturing sites and offices have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services either 
on-site or through tie-ups with reputed medical centres in close proximity. All the necessary first-aid trainings and equipment are 
provided across the manufacturing sites. All permanent employees and workers along with their family members have access to 
either Company supported medical benefits, group insurance policies and/or where applicable, statutory benefits under Employees 
State Insurance.
Annual Report 2023-24
123
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
11.	
Details of Safety related Incidents in the following format:
Safety Incident / Number
Category
(including 
Contract 
Workforce)
Financial Year
2023-24
(Current Financial 
Year)
Financial Year
2022-23
(Previous Financial 
Year)
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)
(per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
1
Total Recordable Work-related Injuries
Employees
1
0
Workers
5
4
No. of Fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
High Consequence Work-related Injury or Ill - health (Excluding 
Fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
12.	
Measures taken by the Entity to ensure a Safe and Healthy Workplace:
	
The Company is committed to the health and well-being of its team members and has an on-site medical centre and hospital within the 	
Godrej campus at Vikhroli, Mumbai. Regular medical awareness workshops including mental health & well-being and periodic free of cost 
on-site diagnostic camps are conducted across the Company’s locations.
 
A digitized user-friendly platform has been enabled for all the Company’s employees at manufacturing locations to report safety related 
incidents, provide corrective action and timely resolutions. Employees are encouraged to participate in periodic meetings with senior 
management to enable continuous dialogue for achieving the Company’s goal of incident-free workplace. Well-defined and robust Standard 
Operating Procedures (SOPs) are in place for hazards identification, safe storage & handling of hazardous chemicals, monitoring storages 
and operation through competent supervisors to avoid loss of containment, imparting proper induction training to workers as well as 
labourers. Periodic safety audits are conducted by cross functional teams and a well measurable reward system is in place to inspire safety 
culture across the organization.
13.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by Employees and Workers:
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
No. of 
Complaints 
filed during the 
year
No. of 
Complaints 
pending 
resolution as 
at the close of 
the year
Remarks
No. of 
Complaints 
filed during the 
year
No. of Complaints 
pending 
resolution as at 
the close of the 
year
Remarks
Working Conditions
0
0
0
0
0
0
Health & Safety
0
0
0
0
0
0
14.	
Assessments for the Financial Year:
Particulars
% of Plants and Offices that were assessed
(by the Entity or Statutory Authorities or Third Parties)
Working 
Conditions 
Health 
& 
Safety 
Practices
All the Company’s manufacturing facilities are audited by internal as well as external parties, including statutory 
authorities:
1.	
Responsible Care
2.	
Godrej Industries Limited and Associated Companies (GILAC) Audit teams
3.	
Customer audits
4.	
Statutory Authorities such as Directorate of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH) and Maharashtra Pollution 
Control Board (MPCB)
5.	
Internal Cross Functional Audit team
Annual Report 2023-24
124
15.	
Provide Details of any Corrective Action taken or underway to address Safety-related Incidents (if any) and on Significant Risks / 
Concerns arising from Assessments of Health & Safety Practices and Working Conditions:
	
All safety-related incidents are thoroughly studied and investigated with initiation of corrective actions to avoid recurrence of such incidents. 
Internal as well as external audits measure the effectiveness of corrective actions.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
Does the Entity extend any Life Insurance or any Compensatory Package in the Event of Death of:
(A) 	
Employees (Y/N); and
(B) 	
Workers (Y/N):
(A) Employees (Y/N)
Yes
(B) Workers (Y/N)
Yes
	
Provide the Measures undertaken by the Entity to ensure that Statutory Dues have been deducted and deposited by the Value 
Chain Partners:
 
The Company encourages its business partners, viz., suppliers, distributors, contractors, etc. to follow ethics, transparency and accountability 
in their dealings with the Company. The Company also monitors compliance by contractors supplying third party resources related to 
statutory dues while processing the invoices.
	
Provide the Number of Employees / Workers having suffered High Consequence Work-related Injury / Ill-health / Fatalities (as 
reported in Question 11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable Employment or whose 
Family Members have been placed in suitable Employment: in the Current Year and the Previous Year:
Particulars
Total No. of Affected Employees / Workers
No. of Employees / Workers that are Rehabilitated 
and placed in suitable Employment or whose Family 
Members have been placed in suitable Employment
Financial Year 2023-24 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23 
(Previous Financial Year)
Financial Year 2023-24 
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23 
(Previous Financial Year)
Employees
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Workers
	
Does the Entity provide Transition Assistance Programmes to facilitate continued Employability and the Management of Career 
Endings resulting from Retirement or Termination of Employment (Yes / No):
	
The Company has continuously invested in skill development programmes for its employees to enhance employability of the workforce and 
provide diverse work experience.
	
Details on Assessment of Value Chain Partners:
% of Value Chain Partners (by Value of Business done with such Partners) that were 
assessed
Health and Safety Practices
75%
Working Conditions
75%
	
Provide Details of any Corrective Actions taken or underway to address Significant Risks / Concerns arising from Assessments 
of Health and Safety Practices and Working Conditions of Value Chain Partners.
 
Not Applicable
Annual Report 2023-24
125
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
PRINCIPLE 4: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL ITS STAKEHOLDERS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe the Processes for identifying Key Stakeholder Groups of the Entity:
 
The Company recognizes that as a good corporate citizen, it is bound to think and act beyond the interests of its internal stakeholders, to 
include all its stakeholders in addition to its employees, who together help the Company to create a shared value.
 
The stakeholder engagement process consists of several activities from stakeholder identification, consultation, prioritization, collaboration 
and reporting. The identification of all relevant stakeholders and understanding their expectations is of high importance to the Company in its 
quest to be sustainable. The Company identifies key stakeholders on the basis of their influence on the Company’s activities and operations 
and the Company’s impact on them.
 
The Company has already identified and prioritized key stakeholders and continues to engage with them through various mechanisms such 
as consultations with local communities, supplier / vendor meets, customer / employee satisfaction surveys, investor / analyst meets, etc.
	
The Company continuously endeavours to achieve customer satisfaction and create delight for all its value chain partners and also to 
implement policies and processes to achieve long term welfare and meet the growth and career aspirations of its employees. The Company 
also strives to introduce and implement impactful programmes for communities around its plant locations, in partnership with the Government, 
Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and local communities. This approach helps the Company to distribute accountability and ensure 
long- term impact of its community development initiatives in clearly identified areas of need.
 
The following are the key stakeholder groups which have been identified by the Company:
	
(1)	
Shareholders
	
(2)	
Employees and Workers
	
(3)	
Customers
	
(4)	
Suppliers and Contractors
	
(5)	
Government and Regulatory Bodies
	
(6)	
Media and Analysts
	
(7)	
Communities at large.
2.	
List Stakeholder Groups identified as Key for the Company and the Frequency of Engagement with each Stakeholder Group:
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group
(Yes / No)
Channels of Communication
(E-mail, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
Engagement
(Annually / Half-
yearly / Quarterly 
/ Others – Please 
specify)
Purpose and Scope of 
Engagement, including Key 
Topics and Concerns raised 
during such Engagement
Shareholders
No
 
z
	General Meetings
 
z
	Media Releases
 
z
	Investor Presentations
 
z
	Quarterly Results
 
z
	Annual Reports
 
z
	Stock Exchange Filings
 
z
	Corporate Website
 
z
	Bulk E-mails regarding Notices of 
Meetings, Postal Ballots, Tax Deducted 
at Source (TDS) on Dividend, etc.
 
z
	Dedicated e-mail address for resolving 
Shareholders’ queries / requests
Quarterly / Half-
yearly / Annual /
As 
and 
when 
required
 
z
	Understanding 
the 
aspirations 
and 
expectations 
of 
the 
Shareholders
 
z
	Updating the Shareholders 
about the operations and 
financial performance of 
the Company
Annual Report 2023-24
126
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group
(Yes / No)
Channels of Communication
(E-mail, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
Engagement
(Annually / Half-
yearly / Quarterly 
/ Others – Please 
specify)
Purpose and Scope of 
Engagement, including Key 
Topics and Concerns raised 
during such Engagement
Employees and 
Workers
No
 
z
	Regular 
e-mail 
circulars 
and 
organizational announcements
 
z
	Quarterly communication on financial 
performance
 
z
	Open forum interview with the top 
management titled as “Mulakaat” to 
provide business performance updates 
to employees, notify them about any 
important updates concerning them and 
answer their related queries
 
z
	Training and induction Programmes and 
workshops for employees
 
z
	Welfare initiatives for employees and 
their dependents
 
z
	Employee 
engagement 
/ 
feedback 
surveys
 
z
	Employees’ participation in community 
initiatives by encouraging volunteering
Quarterly / Half-
yearly / Annual /
As 
and 
when 
required
 
z
	Updating the employees 
about 
the 
Company’s 
progress, 
policies 
and 
expectations
 
z
	Gaining valuable feedback 
from 
the 
employees 
for 
strengthening 
the 
functioning and growth of 
the Company
 
z
	Implementing 
measures 
for employees’ motivation, 
professional growth and 
personal well- being
Customers
No
 
z
	Business interactions
 
z
	Formal customer and distributor meets
 
z
	Market visits
Ongoing 
and 
also specifically 
as 
and 
when 
required
 
z
	Understanding customers’ 
expectations 
and 
measures 
which 
can 
create delight for them
 
z
	Effective 
resolution 
of 
customer 
complaints 
/ 
issues, if any
Suppliers
No
 
z
	Business interactions
 
z
	Formal supplier meets
 
z
	Market visits
Ongoing 
and 
also specifically 
as 
and 
when 
required
 
z
	Understanding the needs 
and 
expectations 
of 
suppliers
 
z
	Identifying issues or gaps, 
if any, in the supply chain
 
z
	Awareness 
amongst 
suppliers about regulatory 
norms and Environment, 
Health & Safety (EHS) 
standards adopted by the 
Company
Annual Report 2023-24
127
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group
(Yes / No)
Channels of Communication
(E-mail, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
Engagement
(Annually / Half-
yearly / Quarterly 
/ Others – Please 
specify)
Purpose and Scope of 
Engagement, including Key 
Topics and Concerns raised 
during such Engagement
Government 
and Regulatory 
Bodies
No
 
z
	Filings with Government and regulatory 
authorities
 
z
	Representations
 
z
	Media Releases
 
z
	Quarterly Results
 
z
	Annual Reports
 
z
	Stock Exchange Filings
 
z
	Corporate Website
As 
and 
when 
required
 
z
	Complying with statutory 
/ 
mandatory 
reporting 
requirements
 
z
	Regulatory 
guidance 
whenever required
 
z
	Raising 
and 
resolution 
of issues faced by the 
industry
Media and 
Analysts
No
 
z
	Analyst Meets
 
z
	Investor Calls
 
z
	Media Releases
 
z
	Investor Presentations
 
z
	Quarterly Results
 
z
	Annual Reports
 
z
	Stock Exchange Filings
 
z
	Corporate Website
Quarterly / Half-
yearly / Annual /
As 
and 
when 
required
 
z
	Understanding 
investor 
aspirations 
and 
market 
trends
 
z
	Updating on Company’s 
performance and industry 
standing
Communities at 
large
Yes, certain 
sections of the 
communities
 
z
	Direct Corporate Social Responsibility 
(CSR) initiatives
 
z
	CSR interventions undertaken with 
the assistance of Non- Governmental 
Organisation (NGO) partners
Ongoing 
and 
also specifically 
as 
and 
when 
required
 
z
	Assessment of need and 
impact of Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
(CSR) 
initiatives
 
z
	Harmonious relations with 
local communities in and 
around the geographical 
areas 
in 
which 
the 
Company operates
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
Provide the Processes for Consultation between Stakeholders and the Board of Directors on Economic, Environmental and Social 
Topics or if Consultation is delegated, how is Feedback from such Consultations provided to the Board:
The Board of Directors of the Company oversees matters relating to Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) topics and has constituted 
several Committees such as Audit Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee, Risk Management Committee, Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee and Nomination and Remuneration Committee to deal with specialized areas. The composition and the terms of reference 
of these Committees are in conformity with the mandatory provisions of law. The observations and recommendations of these Committees are 
regularly briefed to the Board at every Meeting of the Board, either for its noting or for its approval, as may be required.
The Company also conducts stakeholder engagement activities on ESG topics from time to time, to receive vital feedback from the concerned 
stakeholders on ESG parameters, performance and related matters. The results of such activities are briefed to the Board and its concerned 
Committees during the course of discussions at Meetings and appropriate measures are accordingly devised and implemented to enhance the 
ESG performance further.
The Company also has specialized functions and roles within its organizational hierarchy and has deployed right software and tools which enable 
the Company to set and achieve higher and higher standards of ESG performance and also to closely monitor the same, in order to devise and 
implement appropriate measures to enhance the same further.
Annual Report 2023-24
128
Whether Stakeholder Consultation is used to support the Identification and Management of Environmental and Social Topics (Yes / No). 
If so, provide details of Instances as to how the Inputs received from Stakeholders on these Topics were incorporated into Policies and 
Activities of the Entity:
The Company recognizes the vitality of obtaining feedback from the concerned stakeholders through consultation, in order to identify environmental 
and social topics which are materially important from time to time. Based on the inputs so received from the stakeholders and in accordance with 
the changing context and requirements:
 
z
the policies and procedures adopted by the Company are suitably amended or modified;
 
z
critical or priority areas needing special attention and focus are identified and policies and strategies are devised suitably;
 
z
proper systems and plans are devised to achieve the identified objectives and to monitor and measure the performance.
Provide Details of Instances of Engagement with, and Actions taken to, address the Concerns of Vulnerable / Marginalized Stakeholder 
Groups:
The Company, through its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy and initiatives, endeavours to address critical social, environmental and 
economic needs of marginalized and underprivileged sections of our communities around the areas in which the Company operates and to 
transform their lives, by adopting a shared value approach, i.e., to help in solving problems, while strengthening our competitive advantage. Every 
attempt possible is made by the Company to achieve holistic development of the communities, through its CSR initiatives. The CSR initiatives 
are strategically formulated by the Good & Green team, based on a thorough needs assessment, involving active participation of the employees, 
capable of bearing significant outcomes and measurable in terms of performance or progress.
PRINCIPLE 5: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Employees and Workers who have been provided Training on Human Rights Issues and Policy(ies) of the Entity, in the following 
format:
Employees
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Total
(A)
No. of Employees / 
Workers covered
(B)
%
(B/A)
Total
(C)
No. of Employees 
/ Workers 
covered
(D)
%
(C/D)
EMPLOYEES
Permanent
421
421
100%
351
300
85%
Other than Permanent
25
25
100%
0
0
NA
Total
446
446
100%
351
300
85%
WORKERS
Permanent
185
165
89%
200
145
73%
Other than Permanent
595
457
77%
0
0
N/A
Total
780
622
79%
200
145
73%
 
(‘N/A’ denotes ‘Not Applicable’.)
Annual Report 2023-24
129
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
2.	
Details of Minimum Wages paid to Employees and Workers, in the following format:
 
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
421
0
N/A
421
100%
351
0
N/A
351
100%
Male
368
0
N/A
368
100%
310
0
N/A
310
100%
Female
53
0
N/A
53
100%
41
0
N/A
41
100%
OTHER THAN PERMANENT 
EMPLOYEES
25
0
N/A
25
100%
0
0
N/A
0
N/A
Male
18
0
N/A
18
100%
0
0
N/A
0
N/A
Female
7
0
N/A
7
100%
0
0
N/A
0
N/A
PERMANENT WORKERS
185
0
N/A
185
100%
200
0
N/A
200
100%
Male
183
0
N/A
183
100%
200
0
N/A
200
N/A
Female
2
0
N/A
2
100%
0
0
N/A
0
N/A
OTHER THAN PERMANENT 
WORKERS
595
0
N/A
595
100%
709
0
N/A
709
100%
Male
590
0
N/A
590
100%
707
0
N/A
707
100%
Female
5
0
N/A
5
100%
2
0
N/A
2
100%
 
(‘N/A’ denotes ‘Not Applicable’.)
3.	
Details of Remuneration / Salary / Wages:
	
a. 	
Median Remuneration / Wages:
Particulars
Male
Female
Number
Median Remuneration / 
Salary / Wages of respective 
Category (` in Lakh)
Number
Median Remuneration / 
Salary / Wages of respective 
Category (` in Lakh)
Board of Directors (BoD)
9
N/A
1
N/A
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
2
N/A
1
N/A
Employees other than BoD and KMPs
367
9.02
53
8.7
Workers
183
3.76
2
3.55
	
b. 	
Gross Wages paid to Females as % of Total Wages paid by the Entity, in the following format:
 
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Gross Wages paid to Females as % of Total Wages
9%
5%
4.	
Do you have a Focal Point (Individual / Committee) responsible for addressing Human Rights Impacts or Issues caused or 
contributed to by the Business? (Yes / No):
	
Yes, the Company has adopted Human Rights Policy and the Company’s Human Rights actions are overseen by Godrej Group level 
internal committee and Board level oversight is also provided.
	
Please refer to below link to access the Company’s Human Rights Policy: https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-policies.
5.	
Describe the Internal Mechanisms in place to redress Grievances related to Human Rights Issues:
	
In line with Godrej Group companies, the Company’s Human Rights Policy is guided by international covenants such as the International Bill 
of Human Rights (i.e., Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International 
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights) and the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 
Rights at Work.
Annual Report 2023-24
130
	
While adhering to local laws, the Company follows higher standards to the greatest extent possible. The Company is committed to identifying, 
preventing and mitigating adverse human rights issues which affect employees, suppliers and other external stakeholders. The Company 
also offers various safeguards to all stakeholders and maintain them with respect for their privacy and dignity.
 
The Company has Internal Committee (ICs) in place to address sexual harassment complaints as well as Whistleblowing officer to address 
Whistle Blower complaints. Further, the Anti Sexual Harassment Apex Committee for Godrej Industries and its Associate companies has 
been formed to oversee the constitution, operations and management of the individual ICs.
	
Please refer to the below link to access the Company’s Human Rights Policy: https://www.godrejastec.com/investors/codes-and-policies
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by Employees and Workers:
Particulars
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Filed during 
the Year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
the Year
Remarks
Filed during 
the Year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
the Year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
1
0
Resolved
0
0
N/A
Discrimination at Workplace
0
0
N/A
0
0
N/A
Child Labour
0
0
N/A
0
0
N/A
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
0
0
N/A
0
0
N/A
Wages
0
0
N/A
0
0
N/A
Other Human Rights related Issues
0
0
N/A
0
0
N/A
 
(‘N/A’ denotes ‘Not Applicable’.)
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, in the 
following format:
Particulars
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
1
0
Complaints on POSH as a % of Female Employees / Workers
1.49%
Not Applicable
Complaints on POSH upheld
1
Not Applicable
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent Adverse Consequences to the Complainant in Discrimination and Harassment Cases:
	
The Company’s Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment is in accordance with the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Rules thereunder.
	
As per the Policy, the Company and the Internal Complaints Committee will take all reasonable measures to ensure that any person 
who has lodged a complaint under this Policy or given evidence or other assistance as part of an inquiry under this Policy, in good faith, 
is protected and not subjected to any retaliatory conduct. Any retaliatory conduct by an employee violates this Policy and will result in 
appropriate disciplinary inquiry and action thereunder. The contents of the complaint made, the identity and addresses of the Complainant, 
the Respondent and witnesses, any and all information relating to inquiry proceedings, shall not be published, communicated or made 
known to the public, press and media in any manner. If this provision is contravened, the Company shall be entitled to take all steps to 
secure confidentiality, take all actions in accordance with the law, the aforesaid Act and the Company’s policies for such breach and also 
recover from such person, such sum as penalty as may be prescribed thereunder.
9.	
Do Human Rights Requirements form part of the Entity’s Business Agreements and Contracts (Yes / No):
	
Yes, across the Company’s diverse and extended supply chain, the Company makes human rights expectations and commitments clear 
to its suppliers, business partners and contractors. The Company includes relevant expectations in its contracts with them, wherever 
appropriate. For suppliers who do not have similar policies and practices, the Company encourages and supports them to do so.
Annual Report 2023-24
131
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
10.	
Assessments for the Year:
Particulars
% of the Entity’s Plants and Offices that were assessed (by the Entity or Statutory 
Authorities or Third Parties)
Child Labour
The Company internally monitors compliance with all the relevant laws and policies 
pertaining to the Human Right issues for all its plant and office locations. There have been 
no observations by local statutory / third parties in India during the Financial Year 2023-24.
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
Sexual Harassment
Discrimination at Workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
11.	
Provide Details of any Corrective Actions taken or underway to address Significant Risks / Concerns arising from the Assessments 
at Question 10 above:
 
Not Applicable
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
Details of a Business Process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing Human Rights Grievances / Complaints:
Not Applicable
Details of the Scope and Coverage of any Human Rights Due Diligence conducted:
The Company internally monitors compliance with Human Rights throughout its activities and business. During the Financial Year 2023-24, the 
Company conducted self-assessment for close to 1,025 employees, workers, contract workers and community members across four factories. 
The assessments covered the Company’s own employees, third-party and contract employees, women, children, migrant workers and local 
communities. 
Is the Premise / Office of the Entity accessible to Differently abled Visitors, as per the Requirements of the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities Act, 2016:
The Company’s Registered Office is accessible for differently abled employees and workers.
Details on Assessment of Value Chain Partners:
Particulars
% of Value Chain Partners (by Value of Business done with such Partners) that were 
assessed
Sexual Harassment
75%
Discrimination at Workplace
75%
Child Labour
75%
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
75%
Wages
75%
Others – Please specify
75%
Provide Details of any Corrective Actions taken or underway to address Significant Risks / Concerns arising from the Assessments of 
Value Chain Partners above:
Not Applicable
Annual Report 2023-24
132
PRINCIPLE 6: BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE THE ENVIRONMENT
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Details of Total Energy Consumption (in Joules or multiples) and Energy Intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Units
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial 
Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial 
Year)
From Renewable Sources
Total Electricity Consumption (A)
MJ
-
-
Total Fuel Consumption (B)
MJ
88,340,359
161,369,061
Energy Consumption through Other Sources (C)
MJ
-
-
Total Energy consumed from Renewable Sources (A+B+C)
MJ
88,340,359
161,369,061
From Non-Renewable Sources
Total Electricity Consumption (D)
MJ
77,186,484
72,689,044
Total Fuel Consumption (E)
MJ
202,231,195
247,763,740
Energy Consumption through Other Sources (F)
MJ
-
-
Total Energy consumed from Non-Renewable Sources (D+E+F)
MJ
279,417,679
320,452,784
Total Energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
MJ
367,758,038
481,821,845
Energy Intensity per Rupee of Turnover
(Total Energy consumed / Revenue from Operations)
MJ / 
Rupee
0.080 
0.077 
Energy Intensity per Rupee of Turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP in USD Million)
(Total Energy consumed / Revenue from Operations adjusted for PPP)
0.183
0.176
Energy Intensity in terms of Physical Output
Energy Intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the Entity
MJ / 
MT of 
Product
50,851
60,084 
	
Note: Indicate if any Independent Assessment / Evaluation / Assurance has been carried out by an external agency (Y/N). If yes, 
Name of the External Agency:
 
z
Financial Year 2022-23 (Previous Financial Year): Data assured by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
 
z
Financial Year 2023-24 (Current Financial Year): Data assurance in progress by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
2. 	
Does the Entity have any sites / facilities identified as Designated Consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and Trade 
(PAT) Scheme of the Government of India (Y/N)? If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT Scheme have been achieved. 
In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any:
 
Not Applicable. None of the Company’s manufacturing plant has notified as Designated Consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve 
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India.
Annual Report 2023-24
133
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
3. 	
Provide details of the following Disclosures related to Water, in the following format:
Parameter
Units
Financial Year
2023-24
(Current Financial 
Year)
Financial Year
2022-23
(Previous Financial 
Year)
Water Withdrawal by Source (in Kilolitres)
(I) 	
Surface Water
kl
-
-
(Ii) 	
Groundwater
kl
-
-
(Iii) 	
Third Party Water
kl
148,862
160,556
(Iv) 	
Seawater / Desalinated Water
kl
-
-
(v) 	
Others
kl
-
-
Total Volume of Water Withdrawal (in Kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
kl
148,862
160,556
Total Volume of Water Consumption (in Kilolitres)
kl
139,396
151,520
Water Intensity per Rupee of Turnover
(Total Water Consumption / Revenue from Operations)
kl / 
Rupees
0.00003
0.000024
Water Intensity per Rupee of Turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP in USD Million)
(Total Water Consumption / Revenue from Operations adjusted for PPP)
-
0.00006
0.000054
Water Intensity in terms of Physical Output
kl / MT
19.27
m3 / MT of product
18.89
m3 / MT of product
 
z
Financial Year 2022-23 (Previous Financial Year): Data assured by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
 
z
Financial Year 2023-24 (Current Financial Year): Data assurance in progress by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
4.	
Provide the following Details related to Water Discharged:
Parameter
Financial Year
2023-24
(Current Financial 
Year)
Financial Year
2022-23
(Previous Financial 
Year)
Water Discharge by Destination and Level of Treatment (in Kilolitres)
(i) 	
To Surface Water
 
- 
No Treatment
-
-
	
-	
With Treatment – Please specify Level of Treatment
-
-
(ii) 	
To Groundwater
 
- 
No Treatment
-
-
	
-	
With Treatment – Please specify Level of Treatment
-
-
(iii) 	
To Seawater
 
- 
No Treatment
-
-
	
-	
With Treatment – Please specify Level of Treatment
-
-
(iv)	
Sent to Third-parties
 
- 
No Treatment
-
-
	
-	
With Treatment – Please specify Level of Treatment
9,466
9,036
(v) 	
Others
 
- 
No Treatment
-
-
	
-	
With Treatment – Please specify Level of Treatment
-
-
Total Water Discharged (in Kilolitres)
9,466
9,036
	
Note: Indicate if any Independent Assessment / Evaluation / Assurance has been carried out by an external agency (Y/N). If yes, 
Name of the External Agency:
Annual Report 2023-24
134
 
z
 Financial Year 2022-23 (Previous Financial Year): Data assured by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
 
z
 Financial Year 2023-24 (Current Financial Year): Data assurance in progress by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
5.	
Has the Entity implemented a Mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation.
	
All the Company’s manufacturing sites are compliant with Consent to Operate and other Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) / 
Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) guidelines. Its new facility at Mahad K-2 is zero liquid discharge facility. The Company 
segregates strong and weak stream further for their effective treatment. Strong stream treated in system comprises of primary treatment 
(collection, neutralization, equalization, clarification & settling etc.), followed by multi effect evaporator & sludge treatment. Weak stream 
treated in system comprises of primary treatment (collection, neutralization, equalization, clarification & settling etc.), secondary treatment 
(Bio reactor) and tertiary treatment (pressure & active carbon filtration) processes. After necessary secondary / tertiary treatment, treated 
water is being used in process, cleaning application and irrigation purpose based on quality parameters. The Company also has a sewage 
treatment plant to treat domestic effluent & treated water from it being used for domestic cleaning and washing and gardening purpose.
6.	
Please provide Details of Air Emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the Entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
NOx
MT
4.16
1.67
Sox
MT
10.71
11.35
Particulate Matter (PM)
MT
10.07
3.55
Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP)
Not Applicable
-
-
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)
Not Applicable
-
-
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP)
Not Applicable
-
-
Others – Please specify
Not Applicable
-
-
 
Note: Indicate if any Independent Assessment / Evaluation / Assurance has been carried out by an external agency (Y/N). If yes, Name of 
the External Agency:
 
z
	 Financial Year 2022-23 (Previous Financial Year): Data assured by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
 
z
Financial Year 2023-24 (Current Financial Year): Data assurance in progress by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
7.	
Provide Details of Green House Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions) & its Intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Scope 1 Emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes 
of CO2 
equivalent
19,072
23,309
Total Scope 2 Emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, 
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes 
of CO2 
equivalent
16,935
15,948
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emission Intensity per Rupee 
of Turnover
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG Emissions / Revenue from 
Operations)
MT CO2 eq. 
/ INR
0.00000786
0.00000625
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emission Intensity per Rupee of 
Turnover adjusted For Purchasing Power Parity (PPP in USD Million)
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG Emissions / Revenue from 
Operations adjusted for PPP)
-
0.00001798
0.0000143
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emission Intensity in terms of 
Physical Output (optional)
– the relevant metric may be selected by the Entity
MT CO2 eq. / 
MT of Product
4.97
4.89
	
Note: Indicate if any Independent Assessment / Evaluation / Assurance has been carried out by an external agency (Y/N). If yes, 
Name of the External Agency:
Annual Report 2023-24
135
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 
z
Financial Year 2022-23 (Previous Financial Year): Data assured by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
 
z
Financial Year 2023-24 (Current Financial Year): Data assurance in progress by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
8.	
Does the Entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide Details.
 
The Company has installed 20 TPH capacity biomass fired boiler to meet the thermal energy requirement of its new plant and existing plant. 
The biomass boiler has replaced close to 4,500 MT of coal utilization on year basis. This in turn has helped reduce GHG emissions by ~ 
9,000 MT CO2 which is equivalent to carbon sequestered by ~ 10,700 acres of forests in a year. Furthermore, the boiler has kickstarted 
building of the Company’s renewable energy portfolio, the proportion of which increased from 0% to 33% in FY 2023-24. The Company is 
also evaluating projects such as solar roof top / ground mounted or captive solar / hybrid for its manufacturing plants.
 
The Company is also continuously focusing on installation of various energy efficient technologies like extensive use of variable frequency 
drives, efficient pump, motors & lighting system, screw air compressor in place of reciprocating, fuel optimization through automation, 
improved condensate recovery, thermal insulation for steam pipelines etc.
9.	
Provide details related to Waste Management by the Entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Waste Generated (in Metric Tonnes)
Plastic Waste (A)
39.76
5.54
E-Waste (B)
1.0
-
Bio-medical Waste (C)
0.004
-
Construction and Demolition Waste (D)
-
-
Battery Waste (E)
-
-
Radioactive Waste (F)
-
-
Other Hazardous Waste - Please specify, if any (G)
 
z
Distillation Residue
 
z
Coal Ash
 
z
ETP Sludge
11,908
545.65
19.97
12,309
542.57
23.83
Other Non-Hazardous Waste generated (H) - Please specify, if any (Break-up 
by composition, i.e., by materials relevant to the sector)
 
z
	Biomass Ash
 
z
	Paper
 
z
	Metal
 
z
	Wooden
 
z
	HDPE Drums
874.52
5.1
122.5
63.60
3.53
-
110.17
255.52
87.42
3.53
Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
13,584
13,338
Annual Report 2023-24
136
Parameter
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Waste Intensity per Rupee of Turnover
(Total Waste Generated / Revenue from Operations)
0.00000297
0.00000212
Waste Intensity per Rupee of Turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP in USD Million)
(Total Waste Generated / Revenue from Operations adjusted for PPP)
0.00000000
0.00000000
Waste Intensity in terms of Physical Output
Waste Intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the Entity
1.88 MT of Waste / MT of 
Product
1.66 MT of Waste / MT 
of Product
For each Category of Waste generated, Total Waste recovered, through 
Recycling, Re-using or other Recovery Operations (in Metric Tonnes)
Category of Waste
(i) Recycled
10,784
10,339
(ii) Re-used
-
-
(iii) Other Recovery Operations
-
-
Total
10,784
10,339
For each Category of Waste generated, Total Waste disposed, by Nature of Disposal Method (in Metric Tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Incineration
623
513
(ii) Landfilling
2,194
2,487
(iii) Other Disposal Operations
-
-
Total
2,817
3,000
	
Note: Indicate if any Independent Assessment / Evaluation / Assurance has been carried out by an external agency (Y/N). If yes, 
Name of the External Agency:
 
z
Financial Year 2022-23 (Previous Financial Year): Data assured by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
 
z
Financial Year 2023-24 (Current Financial Year): Data assurance in progress by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
10.	
Briefly describe the Waste Management Practices adopted in your Establishments. Describe the Strategy adopted by your 
Company to reduce usage of Hazardous and Toxic Chemicals in your Products and Processes and the Practices adopted to 
manage such Wastes.
 
The Company works on '4R' principle of Waste management, i.e., Reduce, Reuse, Recycle & Recover. All its non - hazardous waste send to 
authorized recycler for further processing. The Company has bromine recycling process in place and only small quantity of it the Company 
procured as make up. The Company has a dedicated solvent extraction plant where it is recovering solvent and further reuses into the 
process. The Company has a dedicated team who does life cycle analysis of products with one of the main objective to recover, reuse and 
reduce waste at maximum possible extent.
 
The Company is in the process of diverting its landfill waste for co-processing / pre-processing platform thus to achieve complete circularity. 
The Company is also sending its coal & briquette ash to nearby brick manufacturer, serving purpose of circularity and acts as enhanced 
binding agent for them, thus reduces dependency from virgin material.
11.	
If the Entity has Operations / Offices in/ around Ecologically Sensitive Areas (such as National Parks, Wildlife Sanctuaries, 
Biosphere Reserves, Wetlands, Biodiversity Hotspots, Forests, Coastal Regulation Zones etc.) where Environmental Approvals / 
Clearances are required, please specify details in the format:
 
Not Applicable
12.	
Details of Environmental Impact Assessments of Projects undertaken by the Entity based on applicable laws, in the Current 
Financial Year:
 
Not Applicable
Annual Report 2023-24
137
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
13.	
Is the Entity compliant with the applicable Environmental Law / Regulations / Guidelines in India, such as the Water (Prevention 
and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment Protection Act and Rules thereunder 
(Y/N). If not, provide Details of all such Non-compliances, in the format:
	
All our manufacturing plants of the Company are compliant with applicable Environmental laws and regulations and operate as per Consent 
to Operate from the Central and the State Pollution Control Boards.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Water Withdrawal, Consumption and Discharge in Areas of Water Stress (in Kilolitres):
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of Water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i)	
Name of the Area
	
(ii)	
Nature of Operations
	
(iii)	
Water Withdrawal, Consumption and Discharge,
	
	
in the following format:
Parameter
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Water Withdrawal by Source (in kilolitres)
(i) 	
Surface Water
-
-
(ii) 	
Groundwater
-
-
(iii) 	
Third Party Water
-
-
(iv) 	
Seawater / Desalinated water
-
-
(v) 	
Others
-
-
Total Volume of Water Withdrawal (in Kilolitres)
-
-
Total Volume of Water Consumption (in Kilolitres)
-
-
Water Intensity per Rupee of Turnover
(Water Consumed / Turnover)
-
-
Water Intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the Entity
-
-
Water Discharge by Destination and Level of Treatment (in Kilolitres)
(i)	
Into Surface Water
 
- 
No Treatment
-
-
	
-	
With Treatment – Please specify Level of Treatment
-
-
(ii)	
Into Groundwater
 
- 
No Treatment
-
-
	
-	
With Treatment – Please specify Level of Treatment
-
-
(iii)	
Into Seawater
 
- 
No Treatment
-
-
	
-	
With Treatment – Please specify Level of Treatment
-
-
(iv)	
Sent to Third-parties
 
- 
No Treatment
-
-
	
-	
With Treatment – Please specify Level of Treatment
-
-
(v) 	
Others
- 
No Treatment
-
-
-	
With Treatment – Please specify Level of Treatment
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any Independent Assessment / Evaluation / Assurance has been carried out by an external agency (Y/N). If yes, 
Name of the External Agency:
Annual Report 2023-24
138
 
z
Financial Year 2022-23 (Previous Financial Year): Data assured by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
 
z
Financial Year 2023-24 (Current Financial Year): Data assurance in progress by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
2. 	
Please provide details of Total Scope 3 Emissions & its Intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Total Scope 3 Emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
45,092
74,046
Total Scope 3 Emissions per Rupee of Turnover
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
0.00000984
0.0000118
Total Scope 3 Emission Intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the Entity
-
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any Independent Assessment / Evaluation / Assurance has been carried out by an external agency (Y/N). If yes, 
Name of the External Agency:
 
z
Financial Year 2022-23 (Previous Financial Year): Data assured by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
 
z
Financial Year 2023-24 (Current Financial Year): Data assurance in progress by TUV India Pvt. Ltd.
3.	
With respect to the Ecologically Sensitive Areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide Details of 
Significant Direct & Indirect Impact of the Entity on Biodiversity in such Areas, alongwith Prevention and Remediation Activities.
 
Not Applicable
4.	
If the Entity has undertaken any Specific Initiatives or used Innovative Technology or Solutions to improve Resource Efficiency, 
or reduce Impact due to Emissions / Effluent Discharge / Waste generated, please provide Details of the same as well as Outcome 
of such Initiatives, as per the format:
	
For more details, please refer to Annexure ‘E’ to the Directors’ Report.
5.	
Does the Entity have a Business Continuity and Disaster Management Plan? Give details in 100 words / Web link.
	
The Company has built a sturdy Business Continuity Plan to further strengthen our business. Our Business Continuity Plan (BCP) consists 
of annual budgeting, long-term budgeting, a career development plan for employees and succession plan for all the key positions. The 
assessed operational impacts include those related to life safety, customer service, revenue/ cash flow, public image, regulatory, product 
development, competitive advantage, financial control/ reporting, liability increase.
 
The main objective is to ensure business continuity and zero negative impact on society, environment, stakeholders, and economic losses. 
To make this BCP more robust in the company, organization conducts internal and external risk assessments and trainings for its employees 
and workers. Major organizational risks are identified, measured, monitored, and reviewed by central Risk Management Committee 
constituted by the Board of Directors.
6.	
Disclose any Significant Adverse Impact to the Environment, arising from the Value Chain of the Entity. What Mitigation or 
Adaptation Measures have been taken by the Entity in this regard?
	
The Company has developed a responsible Procurement Policy, which is an extension of our values and is applicable to all our suppliers. 
We expect our suppliers to operate in accordance with the principles as outlined in this Policy and adhere to all applicable laws and 
regulations. This Policy goes beyond mere compliance with the law by drawing upon internationally recognized standards in order to identify 
and define best practices from across the globe.
	
This Policy outlines our expectations with regards to ethics, business integrity, human rights, health and safety, environment, the local 
community and quality of product and operations.
7.	
Percentage of Value Chain Partners (by value of business done with such Partners) that were assessed for Environmental Impacts:
	
Almost all our critical suppliers have signed and acknowledged the Supplier Code of Conduct. Our Company is in the process of evaluating 
the suppliers on various ESG KPI’s defined under the framework.
Annual Report 2023-24
139
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY POLICY, SHOULD DO SO IN A MANNER 
THAT IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1)	
A) 	
Number of Affiliations with Trade and Industry Chambers / Associations: 6 (Six)
	
B)	
List the Top 10 Trade and Industry Chambers / Associations (determined based on the total Members of such Body) the 
Entity is a Member of / affiliated to:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Trade and Industry Chambers / Associations
Reach of Trade and 
Industry Chambers / 
Associations (State / 
National)
1.
Pesticides Manufacturers & Formulators Association of India (PMFAI)
National
2.
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
3.
Responsible Care
International
4.
Indian Chemical Council (ICC)
National
5.
International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA)
International
6.
Nicer Globe
National
2)	
Provide Details of Corrective Action taken or underway on any Issues related to Anti-competitive Conduct by the Entity, based on 
Adverse Orders from Regulatory Authorities:
Name of Authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective Action taken
Not Applicable
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
Details of Public Policy Positions advocated by the Entity:
Public Policy advocated
The Company actively participates in the discussions and activities of the industry chambers and 
associations of which it is a member. The Company also engages with Government and regulatory 
bodies while:
 
z
Representing the interests of the industry; or
 
z
Providing vital inputs on behalf of the industry; or
 
z
Taking up the technical or regulatory issues faced by the industry as a whole with the 
appropriate authorities / forums and having the same resolved.
Specific officials of the Company are authorized to communicate with industrial bodies, for and on 
behalf of the Company, in accordance with the communication policy of the Company.
Through participation of the top management executives in several committees and task forces, the 
Company does play its small role in helping formulation of public policy.
The Company is committed to involve itself in the public policy advocacy process in a responsible and 
ethical manner.
Method 
resorted 
for 
such 
Advocacy
Whether Information available in 
Public Domain? (Yes / No)
Frequency 
of 
Review 
by 
Board (Annually / Half- yearly 
/ Quarterly / Others – please 
specify)
Web Link, if available
Annual Report 2023-24
140
PRINCIPLE 8: BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of Projects undertaken by the Entity based on Applicable Laws, in the Current 
Financial Year:
Name and Brief 
Details of the 
Project
SIA Notification 
No.
Date of Notification
Whether conducted 
by Independent 
External Agency
(Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in Public Domain
(Yes / No)
Relevant Web-link
Not Applicable
2.	
Information on Project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by the Entity, in the 
following format:
Sr. 
No.
Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project 
Affected Families 
(PAFs)
% of PAFs covered 
by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs in the 
Financial Year
(in `)
Not Applicable
3.	
Describe the Mechanisms to receive and redress Grievances of the Community:
 
The Company, being a Godrej Group company, remains committed to the Godrej Group’s ‘Good & Green’ vision of creating a more inclusive 
and greener India. The Company’s strategic Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) projects, undertaken as part of overall sustainability 
framework, actively work towards the Godrej Group’s Good & Green goals. Through these projects, there is a regular engagement and 
interaction with community representatives nearby the Company’s manufacturing locations. The Company’s CSR activities are implemented 
by on-ground programme managers and they are required to send regular feedback / updates to the management committee and Corporate 
Good & Green team. The management committee, in turn, reports to Board level CSR Committee.
4.	
Percentage of Input Material (Inputs to Total Inputs by Value) sourced from Suppliers:
Particulars
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Directly sourced from MSMEs / Small Producers
18.00%
5.23%
Sourced directly from within India
46.8%
23.00%
5.	
Job Creation in Smaller Towns – Disclose Wages paid to Persons employed (including Employees or Workers employed on a 
Permanent or Non-permanent / on Contract basis) in the following Locations, as % of total Wage Cost:
Location
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Rural
-
-
Semi-Urban
60.41%
63.89%
Urban
-
-
Metropolitan
39.59%
36.11%
 
(Place to be categorized as per RBI Classification System – Rural / Semi-Urban / Urban / Metropolitan)
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
Provide Details of Actions taken to mitigate any Negative Social Impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments (Reference: 
Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of Negative Social Impact identified
Corrective Action taken
Not Applicable
Provide the following Information on CSR Projects undertaken by the Entity in Designated Aspirational Districts as identified by 
Government Bodies:
S. No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (in `)
Not Applicable
Annual Report 2023-24
141
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Do you have a Preferential Procurement Policy where you give preference to purchase from Suppliers comprising Marginalized / 
Vulnerable Groups? (Yes / No)
From which Marginalized / Vulnerable Groups do you procure?
What Percentage of Total Procurement (by Value) does it constitute?
The Company does not have any preferential procurement policy.
Details of the Benefits derived and shared from the Intellectual Properties owned or acquired by the Entity (in the Current Financial 
Year), based on traditional knowledge:
Sr. No.
Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned / Acquired
(Yes / No)
Benefit shared
(Yes / No)
Basis of calculating 
Benefit Share
Not Applicable
Details of Corrective Actions taken or underway, based on any Adverse Order in Intellectual Property related Disputes wherein 
Usage of Traditional Knowledge is involved:
Name of Authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective Action taken
Not Applicable
Details of Beneficiaries of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Projects:
Sr. No.
CSR Project
No. of Persons benefitted 
from CSR Projects
% of Beneficiaries from 
Vulnerable & Marginalized 
Groups
1.
Bamboo Development
7,680
100%
2.
Entitlements Programme
3,149
100%
3.
Pragati
746
100%
4.
Local Area Development
610
100%
PRINCIPLE 9: BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS IN A RESPONSIBLE MANNER
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe the Mechanisms in place to receive and respond to Consumer Complaints and Feedback:
 
Customer complaints and feedback regarding any of the Company’s products are received by Sales & Marketing teams and are 
discussed with respective Production and Quality personnel. Appropriate corrective actions are taken post comprehensive root-cause 
analysis and approval from Operational leadership.
2.	
Turnover of Products and/or Services as a Percentage of Turnover from all Products / Services that carry Information about:
Particulars
As a Percentage to Total Turnover
Environmental and Social Parameters relevant to the Product
100%
Safe and Responsible Usage
100%
Recycling and/or Safe Disposal
100%
3.	
Number of Consumer Complaints in respect of the following for the Current Year and the Previous Year:
Particulars
Financial Year 2023-24
(Current Financial Year)
Financial Year 2022-23
(Previous Financial Year)
Received 
during the 
Year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of Year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
Year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of Year
Remarks
Data Privacy
0
0
N/A
0
0
N/A
Advertising
0
0
N/A
0
0
N/A
Cyber-Security
0
0
N/A
0
0
N/A
Delivery of Essential Services
0
0
N/A
0
0
N/A
Restrictive Trade Practices
0
0
N/A
0
0
N/A
Unfair Trade Practices
0
0
N/A
0
0
N/A
Other
15
0
Resolved
0
0
N/A
 
[‘N/A’ denotes ‘Not Applicable’.]
Annual Report 2023-24
142
4.	
Details of Instances of Product Recalls on account of Safety Issues:
Particulars
Number
Reasons for Recall
Voluntary Recalls
Nil
Not Applicable
Forced Recalls
5.	
Does the Entity have a Framework / Policy on Cyber Security and Risks related to Data Privacy (Yes/No)? If available, provide a 
Web-link of the Policy:
	
Godrej Industries Limited and Associated Companies (GILAC) has documented an Information Security Policy (ISMS Policy) that outlines 
all the information security objectives to be met by all the associated companies which includes Astec LifeSciences Limited as well. The 
Information Security Policy of GILAC addresses several domains including security at people, technology and process levels. Also, there 
are supporting process and procedure documents available for various aspects of Information Security.
6.	
Provide Details of any Corrective Actions taken or underway on Issues relating to Advertising, and Delivery of Essential Services; 
Cyber Security and Data Privacy of Customers; Re-occurrence of Instances of Product Recalls; Penalty / Action taken by 
Regulatory Authorities on Safety of Products / Services:
 
Not Applicable
7.	
Provide the following Information relating to Data Breaches:
	
a.	
Number of Instances of Data Breaches
	
b.	
Percentage of Data Breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers
	
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches
 
Not Applicable
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
Channels / Platforms where Information on Products and Services of the Entity can be accessed (provide Web link, if available):
Information relating to all products of the Company is available on the Company’s website - www.astecgodrejastec.com.
Steps taken to inform and educate Consumers about Safe and Responsible Usage of Products and/or Services:
All of the Company’s product shipments carry Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) and Transport Emergency Cards (TREM) which have necessary 
information regarding safe usage and disposal in any situation. As a signatory to Responsible Care, the Company follows guidelines under Product 
Safety and Stewardship Code which entails sharing information regarding product hazards, intended uses, handling practices, exposures and risks 
with the concerned parties.
Mechanisms in place to inform Consumers of any Risk of Disruption / Discontinuation of Essential Services:
Not Applicable
Does the Entity display Product Information on the Product over and above what is mandated as per Local Laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable)? 
If yes, provide details in brief:
Did the Entity carry out any Survey with regard to Consumer Satisfaction relating to the Major Products / Services of the Entity, Significant 
Locations of Operation of the Entity or the Entity as a whole? (Yes / No):
No, product information is displayed in compliance with the relevant laws. Yes, customer satisfaction surveys are conducted once in a year.
STANDALONE FINANCIALS
This page is intentionally left Blank
Annual Report 2023-24
145
Independent Auditor’s Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Astec LifeSciences Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the standalone financial statements of Astec LifeSciences Limited (the “Company”) which comprise the standalone balance sheet 
as at 31 March 2024, and the standalone statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), standalone statement of changes 
in equity and standalone statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, including material 
accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial statements 
give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31 March 2024, and its loss and other comprehensive 
loss, changes in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under 
those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements section of our report. We 
are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the standalone financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone financial statements 
of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming 
our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue Recognition
See Note 29 to standalone financial statements
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the 
control of the goods has passed, which is usually on 
delivery of the goods. We have considered that there is 
a risk of fraud on account of revenue being overstated 
on account of it being recognised in the wrong period or 
before the control has passed.
In view of the importance of the matter we applied the following audit procedures in 
this area, among others to obtain sufficient audit evidence:
i.	
We have assessed the appropriateness of the Company’s accounting policies 
in respect of revenue recognition by comparing with applicable accounting 
standards;
ii.	
We have evaluated the design, testing the implementation and operating 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over recognition of revenue
iii.	
We have evaluated the process followed by the company for revenue 
recognition including understanding and testing of key controls relating to 
recognition of revenue in correct period;
iv.	
We have inspected documentation/records for sales transactions recorded 
both side of year-end to determine if revenue has been recognised in the 
correct period; and
v.	
We have assessed manual journals posted to revenue to identify unusual or 
irregular items.
Annual Report 2023-24
146
Pending Litigation and Claim
See Note 46 to standalone financial statements
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
As at 31 March 2024, the Company is having pending 
litigations under various laws such as Income Tax, 
Excise, VAT, Customs and GST.
The company applies significant judgment estimating the 
likelihood of the future outcome in each case based on its 
own past assessments, judicial precedents and opinions 
of experts when considering how much to provide or 
in determining the required disclosure for the potential 
exposure.
Due to inherent complexity and magnitude of potential 
exposures, we regard this as key audit matter.
In view of the significance of the matter we applied the following audit procedures in 
this area, among others to obtain sufficient audit evidence:
i.	
We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls 
in respect of identification and evaluation of claims, proceedings and the 
recording and continous re-assessment of the related contingent liabilities 
and disclosure.
ii.	
Obtained and read the list of direct and indirect tax assessment/ litigations for 
movements from previous period;
iii.	
We inquired the status of significant litigations with company who have 
knowledge of these matters and where relevant we also obtained formal 
communication from the Company’s external tax consultants;
iv.	
Use of our own local Direct and Indirect tax specialists to assess the value of 
contingent liabilities in light of the nature of exposure, applicable regulations 
and related correspondence with authorities; and
v.	
Considered the adequacy of the provision/ disclosure made in the standalone 
financial statements
Other Information
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information 
included in the Company’s annual report, but does not include the financial statements and auditor’s report(s) thereon.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider 
whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other 
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Management's and Board of Directors Responsibilities for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the 
preparation of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, profit/ loss and other comprehensive 
income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the 
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section 133 of the Act. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone financial statements that give a true and 
fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the Management and Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise 
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
 
z
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
Annual Report 2023-24
147
Independent Auditor’s Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may 
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
 
z
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. 
Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
 
z
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made 
by the Management and Board of Directors.
 
z
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparation 
of standalone financial statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty 
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. 
 
z
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the 
standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, 
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where 
applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of 
the standalone financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should 
not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in terms of Section 
143(11) of the Act, we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent 
applicable.
2.	
A.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
	
	
a.	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit.
	
	
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books.
	
	
c.	
The standalone balance sheet, the standalone statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), the 
standalone statement of changes in equity and the standalone statement of cash flows dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account.
	
	
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section 133 of the Act.
	
	
e.	
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2024 taken on record by the Board 
of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31 March 2024 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164(2) of the Act.
	
	
f.	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Company and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure B”.
	
B.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us:
	
	
a.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2024 on its financial position in its standalone 
financial statements - Refer Note 46 to the standalone financial statements.
	
	
b.	
The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses.
	
	
c.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Company.
Annual Report 2023-24
148
	
	
d. 	
(i) 	
The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the Note 13 to the 
standalone financial statements, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(ii)	
The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the Note 13 to the 
standalone financial statements, no funds have been received by the Company from any person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Company shall directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by 
or on behalf of the Funding Parties (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries 
	
	
	
(iii)	
Based on the audit procedures performed that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of 
Rule 11(e), as provided under (i) and (ii) above, contain any material misstatement.
	
	
e.	
The final dividend paid by the Company during the year, in respect of the same declared for the previous year, is in accordance 
with Section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividend.
	
	
	
As stated in Note 43(ii) to the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors of the Company have not proposed final 
dividend for the year.
	
	
f.	
Based on our examination which included test checks, the Company has used accounting softwares for maintaining its books 
of account which, along with access management tools, as applicable, have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility 
and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the respective softwares. Further, 
during the course of our audit we did not come across any instance of audit trail feature being tampered with.
	
C.	
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by to its directors during 
the current year is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 of the Act. The excess remuneration paid to a director is in 
accordance with the requisite approvals as mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act. The Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed other details under Section 197(16) of the Act which are required to be commented upon by 
us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.:101248W/W-100022
Burjis Pardiwala
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 103595
Date: 02 May 2024
ICAI UDIN:24103595BKFWFA9627
Annual Report 2023-24
149
Independent Auditor’s Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Standalone 
Financial Statements of Astec LifeSciences Limited for the year 
ended 31 March 2024
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(i) 	
(a) 	
(A)	
The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of Property, 
Plant and Equipment.
	
	
(B)	
The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
(i) 	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the 
Company has a regular programme of physical verification of its Property, Plant and Equipment by which all property, plant and 
equipment are verified every year.  In accordance with this programme, all property, plant and equipment were verified during the 
year. In our opinion, this periodicity of physical verification is reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the nature of 
its assets.  No discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
	
(c)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the 
title deeds of immovable properties (other than immovable properties where the Company is the lessee and the leases agreements 
are duly executed in favour of the lessee) disclosed in the standalone financial statements are held in the name of the Company.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the 
Company has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) or intangible assets or both during the year.
	
(e)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, there 
are no proceedings initiated or pending against the Company for holding any benami property under the Prohibition of Benami 
Property Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made thereunder.
(ii) 	
(a)	
The inventory, except stocks lying with third parties, has been physically verified by the management during the year.For stocks 
lying with third parties at the year-end, written confirmations have been obtained . In our opinion, the frequency of such verification 
is reasonable and procedures and coverage as followed by management were appropriate.  No discrepancies were noticed on 
verification between the physical stocks and the book records that were more than 10% in the aggregate of each class of inventory
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the 
Company has not been sanctioned any working capital limits in excess of five crore rupees in aggregate from banks and financial 
institutions on the basis of security of current assets at any point of time of the year. Accordingly, clause 3(ii)(b) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
(iii)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company 
has not made any investments, provided guarantee or security or granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans, secured or 
unsecured, to companies, firms, limited liability partnerships or any other parties during the year. Accordingly, provisions of clauses 3(iii)(a) 
to 3(iii)(f) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
(iv)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of records of the Company, in respect of 
investments made and loans, guarantees and security given by the Company, in our opinion the provisions of Section 185 and 186 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) have been complied with.
(v)	
The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts which are deemed to be deposits from the public. Accordingly, clause 3(v) of the 
Order is not applicable.
(vi)	
We have broadly reviewed the books of accounts maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules prescribed by the Central Government 
for maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the Act in respect of its manufactured goods and are of the opinion that prima facie, 
the prescribed accounts and records have been made and maintained. However, we have not carried out a detailed examination of the 
records with a view to determine whether these are accurate or complete.
(vii) 	
(a)	
The Company does not have liability in respect of Service tax, Duty of excise, Sales tax and Value added tax during the year since 
effective 1 July 2017, these statutory dues has been subsumed into GST. According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, amounts deducted/ accrued in the books of account in 
respect of undisputed statutory dues including Goods and Services Tax (‘GST’), Provident Fund, Employees’ state insurance, duty 
of customs, Income Tax, Cess and other statutory dues have been regularly deposited by the Company during the year with the 
appropriate authorities. According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records 
of the Company, no undisputed amounts payable in respect of Goods and Services Tax (‘GST’), Provident fund, Employees’ State 
Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs, Cess and other statutory dues were in arrears as at 31 March 2024 for a period of more 
than six months from the date they became payable.
Annual Report 2023-24
150
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, 
statutory dues relating to Goods and Service Tax, Provident Fund, Employees State Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or 
Cess or other statutory dues which have not been deposited on account of any dispute are as follows:
Name of the statute
Nature of the dues
Amount (`) in Lakhs
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where dispute is 
pending
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
*340.79
FY 2016-17
CIT(A)
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
**36.85
FY 2004-05
JCIT/DCIT
Central Excise Act
Excise Duty
#5510.97
FY 2009-14
CESTAT
Central Excise Act
Excise Duty
6032.50
FY 2009-14
High Court
Central Excise Act
Excise Duty
209.77
FY 2016-17
Joint Commissioner
Customs Act, 1962
Custom Duty
36.89
FY 2013-14
Commissioner of Custom
VAT & Sales Tax Act
Sales Tax
##446.33
FY 2011-12
Joint Commissioner
VAT & Sales Tax Act
Sales Tax
###8.16
FY 2012-13
Joint Commissioner
VAT & Sales Tax Act
Sales Tax
####97.13
FY 2013-14
Joint Commissioner
VAT & Sales Tax Act
Sales Tax
#####0.56
FY 2014-15
Joint Commissioner
VAT & Sales Tax Act
Sales Tax
######61.81
FY 2015-16
Joint Commissioner
Central 
Goods 
and 
Service Tax Act, 2017
Goods & Service Tax
#######160.78
FY 2015-16
CESTAT
	
	
* Net of amount paid under protest amounting to ` 30.00 lakhs
	
	
** Net of amount paid under protest amounting to ` 41.41 lakhs
	
	
#     Net of amount paid under protest amounting to ` 233.65 lakhs
	
	
##     Net of amount paid under protest amounting to ` 25.58 lakhs
	
	
###     Net of amount paid under protest amounting to ` 1.97 lakhs
	
	
####   Net of amount paid under protest amounting to ` 10.80 lakhs
	
	
##### Net of amount paid under protest amounting to ` 0.81 lakhs
	
	
###### Net of amount paid under protest amounting to ` 6.78 lakhs
	
	
####### Net of amount paid under protest amounting to ` 6.73 lakhs
(viii)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company 
has not surrendered or disclosed any transactions, previously unrecorded as income in the books of account, in the tax assessments under 
the Income Tax Act, 1961 as income during the year.
(ix) 	
(a)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the 
Company has not defaulted in repayment of loans and borrowing or in the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the 
Company has not been declared a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or government authority.
	
(c)	
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by the management, term loans were applied for the 
purpose for which the loans were obtained.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the balance sheet of the Company, we 
report that no funds raised on short-term basis have been used for long-term purposes by the Company.
	
(e)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the standalone financial statements of 
the Company, we report that the Company has not taken any funds from any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations 
of its subsidiaries as defined under the Act.
	
(f)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and procedures performed by us, we report that the Company has not 
raised loans during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries (as defined under the Act).
(x) 	
(a)	
The Company has not raised any moneys by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments). Accordingly, 
clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the 
Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during the 
year. Accordingly, clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable.
Annual Report 2023-24
151
Independent Auditor’s Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
(xi) 	
(a)	
Based on examination of the books and records of the Company and according to the information and explanations given to us, no 
fraud by the Company or on the Company has been noticed or reported during the course of the audit.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given to us, no report under sub-section (12) of Section 143 of the Act has been filed 
by the auditors in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central 
Government.
	
(c)	
As represented to us by the management, there are no whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the year.
(xii)	
According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, clause 3(xii) of the Order is 
not applicable.
(xiii)	
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the transactions with related parties are in compliance with 
Section 177 and 188 of the Act, where applicable, and the details of the related party transactions have been disclosed in the standalone 
financial statements as required by the applicable accounting standards.
(xiv) 	 (a)	
Based on information and explanations provided to us and our audit procedures, in our opinion, the Company has an internal audit 
system commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
	
(b)	
We have considered the internal audit reports of the Company issued till date for the period under audit.
(xv)	
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions 
with its directors or persons connected to its directors and hence, provisions of Section 192 of the Act are not applicable to the Company.
(xvi) 	 (a)	
The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)
(a) of the Order is not applicable.
	
(b)	
The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)
(b) of the Order is not applicable.
	
(c)	
The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, 
clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations provided to us, the Group (as per the provisions of the Core Investment Companies 
(Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) does not have more than one CIC.
(xvii)	
The Company has incurred cash losses of ` 2,566.09 lakhs in the current financial year; however, no cash loss was incurred in the previous 
year.
(xviii)	 There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year. Accordingly, clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xix)	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected dates of realisation 
of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the standalone financial statements, our knowledge 
of the Board of Directors and management plans and based on our examination of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has 
come to our attention, which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that the Company 
is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the 
balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. We further state that our 
reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling 
due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.
(xx) 	
(a)	
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, there is no unspent amount under sub-section (5) of 
Section 135 of the Act pursuant to any project other than ongoing projects. Accordingly, clause 3(xx)(a) of the Order is not applicable.
	
(b)	
In respect of ongoing projects, the Company has transferred the unspent amount to a Special Account within a period of 30 days 
from the end of the financial year in compliance with Section 135(6) of the said Act.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.:101248W/W-100022
Burjis Pardiwala
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 103595
Date: 02 May 2024
ICAI UDIN:24103595BKFWFA9627
Annual Report 2023-24
152
Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the standalone 
financial statements of Astec LifeSciences Limited for the year 
ended 31 March 2024
Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the aforesaid standalone financial statements 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
(Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Opinion
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of Astec LifeSciences Limited (“the Company”) as of 31 March 
2024 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements and such 
internal financial controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2024, based on the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s Management and the Board of Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on 
the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria established by the Company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to company’s 
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the 
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require 
that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing 
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the 
auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Company’s internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
A company's internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company's internal financial controls with reference to financial statements include those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to 
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; 
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations 
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Annual Report 2023-24
153
Independent Auditor’s Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.:101248W/W-100022
Burjis Pardiwala
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 103595
Date: 02 May 2024
ICAI UDIN:24103595BKFWFA9627
Annual Report 2023-24
154
Standalone Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2024
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
Note 
No.
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
 As at
 March 31, 2023 
ASSETS
(I)
Non-current assets
(a)	
Property, plant and equipment
2 (a)
 35,324.46 
 28,653.04 
(b)	
Capital work-in-progress
2 (b)
 14,846.55 
 11,238.43 
(c)	
Right of use assets
3
 2,969.08 
 3,013.46 
(d)	
Intangible assets
4 (a)
 284.72 
 168.53 
(e)	
Intangible assets under development
4 (b)
 1,656.85 
 1,421.86 
(f)	
Financial assets
	
(i)	
Investments
	
	
Investments in subsidiaries
5 (a)
 42.18 
 42.18 
	
	
Other investments
5 (b)
 0.53 
 0.53 
	
(ii) 	
Other financial assets 
6
 172.73 
 326.38 
(g) 	
Other tax assets (net)
7
 1,372.95 
 1,092.75 
(h) 	
Other non-current assets
8
 996.79 
 2,118.20 
Total Non-current assets
 57,666.84 
 48,075.36 
(II)
Current assets
(a)	
Inventories
9
 19,584.66 
 29,484.77 
(b)	
Financial assets
	
(i)	
Trade receivables
10
 16,900.40 
 15,490.03 
	
(ii)	
Cash and cash equivalents
11
 46.05 
 45.65 
	
(iii)	
Bank balances, other than (ii) above
12
 93.43 
 92.25 
	
(iv)	
Loans
13
 4.04 
 2.04 
	
(v)	
Other financial assets 
14
 196.12 
 59.57 
(c)	
Other current assets
15
 2,922.99 
 4,634.95 
Total current assets
 39,747.69 
 49,809.26 
Total Assets
 97,414.53 
 97,884.62 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
(I)
Equity
(a)	
Equity share capital
16
 1,960.92 
 1,960.57 
(b)	
Other equity
17
 34,906.73 
 39,918.80 
Total equity
 36,867.65 
 41,879.37 
(II)
Liabilities
(1)
Non current liabilities
(a)	
Financial liabilities
	
(i)	
Borrowings
18
 19,900.00 
 1,086.25 
	
(ii)	
Lease liabilities
19
 1.65 
 11.42 
	
(iii)	
Other financial liabilities
20
 205.00 
 134.92 
(b)	
Provisions
21
 44.16 
 47.82 
(c)	
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
22
 671.56 
 2,092.09 
Total non current liabilities
 20,822.37 
 3,372.50 
(2)
Current liabilities
(a)	
Financial liabilities
	
(i)	
Borrowings
23
 29,489.47 
 33,031.76 
	
(ii)	
Lease liabilities
24
 9.77 
 8.97 
	
(iii)	
Trade payables
25
	
Total outstanding dues of Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
 439.10 
 304.78 
	
Total outstanding dues of other than Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
 8,489.54 
 17,419.82 
	
(iv)	
Other financial liabilities
26
 1,032.48 
 1,431.29 
(b) 	
Other current liabilities
27
 128.20 
 361.13 
(c) 	
Provisions
28
 135.95 
 75.00 
Total current liabilities
 39,724.51 
 52,632.75 
Total liabilities
 60,546.88 
 56,005.25 
Total Equity and Liabilities
 97,414.53 
 97,884.62 
The Notes 1 to 52 form an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For B S R & Co. LLP
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Chartered Accountants
 (CIN:L99999MH1994PLC076236) 
Firm Registration Number : 101248W/W-100022
ANURAG ROY
B. S. YADAV 
Whole-Time Director &   Chief Executive Officer
Director 
DIN: 07444595
DIN: 00294803 
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 02, 2024
May 02, 2024
BURJIS PARDIWALA
K SURYANARAYAN 
TEJASHREE PRADHAN 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary 
Membership Number: 103595
ICAI Memb. No. 101853 
ICSI Memb. No. FCS7167 
Mumbai
Mumbai
Mumbai
 May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
Annual Report 2023-24
155
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
The Notes 1 to 52 form an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For B S R & Co. LLP
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Chartered Accountants
 (CIN:L99999MH1994PLC076236) 
Firm Registration Number : 101248W/W-100022
ANURAG ROY
B. S. YADAV 
Whole-Time Director &   Chief Executive Officer
Director 
DIN: 07444595
DIN: 00294803 
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 02, 2024
May 02, 2024
BURJIS PARDIWALA
K SURYANARAYAN 
TEJASHREE PRADHAN 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary 
Membership Number: 103595
ICAI Memb. No. 101853 
ICSI Memb. No. FCS7167 
Mumbai
Mumbai
Mumbai
 May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
Note 
No. 
 For the Year 
ended 
March 31, 2024 
 For the Year  
ended 
March 31, 2023 
I.
Revenue from operations
Sale of Products
29
 45,770.12 
 62,816.62 
Other operating revenue
 47.95 
 - 
Total Revenue from Operations
 45,818.07 
 62,816.62 
II.
Other income
30
 558.36 
 1,303.62 
III.
Total Income
 46,376.43 
 64,120.24 
IV.
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
31
 31,882.31 
 46,083.46 
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress
32
 45.70 
 (5,959.03)
Employee benefits expense
33
 6,174.40 
 5,225.88 
Finance costs
34
 2,524.42 
 2,074.01 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
35
 3,631.30 
 3,371.19 
Other expenses
36
 8,305.93 
 9,839.82 
Total expenses
 52,564.06 
 60,635.33 
V.
Profit/(Loss) before tax 
 (6,187.63)
 3,484.91 
VI.
Tax expense:
1. Current tax
 - 
 - 
2. Deferred tax
 (1,488.92)
 932.87 
 (1,488.92)
 932.87 
VII.
Profit/(Loss) for the year
 (4,698.71)
 2,552.04 
VIII.
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
(A) (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurement of defined benefit liability
 (76.06)
 (30.58)
 (ii) Income tax related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
 19.14 
 7.70 
Total other comprehensive income/(loss)
 (56.92)
 (22.88)
IX.
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
 (4,755.63)
 2,529.16 
X.
Earnings per equity share (Nominal value of ` 10 each, fully paid-up)
37
Basic (in `)
 (23.96)
 13.02 
Diluted (in `)
 (23.96)
 13.02 
Standalone Balance sheet/ 
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss
Annual Report 2023-24
156
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
 (` in lakh) 
For the Year 
ended  
March 31, 2024
For the Year  
ended  
March 31, 2023
Cash flow from operating activities
(Loss)/Profit before tax
 (6,187.63)
 3,484.91 
Adjustments for
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 3,631.30 
 3,371.19 
Profit on Sale of Investment in Subsidiary
 - 
Interest income
 (9.09)
 (402.53)
Finance cost
 2,524.42 
 2,074.01 
Unrealised foreign exchange gain
 (9.76)
 (151.11)
Allowances for doubtful debts
 5.83 
 1.98 
Reversal of allowance for other receivables
 - 
 (7.11)
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment
 11.14 
 52.35 
Provision for inventory
 9.08 
 89.55 
Provision for receivables from government authorities
 164.85 
 - 
Employee stock options expense
 30.11 
 33.07 
Total non-cash & non-operating adjustments
 6,357.88 
 5,061.40 
Operating (loss)/ profit before working capital changes
 170.25 
 8,546.31 
Change in operating assets and liabilities
Decrease/(Increase) in trade receivables
 (1,351.22)
 12,159.89 
Decrease/(Increase) in loans
 (2.01)
 12.58 
Decrease/(Increase) in other financial assets
 8.85 
 390.05 
Decrease/(Increase) in other current assets
 1,547.12 
 148.53 
(Increase) in inventories
 9,891.05 
 (10,879.69)
(Increase)/Decrease in other non-current assets
 (4.82)
 (820.05)
(Decrease)/Increase in trade payables
 (8,884.35)
 (1,463.93)
Increase in other financial liabilities
 12.55 
 100.00 
(Decrease)/Increase in other current liabilities
 (232.93)
 (316.52)
Increase/(Decrease) in provisions
 (18.78)
 6.30 
Increase in other non-current financial liabilities
 70.09 
 34.92 
 1,035.55 
 (627.92)
Cash generated from operations
 1,205.80 
 7,918.39 
Direct Taxes paid (net of refunds received)
 (192.66)
 (486.07)
Net cash generated from operating activities
 1,013.14 
 7,432.32 
Cash flow from investing activities
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and capital work-in-progress
 (13,549.89)
 (11,725.91)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
 35.96 
 77.67 
Intercorporate deposits given
 - 
 (2,500.00)
Intercorporate deposits returned
 - 
 2,500.00 
Deposits redeemed / (placed)
 (1.19)
 34.77 
Interest received 
 17.34 
 406.13 
Net cash used in investing activities
 (13,497.78)
 (11,207.34)
Annual Report 2023-24
157
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 (` in lakh) 
For the Year 
ended  
March 31, 2024
For the Year  
ended  
March 31, 2023
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from Long term Borrowings
 14,900.00 
 5,860.00 
Repayment of Long term Borrowings
 (4,396.48)
 (4,270.00)
Proceeds / (Repayment) of short term borrowings (net)
 (401.17)
 4,474.78 
Proceeds from issue of shares
 7.90 
 13.09 
Payment of lease liabilities
 (8.97)
 (8.22)
Payment of Interest on lease liabilities
 (1.83)
 (2.58)
Intercorporate deposits taken
 5,000.00 
 8,300.00 
Intercorporate deposits repaid
 - 
 (8,300.00)
Finance cost paid
 (2,320.32)
 (2,006.80)
Dividend paid to company's shareholders
 (294.09)
 (294.06)
Net cash generated from financing activities
 12,485.04 
 3,766.21 
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 0.40 
 (8.81)
Cash and cash equivalents (Opening balance)
 45.65 
 54.46 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (closing balance) (refer note no.11)
 46.05 
 45.65 
Note 1 :	
	
	
	
The above statement of cash flow has been prepared under the indirect method as set out in Indian Accounting Standard 7 Statement of Cash 
Flow notified u/s 133 of Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with Rule 4 of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015, as amended 
and the relevant provisions of the Act.	
	
	
	
Note 2 : Movement in Borrowings
(` in lakh)
Particulars
March 31, 2023
Cash Flows
Non-cash 
changes 
March 31, 2024
Long term borrowings (Refer Note 2.1)
 5,590.18 
 15,503.52 
 21,093.70 
Short term borrowings
 28,527.82 
 (401.17)
 169.11 
 28,295.77 
Total borrowings
 34,118.00 
 15,102.35 
 169.11 
 49,389.47 
(` in lakh)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
Cash Flows
 Non-cash 
changes 
March 31, 2023
Long term borrowings (Refer Note 2.1)
 4,000.00 
 1,590.00 
 0.18 
 5,590.18 
Short term borrowings
 23,937.31 
 4,474.78 
 115.73 
 28,527.82 
Total borrowings
 27,937.31 
 6,064.78 
 115.91 
 34,118.00 
Note 2.1: The Term Loan from Bank for `942.92 lakh and interest on non convertible debentures ` 250.78 lakh (previous year ` 4,509.93 Lakh) 
has been disclosed as current maturity of Long term Borrowing Under Current Liabilities.
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
The Notes 1 to 52 form an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For B S R & Co. LLP
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Chartered Accountants
 (CIN:L99999MH1994PLC076236) 
Firm Registration Number : 101248W/W-100022
ANURAG ROY
B. S. YADAV 
Whole-Time Director &   Chief Executive Officer
Director 
DIN: 07444595
DIN: 00294803 
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 02, 2024
May 02, 2024
BURJIS PARDIWALA
K SURYANARAYAN 
TEJASHREE PRADHAN 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary 
Membership Number: 103595
ICAI Memb. No. 101853 
ICSI Memb. No. FCS7167 
Mumbai
Mumbai
Mumbai
 May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
Annual Report 2023-24
158
(a) 	
Equity share capital
 (` in lakh) 
As at  
March 31, 2024
As at  
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the reporting Year
1960.57
1959.76
Changes in equity share capital during the year (refer note no. 16)
0.35
0.81
Balance at the end of the reporting Year
1960.92
1960.57
(b) 	
Other equity
(` in lakh)
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Securities 
Premium
General 
reserve
Employee 
share option 
outstanding
Retained 
earnings
Total
Balance as at April 1, 2023 
 0.30 
 6,073.56 
 1,249.28 
 35.81 
 32,559.85 
 39,918.80 
Loss for the year (net of income tax)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4,698.71)
 (4,698.71)
Other comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (56.92)
 (56.92)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4,755.63)
 (4,755.63)
Transactions with the owners of the Company
Contributions and distributions
Dividends
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (294.09)
 (294.09)
ESOP share excercised during the year
 - 
 35.39 
 - 
 (27.85)
 - 
 7.54 
Employee compensation expense recognised during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 30.11 
 - 
 30.11 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 0.30 
 6,108.95 
 1,249.28 
 38.07 
 27,510.13 
 34,906.73 
Balance as at April 1, 2022 
 0.30 
 6,034.80 
 1,249.28 
 29.21 
 30,324.75 
 37,638.34 
Profit for the year (net of income tax) 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,552.04 
 2,552.04 
Other comprehensive income for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (22.88)
 (22.88)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,529.16 
 2,529.16 
Transactions with the owners of the Company
Contributions and distributions
Dividends
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (294.06)
 (294.06)
ESOP share excercised during the year
 - 
 38.76 
 - 
 (26.47)
 - 
 12.29 
Employee compensation expense recognised during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 33.07 
 - 
 33.07 
Balance as at March 31, 2023 
 0.30 
 6,073.56 
 1,249.28 
 35.81 
 32,559.85 
 39,918.80 
	
The Notes 1 to 52 form an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For B S R & Co. LLP
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Chartered Accountants
 (CIN:L99999MH1994PLC076236) 
Firm Registration Number : 101248W/W-100022
ANURAG ROY
B. S. YADAV 
Whole-Time Director &   Chief Executive Officer
Director 
DIN: 07444595
DIN: 00294803 
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 02, 2024
May 02, 2024
BURJIS PARDIWALA
K SURYANARAYAN 
TEJASHREE PRADHAN 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary 
Membership Number: 103595
ICAI Memb. No. 101853 
ICSI Memb. No. FCS7167 
Mumbai
Mumbai
Mumbai
 May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
Standalone Statement Of Changes In Equity 
for the Year ended March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
159
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the Year ended March 31, 2024
Note 1 : Material accounting policies
A. 	
General Information
	
Astec LifeSciences Limited ("the Company") is a public limited company, which is domiciled and incorporated in the Republic of India 
with its registered office situated at Godrej One, 3rd Floor, Pirojsha Nagar, Eastern Express Highway, Vikhroli East, Mumbai - 400 079. 
The Company was incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 on January 25, 1994. The Company manufactures a wide range of 
Agrochemical active ingredients and pharmaceutical intermediates. 
B. 	
Basis of preparation and measurement
	
(1) 	
Basis of preparation
	
	
The standalone financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind AS”) as notified by 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs pursuant to Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) read with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended and other relevant provisions of the Act. The accounting policies are applied consistently to all 
the years presented in the standalone financial statements.
	
	
The standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended March 31, 2024 were authorized for issue in accordance 
with a resolution of the Board of Directors on May 02, 2024.
	
	
The Company adopted Disclosure of Accounting Policies (Amendments to Ind AS 1) from 1 April 2023. Although the amendments 
did not result in any changes in the accounting policies themselves, they impacted the accounting policy information disclosed 
in the financial statements. The amendments require the disclosure of ‘material’ rather than ‘significant’ accounting policies. The 
amendments also provide guidance on the application of materiality to disclosure of accounting policies, assisting entities to provide 
useful, entity-specific accounting policy information that users need to understand other information in the financial statements
	
	
Current versus non-current classification
	
	
All assets and liabilities have been classified as per the Company’s normal operating cycle and other criteria set out in Schedule III to 
the Companies Act, 2013. Based on the nature of the products and the time taken between acquisition of assets for processing and 
their realization in cash and cash equivalents, the Company has ascertained its operating cycle as twelve months for the purpose of 
the classification of assets and liabilities into current and non-current.
	
(2) 	
Basis of measurement
	
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the following:
	
 	
- 	
certain financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) that is measured at fair value (refer- Accounting policy 
regarding financials instruments 8);
	
	
- 	
defined benefit plans – plan assets measured at fair value less present value of defined benefit obligation; and 
 	
	
- 	
share-based payments - measured at fair value
	
(3) 	
Functional and presentation currency
	
	
These standalone financial statements are presented in Indian rupees, which is the Company’s functional currency. All amounts 
have been rounded off to the nearest lakh, unless otherwise indicated.
C. 	
Key estimates and assumptions
	
While preparing financial statements in conformity with Ind AS, the management has made certain estimates and assumptions that require 
subjective and complex judgments. These judgments affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amount of assets, 
liabilities, income and expenses, disclosure of contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amount of income and 
expenses for the reporting period. Future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted and the best estimates require adjustments, as actual 
results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
	
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized prospectively.
	
Judgement, estimates and assumptions are required in particular for:
	
(1) 	
Determination of the estimated useful lives 
	
	
Useful lives of property, plant and equipment are based on the life prescribed in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013. In cases, 
where the useful lives are different from that prescribed in Schedule II and in case of intangible assets, they are based on technical 
Annual Report 2023-24
160
advice, taking into account the nature of the asset, the estimated usage of the asset, the operating conditions of the asset, past 
history of replacement, anticipated technological changes, manufacturers’ warranties and maintenance support. 
	
(2) 	
Recognition and measurement of defined benefit obligations 
	
	
The obligation arising from defined benefit plan is determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions. Key actuarial assumptions 
include discount rate, trends in salary escalation, actuarial rates and life expectancy. The discount rate is determined by reference 
to market yields at the end of the reporting period on government bonds. The period to maturity of the underlying bonds correspond 
to the probable maturity of the post-employment benefit obligations. Due to complexities involved in the valuation and its long term 
nature, defined benefit obligation is sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting 
period.
	
(3) 	
Recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying 
values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and unutilized business loss and depreciation carry-forwards and tax 
credits. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against which 
the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses, depreciation carry-forwards and unused tax credits could be utilized.
	
(4) 	
Recognition and measurement of other provisions
	
	
The recognition and measurement of other provisions are based on the assessment of the probability of an outflow of resources, 
and on past experience and circumstances known at the balance sheet date. The actual outflow of resources at a future date may 
therefore, vary from the amount included in other provisions.
	
(5) 	
Discounting of long-term financial assets / liabilities
	
	
All financial assets / liabilities are required to be measured at fair value on initial recognition. In case of financial liabilities/assets 
which are required to subsequently be measured at amortised cost, interest is accrued using the effective interest method.
	
(6) 	
Fair valuation of employee share options
	
	
The fair valuation of the employee share options is based on the Black-Scholes model used for valuation of options. Key assumptions 
made with respect to expected volatility includes share price, expected dividends and discount rate, under this option pricing model.
	
(7) 	
Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease
	
	
Ind AS 116 requires lessee to determine the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease adjusted with any option to extend or 
terminate the lease, if the use of such option is reasonably certain. The Company makes an assessment on the expected lease term 
on a lease-by-lease basis and thereby assesses whether it is reasonably certain that any options to extend or terminate the contract 
will be exercised. In evaluating the lease term, the Company considers factors such as any significant leasehold improvements 
undertaken over the lease term, costs relating to the termination of the lease and the importance of the underlying asset taking 
into account the location of the underlying asset and the availability of suitable alternatives. The lease term in future periods is 
reassessed to ensure that the lease term reflects the current economic circumstances. After considering current and future economic 
conditions, the Company has concluded that no changes are required to lease period relating to the existing lease contracts.
	
(8) 	
Fair value of financial instruments
	
	
Derivatives are carried at fair value. Derivatives includes foreign currency forward contracts. Fair value of foreign currency forward 
contracts are determined using the fair value reports provided by respective bankers.
	
(9) 	
Liability for Sales Return
	
	
Accruals for estimated product returns, which are based on historical experience of actual sales returns and adjustment on account 
of current market scenario is considered by Company to be reliable estimate of future sales returns.
	
(10) Provisions and contingent liabilities 
	
	
A provision is recognised when the Company has a present obligation because of past event and it is probable that an outflow of 
resources will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. These are reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates. 
	
	
Contingent assets are neither recognised nor disclosed in the standalone financial statements.
D. 	
Measurement of fair values
	
The Company’s accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values for, both financial and non-financial assets and 
liabilities. The Company has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values. The management regularly 
reviews significant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments. If third party information, such as broker quotes or pricing services, is 
used to measure fair values, then the management assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties to support the conclusion that 
such valuations meet the requirements of Ind AS, including the level in the fair value hierarchy in which such valuations should be classified.
Annual Report 2023-24
161
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
When measuring the fair value of a financial asset or a financial liability, the Company uses observable market data as far as possible. Fair 
values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows. 
	
- 	
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
	
- 	
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) 
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
	
- 	
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
	
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value 
measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire 
measurement.
	
The Company recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during which the change has 
occurred.
E. 	
Material accounting policies
	
(1) 	
Revenue and Other income :
	
	
i. 	
Sale of goods
	
	
	
Revenue from operations comprises of sales of goods after the deduction of discounts, goods and service tax and estimated 
returns. Discounts given by the Company includes trade discounts, volume rebates and other incentive given to the customers. 
Accumulated experience is used to estimate the provision for discounts. Revenue is only recognized to the extent that it is 
highly probable a significant reversal will not occur.
	
	
	
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer. Revenue from the sale of goods 
are recognized when control of the goods has transferred to our customer and when there are no longer any unfulfilled 
obligations to the customer, This is generally when the goods are delivered to the customer depending on individual customer 
terms, which can be at the time of dispatch or delivery. This is considered the appropriate point where the performance 
obligations in our contracts are satisfied as the Company no longer have control over the inventory.
	
	
	
Our customers have the contractual right to return goods only when authorized by the Company. As at 31st March 2024, an 
estimate has been made of goods that will be returned and a liability has been recognized for this amount. An asset has also 
been recorded for the corresponding inventory that is estimated to return to the Company using a best estimate based on 
accumulated experience.
	
	
ii. 	
Dividend income
	
	
	
Dividend income is recognised only when the right to receive the same is established, it is probable that the economic 
benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the Company, and the amount of dividend can be measured reliably.
	
	
iii. 	
Interest income
	
	
	
For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost, interest income is recorded using the effective interest rate (EIR), 
which is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial 
instruments or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial assets. Interest income is 
included in other income in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
(2) 	
Foreign currency :
	
	
(i) 	
Transaction and balances
	
	
	
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Company at the exchange 
rates at the dates of the transactions or an average rate if the average rate approximates the actual rate at the date of the 
transaction. Foreign currency transactions are recorded on initial recognition in the functional currency, using the exchange 
rate at the date of the transaction. At each balance sheet date, foreign currency monetary items are reported using the closing 
exchange rate. Exchange differences that arise on settlement of monetary items or on reporting at each balance sheet date of 
the Company's monetary items at the closing rate are recognized as income and expenses in the period in which they arise.
	
	
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the dates of transactions. Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency shall be translated 
using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was measured.
	
	
	
Exchange differences are generally recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss, except exchange differences arising from 
the translation of the following item which are recognized in OCI:
	
	
	
- 	
Qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent that the hedges are effective.
Annual Report 2023-24
162
	
(3) 	
Employment Benefits
	
	
(i) 	
Short-term obligations
	
	
	
All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months of rendering services are classified as short-term employee 
benefits. Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the related service is provided. A liability is recognized for the 
amount expected to be paid if the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of 
past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. 
	
	
	
Short-term benefits such as salaries, wages, short-term compensation absences, etc., are determined on an undiscounted 
basis and recognized in the period in which the employee renders the related service. The Company has a scheme of 
Performance Linked Variable Remuneration (PLVR) which is fully written off to the Standalone Statement of Profit & Loss. 
The Scheme rewards its employees based on the achievement of key performance indicators and profitability, as prescribed 
in the scheme.
	
 	
(ii) 	
Other long-term employee benefit obligations
	
	
	
Liability toward Long-term Compensated Absences is provided for on the basis of an actuarial valuation, using the Projected 
Unit Credit Method, as at the date of the Balance Sheet. Actuarial gains / losses comprising of experience adjustments and 
the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions are immediately recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
	
The obligations are presented as current liabilities in the balance sheet if the entity does not have an unconditional right to 
defer settlement for at least twelve months after the reporting period, regardless of when the actual settlement is expected to 
occur.
	
	
(iii) 	
Post-employment obligations
	
	
	
The Company operates the following post-employment schemes:
	
	
	
(a) 	
defined benefit plans such as gratuity, and
	
	
	
(b) 	
defined contribution plans such as provident fund.
	
	
	
Gratuity obligations
	
	
	
The following post – employment benefit plans are covered under the defined benefit plans:
	
	
	
Gratuity :
	
	
	
The Company’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that 
employees have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value of any plan 
assets.
	
	
	
The calculation of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit 
method. When the calculation results in a potential asset for the Company, the recognised asset is limited to the present value 
of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. 
	
	
	
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized 
in the period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. They are included in retained earnings in the 
statement of changes in equity and in the balance sheet.
	
	
	
Defined contribution plans
	
	
	
The Company pays provident fund contributions to publicly administered provident funds as per local regulations. The 
Company has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are accounted for as 
defined contribution plans and the contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. 
	
	
(iv) 	
Share-based payments
	
	
	
Share-based compensation benefits are provided to employees via the Astec LifeSciences Limited Employee Stock Option 
Plan.
	
	
	
Employee options:
	
	
	
The fair value of options granted under the Astec LifeSciences Limited Employee Stock Option Plan is recognised as an 
employee benefits expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The total amount to be expensed is determined by 
reference to the fair value of the options granted:
	
	
	
- 	
including any market performance conditions (e.g., the entity’s share price)
	
	
	
- 	
excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions (e.g. profitability, sales growth 
targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period), and
Annual Report 2023-24
163
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
	
	
-	
including the impact of any non-vesting conditions (e.g. the requirement for employees to save or holdings shares for 
a specific period of time).
	
	
	
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions 
are to be satisfied. At the end of each period, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to 
vest based on the non-market vesting and service conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if 
any, in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
	
	
(v) 	
Bonus plans
	
	
	
The Company recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses. The Company recognises a provision where contractually 
obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
	
	
(vi) 	
Terminal benefits
	
	
	
All terminal benefits are recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
	
(4) 	
Income-tax
	
	
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. It is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss except to the extent that 
it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or in the OCI.
	
	
(i) 	
Current tax
	
	
	
Current tax is the amount of tax payable (recoverable) in respect of the taxable profit / (tax loss) for the year determined in 
accordance with the provisions of the Income-Tax Act, 1961. Current income tax for current and prior periods is recognized at 
the amount expected to be paid to or recovered from the tax authorities, using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
	
	
	
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if, the Company:
	
	
	
a) 	
has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts; and
	
	
	
b) 	
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
	
	
(ii) 	
Deferred tax
	
	
	
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for 
financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for:
	
	
	
- 	
temporary differences on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination 
and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
	
	
	
- 	
temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries and associates to the extent that the Company is able 
to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; and
	
	
	
- 	
taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
	
	
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the 
extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be used. Deferred tax assets are 
reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will 
be realised; such reductions are reversed when the probability of future taxable profits improves.Unrecognized deferred tax 
assets are reassessed at each reporting date and recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable 
profits will be available against which they can be used.
	
	
	
 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is 
realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date. Taxes relating to items recognized directly in equity or OCI is recognized in equity or OCI and not in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
	
The measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Company 
expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
	
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if:
	
	
	
a) 	
the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities; and
	
	
	
b) 	
the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on 
the same taxable entity.
Annual Report 2023-24
164
	
(5) 	
Inventories
	
	
Inventories are carried in the balance sheet as follows:
	
	
(a) 	
Raw materials, Packing materials, Stock in Trade and Stores & Spares: At lower of cost, on weighted average basis and net 
realisable value
	
	
(b) 	
Work-in-progress / project in progress-: At lower of cost of materials, plus appropriate production overheads and net realizable 
value.
	
	
c) 	
Finished Goods: At lower of cost of materials, plus appropriate production overheads and net realizable value, Net realizable 
value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated cost of completion and selling expenses 
necessary to make the sale.The cost of inventories have been computed to include all cost of purchases, cost of conversion 
and other related costs incurred in bringing the inventories to the present location and condition. Slow and non-moving 
material, obsolescence, defective inventories are duly provided for and valued at net realizable value. Goods and materials in 
transit are valued at actual cost incurred upto the date of balance sheet. Materials and supplies held for use in the production 
of inventories are not written down if the finished products in which they will be used are expected to be sold at or above cost.
	
(6) 	
Property, plant and equipment (including Capital work in progress)
	
	
(i) 	
Recognition and measurement
	
	
	
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment 
losses, if any.
	
	
	
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises:
	
	
	
a)       its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and 
rebates.
	
	
	
b)       any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of 
operating in the manner intended by management.
	
	
	
c)	
the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located, the 
obligation for which an entity incurs either when the item is acquired or as a consequence of having used the item 
during a particular period for purposes other than to produce inventories during that period.
	
	
	
d) 	
Items of property, plant and equipment (including capital-work-in progress) are measured at cost, which includes 
capitalised borrowing costs, less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses
	
	
	
Income and expenses related to the incidental operations, not necessary to bring the item to the location and condition 
necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management, are recognised in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
	
	
	
If significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, then they are accounted and 
depreciated for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
	
	
	
Any gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
(ii) 	
Subsequent expenditure
	
	
	
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the expenditure 
will flow to the Company.
	
	
(iii) 	
Depreciation/ Amortizations
	
	
	
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost, net of their residual values, over their estimated 
useful lives specified in schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 except for the following:
	
	
	
(a) 	
Plant and Machinery: 
	
	
	
	
Based on the condition of the plants, regular maintenance schedule, material of construction, external and internal 
assessment and past experience, the Company has considered useful life of Plant and Machinery as 20 years.
	
	
	
(b) 	
Computer Hardware:
	
	
	
	
Depreciated over its estimated useful life of 4 years.
	
	
	
(c) 	
Right of use Asset:
	
	
	
	
Amortized over the primary lease period.
	
	
	
(d) 	
Leasehold improvements and equipments:
	
	
	
	
Amortised over the Primary lease period
Annual Report 2023-24
165
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
	
	
Assets costing less than ` 5,000 are fully depreciated in the year of purchase/acquisition. Depreciation methods, useful lives 
and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. 
	
	
	
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater 
than its estimated recoverable amount
	
	
	
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in profit or 
loss within other gains/(losses).
	
(7) 	
Intangible assets
	
	
(i) 	
Computer software
	
	
	
Recognition and measurement
	
	
	
Intangible assets are recognized when it is probable that the future economic benefits that are attributable to the assets will 
flow to the Company and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
	
	
	
Intangible assets viz. Computer software and product registration, which are acquired by the Company and have finite useful 
lives are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
	
	
	
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. 
	
	
	
Amortisation
	
	
	
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost of intangible assets less their estimated residual values using the straight-line 
method over their estimated useful lives, and is generally recognised in profit or loss. 
	
	
	
The intangible assets are amortised over the estimated useful lives as given below:
	
	
	
-	
Computer software 	 6 years
	
	
	
-	
Product Registration 	5 years
	
	
(ii) 	
Research and development
	
	
	
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditures on an individual project are recognised as an intangible 
asset under development when the Company can demonstrate: - 
	
	
	
-	
The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale
	
	
	
-	
Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset 
	
	
	
-	
It is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Company and the Company has control over the asset
 	
	
	
Cost of Product Registration generally comprise of direct costs of manpower, other fixed cost and depreciation towards 
production of samples, creating product dossiers, fees paid to registration consultants, application fees to the government 
authorities. Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development is 
complete, and the asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit.
	
(8) 	
Borrowing costs
	
	
General and specific borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset 
are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use or sale. Qualifying 
assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale.
	
	
Other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
	
	
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost 
also includes exchange difference to the extent regarded as an adjustment to the borrowing costs.
	
(9) 	
Segment Reporting 
	
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
("CODM") of the Company. The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating 
segments, has been identified as the Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. The Company has identified 
only one segment i.e. Agrochemicals as reporting segment based on the information reviewed by CODM.
	
(10) 	
Financial Instruments
	
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of 
another entity. Financial instruments also include derivative contracts such as foreign currency foreign exchange forward contracts.
	
	
Financial instruments also covers contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial 
Annual Report 2023-24
166
instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, as if the contracts were financial instruments, with the exception of contracts that 
were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the 
entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
	
	
Derivatives are currently recognized at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
	
(11) 	
Hedge accounting
	
	
The Company designates certain hedging instruments in respect of foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and commodity price 
risk as cash flow hedges. At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging 
instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge 
transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Company documents whether the hedging 
instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
	
	
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the designated portion of derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised 
in other comprehensive income and accumulated under equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in statement of profit or loss.
	
	
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity relating to effective portion as described 
above are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line as the recognised 
hedged item. However, when the hedged forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial 
liability, such gains and losses are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial 
asset or non-financial liability.
	
	
Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when it 
no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity at 
that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in the statement profit 
or loss.
	
	
i. 	
Financial assets
	
	
	
Classification
	
	
	
The Company classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories:
	
	
	
- 	
Where assets are measured at fair value, gains and losses are either recognized entirely in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss (i.e. fair value through profit or loss), or recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (i.e. fair value through 
other comprehensive income).
	
	
	
- 	
A financial asset that meets the following two conditions is measured at amortized cost (net of any write down for 
impairment) unless the asset is designated at fair value through profit or loss under the fair value option. 
	
	
	
Business model test: The objective of the Company’s business model is to hold the financial asset to collect the contractual 
cash flows (rather than to sell the instrument prior to its contractual maturity to realize its fair value changes).
	
	
	
Cash flow characteristics test: The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
	
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
	
At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial asset at fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not recorded 
at fair value through the Statement of Profit and Loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial 
asset.
	
	
	
Equity investments
	
	
	
- 	
All equity investments in scope of Ind-AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are held for trading 
are classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Company decides to classify the same either as at 
FVOCI or FVTPL. The Company makes such election on an instrument-by-instrument basis. The classification is 
made on initial recognition and is irrevocable. 
	
	
	
- 	
If the Company decides to classify an equity instrument as FVOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument, 
excluding dividends, are recognized in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to profit and loss, even 
on sale of investment. However, the Company may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity. 
	
	
	
- 	
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes recognized in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
Annual Report 2023-24
167
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
	
	
Derecognition 
	
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a Company of similar financial assets) is primarily 
derecognised (i.e. removed from the Company’s balance sheet) when:
	
	
	
- 	
The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired, or 
	
	
	
- 	
The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay 
the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either 
(a) the Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset
	
	
	
When the Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through 
arrangement, it evaluates if and to what extent it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership. When it has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the 
Company continues to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of the Company’s continuing involvement. In that case, 
the Company also recognises an associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a 
basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the Company has retained. 
	
	
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original 
carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Company could be required to repay. 
	
	
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
	
In accordance with Ind-AS 109, the Company applies expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement and recognition of 
impairment loss on the following financial assets and credit risk exposure: 
	
	
	
a) 	
Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, deposits, and bank 
balance. 
	
	
	
b) 	
Trade receivables - The application of simplified approach does not require the Company to track changes in credit 
risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its 
initial recognition. Trade receivables are tested for impairment on a specific basis after considering the sanctioned 
credit limits, security like letters of credit, security deposit collected etc. and expectations about future cash flows.
	
	
ii. 	
Financial liabilities
	
	
	
Classification
	
	
	
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified according to the substance of the contractual 
arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
	
	
	
The Company classifies all financial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortised cost, except for financial liabilities 
at fair value through the Statement of Profit and Loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives that are liabilities, shall be 
subsequently measured at fair value.
	
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement 
	
	
	
Financial liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. 
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and 
borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. 
	
	
	
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly 
attributable and incremental transaction cost.
	
	
	
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an 
integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of profit and loss. 
	
	
	
The Company’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, financial 
guarantee contracts and derivative financial instruments.
	
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts 
	
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse 
the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the terms 
of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction 
costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of 
the amount of loss allowance determined as per impairment requirements of Ind-AS 109 and the amount recognised less 
cumulative amortisation. 
Annual Report 2023-24
168
	
	
	
Derecognition 
	
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an 
existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an 
existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original 
liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss.
	
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if there is a currently 
enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets 
and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
	
	
	
Derivative financial instruments
	
	
	
The Company uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps, to hedge 
its foreign currency risks and interest rate risks respectively. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised 
at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. The 
accounting for subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, 
and if so, the nature of item being hedged and the type of hedge relationship designated. 
	
	
	
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is 
negative.
	
(12) 	
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
	
	
Provisions are recognized when there is a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of 
the amount of the obligation.
	
	
The expenses relating to a provision is presented in the Statement of Profit and Loss net of any reimbursement.
	
	
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows specific 
to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost. 
	
	
A provision for onerous contracts is measured at the present value of the lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract and 
the expected net cost of continuing with the contract. Before a provision is established, the Company recognises any impairment 
loss on the assets associated with that contract.
	
	
A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when there is a possible obligation or a present obligation that may, but will probably 
not, require an outflow of resources. When there is a possible obligation of a present obligation in respect of which the likelihood of 
outflow of resources is remote, no provision disclosure is made.
	
	
A contingent asset is not recognised but disclosed in the financial statements where an inflow of economic benefit is probable.
	
	
Commitments includes the amount of purchase order (net of advance) issued to parties for completion of assets.
	
	
Provisions, contingent assets, contingent liabilities and commitments are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
	
(13) 	
Cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting
	
	
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in 
the other comprehensive income in cash flow hedging reserve within equity, limited to the cumulative change in fair value of hedged 
item on a present value basis from the inception of hedge. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion is recognized immediately 
in profit or loss.
	
	
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss. 
	
(14) 	
Leases
	
	
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration.
	
	
Company as a lessee
	
	
The Company’s lease asset classes primarily consist of leases for land. The Company assesses whether a contract contains a lease, 
at inception of a contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset 
for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified 
asset, the Company assesses whether: (i) the contract involves the use of an identified asset (ii) the Company has substantially all 
of the economic benefits from use of the asset through the period of the lease and (iii) the Company has the right to direct the use 
of the asset.
Annual Report 2023-24
169
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the Company recognizes a right-of-use asset (“ROU”) and a corresponding lease liability 
for all lease arrangements in which it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve months or less (short-term leases) and low 
value leases. For these short-term and low value leases, the Company recognizes the lease payments as an operating expense on 
a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
	
	
Certain lease arrangements includes the options to extend or terminate the lease before the end of the lease term. ROU assets and 
lease liabilities includes these options when it is reasonably certain that they will be exercised.
	
	
The right-of-use assets are initially recognized at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease 
payments made at or prior to the commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct costs less any lease incentives. They are 
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
	
	
Right-of-use assets are depreciated from the commencement date on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and 
useful life of the underlying asset. Right of use assets are evaluated for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the 
higher of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined 
for the Cash Generating Unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
	
	
The lease liability is initially measured at amortized cost at the present value of the future lease payments. The lease payments are 
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using the incremental borrowing rates in the 
country of domicile of these leases. Lease liabilities are remeasured with a corresponding adjustment to the related right of use asset 
if the Company changes its assessment if whether it will exercise an extension or a termination option.
	
	
Lease liability and ROU asset have been separately presented in the Balance Sheet and lease payments have been classified as 
financing cash flows.
	
(15) 	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
Goodwill and intangible assets that have infinite useful life are not subjected to amortization and are tested annually for impairment, 
or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they might be impaired.
	
	
The carrying values of other assets/cash generating units at each balance sheet date are reviewed for impairment if any indication 
of impairment exists. If the carrying amount of the assets exceed the estimated recoverable amount, an impairment is recognised 
for such excess amount.
	
	
The recoverable amount is the greater of the net selling price and their value in use. Value in use is arrived at by discounting the 
future cash flows to their present value based on an appropriate discount factor that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risk specific to the asset. 
	
	
When there is indication that an impairment loss recognised for an asset (other than a revalued asset) in earlier accounting periods 
which no longer exists or may have decreased, such reversal of impairment loss is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss, 
to the extent the amount was previously charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss. In case of revalued assets, such reversal is not 
recognised.
	
(16) 	
Dividends
	
	
Provision is made for the amount of any dividend declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the 
entity, on or before the end of the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the reporting period.
	
(17) 	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
	
	
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, as defined 
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as they are considered an integral part of the Company’s cash management.
	
(18) 	
Earnings per share
	
	
(i) 	
Basic earnings per share
	
	
	
 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
	
	
	
-	
the profit attributable to owners of the Company
	
	
	
-	
by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the financial year, adjusted for bonus elements 
in equity shares issued during the year and excluding treasury shares.
Annual Report 2023-24
170
	
	
(ii) 	
Diluted earnings per share
	
	
	
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take into account:
	
	
	
-	
the after income tax effect of interest and other financing costs associated with dilutive potential equity shares, and
	
	
	
-	
the weighted average number of additional equity shares that would have been outstanding assuming the conversion 
of all dilutive potential equity shares.
	
(F) 	
Recent Pronouncements
	
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments to the existing standards under Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. On March 31, 2024, MCA has not notified any new standards or 
amendments to the existing standards applicable to the Company
Annual Report 2023-24
171
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 2 (a) : Property, plant and equipment
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
Plant and 
Machinery
Factory  
Buildings
Office 
Buildings
Electrical 
Installations
Furniture 
and 
Fixtures
Vehicles
Computers
Office 
and Other 
Equipment
 Total 
Gross Block
 As at April 1, 2023 
 29,058.98 
 12,612.47 
 267.47 
 1,726.01 
 279.47 
 414.88 
 272.57 
 255.33 
 44,887.17 
 Additions 
 3,949.60 
 616.74 
 3,484.70 
 727.85 
 653.58 
 233.03 
 130.39 
 507.00 
 10,302.89 
 Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 58.77 
 1.49 
 - 
 60.26 
 As at March 31, 2024 
 33,008.58 
 13,229.21 
 3,752.17 
 2,453.87 
 933.05 
 589.14 
 401.46 
 762.33 
 55,129.81 
 Accumulated Depreciation 
 As at April 1, 2023 
 13,096.50 
 2,026.31 
 37.66 
 476.09 
 161.88 
 184.83 
 140.27 
 110.58 
 16,234.12 
 For the year 
 2,364.18 
 608.23 
 60.60 
 227.41 
 76.68 
 45.00 
 68.99 
 133.30 
 3,584.39 
 Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.83 
 0.34 
 - 
 13.17 
 As at March 31, 2024 
 15,460.69 
 2,634.54 
 98.26 
 703.50 
 238.56 
 217.00 
 208.92 
 243.88 
 19,805.34 
 Net Block as at March 31, 2024 
 17,547.89 
 10,594.67 
 3,653.91 
 1,750.37 
 694.49 
 372.14 
 192.54 
 518.45 
 35,324.46 
Gross Block
 As at April 1, 2022 
 28,280.71 
 12,567.49 
 267.48 
 1,696.11 
 275.44 
 406.25 
 194.73 
 214.36 
 43,902.57 
 Additions 
 948.33 
 44.98 
 - 
 29.90 
 4.28 
 90.37 
 80.47 
 40.97 
 1,239.30 
 Disposals 
 170.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.25 
 81.74 
 2.63 
 - 
 254.68 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 29,058.98 
 12,612.47 
 267.48 
 1,726.01 
 279.47 
 414.88 
 272.57 
 255.33 
 44,887.19 
 Accumulated Depreciation 
 As At April 1, 2022 
 10,799.57 
 1,475.20 
 32.93 
 317.29 
 140.30 
 169.04 
 103.07 
 74.31 
 13,111.71 
 For the year 
 2,388.61 
 551.11 
 4.73 
 158.80 
 21.74 
 45.99 
 39.83 
 36.29 
 3,247.10 
 Disposals 
 91.68 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.16 
 30.20 
 2.63 
 - 
 124.66 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 13,096.50 
 2,026.31 
 37.66 
 476.09 
 161.88 
 184.83 
 140.27 
 110.60 
 16,234.15 
 Net Block as at March 31, 2023 
 15,962.48 
 10,586.16 
 229.82 
 1,249.93 
 117.59 
 230.05 
 132.30 
 144.73 
 28,653.04 
Annual Report 2023-24
172
Note 2 (b). 1 : Capital work-in-progress
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
 Total 
 As at April 1, 2023 
 11,238.43 
 Additions for the year 
 13,655.75 
 Capitalised during the year 
 (10,047.63)
 As at March 31, 2024 
 14,846.55 
 As at April 1, 2022 
 1,373.24 
 Additions for the year 
 10,930.17 
 Capitalised during the year 
 (1,064.98)
 As at March 31, 2023 
 11,238.43 
Note 2 (b). 2 : Capital work-in-progress Ageing Schedule as of March 31, 2024.
(` in lakh)
Capital work-in-progress Ageing Schedule for current year
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of 
TOTAL
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in Progress
 11,240.23 
 3,606.32 
 - 
 - 
 14,846.55 
Temporary projects suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-	
There are no Projects where the costs have exceeded the original plan approved by the Board of Directors and there are no Projects where 
the project timelines are overdue as on 31st March, 2024
Note 2 (b). 3 : Capital work-in-progress Ageing Schedule as of March 31, 2023.
(` in lakh)
Capital work-in-progress Ageing Schedule for previous year
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of 
TOTAL
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in Progress
 10,111.22 
 1,070.06 
 30.25 
 26.90 
 11,238.43 
Temporary projects suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
There are no Projects where the costs have exceeded the original plan approved by the Board of Directors and there are no Projects where the 
project timelines are overdue as on 31st March, 2023
Note 2 (b). 4 :During the year, the Company has capitalised borrowing cost of ` 859.73 lakh using a capitalisation rate of 7.85% (Previous Year ` 
180.67 lakh at 7.61%)
Annual Report 2023-24
173
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 3 - Right-of-use assets
(` in Lakh)
Particulars
Land and Buildings
As at April 1, 2022
 3,062.65 
Additions
 90.45 
Disposals
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2023
 3,153.10 
Additions
 - 
Disposals
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 3,153.10 
As at April 1, 2022
 95.16 
Depreciation
 44.48 
Impairment loss
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2023
 139.64 
Depreciation
 44.38 
Impairment loss
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 184.02 
Carrying amounts
As at April 1, 2022
 2,967.49 
Balance as at March 31, 2023
 3,013.46 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 2,969.08 
Note 3.1 - Breakdown of lease expenses
(` in lakh)
Particulars
For the Year 
ended  
March 31, 2024
For the Year 
ended  
March 31, 2023
Short-term lease expense
115.18 
106.27 
Total lease expense
115.18 
106.27 
Note 3.2 - Cash outflow on leases
(` in lakh)
Particulars
For the Year 
ended  
March 31, 2024
For the Year 
ended  
March 31, 2023
Repayment of lease liabilities
8.97 
8.22 
Interest on lease liabilities
1.83 
2.58 
Short-term lease expense
115.18 
106.27 
Total cash outflow on leases
125.98 
117.07 
Annual Report 2023-24
174
Note 3.3 - Maturity analysis
(` in lakh)
Particulars
Less than 
1 year
Between 1 and 5 
years
Over 5 years
Weighted average 
effective interest 
rate %
April 1, 2022
Lease liabilities
 8.22 
 20.39 
 - 
 9.00 
Total
 8.22 
 20.39 
 - 
March 31, 2023
Lease liabilities
 8.97 
 11.42 
 - 
 9.00 
Total
 8.97 
 11.42 
 - 
March 31, 2024
Lease liabilities
 9.77 
 1.65 
 - 
 9.00 
Total
 9.77 
 1.65 
 - 
Note 4 (a) : Intangible Assets
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
 Computer  
Software 
 Product  
Registration 
 Total 
Gross Block
 As at April 1, 2023 
 516.53 
 257.02 
 773.55 
 Additions 
 26.16 
 160.77 
 186.93 
 Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 As at March 31, 2024 
 542.69 
 417.79 
 960.48 
 Accumulated amortisation 
 As at April 1, 2023 
 354.44 
 250.57 
 605.01 
 For the year 
 43.67 
 27.08 
 70.75 
 Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 As at March 31, 2024 
 398.11 
 277.65 
 675.76 
 Net Block as at March 31, 2024 
 144.58 
 140.14 
 284.72 
Gross Block
 As at April 1, 2022 
 504.61 
 250.58 
 755.19 
 Additions 
 11.92 
 6.44 
 18.36 
 Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 516.53 
 257.02 
 773.55 
 Accumulated amortisation 
 As at April 1, 2022 
 274.82 
 250.58 
 525.40 
 For the year 
 79.62 
 - 
 79.62 
 Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 354.44 
 250.58 
 605.02 
 Net Block as at March 31, 2023 
 162.09 
 6.44 
 168.53 
Annual Report 2023-24
175
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 4 (b). 1 : Intangible Assets under development
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
 Amount 
 As at April 1, 2023 
 1,421.86 
 Additions for the year 
 395.76 
 Capitalised during the year 
 (160.77)
 As at March 31, 2024 
 1,656.85 
 As at April 1, 2022 
 909.25 
 Additions for the year 
 530.52 
 Capitalised during the year 
 (17.91)
 As at March 31, 2023 
 1,421.86 
Note 4 (b). 2 : Intangible Assets under development Ageing Schedule as of March 31, 2024.
(` in lakh)
Intangible Assets under development Ageing Schedule for current 
year
Amount in Intangible Assets under development for a 
period of 
TOTAL
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in Progress
 385.09 
 469.75 
 494.09 
 307.92 
 1,656.85 
Temporary projects suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
There are no projects as on 31st March, 2024 where the project timelines are overdue.
Note 4 (b). 3 : Intangible Assets under development Ageing Schedule as of March 31, 2023.
(` in lakh)
Intangible Assets under development Ageing Schedule for previous 
year
Amount in Intangible Assets under development for a 
period of 
TOTAL
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in Progress
 512.60 
 601.33 
 137.49 
 170.44 
 1,421.86 
Temporary projects suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
There are no projects as on 31st March, 2023 where the project timelines are overdue.
Annual Report 2023-24
176
 Note 5 : Non-current financial assets- investments
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
A. 
Investments in subsidiaries
(a)	
Investments in equity instruments (Fully Paid, unquoted)
	
(i)	
Behram Chemicals Private Limited
 42.18 
 42.18 
	
	
39,380 (Previous year 39,380) Equity Shares of `100/- each.
	
(ii)	
Comercializadora Agricola Agroastrachem Cia Ltda
 1.00 
 1.00 
	
	
400 (Previous Year 400) Equity Shares of USD 1/- each.
 Less : Provision for diminution in the value 
 (1.00)
 (1.00)
 - 
 - 
 Total (A)
 42.18 
 42.18 
B. 
Investment in equity instruments at fair value through Statement of Profit & Loss (Fully 
paid, unquoted)
 Shamrao Vithal Co-operative Bank Ltd
 0.53 
 0.53 
 2,100 (Previous Year 2,100) equity shares of ` 25/- each.
 Total (B)
 0.53 
 0.53 
TOTAL (A + B)
 42.70 
 42.71 
Note 5.1 : Other disclosures
(` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Aggregate amount of quoted investment
 - 
 - 
Market value of quoted investment
 - 
 - 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 42.70 
 42.70 
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments
 1.00 
 1.00 
Note 5.2
Name of subsidiary - Place of business
 % of holding 
 % of holding 
1.	
Behram Chemicals Private Limited - Mumbai, India
 65.63 
 65.63 
2.	
Comercializadora Agricola Agroastrachem cia Ltda - Colombia
 100.00 
 100.00 
Note 6 : Non-current financial assets
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Unsecured, considered good (unless otherwise stated)
 Security deposits
 172.73 
 326.38 
 TOTAL
 172.73 
 326.38 
Annual Report 2023-24
177
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 7 : Other tax assets / (liabilities) (net)
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Opening balance
 1,092.75 
 242.92 
Less: Current tax payable for the year
 - 
 - 
Add: Taxes paid
 192.66 
 486.07 
Add: Tax for earlier year
 87.54 
 363.76 
Closing balance
 1,372.95 
 1,092.75 
Refer note 41(a) for Tax Reconciliation
Note 8 : Other non-current assets
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1	
Capital advances
 29.82 
 1,156.05 
2	
Balance with Government Authorities
	
i)	
Considered good
 966.97 
 962.15 
	
ii)	
Credit impaired
 93.33 
 93.33 
 Less : Loss allowance
 (93.33)
 (93.33)
 966.97 
 962.15 
 TOTAL
 996.79 
 2,118.20 
Note 9 : Inventories
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
(Valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)
1	
Raw materials
 2,919.31 
 12,805.28 
2	
Work-in-progress
 5,021.96 
 6,155.23 
3	
Finished goods [stock lying with third party ` 1,833.80 lakh(31 March 2023 : NIL)]*
 11,211.48 
 10,123.91 
4	
Stores and Spares
 431.91 
 400.35 
 TOTAL
 19,584.66 
 29,484.77 
Note 9.1 : * During the year ended March 31, 2024, an amount of `9.08 lakh ( previous year ` 89.55 lakh) was charged to the statement of profit 
and loss on account of write-down of inventories.
Note 10 : Current trade receivables (Refer Note 40.2)
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
- Unsecured and considered good
 16,900.40 
 15,490.03 
- Credit impaired
 7.81 
 1.98 
Less : Loss allowance
 (7.81)
 (1.98)
 TOTAL
 16,900.40 
 15,490.03 
Annual Report 2023-24
178
Note 10.1: Trade Receivables Ageing Schedule
Trade Receivables Ageing Schedule as at March 31, 2024
(` in lakh)
Undisputed Trade receivables
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months - 
1 year
1-2 years
More than 
2 years
 – considered good
 15,832.26 
 1,047.71 
 16.27 
 4.16 
 0.00 
 16,900.40 
 – Credit impaired
 0.99 
 6.82 
 7.81 
TOTAL
 15,832.26 
 1,047.71 
 16.27 
 5.15 
 6.82 
 16,908.21 
Trade Receivables Ageing Schedule as at March 31, 2023
(` in lakh)
Undisputed Trade receivables
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months - 
1 year
1-2 years
More than 
2 years
 – considered good
 13,933.49 
 1,288.42 
 250.36 
 16.22 
 1.54 
 15,490.03 
 – Credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.98 
 1.98 
TOTAL
 13,933.49 
 1,288.42 
 250.36 
 16.22 
 3.52 
 15,492.01 
Note 10.2: There are no Disputed Trade Receivables during the current year or previous year.
Note 10.3: Refer note no. 51 for outstanding receivables from Related Party. There are no loss allowances.
Note 11 : Cash and cash equivalents
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1	
Balances with banks:
	
Current accounts
 46.05 
 45.65 
 TOTAL
 46.05 
 45.65 
Note 12 : Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1	
Fixed deposits - Original maturity more than 3 months and less than 12 months (Refer Note 12.1)
 88.61 
 87.55 
2	
Unclaimed dividend accounts
 4.82 
 4.70 
 TOTAL
 93.43 
 92.25 
Note 12.1: Fixed deposits are restricted and the same is held towards security of bank guarantees.
Note 13 : Current financial assets - loans
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Unsecured, considered good, unless otherwise stated
 Advances to employees
 4.04 
 2.04 
 TOTAL
 4.04 
 2.04 
Note 13.1: No funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of 
funds) by the Company to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) by or on behalf of the Company or provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
Annual Report 2023-24
179
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
The Company has not received any funds from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries.
Note 14 : Other current financial assets
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1	
Security Deposits
 20.47 
 19.68 
2	
Merchandise exports incentive scheme - scripts in hand
 117.57 
 24.65 
3	
Interest accrued on financial assets
 7.00 
 15.24 
4	
Claims receivable
 51.08 
 - 
 TOTAL
 196.12 
 59.57 
Note 15 : Other current assets
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1 	
Advances to suppliers 
 131.61 
 122.05 
2	
Balance with government authorities
	
i)	
Unsecured and considered good
 2,288.48 
 4,013.92 
	
ii)	
Credit impaired
 181.03 
 16.18 
	
Less : Loss allowance
 (181.03)
 (16.18)
Total Balance with government authorities (net)
 2,288.48 
 4,013.92 
3	
Prepaid expenses
 499.62 
 495.71 
4	
Advance to related party (Refer note 51)
 3.27 
 3.27 
 TOTAL
 2,922.99 
 4,634.95 
Note 16 : Share Capital
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1
 Authorised : 
 2,50,00,000 (Previous year: 2,50,00,000) Equity shares of the par value of ` 10 each 
 2,500.00 
 2,500.00 
 TOTAL 
 2,500.00 
 2,500.00 
2
 Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up: 
1,96,09,205 (Previous year: 1,96,05,660) Equity shares fully paid up
 1,960.92 
 1,960.57 
 TOTAL 
 1,960.92 
 1,960.57 
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
3
Reconciliation of number of shares outstanding at the beginning and end of the year :
 No. of shares 
 No. of shares 
Equity shares :
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 1,96,05,660 
 1,95,97,555 
Issued during the year
 3,545 
 8,105 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 1,96,09,205 
 1,96,05,660 
Annual Report 2023-24
180
4	
Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to equity shares
	
Equity Shares: The Company has one class of Equity shares having a par value of ` 10 per share. Each Shareholder is eligible for one vote 
per share held. All Equity Shareholders are eligible to receive dividends in proportion to their shareholdings. The dividends proposed by the 
Board of Directors are subject to the approval of the Shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. In the event of liquidation, the 
Equity Shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion 
to their shareholding.
5	
Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company
Equity shares
 As at March 31, 2024 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 No. of shares 
 % of share 
holding 
 No. of shares 
 % of share  
holding 
1	
Godrej Agrovet Limited - Holding company
1,26,99,054
64.76%
1,26,99,054
64.77%
6 	
Shares held by promoters at the end of the year in the company is set out below:
Equity shares
 As at March 31, 2024 
 As at March 31, 2023 
Sl 
No. 
Promoter name
 No. of 
shares 
 % of total 
shares 
% Change 
during the 
year
 No. of 
shares 
 % of 
total 
shares 
% Change 
during the 
year
1
 Godrej Agrovet Limited - Holding company
1,26,99,054
64.76%
-0.01%
1,26,99,054
64.77%
1.48%
2
 Ashok Hiremath
 3,90,802 
1.99%
0.00%
3,90,802
1.99%
0.00%
7	
3,545 equity shares were issued as a result of the exercise of vested options arising from the:
	
- 	
ESOP 2015: 2,000 shares (Exercise price:- ` 387.35/share)
	
- 	
ESOP 2012(Amended): 1,545 shares (Exercise price:- ` 10/share)
Note 17 : Other equity
(` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1.	
Retained earnings
 27,510.13 
 32,559.85 
2.	
General reserve
 1,249.28 
 1,249.28 
3.	
Capital redemption reserve
 0.30 
 0.30 
4.	
Employee stock options outstanding
 38.07 
 35.81 
5.	
Securities premium
 6,108.95 
 6,073.56 
TOTAL EQUITY
 34,906.73 
 39,918.80 
General reserve
General reserve is a free reserve which is created by transferring fund from retained earnings to meet future obligations and purposes.
Capital redemption reserve
Capital redemption reserve was created for buy back of shares. The company may issue fully paid-up bonus shares out of the capital redemption 
reserve.
Employee stock options outstanding
The employee stock options outstanding is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees under the Company’s stock 
option plan.
Securities Premium
Securities Premium is used to record the premium received on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of the 
Annual Report 2023-24
181
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Companies Act, 2013.
Note 18 : Non-current financial liablities-Borrowings
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Unsecured from Banks
Term Loan from Bank (Refer Note 18.1)
 10,000.00 
 1,086.25 
Unsecured Others
Non convertible debentures (Refer Note 18.2)
 4,900.00 
 - 
Intercorporate deposits (Refer Note 18.3)
 5,000.00 
 - 
TOTAL
 19,900.00 
 1,086.25 
Note 18.1 : Term Loan from Bank amounting to `10,000 lakhs is repayable in quarterly installments commencing from January 01, 2026 . Current 
interest rate of the loan is 7.85% (Previous year NIL) 
Term loan from Bank during the previous year carries interest rate at 7.60% to 7.98% and is repayable over a period till FY 2024-25. During the 
current year, ` 942.92 lakh (previous year `4,503.93 Lakh) has been disclosed under current maturity of Long term Borrowing. 
Note 18.2 Non convertible debentures (NCD) is repayable on August 21, 2026 . Interest rate of NCD is 8.40%. During the current year interest of 
`250.78lakh (Previous year ` NIL) has been disclosed under current maturities of long term borrowings.
Note 18.3 Inter corporate deposits (ICD) from Godrej Agrovet Limited is repayable after three year in February, 2027. Interest rate of ICD is 8.5%.
The Company does not have any continuing default as on the Balance Sheet date in repayment of loans and interest.
Note 19 : Lease liabilities
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Lease liabilities
 1.65 
 11.42 
TOTAL
 1.65 
 11.42 
Note 20 : Other non-current financial liabilities
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Employee benefit payable
 205.00 
 134.92 
TOTAL
 205.00 
 134.92 
Note 21 : Non-current liablities - provisions
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
 Provision for employee benefits :
 - Provision for compensated absences
 44.16 
 47.82 
TOTAL
 44.16 
 47.82 
Note 22 : Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Deferred tax liabilities (net) (Refer note 42)
 671.56 
 2,092.09 
TOTAL
 671.56 
 2,092.09 
Annual Report 2023-24
182
 Note 23 : Current Financial Liabilities - Borrowings
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Unsecured
(a)	
Cash credit/Overdraft from banks (Refer Note 23.1)
 1.32 
 268.99 
(a)	
Working Capital loan
	
Rupee (Refer Note 23.3)
 11,294.45 
 13,563.31 
(b)	
Commercial Paper (Refer Note 23.4)
 17,000.00 
 12,500.00 
(c)	
Buyers credit (Refer Note 23.2)
 - 
 2,195.53 
(d)	
Current maturities of long-term debt - Term Loan from Bank and interest on NCD (Refer Note 18.1)
 1,193.70 
 4,503.93 
TOTAL
 29,489.47 
 33,031.76 
Note 23.1 : Cash Credit from banks are repayable on demand and carries interest at MCLR + 0.25% (Previous year - MCLR + 0.25%).
Note 23.2 : No Buyers Credit transaction as at year end. (Previous Year: Buyers Credit from banks are repayable on as per due dates rates 
between 7.46% pa to 8.05% pa)
Note 23.3 : Working capital loan (Rupee) from banks carries interest rate at 7.70% to 9.00%(Previous year 7.45% to 8.25%). These loans are 
repayable on different dates within six months from the date of Financial Statements.
Note 23.4 : Commercial Paper carries interest rate of 8.12% to 8.24% (Previous year - 7.56.% to 7.84%) and are repayable on different dates within 
6 months from the date of the Financial Statements.
Note 24 : Lease liabilities
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Lease liabilities
 9.77 
 8.97 
TOTAL
 9.77 
 8.97 
Note 25 : Current - trade payables
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1	
Trade payables
	
a.	
Outstanding dues of Micro and Small Enterprises (refer note 25.1)
 439.10 
 304.78 
	
b.	
Outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro and Small Enterprises
 8,489.54 
 17,419.82 
TOTAL
 8,928.64 
 17,724.60 
Annual Report 2023-24
183
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 25.1: Additional disclosure related to Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
A	
Principal amount remaining unpaid
 439.10 
 304.78 
B	
Interest due thereon
 - 
 - 
C	
Interest paid by the company in term of section 16 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
Development Act, 2006 along with the amount of the payment made to the suppliers beyond the 
appointed day during the year
 - 
 - 
D	
Interest due and payable for the year of delay in making payment (which have been paid but 
beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the interest specified under Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
 - 
 - 
E	
Interest accrued and remaining unpaid
 - 
 - 
F	
Further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such date when 
the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise
 - 
 - 
Note 25.2: Micro and small enterprises as defined under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (MSMED Act) have 
been identified by the Company on the basis of the information available with the Company and the auditors have relied on the same. Accordingly, 
` Nil is overdue as on March 31, 2024 (Previous year ` Nil) to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises on account of principal or interest.
Note 25.3: Trade Payables Ageing Schedule
Trade Payable Ageing Schedule for current year
(` in lakh)
Undisputed Trade Payable
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
 Accrued 
expenses 
Not due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
> 2 Years
(i)	
MSME
 - 
 290.53 
 148.57 
 - 
 - 
 439.10 
(ii)	
Others
 2,536.78 
 5,632.78 
 318.01 
 0.15 
 1.81 
 8,489.53 
TOTAL
 2,536.78 
 5,923.32 
 466.57 
 0.15 
 1.81 
 8,928.64 
Trade Payables Ageing Schedule for previous year
(` in lakh)
Undisputed Trade Payable
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
 Accrued 
expenses 
Not due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
> 2 Years
(i) 	
MSME
 - 
 298.61 
 6.17 
 - 
-
 304.78 
(ii) 	
Others
 3,962.45 
 6,218.28 
 7,198.19 
 27.73 
 13.17 
 17,419.82 
TOTAL
 3,962.45 
 6,516.89 
 7,204.36 
 27.73 
 13.17 
 17,724.60 
Note 25.4: There are no Disputed Trade Payable during the current year or earlier year.
Note 26 : Other financial liabilities
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1	
Non trade payables
 621.10 
 1,032.46 
2	
Derivative liability
	
- Foreign exchange forward contracts not designated as hedge
 12.55 
 35.06 
3	
Unclaimed dividend
 4.82 
 4.70 
4	
Others (includes accrual for bonus, incentives, etc.)
 394.01 
 359.07 
TOTAL
 1,032.48 
 1,431.29 
There are no amount due to be credited to Investor Education and Protection Fund in accordance with Section 125 (2) (c) of the Companies Act, 
2013 as at the year end.
Annual Report 2023-24
184
Note 27 : Other current liabilities
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1	
Advances from customers
 3.34 
 206.68 
2	
Employee payable
 40.34 
 34.87 
3	
Statutory liabilities 
 84.52 
 119.58 
TOTAL
 128.20 
 361.13 
Note 28 : Current liabilities - provisions
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1	
Provision for employee benefits 
	
- Provision for compensated absences
 3.91 
 3.19 
	
- Provision for gratuity (Refer note 39)
 112.34 
 42.32 
2	
Provision for sales return (Refer note 28.1)
 19.70 
 29.49 
TOTAL
 135.95 
 75.00 
Note 28.1 - Movement of Provision for Sales return
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Opening balance
 29.49 
 28.59 
Less:- Utilised during the year
 - 
 - 
Less:- Reversed during the year
 (9.79)
 - 
Add:- Provision for the year
 - 
 0.90 
Closing balance
 19.70 
 29.49 
Note 28.2 : The Company makes a provision on estimated sales return based on historical experience. The Sales returns are generally expected 
within a year.
Note 29 : Revenue from operations (Refer Note 29.1)
 (` in lakh)
 For the Year 
ended 
March 31, 2024 
 For the Year 
ended
 March 31, 2023 
1
Sale of products 
 - Export sales
 32,758.93 
 38,232.54 
 - Domestic sales
 13,011.19 
 24,584.08 
TOTAL
 45,770.12 
 62,816.62 
2
Other operating revenue
 - Others
 47.95 
 - 
 47.95 
 - 
TOTAL
 45,818.07 
 62,816.62 
Annual Report 2023-24
185
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 29.1
1
Sales by performance obligations
 (` in lakh)
Particulars
 For the Year 
ended 
March 31, 2024 
 For the Year 
ended
 March 31, 2023 
Upon delivery
 14,638.41 
 24,776.95 
Upon shipment
 31,131.71 
 38,039.67 
TOTAL
 45,770.12 
 62,816.62 
2
Reconciliation of revenue from contract with customers
 (` in lakh)
Particulars
 For the Year 
ended 
March 31, 2024 
 For the Year 
ended
 March 31, 2023 
Revenue from contract with customer as per the contract price
 45,878.49 
 63,123.19 
Adjustments made to contract price on account of :-
a)	
Commission / Discounts
 (108.37)
 (306.57)
 45,770.12 
 62,816.62 
3
Contractual Liabilities 
 3.34 
 206.68 
The amount of `206.68 lakh included in contract liabilities at 31 March 2023, has been recognised 
as revenue during the year ended 31 March 2024.
No information is provided about remaining performance obligation at 31 March 2024 that have 
an original expected duration of one year or less as allowed by IND AS - 115
Note 30 : Other income
 (` in lakh)
 For the Year 
ended 
March 31, 2024 
 For the Year 
ended
 March 31, 2023 
1
Export incentives
 46.11 
 33.09 
2
Interest income
(a)	
Instruments measured at amortised cost
	
(i)	
Interest received on fixed deposits
 2.28 
 364.93 
	
(ii)	
Interest received on Inter Corporate Deposit
 - 
 26.32 
	
(ii)	
Interest received on others
 6.81 
 11.28 
3
Insurance claims
 - 
 11.66 
4
Foreign exchange difference (net)
 497.12 
 839.20 
5
Miscellaneous income
 6.04 
 10.03 
6
Reversal of allowance for other receivables
 - 
 7.11 
TOTAL
 558.36 
 1,303.62 
Annual Report 2023-24
186
Note 31 : Cost of materials consumed
 (` in lakh)
 For the Year 
ended 
March 31, 2024 
 For the Year 
ended
 March 31, 2023 
1
Stocks at the beginning of the year
 12,805.28 
 8,044.14 
2
Add : Purchases
 21,996.34 
 50,844.60 
 34,801.62 
 58,888.74 
3
Less: Stocks at the end of the year
 2,919.31 
 12,805.28 
TOTAL
 31,882.31 
 46,083.46 
Note 32 : Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress
 (` in lakh)
 For the Year 
ended 
March 31, 2024 
 For the Year 
ended
 March 31, 2023 
1
Stocks at the beginning of the year
(a)	
Finished goods
 10,123.91 
 4,489.43 
(b)	
Work-in-progress
 6,155.23 
 5,830.68 
 Total Stock at the beginning of the year
 16,279.14 
 10,320.11 
2
Less : Stocks at the end of the year
 (a)	
Finished goods
 11,211.48 
 10,123.91 
 (b)	
Work-in-progress
 5,021.96 
 6,155.23 
 Total Stock at the end of the year
 16,233.44 
 16,279.14 
 Changes in the stock of finished goods and work-in-progress
 45.70 
 (5,959.03)
Note 33 : Employee benefit expense
 (` in lakh)
 For the Year 
ended 
March 31, 2024 
 For the Year 
ended
 March 31, 2023 
1
Salaries, wages, bonus and allowances
 5,476.58 
 4,811.11 
2
Contribution to provident, gratuity and other funds
 290.99 
 254.98 
3
Expense on employee stock based payments (Refer Note 45)
 30.11 
 33.07 
4
Staff welfare expense
 376.72 
 126.72 
TOTAL
 6,174.40 
 5,225.88 
Note 34 : Finance Costs
 (` in lakh)
 For the Year 
ended 
March 31, 2024 
 For the Year 
ended
 March 31, 2023 
1
Interest expense
Paid towards loans and cash credit
 2,487.47 
 2,018.41 
2
Other borrowing costs
 36.95 
 55.60 
TOTAL
 2,524.42 
 2,074.01 
Annual Report 2023-24
187
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 35 : Depreciation and amortisation expense
 (` in lakh)
 For the Year 
ended 
March 31, 2024 
 For the Year 
ended
 March 31, 2023 
1
Depreciation on Property, Plant & Equipment
 3,584.39 
 3,247.10 
2
Amortisation of intangible assets
 70.75 
 79.62 
3
Amortisation of right of use asset
 44.38 
 44.48 
Less: capitalised to Intangible assets under development
 (68.22)
 - 
TOTAL
 3,631.30 
 3,371.20 
Note 36 : Other expenses
 (` in lakh)
 For the Year 
ended 
March 31, 2024 
 For the Year 
ended
 March 31, 2023 
1
Power and fuel
 3,586.59 
 4,567.75 
2
Rent
 115.18 
 106.27 
3
Rates and taxes
 311.60 
 64.67 
4
Effluent treatment plant charges
 617.02 
 663.62 
5
Stores and spares consumed 
 403.77 
 418.95 
6
Repairs and maintenance
(a)	
Machinery
 470.65 
 514.90 
(b)	
Buildings
 14.39 
 27.19 
(c)	
Other assets
 74.86 
 21.67 
7
Insurance 
 378.39 
 644.77 
8
Auditor's remuneration (Refer Note 36 (a) below)
 23.87 
 22.18 
9
Freight
 262.87 
 751.02 
10
Professional and legal fees
 310.88 
 558.34 
11
Directors sitting fees
 39.00 
 31.50 
12
Allowances for doubtful debts
 5.83 
 1.98 
13
Security charges
 225.62 
 168.33 
14
Loss on sale of Property, Plant and Equipment
 11.14 
 52.35 
15
Research expenses
 270.04 
 148.53 
16
Travelling expenses
 159.14 
 79.91 
17
Corporate social responsibility (Refer Note No. 50)
 169.02 
 180.73 
18
Miscellaneous expenses
 856.07 
 815.16 
TOTAL
 8,305.93 
 9,839.82 
Note 36 (a) : Auditor’s remuneration
 (` in lakh)
 For the Year 
ended 
March 31, 2024 
 For the Year 
ended
 March 31, 2023 
(a)
Audit Fees (including limited reviews)
 20.75 
 20.75 
(b)
Other matters (Certification)
 1.25 
 0.75 
(c)
Reimbursement of Expenses
 1.87 
 0.68 
TOTAL
 23.87 
 22.18 
Annual Report 2023-24
188
Note 37 : Earnings per share
Calculation of weighted average number of equity shares
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
1
Calculation of weighted average number of equity shares - Basic
(a) 	
Number of shares at the beginning of the year
 1,96,05,660 
 1,95,97,555 
	
Number of shares outstanding at the end of the year
 1,96,09,205 
 1,96,05,660 
	
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year
 1,96,07,450 
 1,96,03,024 
2
Calculation of weighted average number of equity shares - Diluted
(a)	
Number of shares at the beginning of the year
 1,96,05,660 
 1,95,97,555 
	
Effect of potential equity shares
 3,882 
 9,097 
	
Revised number of potential shares at the beginning of the year
 1,96,09,542 
 1,96,06,652 
(b)	
Number of equity shares outstanding at the end of the year
 1,96,09,205 
 1,96,05,660 
	
Effect of potential equity shares
 2,877 
 3,882 
	
Revised number of potential equity shares outstanding at the end of the year
 1,96,12,082 
 1,96,09,542 
	
Weighted average number of potential equity shares outstanding during the year
 1,96,10,327 
 1,96,06,906 
3
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (Basic/diluted)
Profit (loss) for the year, attributable to the owners of the Company
 (4,698.71)
 2,552.04 
Profit (loss) for the year, attributable to ordinary shareholders
 (4,698.71)
 2,552.04 
4
Basic Earnings per share (`)
 (23.96)
 13.02 
5
Diluted Earnings per share (`)
 (23.96)
 13.02 
6
Nominal Value of Shares (`)
 10 
 10 
Note 37.1
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on profit attributed to equity shareholders and weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding after adjustments for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.
Annual Report 2023-24
189
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 38 : Financial Ratios
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Change %
Reasons for 
variation
(a)
Current Ratio (refer note 38. 1)
 1.00 
 0.95 
5.7%
Refer Note. 38.11
(b)
Debt Equity ratio (refer note 38. 2)
 1.34 
 0.81 
64.4%
(c)
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR) (refer note 38. 3)
 0.20 
 1.25 
-83.9%
(d)
Return on Equity Ratio (refer note 38. 4)
-11.9%
6.3%
-290.5%
(e)
Inventory turnover (refer note 38. 5)
 1.30 
 1.67 
-21.9%
(f)
Trade Receivables turnover ratio (refer note 38. 6)
 2.80 
 2.75 
1.7%
(g)
Trade payables turnover ratio (refer note 38. 7)
 1.62 
 2.67 
-39.4%
(h)
Net capital turnover ratio (refer note 38. 8)
 37.65 
 37.38 
0.7%
(i)
Net profit ratio (refer note 38. 9)
-10.3%
4.1%
-352.4%
(j)
Return on Capital employed (refer note 38. 10)
-4.3%
7.3%
-159.3%
Note 38. 1 Current ratio : Current assets / Current liabilities
Note 38. 2 Debt Equity ratio : Total Debt / Shareholder’s Equity
Note 38. 3 Debt Service Coverage Ratio : (Net Profit after taxes + Non-cash operating expenses like depreciation and other amortizations + 
Interest + other adjustments like loss on sale of Fixed assets/Investment etc.) / (Interest & Lease Payments + Principal Repayments)
Note 38. 4 Return on Equity Ratio : Net Profits after taxes – Preference Dividend (if any) / Average Shareholder’s Equity
Note 38. 5 Inventory turnover : Cost of goods sold / Average Inventory
Note 38. 6 Trade Receivables turnover ratio : Net Credit Sales / Average Trade Receivable
Note 38. 7 Trade payables turnover ratio : Net Credit Purchases / Average Trade Payables
Note 38. 8 Net capital turnover ratio : Net Sales / Working Capital
Note 38. 9 Net profit ratio : Net Profit / Net Sales
Note 38. 10 Return on Capital employed : Earning before interest and taxes / (Tangible Net Worth + Total Debt + Deferred Tax Liability)
Reasons for variation:
Note 38. 11 The Debt-Equity, Debt service coverage ratio(DSCR), Return on Equity, Net proft ratio and Return on Capital employed for the current 
financial year are less than that of previous financial year. The company was in losses due to challenging market conditions in the agro-chemical 
industry. The company’s debt has increased to meet its working capital requirements.Trade payables are down due to lower purchases in current 
year as compared to previous years.
Note 39 : Employee benefits
The Company contributes to the following post-employment plans in India.
Defined Contribution Plan:
The Company pays provident fund contributions to publicly administered provident funds as per local regulations and are recognised as expense 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss during the period in which the employee renders the related service. There are no further obligations other than 
the contributions payable to the appropriate authorities. 
The Company recognised ` 220.14 lakh for the year ended March 31, 2024 (Previous Year ` 187.78 lakh ) towards provident fund contribution in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Defined Benefit Plan:
The Company’s gratuity scheme is defined benefit plan. The Company’s liability for the defined benefit scheme is actuarially determined based on 
the projected unit credit method. The Company’s net obligations in respect of such plans is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit 
that the employees have earned in return for their services and the current and prior periods that benefit is discounted to determine its present value 
and the fair value of the plan asset is deducted. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.
In accordance with the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, the Company has a defined benefit plan which provides for gratuity 
payments. The plan provides a lump sum gratuity payment to eligible employees at retirement or termination of their employment. The amounts 
are based on the respective employee’s last drawn salary and the years of employment with the Company. 
Annual Report 2023-24
190
Liabilities in respect of the gratuity plan are determined by an actuarial valuation, based upon which the Company makes annual contributions to 
the Group Gratuity cum Life Assurance Schemes administered by the LIC of India, a funded defined benefit plan for qualifying employees. Trustees 
administer the contributions made by the Company to the gratuity scheme. 
The most recent actuarial valuation of the defined benefit obligation along with the fair valuation of the plan assets in relation to the gratuity scheme 
was carried out as at March 31, 2024. The present value of the defined benefit obligations and the related current service cost and past service 
cost, were measured using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
Based on the actuarial valuation obtained in this respect, the following table sets out the details of the employee benefit obligation and the plan 
assets as at balance sheet date:
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Defined benefit obligation
 (357.33)
 (253.08)
Fair value of plan assets
 244.99 
 210.75 
Net defined benefit (obligation)/assets
 (112.34)
 (42.33)
i. 	
Movement in net defined benefit (asset) / liability
	
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for net defined benefit (asset) / liability and its 
components
(` in lakh)
Defined Benefit Obligation
Fair value of plan assets
Net defined benefit (asset) 
liability
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2023
Opening balance
 253.08 
 226.86 
 210.76 
 215.63 
 42.32 
 11.23 
Included in profit or loss
Current service cost
 33.11 
 28.14 
 - 
 33.11 
 28.14 
Past service cost
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Interest cost (income)
 18.96 
 16.63 
 15.79 
 15.81 
 3.17 
 0.82 
Liability / Assets transferred in / 
Acquisitions
 18.44 
 3.63 
 18.44 
 3.63 
 - 
 - 
Included in OCI
Remeasurement loss (gain):
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial loss (gain) arising from:
 69.09 
 20.29 
 - 
 - 
 69.09 
 20.29 
Demographic assumptions
 - 
 (2.00)
 - 
 - 
 (2.00)
Financial assumptions
 10.74 
 (4.49)
 - 
 10.74 
 (4.49)
Experience adjustment
 58.35 
 26.78 
 - 
 58.35 
 26.78 
Return on plan assets excluding 
interest income
 (6.98)
 (10.29)
 6.98 
 10.29 
 392.67 
 295.55 
 238.00 
 224.78 
 154.66 
 70.77 
Others
Contributions paid by the employer
 - 
 - 
 42.32 
 28.46 
 (42.32)
 (28.46)
Benefits paid
 (35.34)
 (42.47)
 (35.34)
 (42.47)
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 357.33 
 253.08 
 244.99 
 210.76 
 112.34 
 42.32 
(` In lakh)
Represented by
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Net defined benefit asset 
 - 
 - 
Net defined benefit liability
 112.34 
 42.32 
 112.34 
 42.32 
Annual Report 2023-24
191
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
ii. 	
Plan assets
	
Plan assets comprise the following
(` In lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Cash And Cash Equivalents
 1.32 
 4.85 
Insurer managed fund 
 243.67 
 205.91 
 244.99 
 210.76 
iii. 	
Actuarial assumptions
	
The following were the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date (expressed as weighted averages).
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Discount rate
7.21%
7.49%
Future salary growth
5.00%
5.00%
Rate of employee turnover
For service 4 years and below 
10.00% p.a. For service 5 years and 
above 2.00% p.a.
For service 4 years and below 
10.00% p.a. For service 5 years and 
above 2.00% p.a.
Mortality rate
Indian Assured Lives Mortality
 2012-14 (Urban)
Indian Assured Lives Mortality
 2012-14 (Urban)
	
Assumptions regarding future mortality have been based on published statistics and mortality tables. 
	
As at 31st March 2024, the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 17 years (31st March 2023- 17 years) 
iv. 	
Sensitivity analysis
	
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would 
have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below.
(` in Lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Increase
Decrease 
Increase
Decrease 
Discount rate (1% movement)
 (36.09)
 42.98 
 (25.51)
 30.17 
Future salary growth (1% movement)
 43.51 
 (37.11)
 30.63 
 (26.29)
Rate of employee turnover (1% movement)
 7.74 
 (9.05)
 6.28 
 (7.26)
	
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation as a 
result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
v. 	
Expected future cash flows
	
The expected future cash flows in respect of gratuity as at March 31, 2024 were as follows
(` in Lakh)
Expected future benefit payments
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
1st Following year
 15.85 
 7.15 
2nd Following year
 14.93 
 7.57 
3rd Following year
 13.43 
 18.57 
4th Following year
 19.63 
 10.69 
5th Following year
 21.90 
 10.22 
Thereafter
 131.00 
 109.80 
	
Other long-term employee benefits: 
	
Compensated absences are payable to employees at the rate of daily salary for each day of accumulated leave on death or on resignation 
or upon retirement. The charge towards compensated absences for the year ended March 31, 2024 based on actuarial valuation using the 
projected accrued benefit method is ` 23.02 lakh (Previous year : ` 10.59 lakh).
	
Terminal Benefits: All terminal benefits including voluntary retirement compensation are fully written off to the Statement of Profit & Loss.
Annual Report 2023-24
192
Note 40: Financial instruments – Fair values and risk management
Note 40.1 : Accounting classification and fair values
Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy, are presented below. 
It does not include the fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a 
reasonable approximation of fair value.
 (` in lakh) 
March 31, 2024
 Carrying amount 
Fair value
 FVTPL 
 FVOCI 
Amortised 
Cost 
 Total 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets 
I
Non Current Financial Assets
1	
Investments
 0.53 
 - 
 - 
 0.53 
 - 
 0.53 
 - 
 0.53 
2	
Loans
 - 
 - 
 172.73 
 172.73 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
II
Current Financial Assets
1	
Trade receivables
 - 
 - 
16,900.40 
16,900.40 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2	
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 - 
 46.05 
 46.05 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
3	
Bank balance other than (2) above
 - 
 - 
 93.43 
 93.43 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
4.	
Loans and advances
 - 
 - 
 4.04 
 4.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
5	
Others
 117.57 
 - 
 78.55 
 196.12 
 - 
 117.55 
 - 
 117.55 
 118.10 
 - 
17,295.20 
17,413.30 
 - 
 118.08 
 - 
 118.08 
Financial liabilities 
I
Non Current Financial Liablities
1	
Borrowings
 - 
 - 
19,900.00 
19,900.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2	
Lease liabilities
 - 
 - 
 1.65 
 1.65 
 - 
 - 
 - 
II
Current Financial liabilities 
1	
Borrowings
 - 
 - 
29,489.47 
29,489.47 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2	
Trade payables
 - 
 - 
 8,928.64 
 8,928.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
3	
Other financial liabilities
 12.55 
 - 
 1,019.93 
 1,032.48 
 - 
 12.55 
 - 
 12.55 
 12.55 
 - 
59,339.69 
59,352.24 
 - 
 12.55 
 - 
 12.55 
Annual Report 2023-24
193
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 (` in lakh) 
March 31, 2023
 Carrying amount 
 Fair value 
 FVTPL 
 FVOCI 
 Amortised 
Cost 
 Total 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
I
Non-current Financial Assets
1	
Investments
 0.53 
 - 
 - 
 0.53 
 - 
 0.53 
 - 
 0.53 
2	
Loans
 - 
 - 
 326.38 
 326.38 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
II
Current Financial Assets
1	
Trade receivables
 - 
 - 
 15,490.03 
 15,490.03 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2	
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 - 
 45.65 
 45.65 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
3	
Bank balance other than (2) above
 - 
 - 
 92.25 
 92.25 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
4	
Loans and advances
 - 
 - 
 2.04 
 2.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
5	
Others
 24.65 
 - 
 34.92 
 59.57 
 - 
 24.65 
 - 
 24.65 
 25.18 
 - 
 15,991.27 
16,016.45 
 - 
 25.18 
 - 
 25.18 
I
Non-current Financial Liabilities 
1	
Lease Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 11.42 
 11.42 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2	
Borrowings
 1,086.25 
 1,086.25 
3	
Other non-current financial liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
II
Current Financial Liabilities 
1	
Borrowings
 - 
 - 
 33,031.76 
 33,031.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2	
Trade payables
 - 
 - 
 17,724.60 
 17,724.60 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
3	
Other financial liabilities
 35.06 
 - 
 1,396.23 
 1,431.29 
 - 
 35.06 
 - 
 35.06 
 35.06 
 - 
 53,250.26 
53,285.32 
 - 
 35.06 
 - 
 35.06 
Valuation technique used to determine fair value
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include :
- 	
the fair value of the forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
- 	
the fair value of the remaining financial instruments is determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
All of the resulting fair value estimates are included in level 2 where the fair values have been determined based on present values and the discount 
rates used were adjusted for counterparty or own credit risk.
Type
Valuation Technique
Significant 
observable inputs
Inter-relationship between 
significant unobservabel 
inputs and fair value 
measurements
Forward 
contract 
for 
foreign 
exchange contracts
The fair value of the forward contract for foreign 
exchange contracts is determined using forward 
exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
N.A
N.A
Other financial instruments
The fair value of the remaining financial instruments 
is determined using discounted cashflow analysis.
N.A
N.A
Annual Report 2023-24
194
C. 	
Financial risk management
	
The Company has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments:
 
z
Credit risk ;
 
z
Liquidity risk; 
 
z
Market risk;
 
z
Currency risk;
	
i. 	
Risk management framework
	
	
The Company’s board of directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company’s risk management 
framework. The board of directors has established the Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for developing and 
monitoring the Company’s risk management policies. The committee reports regularly to the board of directors on its activities.
	
	
The Company’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set appropriate 
risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly 
to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company’s activities. The Company, through its training and management standards 
and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles 
and obligations.
	
	
The audit committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the company’s risk management policies and procedures, 
and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Company. The audit committee is 
assisted in its oversight role by internal audit. Internal audit undertakes both regular and adhoc reviews of risk management controls 
and procedures, the results of which are reported to the audit committee.
Note 40.2 : Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, 
and arises principally from the Company’s receivables from customers and loans and advances.
The carrying amount of following financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure:
Trade receivables and loans and advances
The Company’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer and the geography in which it 
operates. Credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously monitoring the creditworthiness of customers 
to which the Company grants credit terms in the normal course of business. 
The Company has established a credit policy under which each new customer is analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Company’s 
standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. The Company’s export sales are backed by letters of credit and Trade Credit 
Insurance policy from Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India (ECGC).
The company individually monitors the sanctioned credit limits as against the outstanding balances. Accordingly, the Company makes specific 
provisions against such trade receivables wherever required and monitors the same at periodic intervals.
The Company monitors each loans and advances given and makes any specific provision wherever required.
The Company establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of expected losses in respect of trade receivables and loans 
and advances.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables by type of counterparty was as follows.
(` in lakh)
Carrying amount
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Exports
 10,958.23 
 6,934.15 
Domestic
 5,942.18 
 8,555.88 
Total of Trade Receivables (Net of Loss Allowance)
 16,900.40 
 15,490.03 
Impairment - The ageing of trade receivables that were not impaired is as per Note 10. 1.
Annual Report 2023-24
195
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade and other receivables during the year was as follows:
(` in lakh)
For Trade Receivables
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balance as at the beginning of the year
 1.98 
 - 
Loss allowance recognised
 5.83 
 1.98 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
Balance as at the end of the year
 7.81 
 1.98 
Other financial assets
This comprises mainly of balances with banks, deposits with Government authorities and other receivables. Credit risk arising from these financial 
assets is limited and there is no collateral held against these because the counterparties are banks and government organizations. The Company 
considers that its balances with banks have low credit risk based on the external credit ratings of the counterparties. The Company has created the 
loss allowance for other receivables on specific identification basis. 
Cash and cash equivalents
The Company held cash and cash equivalents of ` 46.05 lakh at March 31, 2024 (previous year ` 45.65 lakh) . The cash and cash equivalents are 
held with bank and financial institution counterparties with good credit rating.
Note 40.3 : Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by 
delivering cash or another financial asset. The Company’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient 
liquidity to meet its liabilities when they are due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking 
damage to the Company’s reputation.
Exposure to liquidity risk
The company has sufficient current assets to manage the liquidity risk, if any in relation to current financial liabilities.
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The amounts are gross and undiscounted, and 
include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting agreements.
 (` in lakh) 
March 31, 2024
 Contractual cash flows
 Carrying 
amount 
 Total 
 0-6 
months 
 6-12 
months 
 1-2 
years 
 2-5 years 
 More than 
5 years 
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Non current, non derivative financial liabilities
Long term borrowings
 19,900.00 
 19,900.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19,900.00 
 - 
Lease Liability
 1.65 
 1.65 
 - 
 - 
 1.65 
 - 
 - 
Current, non derivative financial liabilities
Lease Liability
 9.77 
 9.77 
 4.89 
 4.87 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Cash credit from bank
 1.32 
 1.32 
 1.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Working capital loans
 11,294.45 
 11,294.45 
 11,294.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Commercial Paper
 17,000.00 
 17,000.00 
 17,000.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Current maturities of long-term debt
 1,193.70 
 1,193.70 
 1,193.70 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade payables
 8,928.64 
 8,928.64 
 8,707.42 
 64.94 
 153.44 
 2.84 
 - 
Other current financial liabilities
 1,019.93 
 1,019.93 
 1,019.93 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Derivative liability
 12.55 
 12.55 
 - 
 12.55 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 59,362.00 
 59,362.00 
 39,221.71 
 82.36 
 155.09 
 19,902.84 
 - 
Annual Report 2023-24
196
 (` in lakh) 
March 31, 2023
 Contractual cash flows
 Carrying 
amount 
 Total 
 0-6 months 
 6-12 
months 
 1-2 
years 
 2-5 years 
 More than 
5 years 
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Non current, non derivative financial liabilities
Long term borrowings
 1,086.25 
 1,086.25 
 - 
 - 
 1,086.25 
 - 
 - 
Lease Liability
 11.42 
 11.42 
 - 
 - 
 9.77 
 1.65 
 - 
Current, non derivative financial liabilities
Lease Liability
 8.97 
 8.97 
 4.49 
 4.48 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Cash credit from bank
 268.99 
 268.99 
 268.99 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Working capital loans
 13,563.31 
 13,563.31 
 13,563.31 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Commercial Paper
 12,500.00 
 12,500.00 
 12,500.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Buyer's credit
 2,195.53 
 2,195.53 
 2,195.53 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Current maturities of long-term debt
 4,503.93 
 4,503.93 
 1,843.93 
 2,660.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade payables
 17,724.60 
 17,724.60 
 17,724.60 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other current financial liabilities
 1,396.23 
 1,396.23 
 1,396.23 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Derivative liability
 35.06 
 35.06 
 - 
 35.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 53,294.29 
 53,294.29 
 49,497.08 
 2,699.54 
 1,096.02 
 1.65 
 - 
The gross outflows disclosed in the above table represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to derivative financial liabilities held 
for risk management purposes and which are not usually closed out before contractual maturity. The disclosure shows net cash flow amounts for 
derivatives that are net cash-settled and gross cash inflow and outflow amounts for derivatives that have simultaneous gross cash settlement.
Note 40.4 : Currency Risk
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices – such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices – will affect the Company’s 
income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk 
exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return. The Company uses derivatives to manage market risks. Generally, the 
Company hedge the financial instruments to manage volatility in profit or loss.
Currency risk
The company operates internationally and portion of the business is transacted in USD, EURO and CHF currencies and consequently the company 
is exposed to foreign exchange risk through its sales in overseas market and purchases from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies. 
Foreign currency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by purchasing of goods and services in the respective currencies and through 
derivative instruments.
The company evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from foreign currency transactions and the company follows established risk management 
policies, including the use of derivatives like foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge exposure to foreign currency risk.
Annual Report 2023-24
197
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Exposure to currency risk
The summary quantitative data about the Company’s exposure to currency risk as reported to the management of the Company is as follows. The 
following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The amounts are gross and undiscounted, and include 
estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting agreements.
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
 USD 
 EUR 
 CHF 
 USD 
 EUR 
 CHF 
Financial Assets
Trade receivables
 10,958.23 
 - 
 - 
 6,934.15 
 - 
 - 
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 (3,081.47)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Net exposure to foreign currency risk (Assets)
 7,876.76 
 - 
 - 
 6,934.15 
 - 
 - 
Financial Liabilities
Buyers credit / PCFC
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2,195.53)
 - 
 - 
Trade payables
 (5,986.50)
 - 
 - 
 (14,437.30)
 (31.33)
 2.29 
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7,941.28 
 - 
 - 
Net exposure to foreign currency risk (Liabilities)
 (5,986.50)
 - 
 - 
 (8,691.55)
 (31.33)
 2.29 
Net exposure
 1,890.26 
 - 
 - 
 (1,757.40)
 (31.33)
 2.29 
Un-hedged foreign currency exposures
Payable
 (5,986.50)
 - 
 - 
 (8,691.55)
 (31.33)
 2.29 
Receivable
 7,876.76 
 - 
 - 
 6,934.15 
 - 
 - 
Forward exchanges forwards contract has been restated at closing RBI rate.
Sensitivity analysis
A reasonably possible strengthening / (weakening) of the Indian Rupee against all other currencies at March 31, 2024 would have affected the 
measurement of financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency and affected equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This 
analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any impact of forecast sales and purchases.
Effect ` in lakh
Profit or (loss) before tax
 Strengthening 
 Weakening 
March 31, 2024
USD (4% movement)
 75.61 
 (75.61)
EUR (3% movement)
 - 
 - 
CHF (4% movement)
 - 
 - 
Total
 75.61 
 (75.61)
Effect ` in lakh
Profit or (loss) before tax
 Strengthening 
 Weakening 
March 31, 2023
USD (4% movement)
 (70.30)
 70.30 
EUR (3% movement)
 (0.94)
 0.94 
CHF (4% movement)
 0.09 
 (0.09)
Total
 (71.14)
 71.14 
Note: Sensitivity has been calculated using standard Deviation % of Foreign currency rate movement.
Annual Report 2023-24
198
Note 40.5 : Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk can either be fair value interest rate risk or cash flow interest rate risk. Fair value interest rate risk is the risk of changes in fair 
values of fixed interest bearing financial assets or borrowings because of fluctuations in the interest rates, if such assets/borrowings are measured 
at fair value through profit or loss. Cash flow interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows of floating interest bearing borrowings will fluctuate 
because of fluctuations in the interest rates. 
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Company’s interest-bearing financial instruments as reported to the management of the Company is as follows.
 (` in lakh) 
Nominal amount
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Fixed-rate instruments
Financial assets
Deposits
 150.69 
 360.49 
Bank Deposits
 88.61 
 87.55 
Total
 239.30 
 448.04 
Financial liabilities
Working capital loan
 11,295.76 
 8,382.20 
Buyer's Credit
 - 
 2,195.53 
Commercial papers
 17,000.00 
 12,500.00 
Total
 28,295.76 
 23,077.73 
Variable-rate instruments
Financial liabilities
Borrowings - Non-Current
 19,900.00 
 1,086.25 
Borrowings - Current
 1,193.71 
 9,954.02 
Total
 21,093.71 
 11,040.27 
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable-rate instruments
A reasonably possible change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased / (decreased) profit or loss by the 
amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant.
(` in lakh)
Particulars
 Profit/(loss) before tax 
 Profit/(loss) before tax 
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
100 bp increase
100 bp decrease
100 bp increase
100 bp decrease
Variable-rate instruments
 (210.94)
 210.94 
 (110.40)
 110.40 
Cash flow sensitivity (net)
 (210.94)
 210.94 
 (110.40)
 110.40 
The risk estimates provided assume a change of 100 basis points interest rate for the interest rate benchmark as applicable to the borrowings 
summarized above. This calculation also assumes that the change occurs at the balance sheet date and has been calculated based on risk 
exposures outstanding as at that date. The year end balances are not necessarily representative of the average debt outstanding during the year.
Annual Report 2023-24
199
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 41 : Income Taxes
(a) 	
Amounts recognised in profit and loss
 (` in lakh) 
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
Current income tax
In respect of current year
 - 
 - 
Adjustments in respect of earlier years
 (87.54)
 (363.76)
Deferred income tax
In respect of current year
	
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
 (1,488.92)
 932.87 
Adjustments in respect of earlier years
	
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
 87.54 
 363.76 
Deferred tax expense
 (1,401.38)
 1,296.63 
Tax expense recognised in the Statement of Profit & Loss
 (1,488.92)
 932.87 
(b) 	
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
(` in lakh)
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
Before tax
Tax 
(expense) / 
benefit
Net of tax
Before tax
Tax 
(expense) / 
benefit
Net of tax
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of defined benefit (liability) / 
asset
 (76.06)
 19.14 
 (56.92)
 (30.58)
 7.70 
 (22.88)
 (76.06)
 19.14 
 (56.92)
 (30.58)
 7.70 
 (22.88)
(c) 	
Reconciliation of tax expense and accounting profit for the year is as under:
(` in lakh)
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
Profit before tax
 (6,187.63)
 3,484.91 
Company's domestic tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
Tax using the Company’s domestic tax rate (Current year 25.168% and Previous Year 25.168%)
 (1,557.30)
 877.08 
Tax effect of:
Expense not allowed for tax purposes
 68.38 
 55.79 
Others
 - 
TOTAL
 (1,488.92)
 932.88 
Adjustments in respect of earlier years
 - 
 - 
Tax expense as per Statement of Profit & Loss
 (1,488.92)
 932.88 
Current tax 
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax 
 (1,488.92)
 932.87 
	
The Company’s weighted average tax rates for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 were 24.06% and 26.77%, respectively. 
	
The Company in its Income tax return for the previous year had claimed deduction of Research and Development based on the Capital 
expenditure incurred, but not in the books of accounts. Accordingly, current tax pertaining to previous period has been reduced while 
Deferred tax has increased correspondingly.
	
The Company in its computation of Income tax had disallowed provision for inventory which was subsequently allowed at the time of tax 
audit and income tax retun for FY 2022-2023 (AY 2023-2024). Accordingly, current tax pertaining to previous period has been reduced while 
Deferred tax has increased correspondingly.
Annual Report 2023-24
200
Note 42 : Movement in deferred tax balances for the year ended March 31, 2024
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
Net balance 
April 1, 2023
Recognised in 
profit or loss 
 Tax for 
earlier year 
Recognised 
in OCI
Net
 Deferred 
tax liability 
 Deferred 
tax asset 
 Net Deferred 
Tax March 31, 
2024 
Deferred tax asset/(liabilities)
Property, plant and equipment & Intangible assets
(3,179.03)
 368.19 
 - 
 - 
 368.19 
 3,547.22 
 - 
 (3,547.22)
Lease
 1.40 
 0.53 
 - 
 - 
 0.53 
 - 
 0.87 
 0.87 
Provision for gratuity
 10.65 
 (17.80)
 - 
 - 
 (17.80)
 - 
 28.45 
 28.45 
Provision for PLVR
 33.98 
 (17.61)
 - 
 - 
 (17.61)
 51.59 
 51.59 
Provision for Bonus
 - 
 (23.91)
 - 
 - 
 (23.91)
 23.91 
 23.91 
Provisions for leave encashement
 12.84 
 0.74 
 - 
 - 
 0.74 
 - 
 12.10 
 12.10 
Provisions for doubtful debts & other receivables
 28.06 
 (1.47)
 - 
 - 
 (1.47)
 - 
 29.53 
 29.53 
Others-Sales return provision
 7.42 
 2.46 
 - 
 - 
 2.46 
 4.96 
 4.96 
Provisions for Inventory
 80.09 
 0.00 
 80.09 
 - 
 80.09 
 - 
 - 
Carried forward losses
 881.80 
 (1,800.06)
 7.45 
 - 
 (1,792.61)
 - 
 2,674.41 
 2,674.41 
OCI Item
 30.71 
 - 
 - 
 (19.14)
 (19.14)
 - 
 49.85 
 49.85 
Deferred Tax assets / (Liabilities)
 (2,092.09)
 (1,488.92)
 87.54 
 (19.14)
 (1,420.52)
 3,547.22 
 2,875.66 
 (671.56)
Movement in deferred tax balances for the year ended March 31, 2023
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
Net balance 
April 1, 2022
 Recognised in 
profit or loss 
Recognised 
in other 
equity 
Recognised
in OCI
Net
 Deferred 
tax liability 
 Deferred 
tax asset 
 Net Deferred 
Tax March 31, 
2023 
Deferred tax asset/(liabilities)
Property, plant and equipment & Intangible 
assets
 (904.07)
 1,853.65 
 421.31 
 - 
 2,274.96 
 3,179.03 
 - 
 (3,179.03)
Lease
 1.75 
 0.35 
 - 
 0.35 
 - 
 1.40 
 1.40 
Provision for gratuity
 2.84 
 (7.81)
 - 
 - 
 (7.81)
 - 
 10.65 
 10.65 
Provision for PLVR
 25.17 
 (8.81)
 (8.81)
 33.98 
 33.98 
Provisions for leave encashement
 11.61 
 (1.23)
 - 
 - 
 (1.23)
 - 
 12.84 
 12.84 
Provisions for doubtful debts & other receivables
 29.35 
 1.29 
 - 
 - 
 1.29 
 - 
 28.06 
 28.06 
Others- Sales return provision
 7.19 
 (0.23)
 - 
 - 
 (0.23)
 - 
 7.42 
 7.42 
Provisions for Inventory
 - 
 (22.54)
 (57.55)
 (80.09)
 80.09 
 80.09 
Carried forward losses
 - 
 (881.80)
 - 
 (881.80)
 881.80 
 881.80 
OCI Item
 23.00 
 - 
 - 
 (7.71)
 (7.71)
 - 
 30.71 
 30.71 
Deferred Tax assets / (Liabilities)
 (803.16)
 932.88 
 363.76 
 (7.71)
 1,288.93 
 3,179.03 
 1,086.95 
 (2,092.09)
The company offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax 
assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority. 
Significant management judgement is required in determining provision for income tax, deferred income tax assets and liabilities and recoverability of deferred income tax 
assets. The recoverability of deferred income tax assets is based on estimates of taxable income by each jurisdiction in which the relevant entity operates and the period 
over which deferred income tax assets will be recovered.
Given that the Company does not have any intention to dispose investments in subsidiaries in the forseeable future, deferred tax asset on indexation benefit in relation to 
such investments has not been recognised.
Annual Report 2023-24
201
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 43 : Capital Management
The Company’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future 
development of the business. Management monitors the return on capital as well as the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
The board of directors seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the 
advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position. The primary objective of the Company's Capital Management is to maximise 
shareholder value. The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in the light of changes in the economic environment and 
the requirements of the financial covenants, if any.
The Company monitors capital using a ratio of ‘adjusted net debt’ to ‘equity’. For this purpose, adjusted net debt is defined as total borrowings, 
comprising interest-bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Equity comprises all components of equity.
a) 	
The Company’s adjusted net debt to equity ratio at March 31, 2024 was as follows:-
(` in lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Total borrowings
 49,389.47 
 34,118.01 
Less : Cash and cash equivalents
 46.05 
 45.65 
Adjusted net debt
 49,343.42 
 34,072.36 
Total equity
 36,867.65 
 41,879.37 
Adjusted net debt to total equity ratio
 1.34 
 0.81 
b) 	
Dividends
(` in lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
(i) 	
Equity shares
	
Final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2023 of ` 1.50/- (March 31, 2022 - ` 
1.50/-) per fully paid share
 294.09 
 294.06 
(ii) 	
Dividend not recognised at the end of the reporting period
The Board of Directors of the company have not proposed dividend for the year.
 - 
 294.09 
Note 44: Operating Segment
In accordance with Ind AS 108 “Operating Segments”, segment information has been given in the consolidated financial statements of Astec 
LifeSciences Limited and therefore no separate disclosure on segment information is given in these financial statements.
Note 45 : Share based payments 
(a) 	
Employee stock option scheme (ESOP, 2012 as amended by the Shareholders by way of a Special Resolution) 
	
The Company had set up the Employees Stock Option Plan 2012 which was amended by the Shareholders by way of a Special Resolution 
obtained by way of Postal Ballot, whose results have been declared on September 27, 2021.
	
The Scheme applies to the Eligible Employees who are in whole time employment of the Company or its Subsidiary Companies. The 
entitlement of each employee would be decided by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the respective Company based on the 
employee’s performance, level, grade, etc.
	
The total number of Stock Option to be awarded under the ESOP Scheme are restricted to 1% of the issued equity share capital at the time 
of awarding the Stock Option, can be awarded to any one employee in any one year.
	
The Stock Options shall vest in the Eligible Employees pursuant to the ESOP Scheme in the proportion of 1/3rd at the end of each year 
from the date on which the Stock Options are awarded for a period of three consecutive years, or as may be determined by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, subject to the condition that the Eligible Employee continues to be in employment of the Company or the 
Subsidiary company as the case may be.
	
The Eligible Employee shall exercise her / his right to acquire the shares vested in her / him all at one time within 1 month from the date on 
which the shares vested in her / him or such other period as may be determined by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
Annual Report 2023-24
202
(b) 	
Employee stock option scheme (ESOS, 2015) 
	
The Company has implemented Employees under Employee stock option scheme (ESOS, 2015) which was approved by the Shareholders 
at the 21st Annual General Meeting. The employee stock option scheme is designed to provide incentives to all the permanent employees 
to deliver long-term returns. Under the plan, participants are granted options which will vest in 4 years (40% in 1st year, 30% in 2nd year, 
20% in 3rd year and 10% in 4th year) from the date of grant. Participation in the plan is at the discretion of the Compensation Committee / 
Board of Directors of the Company.
	
Once vested, the options remains exercisable for a period of three years.
	
Options are granted at the market price on which the options are granted to the employees under ESOS 2015. When exercisable, each 
option is convertible into one equity share. 
(c) 	
Employee stock option plan (ESOP, 2012) 
	
The Company has implemented Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP 2012) which was approved by the Shareholders at the Extra-Ordinary 
General Meeting of the Company in the Year 2012. The employee stock option plan is designed to provide incentives to all the permanent 
employees to deliver long-term returns. Under the plan, participants are granted options which will vest in 4 years (40% in 1st year, 30% 
in 2nd year, 20% in 3rd year and 10% in 4th year) from the grant date. Participation in the plan is at the discretion of the Compensation 
Committee / Board of Directors of the Company. 
	
Once vested, the options remains exercisable for a period of seven years.
	
Options are granted under ESOP 2012 at an exercise price of `34/- each. When exercisable, each option is convertible into one equity 
share. 
	
Set out below is a summary of options granted under both the plans:
	
Employee stock option scheme (ESOP, 2012 as amended by the Shareholders by way of a Special Resolution)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Average exercise 
price per share 
option (`)
Number of 
options
Average exercise 
price per share 
option (`)
Number of 
options
Opening balance
 10.00 
 3,533 
 10.00 
 3,316 
Granted during the year
 10.00 
 1,856 
 10.00 
 1,322 
Exercised during the year
 1,546 
 1,105 
Lapsed during the year
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 3,843 
 3,533 
Vested and exercisable
 - 
 1,546 
Employee stock option scheme (ESOS,2015)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Average exercise 
price per share 
option (`)
Number of 
options
Average exercise 
price per share 
option (`)
Number of 
options
Opening balance
 387.35 
 2,000 
 387.35 
 5,000 
Granted during the year
Exercised during the year
 387.35 
 2,000 
 387.35 
 3,000 
Lapsed during the year
Closing balance
 - 
 2,000 
Vested and exercisable
 - 
 2,000 
Annual Report 2023-24
203
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Employee stock option plan (ESOP,2012)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Average exercise 
price per share 
option (`)
Number of 
options
Average exercise 
price per share 
option (`)
Number of 
options
Opening balance
 34.00 
 300 
 34.00 
 4,300 
Granted during the year
Exercised during the year
 34.00 
 34.00 
 4,000 
Lapsed during the year
Closing balance
 300 
 300 
Vested and exercisable
 300 
 300 
	
No options expired during the periods covered in the above tables.
	
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date and exercise prices:
Grant date
Expiry date
Exercise price
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Share options
Share options
 January 31, 2015 
January 30, 2026
 34.00 
 300 
 300 
 July 26, 2016 
 July 25, 2023 
 387.35 
 - 
 2,000 
 October 30,2021 
 August 31, 2023 
 10.00 
 - 
 1,105 
 October 30,2021 
 August 31, 2024 
 10.00 
 1,106 
 1,106 
 May 6, 2022 
 June 9, 2023 
 10.00 
 - 
 441 
 May 6, 2022 
 June 9, 2024 
 10.00 
 441 
 441 
 May 6, 2022 
 June 9, 2025 
 10.00 
 440 
 440 
 May 9, 2023 
 May 9, 2024 
 10.00 
 618 
 - 
 May 9, 2023 
 May 9, 2025 
 10.00 
 619 
 - 
 May 9, 2023 
 May 9, 2026 
 10.00 
 619 
 - 
 Total 
 4,143 
 5,833 
Weighted average remaining contractual life of options 
outstanding at end of period
 0.92 
 0.78 
(i) 	
Fair value of options granted
	
The fair value of grant date of options granted is mentioned in the table below. The fair value at grant date is determined using the Black 
Scholes model which takes into account the exercise price, the term of option, the share price at grant date and expected price volatility of 
the underlying share, the expected dividend yield and the risk free interest rate for the term of the option.
Grant date
Expiry date
Fair Value
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Share options
Share options
 January 31, 2015 
January 30, 2026
 110.49 
 300 
 300 
 July 26, 2016 
 July 25, 2023 
 297.00 
 - 
 2,000 
 October 30,2021 
 August 31, 2023 
 1,239.65 
 - 
 1,105 
 October 30,2021 
 August 31, 2024 
 1,238.16 
 1,106 
 1,106 
 May 6, 2022 
 June 9, 2023 
 1,932.04 
 - 
 441 
 May 6, 2022 
 June 9, 2024 
 1,930.58 
 441 
 441 
 May 6, 2022 
 June 9, 2025 
 1,929.08 
 440 
 440 
 May 9, 2023 
 May 9, 2024 
 1,353.88 
 618 
 - 
 May 9, 2023 
 May 9, 2025 
 1,352.39 
 619 
 - 
 May 9, 2023 
 May 9, 2026 
 1,350.90 
 619 
 - 
 Total 
 4,143 
 5,833 
Annual Report 2023-24
204
The model inputs for options granted includes:
 ESOP, 2012 as amended, granted on May 9, 2023
9th May, 2023
Exercise Price
` 10
Grant Date
9th May, 2023
Expected life of share options 
1 to 3 years
Share price at grant date
1,355.45
Expected price volatility of the company's shares
49% to 53%
Expected dividend yield
0.29%
Risk free interest rate
6.90% to 6.96%
 ESOP, 2012 as amended, granted on May 6, 2022 
6th May, 2022
Exercise Price
` 10
Grant Date
6th May, 2022
Expected life of share options 
1 to 3 years
Share price at grant date
1,933.64
Expected price volatility of the company's shares
46% to 55%
Expected dividend yield
0.08%
Risk free interest rate
5.487% to 6.932%
 ESOP, 2012 as amended, granted on October 31, 2021 
October 30, 2021
Exercise Price
` 10
Grant Date
October 30, 2021
Expected life of share options 
1 to 3 years
Share price at grant date
1,242.71
Expected price volatility of the company's shares
44% to 58%
Expected dividend yield
0.12%
Risk free interest rate
4.107% to 5.124%
ESOS, 2015 granted on 26 July 2016
Options are granted for a consideration as mentioned in the below table and 40% of options vest after 1 year, 30% of options after 2 years, 20% of 
options after 3 years and 10% of options after 4 years. Vested options are exercisable for a period of 3 years after vesting.
July 25, 2020
July 25, 2021
July 25, 2022
July 25, 2023
Exercise Price
` 387.35
` 387.35
` 387.35
` 387.35
Grant Date
July 26, 2016
July 26, 2016
July 26, 2016
July 26, 2016
Expiry Date
July 25, 2020
July 25, 2021
July 25, 2022
July 25, 2023
Share price at grant date
` 387.35/-
` 387.35/-
` 387.35/-
` 387.35/-
Expected price volatility of the company's shares
57%
66%
115%
109%
Expected dividend yield
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
Risk free interest rate
8.27%
8.17%
8.20%
8.32%
Annual Report 2023-24
205
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
The model inputs for options granted includes:
ESOP, 2012- Option B granted on 16 May 2015
Options are granted for a consideration as mentioned in the below table and 40% of options vest after 1 year, 30% of options after 2 years, 20% of 
options after 3 years and 10% of options after 4 years. Vested options are exercisable for a period of 7 years after vesting.
May 15, 2023
May 15, 2024
May 15, 2025
May 15, 2026
Exercise Price
` 34/-
` 34/-
` 34/-
` 34/-
Grant Date
May 16, 2015
May 16, 2015
May 16, 2015
May 16, 2015
Expiry Date
May 15, 2023
May 15, 2024
May 15, 2025
May 15, 2026
Share price at grant date
` 138/-
` 138/-
` 138/-
` 138/-
Expected price volatility of the company's shares
71%
139%
121%
108%
Expected dividend yield
0.91%
0.91%
0.91%
0.91%
Risk free interest rate
8.30%
8.19%
8.21%
8.30%
The model inputs for options granted includes:
ESOP, 2012- Option A granted on 31 January 2015
Options are granted for a consideration as mentioned below in the table and vest 40% of options after 1 year, 30% of options after 2 years, 20% of 
options after 3 years and 10% of options after 4 years. Vested options are exercisable for a period of 7 years after vesting.
 January 30, 2023
 January 30, 2024
 January 30, 2025
 January 30, 2026
Exercise Price
` 34/-
` 34/-
` 34/-
` 34/-
Grant Date
January 31, 2015
January 31, 2015
January 31, 2015
January 31, 2015
Expiry Date
January 30, 2023
January 30, 2024
January 30, 2025
January 30, 2026
Share price at grant date
` 127.70/-
` 127.70/-
` 127.70/-
` 127.70/-
Expected price volatility of the company's shares
72%
143%
120%
108%
Expected dividend yield
0.78%
0.78%
0.78%
0.78%
Risk free interest rate
8.27%
8.17%
8.20%
8.32%
The expected price volatility is based on the historic volatility (based on the remaining life of the options), adjusted for any expected changes to 
future volatility due to publicly available information.
c)	
Expense arising from share based payment transactions
	
Total expenses arising from share-based payment transactions recognised in profit or loss as part of employee benefit expense were as 
follows:
(` in lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Employee stock option plan (Note 33)
 30.11 
 33.07 
TOTAL
 30.11 
 33.07 
Annual Report 2023-24
206
Note 46: Contingent Liability
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts:
(i)
Excise matter
Excise duty demands relating to clearance/storage of Raw Material/goods from DTA 
and used/manufactured in 100% EOU unit, availment of cenvat credit, etc. The said 
amount includes up-to-date interest.
 11,986.89 
 11,313.00 
(ii)
Customs matter
The company has replied to the SCN no. 1624 / 2013 -14 dated 9th July 2013 issued by 
the Commissioner of Custom - Raigarh alleging that goods imported in Unit B-16 were 
kept in unit B-17 and therefore are liable for confiscation. The personal hearing of the 
said SCN is pending. The said amount includes up-to-date interest.
 36.89 
 34.83 
(iii)
Goods and Service tax (GST)
a.	
GST demands relating to issues pertaining to cenvat credit transition to GST. 
The said amount includes up-to-date interest.
 13.86 
 13.86 
b.	
Issue pertaining to service tax credit of EOU unit -The said amount includes up-
to-date interest.
 167.51 
 155.36 
(iv)
Income tax
The company has preferred appeal against the order of various income tax authorities 
in which demand of ` 449.05 lakh has been determined for various assessment years. 
The said demand also includes interest payable as determined by the competent 
authority.
 (i)	
Pending before DCIT/JCIT/AO
 78.26 
 78.26 
 (ii)	
Pending before CIT (Appeal)
 370.79 
 370.79 
 (iii)	
Pending before High Court
 - 
 23.20 
(v)
Sales tax matters
(a)	
Pending before JSCT(Appeal)
 659.93 
 659.93 
(b)	
Pending C & H Forms
 66.19 
 66.19 
(vi)
Civil matters
Nath Bio-Genes (India) Ltd has filed a suit against the Company alleging that some product 
supplied by the company was responsible for the poor germination of its seeds. 
 6,500.00 
 6,500.00 
(vii)
Guarantees outstanding
 765.29 
 755.84 
(viii)
Letters of Credit given by the company (different letter of credits issued to various suppliers 
for supply of materials)
 598.91 
 314.48 
Note 46.1 : Contingent liabilities represents estimates made mainly for probable claims arising out of litigation/ disputes pending with authorities 
under various statutes (Excise duty, Customs duty, Income tax, etc).The probability and timing of outflow with regard to these matters depend on 
the final outcome of litigations/ disputes. Hence, the Company is not able to reasonably ascertain the timing of the outflow.
Note 47
The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (“SC”) by their order dated February 28, 2019, in the case of Surya Roshani Limited & others v/s EPFO, set out 
the principles based on which allowances paid to the employees should be identified for inclusion in basic wages for the purposes of computation 
of Provident Fund contribution. The company has started complying with this prospectively from the month of March 2019. In respect of the past 
period there are significant implementation and interpretative challenges that the management is facing and is awaiting for clarity to emerge in this 
Annual Report 2023-24
207
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
regard, pending which, this matter has been disclosed under the Contingent liability section in the financial statements. The impact of the same is 
not ascertainable.
Note 48 : Commitments
(` in lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Estimated value of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account (net of advances), to the 
extent not provided for:
 118.32 
 5,327.50 
Note 49 : No Quarterly statements submitted with Banks for Borrowings
Company has no borrowings from banks on the basis of security of current assets and the Quarterly returns/ statements of current assets are not 
filed by the company.
Note 50 : Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure
(` in lakh)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
1
Amount required to be spent by the company during the year
 169.02 
 180.73 
2
Amount of expenditure incurred on:
(i).	
Construction/acquisition of any asset
 - 
 - 
(ii)	
On purposes other than (i) above
 161.01 
 141.99 
3
Shortfall at the end of the year
 8.01 
 38.74 
4
Total of previous years shortfall
 8.01 
 39.89 
5
Reason for shortfall
 The amount was 
carried forward for 
ongoing projects 
 The amount was 
carried forward for 
ongoing projects 
6
Nature of CSR activities Details
 Disaster Relief, Education, Skilling, 
Employment, Entrepreneurship, Health, 
Wellness and Water, Sanitation and 
Hygiene, Heritage 
7
Details of Related party transactions
 - 
 - 
Note 51 : Related Party Disclosures
In compliance with Ind AS 24 - “Related Party Disclosures” as notified under Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, 
as amended, the required disclosures are given below:
Relationships: 
(i)
Ultimate Holding Company:
Godrej Industries Limited (GIL)
(ii)
Holding Companies:
Godrej Agrovet Limited (GAVL)
(iii)
Subsidiary Companies:
1
Behram Chemicals Private Limited
2
Comercializadora Agricola Agroastrachem Cia Ltda
(iv)
Fellow Subsidiaries:
1
Creamline Dairy Products Limited
2
Godrej Tyson Foods Limited
3
Godrej Cattle Genetics Private Limited (formerly known as Godrej Maxximilk Private Limited)
4
Godrej One Premises Management Private Limited
5
Godvet Agrochem Limited
Annual Report 2023-24
208
(v)
Associates / Joint Ventures of Godrej Industries Limited (GIL) :
Godrej Consumer Products Limited
(vi)
Entities which is controlled/jointly controlled/has significant influence of KMP's of Astec LifeSciences Limited :
Astec Crop Care Private Limited
(vii)
Other related parties
Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited
(viii)
Post-employment benefit plan (entities) for the benefit of employees of the company
Astec LifeSciences Limited Employees Group Grautity Trust
(ix)
Key Management Personnel
1
Mr. Nadir B. Godrej, Chairman and Non-Executive Director
2
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath, Director
3
Mr. B.S. Yadav, Non-Executive Director
4
Mr. Burjis Godrej, (Director w.e.f. 25th July, 2022)
5
Mr. R.R. Govindan, Independent Director
6
Dr. Bhramanand Vyas, Independent Director
7
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot, Independent Director
8
Mr. Nandkumar Vasant Dhekne, Independent Director
9
Ms. Anjali Rajesh Gupte, Independent Director
10
Mr. Anurag Roy, (Whole-Time Director and Chief Executive Officer
11
Mr. Madhur Gundecha (Chief Financial Officer till 2nd, May, 2023)
12
Mr. K Suryanarayan (Chief Financial Officer w.e.f 3rd May, 2023)
13
Ms. Tejashree Pradhan, Company Secretary
Related party disclosures as required by IND AS - 24, “Related Party Disclosures”, are given below “
2. 	
The following transactions were carried out with  the related parties in the ordinary course of business :
 (` in lakh) 
Sr. 
No. 
Nature of Transaction
Nature of Relationship
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
1
Sale of materials / finished goods
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 3,579.73 
 3,303.46 
2
Sale of Property, plant & equipment
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 1.22 
 - 
3
Purchase of materials / finished goods
Godrej Consumer Products Limited
Other related party
 17.94 
 12.40 
4
Purchase of Property, plant & equipment
Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited
Other related party
 158.27 
 821.32 
5
Expenses Charged by / Reimbursement made to other 
companies/related parties
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 159.72 
 749.13 
Annual Report 2023-24
209
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 (` in lakh) 
Sr. 
No. 
Nature of Transaction
Nature of Relationship
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
Godrej Industries Limited
Holding company
 0.43 
 0.56 
Behram Chemicals Private Limited
Subsidiary company
 11.24 
 - 
Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited
Other related party
 - 
 0.42 
Godrej One Premises Management Private Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 0.02 
 - 
Creamline Dairy Products Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 2.48 
 - 
6
Expenses Charged to / Reimbursement made by other companies
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 7.12 
 23.05 
Behram Chemicals Private Limited
Subsidiary company
 0.52 
 2.03 
7
Plant Maintenance charges
Behram Chemicals Private Limited
Subsidiary company
 10.80 
 10.80 
8
Dividend Paid
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 190.49 
 186.06 
9
Intercorporate deposits taken
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 5,000.00 
 8,300.00 
10
Intercorporate deposits repaid
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 8,300.00 
11
Outstanding Intercorporate deposits
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 5,000.00 
 - 
12
Interest expense on intercorporate deposits taken
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 39.01 
 20.49 
Godrej Tyson Fooods Limited
Fellow subsidiary
13
Intercorporate deposits placed
Creamline Dairy Products Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 - 
 2,500.00 
14
Intercorporate deposits returned
Creamline Dairy Products Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 - 
 2,500.00 
15
Interest income on intercorporate deposits given
Creamline Dairy Products Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 - 
 26.32 
Annual Report 2023-24
210
 (` in lakh) 
Sr. 
No. 
Nature of Transaction
Nature of Relationship
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
16
Capital advance given
Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited
Other related party
 229.36 
 740.44 
17
Contribution to post employement benefit plans
Astec LifeSciences Limited Employees Group Grautity Trust
Other related party
 42.32 
 28.46 
18
Outstanding Receivables
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 2,222.58 
 1,533.64 
Comercializadora Agricola Agroastrachem Cia Ltda
Subsidiary company
 3.27 
 3.27 
19
Outstanding Payables
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 132.52 
 84.44 
Behram Chemicals Private Limited
Subsidiary company
 5.29 
 9.21 
Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited
Other related party
 5.76 
 70.96 
Godrej Consumer Products Limited
Other related party
 9.96 
 10.81 
Creamline Dairy Products Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 1.81 
 - 
Godrej One Premises Management Private Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 0.02 
 - 
20
Remuneration to Key Management Personnel
Short Term Employee Benefit
 290.33 
 677.44 
Post employment gratuity benefits
 5.16 
 31.45 
Share based payment
 20.81 
 24.24 
Dividend Paid
 5.86 
 5.91 
Director's Sitting Fees
 32.63 
 31.84 
Note 52:  Additional regulatory information pursuant to the requirement in Division II of Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013 The remuneration 
paid to its directors during the current year is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 of the Act.The excess remuneration paid to a director 
is in accordance with the requisite approvals as mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.
	
	
	
	
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For B S R & Co. LLP
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Chartered Accountants
 (CIN:L99999MH1994PLC076236) 
Firm Registration Number : 101248W/W-100022
ANURAG ROY
B. S. YADAV 
Whole-Time Director &   Chief Executive Officer
Director 
DIN: 07444595
DIN: 00294803 
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 02, 2024
May 02, 2024
BURJIS PARDIWALA
K SURYANARAYAN 
TEJASHREE PRADHAN 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary 
Membership Number: 103595
ICAI Memb. No. 101853 
ICSI Memb. No. FCS7167 
Mumbai
Mumbai
Mumbai
 May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALS
This page is intentionally left Blank
Annual Report 2023-24
213
Independent Auditor’s Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Astec LifeSciences Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Astec LifeSciences Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Holding Company”) and its 
subsidiaries (Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”, which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 
March 2024, and the consolidated statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), consolidated statement of changes in 
equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including material 
accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and based on the consideration of report of the other 
auditor on separate financial statements of such subsidiary as were audited by the other auditor, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements 
give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group as at 31 March 2024, of its consolidated loss and 
other comprehensive loss, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under 
those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We 
are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements in 
terms of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the relevant provisions of the Act, and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us along with the consideration 
of report of the other auditor referred to in paragraph (a) of the “Other Matters” section below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements 
of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming 
our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue Recognition
See Note 27 to consolidated financial statements
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the 
control of the goods has passed, which is usually on 
delivery of the goods. We have considered that there is 
a risk of fraud on account of revenue being overstated 
on account of it being recognised in the wrong period or 
before the control has passed.
In view of the importance of the matter we applied the following audit procedures in this 
area, among others to obtain sufficient audit evidence:
i.	
We have assessed the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies 
in respect of revenue recognition by comparing with applicable accounting 
standards;
ii.	
We have evaluated the design, testing the implementation and operating 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal controls over recognition of revenue;
iii.	
We have evaluated the process followed by the company for revenue recognition 
including understanding and testing of key controls relating to recognition of 
revenue in correct period;
iv.	
We have inspected documentation/records for sales transactions recorded both 
side of year-end to determine if revenue has been recognised in the correct 
period; and
v.	
We have assessed manual journals posted to revenue to identify unusual or 
irregular items.
Pending Litigation and Claim
See Note 44 to consolidated financial statements
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
As at 31 March 2024, the Group is having pending 
litigations under various laws such as Income Tax, 
Excise, VAT, Customs and GST.
In view of the significance of the matter we applied the following audit procedures in 
this area, among others to obtain sufficient audit evidence:
i.	
We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls 
in respect of identification and evaluation of claims, proceedings and the 
recording and continous re-assessment of the related contingent liabilities 
and disclosure.
Annual Report 2023-24
214
The key audit matter
How the matter was addressed in our audit
The Group applies significant judgment estimating the 
likelihood of the future outcome in each case based on its 
own past assessments, judicial precedents and opinions 
of experts when considering how much to provide or 
in determining the required disclosure for the potential 
exposure.
Due to inherent complexity and magnitude of potential 
exposures, we regard this as key audit matter.
ii.	
Obtained and read the list of direct and indirect tax assessment/ litigations for 
movements from previous period;
iii.	
We inquired the status of significant litigations with Group who have knowledge 
of these matters and where relevant we also obtained formal communication 
from the Group’s external tax consultants;
iv.	
Use of our own local Direct and Indirect tax specialists to assess the value of 
contingent liabilities in light of the nature of exposure, applicable regulations 
and related correspondence with authorities; and
v.	
Considered the adequacy of the provision/ disclosure made in the financial 
statements
Other Information
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information 
included in the Holding Company’s annual report, but does not include the financial statements and auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether 
the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to 
be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed and based on the work done/audit report of other auditor, we conclude that there is a 
material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Management's and Board of Directors Responsibilities for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these  consolidated   financial 
statements in term of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated state of affairs, consolidated profit/ loss and other 
comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section 133 of the Act. The respective 
Management and Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of each company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the  consolidated financial statements that give a true 
and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements by the Management and Board of Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Management and Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are 
responsible for assessing the ability of each company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern 
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the respective Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of each 
company.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level 
of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
 
z
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and 
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may 
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
 
z
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. 
Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
 
z
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made 
by the Management and Board of Directors.
 
z
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparation 
of consolidated financial statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the appropriateness of this assumption. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures 
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. 
Annual Report 2023-24
215
Independent Auditor’s Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
 
z
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the 
consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
 
z
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial statements/financial information of such entities or business activities 
within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audit of the financial statements/financial information of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements 
of which we are the independent auditors. For the other entity included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited 
by other auditor, such other auditor remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit carried out by them. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. Our responsibilities in this regard are further described in paragraph (a) of the section titled 
“Other Matters” in this audit report.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the consolidated financial 
statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, 
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where 
applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should 
not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
a.	
We did not audit the financial statements of one subsidiary, whose financial statements reflect total assets (before consolidation 
adjustments) of `136.82 lakhs as at 31 March 2024, total revenues (before consolidation adjustments) of `16.82 lakhs and net cash outflow 
(before consolidation adjustments) amounting to `0.62 lakhs for the period ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial 
statements. These financial statements have been audited by other auditor whose report has been furnished to us by the Management 
and our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of this 
subsidiary, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiary is based 
solely on the report of the other auditor.
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is not modified in 
respect of the above matter with respect to our reliance on the work done and the report of the other auditor.
b.	
The financial information of one subsidiary, whose financial information reflect total assets (before consolidation adjustments) of `0.19 
lakhs as at 31 March 2024, total revenues (before consolidation adjustments) of `Nil and net cash flows (before consolidation adjustments) 
amounting to `Nil for the period ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, have not been audited either 
by us or by other auditor. This unaudited financial information have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiary, and our 
report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiary, is based solely on such unaudited 
financial information. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, this financial 
information are not material to the Group.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is not modified in respect 
of this matter with respect to the financial information certified by the Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in terms of Section 143(11) 
of the Act, we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2 	
A. 	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditor on separate 
financial statements of such subsidiary, as were audited by other auditor, as noted in the “Other Matters” paragraph, we report, to 
the extent applicable, that:
	
	
a.	
We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
	
	
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the report of the other auditor.
	
	
c.	
The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), the 
consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement 
with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
	
	
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section 133 of the Act.
	
	
e.	
On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on 31 March 2024 taken 
on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory auditor of its subsidiary company 
incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Group companies incorporated in India is disqualified as on 31 March 2024 
from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
Annual Report 2023-24
216
	
	
f.	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding Company 
and its subsidiary company incorporated in India and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
Report in “Annexure B”.
	
B.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration 
of the report of the other auditor on separate financial statements of the subsidiary, as noted in the “Other Matters” paragraph:
	
	
a.	
The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2024 on the consolidated 
financial position of the Group. Refer Note 44 to the consolidated financial statements.
	
	
b.	
The Group did not have any material foreseeable losses on long-term contracts including derivative contracts during the year 
ended 31 March 2024.
	
	
c.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Holding Company and there are no amounts which are required to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund in case of its subsidiary company incorporated in India during the year ended 31 March 2024.
	
	
d. 	
(i) 	
The respective management of the Holding Company and its subsidiary company incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditor of such subsidiary 
company that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the Note 13 to the consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium 
or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Holding Company or any of such subsidiary companies to or in any 
other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Holding Company or any of such subsidiary companies (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(ii)	
The respective management of the Holding Company and its subsidiary company incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us and the other auditor of such subsidiary 
company that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, as disclosed in the Note 13 to the consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been received by the Holding Company or any of such subsidiary companies from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Holding Company or any of such subsidiary companies shall directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Parties 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(iii)	
Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances performed 
by us and that performed by the auditor of the subsidiary company incorporated in India whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act, nothing has come to our or other auditor notice that has caused us or the other 
auditor to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as provided under (i) and (ii) 
above, contain any material misstatement.
	
	
e.	
The final dividend paid by the Holding Company during the year, in respect of the same declared for the previous year, is in 
accordance with Section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividend.
	
	
	
As stated in Note 41(ii) to the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company 
and its subsidiary company incorporated in India have not proposed final dividend for the year.
	
	
f.	
Based on our examination which included test checks and that performed by the respective auditor of the subsidiary company 
incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, the Holding Company and its subsidiary 
company have used an accounting software for maintaining its books of account which, along with access management tool, 
as applicable have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated throughout the year for all 
relevant transactions recorded in the respective software. Further, during the course of our audit, we and respective auditors 
of such subsidiary companies did not come across any instance of audit trail feature being tampered with.
	
C.	
With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditor’s report under section 197(16): In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us and based on the reports of the statutory auditor of such subsidiary company, incorporated in India which were 
not audited by us, the remuneration paid during the current year by the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, to its directors is in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 197 of the Act. The excess remuneration paid to any director by the Holding Company is is in 
accordance with the requisite approvals as mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.. The Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs has not prescribed other details under Section 197(16) which are required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.:101248W/W-100022
Burjis Pardiwala
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 103595
Date: 02 May 2024
ICAI UDIN:24103595BKFWEZ7913
Annual Report 2023-24
217
Independent Auditor’s Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of Astec LifeSciences Limited 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(xxi)	
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, there are no qualifications or adverse remarks by the 
respective auditors in the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 reports of the companies incorporated in India and included in the 
consolidated financial statements.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.:101248W/W-100022
Burjis Pardiwala
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 103595
Date: 02 May 2024
ICAI UDIN:24103595BKFWEZ7913
Annual Report 2023-24
218
Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the 
consolidated financial statements of Astec LifeSciences Limited 
for the year ended 31 March 2024
Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the aforesaid consolidated financial statements 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
(Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Opinion
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of Astec LifeSciences Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding 
Company”) as of and for the year ended 31 March 2024, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the 
Holding Company and such company incorporated in India under the Act which is its subsidiary company, as of that date.
In our opinion and based on the consideration of report of the other auditor on internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of 
subsidiary company, as were audited by the other auditor, the Holding Company and such company incorporated in India which is its subsidiary 
company, have, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements and such internal financial 
controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2024, based on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria 
established by such companies considering the essential components of such internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Company's Management and the Board of Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria established by the respective company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to the respective company's policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements based on our audit. We conducted 
our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we 
comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing 
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the 
auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditor of the relevant subsidiary company in 
terms of their report referred to in the Other Matter paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
A company's internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. A company's internal financial controls with reference to financial statements include those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to 
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; 
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations 
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Annual Report 2023-24
219
Independent Auditor’s Report
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Other Matter
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements insofar as it relates to one subsidiary company, which is a company incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding 
report of the auditor of such company incorporated in India.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.:101248W/W-100022
Burjis Pardiwala
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 103595
Date: 02 May 2024
ICAI UDIN:24103595BKFWEZ7913
Annual Report 2023-24
220
The Notes 1 to 51 form an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For B S R & Co. LLP
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Chartered Accountants
(CIN:L99999MH1994PLC076236) 
Firm Registration Number : 101248W/W-100022
ANURAG ROY
B. S. YADAV 
Whole-Time Director &   Chief Executive Officer
Director 
DIN: 07444595
DIN: 00294803 
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 02, 2024
May 02, 2024
BURJIS PARDIWALA
K SURYANARAYAN 
TEJASHREE PRADHAN 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary 
Membership Number: 103595
ICAI Memb. No. 101853 
ICSI Memb. No. FCS7167 
Mumbai
Mumbai
Mumbai
 May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
Consolidated Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2024
 (` in Lakh) 
Particulars
Note 
No.
 As at   
March 31, 2024 
 As at   
March 31, 2023 
ASSETS
(I)
Non-current assets
(a)	
Property, plant and equipment
2 (a)
 35,346.19 
 28,675.57 
(b)	
Capital work-in-progress
2 (b)
 14,846.55 
 11,238.43 
(c)	
Right of use assets
3
 2,965.56 
 3,003.18 
(d)	
Intangible assets
4 (a)
 284.72 
 168.53 
(e)	
Intangible assets under development
4 (b)
 1,656.85 
 1,421.86 
(f)	
Financial assets
	
(i)	
Investments
5
 0.53 
 0.53 
	
(ii)	
Other non-current financial assets 
6
 172.73 
 336.50 
(g)	
Other tax assets (net)
7
 1,373.77 
 1,093.37 
(h)	
Other non-current assets
8
 996.79 
 2,118.20 
Total Non current assets
 57,643.69 
 48,056.17 
(II)
Current Assets
(a)	
Inventories
9
 19,584.66 
 29,484.77 
(b)	
Financial assets
	
(i)	
Trade receivables
10
 16,900.40 
 15,490.03 
	
(ii)	
Cash and cash equivalents
11
 47.15 
 47.34 
	
(iii)	
Bank balances, other than (ii) above
12
 196.09 
 168.44 
	
(iv) 	
Loans
13
 4.04 
 2.04 
	
(v) 	
Others
14
 196.12 
 59.57 
(c) 	
Other current assets
15
 2,920.68 
 4,633.06 
Total current assets
 39,849.14 
 49,885.25 
Total Assets
 97,492.83 
 97,941.42 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
(I)
Equity
(a) Equity share capital
16
 1,960.92 
 1,960.57 
(b) Other equity
17
 34,967.79 
 39,975.75 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
 36,928.71 
 41,936.32 
Non-controlling interests
 23.06 
 19.21 
Total equity
 36,951.77 
 41,955.53 
(II)
Liabilities
(1)
Non current liabilities
(a)	
Financial liabilities
	
(i) 	
Borrowings
18
 19,900.00 
 1,086.25 
	
(ii) 	
Other non-current liabilities
19
 205.00 
 134.92 
(b) 	
Provisions
20
 44.16 
 47.82 
(c) 	
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
21
 676.02 
 2,096.96 
Total non current liabilities
 20,825.18 
 3,365.95 
(2)
Current liabilities
(a)	
Financial liabilities
	
(i)	
Borrowings
22
 29,489.47 
 33,031.76 
	
(ii)	
Trade payables
23
	
	
Total outstanding dues of Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
 439.10 
 304.78 
	
	
Total outstanding dues of other than Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
 8,488.67 
 17,413.67 
	
(iii) 	
Other financial liabilities
24
 1,034.38 
 1,432.84 
(b) 	
Other current liabilities
25
 128.31 
 361.90 
(c) 	
Provisions
26
 135.95 
 74.99 
Total current liabilities
 39,715.88 
 52,619.94 
Total liabilities
 60,541.06 
 55,985.89 
Total Equity and Liabilities
 97,492.83 
 97,941.42 
Annual Report 2023-24
221
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
The Notes 1 to 51 form an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For B S R & Co. LLP
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Chartered Accountants
(CIN:L99999MH1994PLC076236) 
Firm Registration Number : 101248W/W-100022
ANURAG ROY
B. S. YADAV 
Whole-Time Director &   Chief Executive Officer
Director 
DIN: 07444595
DIN: 00294803 
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 02, 2024
May 02, 2024
BURJIS PARDIWALA
K SURYANARAYAN 
TEJASHREE PRADHAN 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary 
Membership Number: 103595
ICAI Memb. No. 101853 
ICSI Memb. No. FCS7167 
Mumbai
Mumbai
Mumbai
 May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
 (` in Lakh) 
Particulars
Note 
No. 
 For the year 
ended  
March 31, 2024 
 For the year 
ended  
March 31, 2023 
I.
 Revenue from operations
Sale of Products
27
 45,770.12 
 62,816.62 
Other operating revenue
 47.95 
 - 
Total Revenue from Operations
 45,818.07 
 62,816.62 
II.
Other income
28
 564.39 
 1,306.01 
III.
Total Income
 46,382.46 
 64,122.63 
IV.
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
29
 31,882.32 
 46,083.44 
Changes in inventories of finished goods work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
30
 45.70 
 (5,959.03)
Employee benefits expense
31
 6,174.40 
 5,225.88 
Finance costs
32
 2,522.58 
 2,071.43 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
33
 3,625.34 
 3,365.25 
Other expenses
34
 8,306.91 
 9,840.93 
Total expenses
 52,557.25 
 60,627.90 
V.
Profit/(Loss) before tax 
 (6,174.79)
 3,494.73 
VI.
Tax expense:
1. 	
Current tax
 3.66 
 2.67 
2. 	
Deferred tax
 (1,489.35)
 932.67 
 (1,485.69)
 935.35 
VII.
Profit/(Loss) for the year
 (4,689.10)
 2,559.39 
VIII.
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
(A)	
(i) 	
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
	
	
Remeasurement of defined benefit liability
 (76.06)
 (30.58)
	
(ii) 	
Income tax related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
 19.14 
 7.70 
 (56.92)
 (22.88)
(B)	
(i)	
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
 Foreign operations – foreign currency translation differences
 (1.66)
 1.06 
 (1.66)
 1.06 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
 (58.58)
 (21.82)
IX.
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
 (4,747.68)
 2,537.57 
Profit attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company
 (4,692.95)
 2,556.49 
Non-controlling interest
 3.85 
 2.90 
 (4,689.10)
 2,559.39 
Other Comprehensive Income is attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company
 (58.58)
 (21.82)
Non-controlling interest
 - 
 - 
 (58.58)
 (21.82)
Total Comprehensive income attributable to:
Equity holders of the Company
 (4,751.53)
 2,534.67 
Non-controlling interest
 3.85 
 2.90 
 (4,747.68)
 2,537.57 
X.
Earnings per equity share (Nominal value of ` 10 each, fully paid-up)
Basic (in `)
35
 (23.93)
 13.04 
Diluted (in `)
 (23.93)
 13.04 
Consolidated Balance sheet/ 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss
Annual Report 2023-24
222
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
 (` in Lakh) 
 For the year 
ended  
March 31, 2024 
 For the year 
ended  
March 31, 2023 
Cash flow from operating activities
(Loss)/Profit before tax
 (6,174.79)
 3,494.73 
Adjustments for
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 3,625.34 
 3,365.25 
Profit on Sale of Investment in Subsidiary
 - 
 - 
Interest income
 (15.12)
 (404.92)
Finance cost
 2,522.58 
 2,071.43 
Unrealised foreign exchange (gain)/loss
 (9.76)
 (151.11)
Allowance for trade receivables
 5.83 
 1.98 
Reversal of allowance for other receivables
 - 
 (7.11)
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment
 11.14 
 52.35 
Provision for Inventory
 9.08 
 89.55 
Employee stock options expense
 30.11 
 33.07 
Provision for receivable from government authorities
 164.85 
 - 
Total non-cash & non-operating adjustments
 6,344.05 
 5,050.49 
Operating (loss)/ profit before working capital changes
 169.26 
 8,545.24 
Change in operating assets and liabilities
Decrease/(Increase) in trade receivables
 (1,351.21)
 12,159.89 
Decrease/(Increase) in loans
 (2.01)
 12.58 
Decrease/(Increase) in other financial assets
 18.97 
 390.05 
Decrease/(Increase) in other current assets
 1,547.55 
 149.12 
(Increase) in inventories
 9,891.03 
 (10,879.68)
(Increase)/Decrease in other non-current assets
 (4.83)
 (820.05)
(Decrease)/Increase in trade payables
 (8,880.41)
 (1,427.50)
Increase in other financial liabilities
 12.54 
 99.93 
(Decrease)/Increase in other current liabilities
 (233.58)
 (316.18)
Increase/(Decrease) in provisions
 (18.77)
 6.29 
Increase in other non-current financial liabilities
 70.08 
 34.92 
 1,049.36 
 (590.63)
Cash generated from operations
 1,218.62 
 7,954.61 
Direct Taxes paid (net of refunds received)
 (196.52)
 (489.01)
Net cash generated from operating activities
 1,022.10 
 7,465.60 
Cash flow from investing activities
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and capital work-in-progress
 (13,549.81)
 (11,725.91)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
 35.96 
 77.67 
Intercorporate deposits given
 - 
 (2,500.00)
Intercorporate deposits returned
 - 
 2,500.00 
Deposits redeemed / (placed)
 (27.65)
 (11.02)
Interest received 
 23.36 
 408.52 
Net cash used in investing activities
 (13,518.14)
 (11,250.74)
Annual Report 2023-24
223
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
The Notes 1 to 51 form an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For B S R & Co. LLP
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Chartered Accountants
 (CIN:L99999MH1994PLC076236) 
Firm Registration Number : 101248W/W-100022
ANURAG ROY
B. S. YADAV 
Whole-Time Director &   Chief Executive Officer
Director 
DIN: 07444595
DIN: 00294803 
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 02, 2024
May 02, 2024
BURJIS PARDIWALA
K SURYANARAYAN 
TEJASHREE PRADHAN 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary 
Membership Number: 103595
ICAI Memb. No. 101853 
ICSI Memb. No. FCS7167 
Mumbai
Mumbai
Mumbai
 May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
 (` in Lakh) 
 For the year 
ended  
March 31, 2024 
 For the year 
ended  
March 31, 2023 
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from Long term Borrowings
 14,900.00 
 5,860.00 
Repayment of Long term Borrowings
 (4,396.48)
 (4,270.00)
Proceeds / (Repayment) of short term borrowings (net)
 (401.17)
 4,474.79 
Proceeds from issue of shares
 7.90 
 13.09 
Intercorporate deposits taken
 5,000.00 
 8,300.00 
Intercorporate deposits repaid
 - 
 (8,300.00)
Finance cost paid
 (2,320.31)
 (2,006.79)
Dividend paid to company's shareholders
 (294.09)
 (294.06)
Net cash generated from financing activities
 12,495.85 
 3,777.03 
Net increase / (Decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 (0.19)
 (8.11)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (Opening balance)
 47.34 
 55.45 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (closing balance) (refer note no.11)
 47.15 
 47.34 
Note 1 :
The above statement of cash flow has been prepared under the indirect method as set out in Indian Accounting Standard 7 Statement of Cash Flow 
notifiedd u/s 133 of Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with Rule 4 of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 and the relevant 
provisions of the Act.
Note 2 : Movement in Borrowings
(` in lakh)
Particulars
March 31, 2023
Cash Flows
Non-cash 
changes 
March 31, 2024
Long term borrowings (Refer Note 2.1)
 5,590.18 
 15,503.52 
 - 
 21,093.70 
Short term borrowings
 28,527.83 
 (401.17)
 169.11 
 28,295.77 
Total borrowings
 34,118.01 
 15,102.35 
 169.11 
 49,389.47 
(` in lakh)
Particulars
March 31, 2022
Cash Flows
 Non-cash 
changes 
March 31, 2023
Long term borrowings (Refer Note 2.1)
 4,000.00 
 1,590.00 
 0.18 
 5,590.18 
Short term borrowings
 23,937.31 
 4,474.79 
 115.73 
 28,527.83 
Total borrowings
 27,937.31 
 6,064.79 
 115.91 
 34,118.01 
Note 2.1: The Term Loan from Bank for ` 942.92 lakh and interest on non convertible debentures ` 250.78 lakh (previous year ` 4,503.93 Lakh) 
has been disclosed as current maturity of Long term Borrowing Under Current Liabilities.
Annual Report 2023-24
224
Consolidated Statement Of Changes In Equity 
for the Year ended March 31, 2024
(a)	
Equity share capital
 (` in lakh) 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at  
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the reporting Year
 1,960.57 
 1,959.76 
Changes in equity share capital during the year (refer note no. 16)
 0.35 
 0.81 
Balance at the end of the reporting Year
 1,960.92 
 1,960.57 
(b) 	
Other equity
(` in lakh)
Capital 
redemption 
reserve
Securities 
Premium
General 
reserve
Employee 
share option 
outstanding
Retained 
earnings
Foreign currency 
translation 
reserve
Total
Non - 
controlling 
interest
Total
Balance as at April 1, 2023
 0.30 
 6,073.56  1,249.28 
 35.81 
 32,614.59 
 2.22 
 39,975.75 
 19.21 
 39,994.96 
Total comprehensive income for the year
Loss for the year (net of income tax)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  (4,692.95)
 -  (4,692.95)
 3.85 
 (4,689.10)
Other comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (56.92)
 (1.66)
 (58.58)
 - 
 (58.58)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  (4,749.87)
 (1.66)
 (4,751.53)
 3.85 
 (4,747.68)
Transactions with the owners of the Company
Contributions and distributions
Dividends
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (294.09)
 - 
 (294.09)
 - 
 (294.09)
ESOP share excercised during the year
 - 
 35.39 
 - 
 (27.85)
 - 
 - 
 7.55 
 - 
 7.55 
Employee compensation expense recognised during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 30.11 
 - 
 - 
 30.11 
 - 
 30.11 
Balance at March 31, 2024
 0.30 
 6,108.95  1,249.28 
 38.07 
 27,570.63 
 0.56 
 34,967.79 
 23.06 
 34,990.85 
 Balance as at April 1, 2022 
 0.30 
 6,034.80  1,249.28 
 29.21 
 30,375.04 
 1.15 
 37,689.78 
 16.32 
 37,706.10 
Changes in accounting policy or prior period errors 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Restated Balance as at April 1, 2022 
 0.30 
 6,034.80  1,249.28 
 29.21 
 30,375.04 
 1.15 
 37,689.78 
 16.32 
 37,706.10 
Profit for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,556.49 
 - 
 2,556.49 
 2.90 
 2,559.39 
Other comprehensive income for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (22.88)
 1.06 
 (21.82)
 - 
 (21.82)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,533.61 
 1.06 
 2,534.67 
 2.90 
 2,537.57 
Transactions with the owners of the Company
Dividends
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (294.06)
 - 
 (294.06)
 - 
 (294.06)
ESOP share excercised during the year
 - 
 38.76 
 - 
 (26.47)
 - 
 - 
 12.28 
 - 
 12.28 
Employee compensation expense recognised during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 33.07 
 - 
 - 
 33.07 
 - 
 33.07 
Balance at March 31, 2023
 0.30 
 6,073.56  1,249.28 
 35.81 
 32,614.59 
 2.22 
 39,975.75 
 19.21 
 39,994.96 
The Notes 1 to 52 form an integral part of the Standalone Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For B S R & Co. LLP
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Chartered Accountants
 (CIN:L99999MH1994PLC076236) 
Firm Registration Number : 101248W/W-100022
ANURAG ROY
B. S. YADAV 
Whole-Time Director &   Chief Executive Officer
Director 
DIN: 07444595
DIN: 00294803 
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 02, 2024
May 02, 2024
BURJIS PARDIWALA
K SURYANARAYAN 
TEJASHREE PRADHAN 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary 
Membership Number: 103595
ICAI Memb. No. 101853 
ICSI Memb. No. FCS7167 
Mumbai
Mumbai
Mumbai
 May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
Annual Report 2023-24
225
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the Year ended March 31, 2024
Note 1 : Material accounting policies
A. 	
General Information
	
Astec LifeSciences Limited ("the Company") is a public limited Group, which is domiciled and incorporated in the Republic of India with 
its registered office situated at Godrej One, 3rd Floor, Pirojsha Nagar, Eastern Express Highway, Vikhroli East, Mumbai - 400 079. The 
Company & its subsidiaries together considered as a group manufactures & distributes a wide range of Agrochemical active ingredients and 
pharmaceutical intermediates. 
B. 	
Basis of preparation and measurement
	
(1) 	
Basis of preparation
	
	
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind AS”) as notified by 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs pursuant to Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) read with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended and other relevant provisions of the Act. The accounting policies are applied consistently to all 
the years presented in the standalone financial statements.
	
	
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended March 31, 2024 were authorized for issue in accordance 
with a resolution of the Board of Directors on May 02, 2024.
	
	
The Company adopted Disclosure of Accounting Policies (Amendments to Ind AS 1) from 1 April 2023. Although the amendments 
did not result in any changes in the accounting policies themselves, they impacted the accounting policy information disclosed 
in the financial statements. The amendments require the disclosure of ‘material’ rather than ‘significant’ accounting policies. The 
amendments also provide guidance on the application of materiality to disclosure of accounting policies, assisting entities to provide 
useful, entity-specific accounting policy information that users need to understand other information in the financial statements
	
	
Current versus non-current classification
	
	
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or non-current as per the Group’s normal operating cycle and other criteria 
set out in the Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013. Based on the nature of products and the time taken between acquisition of 
assets for processing and their realization in cash and cash equivalents, the Group has ascertained its operating cycle as twelve 
months for the purpose of classification of assets and liabilities into current and non-current.
	
(2) 	
Basis of measurement
	
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the following:
	
	
 - 	
certain financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) that is measured at fair value (refer- Accounting policy 
regarding financials instruments sr.no.8);
	
	
- 	
defined benefit plans – plan assets measured at fair value less present value of defined benefit obligation; and 
	
	
- 	
share-based payments - measured at fair value
	
(3) 	
Basis of Consolidation
	
	
(i) 	
Subsidiaries :
	
	
	
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the group has control. The group controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or 
has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power 
to direct the relevant activities of the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred 
to the group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
	
	
	
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations by the group. The group combines 
the financial statements of the parent and its subsidiaries line by line adding together like items of assets, liabilities, equity, 
income and expenses. Inter Group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies 
are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the 
transferred asset. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed wherever necessary to ensure consistency with the 
policies adopted by the group.
	
	
	
Non-controlling interests in the results and equity of subsidiaries are shown separately in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss, consolidated statement of changes in equity and balance sheet respectively.
Annual Report 2023-24
226
	
	
(ii) 	
Equity method :
	
	
	
Under the equity method of accounting, the investments are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise 
the group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses of the investee in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, 
and the group’s share of other comprehensive income of the investee in other comprehensive income.
	
	
	
When the group’s share of losses in an equity-accounted investment equals or exceeds its interest in the entity, including 
any other unsecured long-term receivables, the unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the other 
entity group does not recognise further losses, Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its subsidiaries are 
eliminated to the extent of the group’s interest in these entities. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction 
provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of equity accounted investees have been 
changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group. 
	
(4) 	
Functional and presentation currency
	
	
These consolidated financial statements are presented in Indian rupees, which is the Company’s functional currency. All amounts 
have been rounded off to the nearest lakh, unless otherwise indicated.
C. 	
Key estimates and assumptions
	
While preparing consolidated financial statements in conformity with Ind AS, the management has made certain estimates and assumptions 
that require subjective and complex judgments. These judgments affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amount of 
assets, liabilities, income and expenses, disclosure of contingent liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amount of income 
and expenses for the reporting period. Future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted and the best estimates require adjustments, as 
actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
	
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized prospectively.
	
Judgement, estimates and assumptions are required in particular for:
	
(1)	
 Determination of the estimated useful lives 
	
	
Useful lives of property, plant and equipment are based on the life prescribed in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013. In cases, 
where the useful lives are different from that prescribed in Schedule II and in case of intangible assets, they are based on technical 
advice, taking into account the nature of the asset, the estimated usage of the asset, the operating conditions of the asset, past 
history of replacement, anticipated technological changes, manufacturers’ warranties and maintenance support. 
	
(2) 	
Recognition and measurement of defined benefit obligations 
	
	
The obligation arising from defined benefit plan is determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions. Key actuarial assumptions 
include discount rate, trends in salary escalation, actuarial rates and life expectancy. The discount rate is determined by reference 
to market yields at the end of the reporting period on government bonds. The period to maturity of the underlying bonds correspond 
to the probable maturity of the post-employment benefit obligations. Due to complexities involved in the valuation and its long term 
nature, defined benefit obligation is sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting 
period.
	
(3) 	
Recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying 
values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and unutilized business loss and depreciation carry-forwards and tax 
credits. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available against which 
the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses, depreciation carry-forwards and unused tax credits could be utilized.
	
(4) 	
Recognition and measurement of other provisions
	
	
The recognition and measurement of other provisions are based on the assessment of the probability of an outflow of resources, 
and on past experience and circumstances known at the balance sheet date. The actual outflow of resources at a future date may 
therefore, vary from the amount included in other provisions.
	
(5) 	
Discounting of long-term financial assets / liabilities
	
	
All financial assets / liabilities are required to be measured at fair value on initial recognition. In case of financial liabilities/assets 
which are required to subsequently be measured at amortised cost, interest is accrued using the effective interest method.
	
(6) 	
Fair valuation of employee share options
	
	
The fair valuation of the employee share options is based on the Black-Scholes model used for valuation of options. Key assumptions 
made with respect to expected volatility includes share price, expected dividends and discount rate, under this option pricing model.
Annual Report 2023-24
227
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
(7) 	
Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease
	
	
Ind AS 116 requires lessee to determine the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease adjusted with any option to extend or 
terminate the lease, if the use of such option is reasonably certain. The Group makes an assessment on the expected lease term on 
a lease-by-lease basis and thereby assesses whether it is reasonably certain that any options to extend or terminate the contract will 
be exercised. In evaluating the lease term, the Group considers factors such as any significant leasehold improvements undertaken 
over the lease term, costs relating to the termination of the lease and the importance of the underlying asset taking into account the 
location of the underlying asset and the availability of suitable alternatives. The lease term in future periods is reassessed to ensure 
that the lease term reflects the current economic circumstances. After considering current and future economic conditions, the Group 
has concluded that no changes are required to lease period relating to the existing lease contracts.
	
(8) 	
Fair value of financial instruments
	
	
Derivatives are carried at fair value. Derivatives includes foreign currency forward contracts. Fair value of foreign currency forward 
contracts are determined using the fair value reports provided by respective bankers.
	
(9) 	
Liability for Sales Return
	
	
Accruals for estimated product returns, which are based on historical experience of actual sales returns and adjustment on account 
of current market scenario is considered by Group to be reliable estimate of future sales returns.
	
(10) 	
Provisions and contingent liabilities 
	
	
A provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation because of past event and it is probable that an outflow of 
resources will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. These are reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates. 
	
	
Contingent assets are neither recognised nor disclosed in the consolidated financial statements.
D. 	
Measurement of fair values
	
The Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values for, both financial and non-financial assets and 
liabilities. The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values. The management regularly 
reviews significant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments. If third party information, such as broker quotes or pricing services, is 
used to measure fair values, then the management assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties to support the conclusion that 
such valuations meet the requirements of Ind AS, including the level in the fair value hierarchy in which such valuations should be classified.
	
When measuring the fair value of a financial asset or a financial liability, the Group uses observable market data as far as possible. Fair 
values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows. 
	
- 	
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
	
- 	
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) 
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
	
- 	
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
	
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the fair value 
measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to the entire 
measurement.
	
The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during which the change has 
occurred.
E. 	
Material accounting policies
	
(1) 	
Revenue and Other Income :
	
	
i. 	
Sale of goods
	
	
	
Revenue from operations comprises of sales of goods after the deduction of discounts, goods and service tax and estimated 
returns. Discounts given by the Group includes trade discounts, volume rebates and other incentive given to the customers. 
Accumulated experience is used to estimate the provision for discounts. Revenue is only recognized to the extent that it is 
highly probable a significant reversal will not occur.
	
	
	
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer. Revenue from the sale of goods 
are recognized when control of the goods has transferred to our customer and when there are no longer any unfulfilled 
obligations to the customer, This is generally when the goods are delivered to the customer depending on individual customer 
terms, which can be at the time of dispatch or delivery. This is considered the appropriate point where the performance 
obligations in our contracts are satisfied as the Group no longer have control over the inventory.
Annual Report 2023-24
228
	
	
	
Our customers have the contractual right to return goods only when authorized by the Group. As at March March 2024, an 
estimate has been made of goods that will be returned and a liability has been recognized for this amount. An asset has 
also been recorded for the corresponding inventory that is estimated to return to the Group using a best estimate based on 
accumulated experience.
	
	
ii. 	
Dividend income
	
	
	
Dividend income is recognised only when the right to receive the same is established, it is probable that the economic 
benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the Group, and the amount of dividend can be measured reliably.
	
	
iii. 	
Interest income
	
	
	
For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost, interest income is recorded using the effective interest rate (EIR), 
which is the rate that discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial 
instruments or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial assets. Interest income is 
included in other income in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
(2) 	
Foreign currency :
	
	
(i) 	
Transaction and balances
	
	
	
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group at the exchange 
rates at the dates of the transactions or an average rate if the average rate approximates the actual rate at the date of the 
transaction. Foreign currency transactions are recorded on initial recognition in the functional currency, using the exchange 
rate at the date of the transaction. At each balance sheet date, foreign currency monetary items are reported using the closing 
exchange rate. Exchange differences that arise on settlement of monetary items or on reporting at each balance sheet date 
of the Group's monetary items at the closing rate are recognized as income and expenses in the period in which they arise.
	
	
	
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the dates of transactions. Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency shall be translated 
using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was measured.
	
	
	
Exchange differences are generally recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss, except exchange differences arising from 
the translation of the following item which are recognized in OCI:
	
	
	
- 	
Qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent that the hedges are effective.
	
(3) 	
Employment Benefits
	
	
(i) 	
Short-term obligations
	
	
	
All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months of rendering services are classified as short-term employee 
benefits. Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the related service is provided. A liability is recognized for the 
amount expected to be paid if the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of 
past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. 
	
	
	
Short-term benefits such as salaries, wages, short-term compensation absences, etc., are determined on an undiscounted 
basis and recognized in the period in which the employee renders the related service. The Company has a scheme of 
Performance Linked Variable Remuneration (PLVR) which is fully written off to the Standalone Statement of Profit & Loss. 
The Scheme rewards its employees based on the achievement of key performance indicators and profitability, as prescribed 
in the scheme.
 	
	
(ii) 	
Other long-term employee benefit obligations
	
	
	
Liability toward Long-term Compensated Absences is provided for on the basis of an actuarial valuation, using the Projected 
Unit Credit Method, as at the date of the Balance Sheet. Actuarial gains / losses comprising of experience adjustments and 
the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions are immediately recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
	
The obligations are presented as current liabilities in the balance sheet if the entity does not have an unconditional right to 
defer settlement for at least twelve months after the reporting period, regardless of when the actual settlement is expected to 
occur.
	
	
(iii) 	
Post-employment obligations
	
	
	
The Group operates the following post-employment schemes:
	
	
	
(a) 	
defined benefit plans such as gratuity, and
	
	
	
(b) 	
defined contribution plans such as provident fund.
Annual Report 2023-24
229
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
	
	
Gratuity obligations
	
	
	
The following post – employment benefit plans are covered under the defined benefit plans:
	
	
	
Gratuity :
	
	
	
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that 
employees have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value of any plan 
assets.
	
	
	
The calculation of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit 
method. When the calculation results in a potential asset for the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value 
of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
	
	
	
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized 
in the period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. They are included in retained earnings in the 
statement of changes in equity and in the balance sheet.
	
	
	
Defined contribution plans
	
	
	
The Group pays provident fund contributions to publicly administered provident funds as per local regulations. The Group 
has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are accounted for as defined 
contribution plans and the contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. 
	
	
(iv) 	
Share-based payments
	
	
	
Share-based compensation benefits are provided to employees via the Astec LifeSciences Limited Employee Stock Option 
Plan.
	
	
	
Employee options:
	
	
	
The fair value of options granted under the Astec LifeSciences Limited Employee Stock Option Plan is recognised as an 
employee benefits expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The total amount to be expensed is determined by 
reference to the fair value of the options granted:
	
	
	
- 	
including any market performance conditions (e.g., the entity’s share price)
	
	
	
- 	
excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions (e.g. profitability, sales growth 
targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period), and
	
	
	
-	
including the impact of any non-vesting conditions (e.g. the requirement for employees to save or holdings shares for 
a specific period of time).
	
	
	
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions 
are to be satisfied. At the end of each period, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to 
vest based on the non-market vesting and service conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if 
any, in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
	
	
(v) 	
Bonus plans
	
	
	
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses. The Group recognises a provision where contractually obliged 
or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
	
	
(vi) 	
Terminal benefits
	
	
	
All terminal benefits are recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
	
(4) 	
Income-tax
	
	
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. It is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss except to the extent that 
it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or in the OCI.
	
	
(i) 	
Current tax
	
	
	
Current tax is the amount of tax payable (recoverable) in respect of the taxable profit / (tax loss) for the year determined in 
accordance with the provisions of the Income-Tax Act, 1961. Current income tax for current and prior periods is recognized at 
the amount expected to be paid to or recovered from the tax authorities, using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
	
	
	
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if, the Group:
	
	
	
a) 	
has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts; and
	
	
	
b) 	
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Annual Report 2023-24
230
	
	
(ii) 	
Deferred tax
	
	
	
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for 
financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for:
	
	
	
- 	
temporary differences on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination 
and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
	
	
	
- 	
temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries and associates to the extent that the Group is able 
to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future; and
	
	
	
- 	
taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
	
	
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, unused tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the 
extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be used. Deferred tax assets are 
reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will 
be realised; such reductions are reversed when the probability of future taxable profits improves.Unrecognized deferred tax 
assets are reassessed at each reporting date and recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable 
profits will be available against which they can be used.
	
 	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is 
realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date. Taxes relating to items recognized directly in equity or OCI is recognized in equity or OCI and not in the 
statement of profit and loss.
	
	
	
The measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group 
expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
	
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only if:
	
	
	
a) 	
the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities; and
	
	
	
b) 	
the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on 
the same taxable entity.
	
(5) 	
Inventories
	
	
Inventories are carried in the balance sheet as follows:
	
	
(a) 	
Raw materials, Packing materials, Stock in Trade and Stores & Spares: At lower of cost, on weighted average basis and net 
realisable value
	
	
(b) 	
Work-in-progress / project in progress-: At lower of cost of materials, plus appropriate production overheads and net realizable 
value.
	
	
(c) 	
Finished Goods: At lower of cost of materials, plus appropriate production overheads and net realizable value, Net realizable 
value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated cost of completion and selling expenses 
necessary to make the sale.The cost of inventories have been computed to include all cost of purchases, cost of conversion 
and other related costs incurred in bringing the inventories to the present location and condition. Slow and non-moving 
material, obsolescence, defective inventories are duly provided for and valued at net realizable value. Goods and materials in 
transit are valued at actual cost incurred upto the date of balance sheet. Materials and supplies held for use in the production 
of inventories are not written down if the finished products in which they will be used are expected to be sold at or above cost.
	
(6) 	
Property, plant and equipment (including Capital work in progress)
	
	
(i) 	
Recognition and measurement
	
	
	
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment 
losses, if any.
	
	
	
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises:
	
	
	
a)	
its purchase price, including import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade discounts and 
rebates.
	
	
	
b)	
any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of 
operating in the manner intended by management.
	
	
	
c)	
the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located, the 
obligation for which an entity incurs either when the item is acquired or as a consequence of having used the item 
during a particular period for purposes other than to produce inventories during that period.
Annual Report 2023-24
231
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
	
	
d) 	
Items of property, plant and equipment (including capital-work-in progress) are measured at cost, which includes 
capitalised borrowing costs, less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses
	
	
	
Income and expenses related to the incidental operations, not necessary to bring the item to the location and condition 
necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management, are recognised in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
	
	
	
If significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, then they are accounted and 
depreciated for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
	
	
	
Any gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
(ii) 	
Subsequent expenditure
	
	
	
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the expenditure 
will flow to the Group.
	
	
(iii) 	
Depreciation/ Amortizations
	
	
	
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost, net of their residual values, over their estimated 
useful lives specified in schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 except for the following:
	
	
	
(a) 	
Plant and Machinery: 
	
	
	
	
Based on the condition of the plants, regular maintenance schedule, material of construction, external and internal 
assessment and past experience, the Group has considered useful life of Plant and Machinery as 20 years.
	
	
	
(b) 	
Computer Hardware:
	
	
	
	
Depreciated over its estimated useful life of 4 years.
	
	
	
(c) 	
Right of use Asset :
	
	
	
	
Amortized over the primary lease period.
	
	
	
(d) 	
Leasehold improvements and equipments:
	
	
	
	
Amortised over the Primary lease period or 16 years whichever is less
	
	
	
	
Assets costing less than ` 5,000 are fully depreciated in the year of purchase/acquisition. Depreciation methods, 
useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. 
	
	
	
	
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is 
greater than its estimated recoverable amount
	
	
	
	
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in 
profit or loss within other gains/(losses).
	
(7) 	
Intangible assets
	
	
(i) 	
Computer software
	
	
	
Recognition and measurement
	
	
	
Intangible assets are recognized when it is probable that the future economic benefits that are attributable to the assets will 
flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
	
	
	
Intangible assets viz. Computer software and product registration, which are acquired by the Group and have finite useful 
lives are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
	
	
	
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. 
	
	
	
Amortisation
	
	
	
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost of intangible assets less their estimated residual values using the straight-line 
method over their estimated useful lives, and is generally recognised in profit or loss. 
	
	
	
The intangible assets are amortised over the estimated useful lives as given below:
	
	
	
-	
Computer software 6 years
	
	
	
-	
Product Registration 5 years
Annual Report 2023-24
232
	
	
(ii) 	
Research and development
	
	
	
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditures on an individual project are recognised as an intangible 
asset under development when the Company can demonstrate: -  
	
	
	
-	
The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale
	
	
	
-	
Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset 
	
	
	
-	
It is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Company and the Company has control over the asset
 	
	
	
Cost of Product Registration generally comprise of direct costs of manpower, other fixed cost and depreciation towards 
production of samples, creating product dossiers, fees paid to registration consultants, application fees to the government 
authorities. Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any 
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins when development is 
complete, and the asset is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit.
	
(8) 	
Borrowing costs
	
	
Other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
	
	
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost 
also includes exchange difference to the extent regarded as an adjustment to the borrowing costs.
	
(9) 	
Segment Reporting 
	
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
("CODM") of the Group. The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating 
segments, has been identified as the Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer of the Group. The Group has identified only one 
segment i.e. Agrochemicals as reporting segment based on the information reviewed by CODM.
	
(10) 	
Financial Instruments
	
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of 
another entity. Financial instruments also include derivative contracts such as foreign currency foreign exchange forward contracts.
	
	
Financial instruments also covers contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial 
instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, as if the contracts were financial instruments, with the exception of contracts that 
were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the 
entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
	
	
Derivatives are currently recognized at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently 
re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
	
(11) 	
Hedge accounting
	
	
The Group designates certain hedging instruments in respect of foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk as 
cash flow hedges. At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument 
and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. 
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly 
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
	
	
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the designated portion of derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised 
in other comprehensive income and accumulated under equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised 
immediately in statement of profit or loss.
	
	
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity relating to effective portion as described 
above are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line as the recognised 
hedged item. However, when the hedged forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial 
liability, such gains and losses are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial 
asset or non-financial liability.
	
	
Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when it 
no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity at 
that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in the statement profit 
or loss.
Annual Report 2023-24
233
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
	
i. 	
Financial assets
	
	
	
Classification
	
	
	
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories:
	
	
	
- 	
Where assets are measured at fair value, gains and losses are either recognized entirely in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss (i.e. fair value through profit or loss), or recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (i.e. fair value through 
other comprehensive income).
	
	
	
- 	
A financial asset that meets the following two conditions is measured at amortized cost (net of any write down for 
impairment) unless the asset is designated at fair value through profit or loss under the fair value option. 
	
	
	
Business model test: The objective of the Group’s business model is to hold the financial asset to collect the contractual cash 
flows (rather than to sell the instrument prior to its contractual maturity to realize its fair value changes).
	
	
	
Cash flow characteristics test: The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
	
	
	
Initial recognition & measurement
	
	
	
At initial recognition, the Group measures a financial asset at fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not recorded at 
fair value through the Statement of Profit and Loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial 
asset. 
	
	
	
Equity investments
	
	
	
-	
 All equity investments in scope of Ind-AS 109 are measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are held for 
trading are classified as at FVTPL. For all other equity instruments, the Group decides to classify the same either as 
at FVOCI or FVTPL. The Group makes such election on an instrument-by-instrument basis. The classification is made 
on initial recognition and is irrevocable. 
	
	
	
- 	
If the Group decides to classify an equity instrument as FVOCI, then all fair value changes on the instrument, excluding 
dividends, are recognized in the OCI. There is no recycling of the amounts from OCI to profit and loss, even on sale 
of investment. However, the Group may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity. 
	
	
	
- 	
Equity instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes recognized in the 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
	
	
Derecognition 
	
	
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a Group of similar financial assets) is primarily 
derecognised (i.e. removed from the Group’s balance sheet) when:
	
	
	
- 	
The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired, or 
	
	
	
- 	
The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the 
received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) 
the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group has neither transferred 
nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset
	
	
	
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, 
it evaluates if and to what extent it has retained the risks and rewards of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor 
retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group continues to 
recognise the transferred asset to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement. In that case, the Group also recognises 
an associated liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and 
obligations that the Group has retained. 
	
	
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original 
carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay. 
	
	
	
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
	
In accordance with Ind-AS 109, the Group applies expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement and recognition of 
impairment loss on the following financial assets and credit risk exposure: 
	
	
	
a) 	
Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, deposits, and bank balance. 
	
	
	
b) 	
Trade receivables - The application of simplified approach does not require the Group to track changes in credit risk. 
Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its initial 
recognition. Trade receivables are tested for impairment on a specific basis after considering the sanctioned credit 
limits, security like letters of credit, security deposit collected etc. and expectations about future cash flows.
Annual Report 2023-24
234
	
	
ii. 	
Financial liabilities
	
	
	
Classification
	
	
	
Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified according to the substance of the contractual 
arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
	
	
	
The Group classifies all financial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortised cost, except for financial liabilities at fair 
value through the Statement of Profit and Loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives that are liabilities, shall be subsequently 
measured at fair value.
	
	
	
Initial recognition and measurement 
	
	
	
Financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial 
liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, 
payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. 
	
	
	
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly 
attributable and incremental transaction cost.
	
	
	
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an 
integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of profit and loss. 
	
	
	
The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, financial 
guarantee contracts and derivative financial instruments.
	
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts 
	
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the 
holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the terms of 
a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction 
costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of 
the amount of loss allowance determined as per impairment requirements of Ind-AS 109 and the amount recognised less 
cumulative amortisation. 
	
	
	
Derecognition 
	
	
	
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an 
existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an 
existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original 
liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss.
	
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
	
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if there is a currently 
enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets 
and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
	
	
	
Derivative financial instruments
	
	
	
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps, to hedge its 
foreign currency risks and interest rate risks respectively. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at 
fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. The 
accounting for subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, 
and if so, the nature of item being hedged and the type of hedge relationship designated. 
	
	
	
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is 
negative.
	
(12) 	
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
	
	
Provisions are recognized when there is a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of 
the amount of the obligation.
	
	
The expenses relating to a provision is presented in the Statement of Profit and Loss net of any reimbursement.
	
	
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows specific 
to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost. 
Annual Report 2023-24
235
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
	
	
A provision for onerous contracts is measured at the present value of the lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract and 
the expected net cost of continuing with the contract. Before a provision is established, the Group recognises any impairment loss 
on the assets associated with that contract.
	
	
A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when there is a possible obligation or a present obligation that may, but will probably 
not, require an outflow of resources. When there is a possible obligation of a present obligation in respect of which the likelihood of 
outflow of resources is remote, no provision disclosure is made.
	
	
A contingent asset is not recognised but disclosed in the financial statements where an inflow of economic benefit is probable.
	
	
Commitments includes the amount of purchase order (net of advance) issued to parties for completion of assets.
	
	
Provisions, contingent assets, contingent liabilities and commitments are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
	
(13) 	
Cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting
	
	
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in 
the other comprehensive income in cash flow hedging reserve within equity, limited to the cumulative change in fair value of hedged 
item on a present value basis from the inception of hedge. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion is recognized immediately 
in profit or loss.
	
	
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss. 
	
(14) 	
Leases
	
	
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration.
	
	
Group as a lessee
	
	
The Group’s lease asset classes primarily consist of leases for land and buildings. The group assesses whether a contract contains 
a lease, at inception of a contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified 
asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an 
identified asset, the group assesses whether: (1) the contract involves the use of an identified asset (2) the group has substantially 
all of the economic benefits from use of the asset through the period of the lease and (3) the group has the right to direct the use of 
the asset.
	
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the Group recognizes a right-of-use asset (“ROU”) and a corresponding lease liability 
for all lease arrangements in which it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve months or less (short-term leases) and low 
value leases. For these short term and low value leases, the Group recognizes the lease payments as an operating expense on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
	
	
Certain lease arrangements includes the options to extend or terminate the lease before the end of the lease term. ROU assets and 
lease liabilities includes these options when it is reasonably certain that they will be exercised.
	
	
The right-of-use assets are initially recognized at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease 
payments made at or prior to the commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct costs less any lease incentives. They are 
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
	
	
Right-of-use assets are depreciated from the commencement date on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and 
useful life of the underlying asset.
	
	
Right of use assets are evaluated for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying 
amounts may not be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the fair value less 
cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are 
largely independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the Cash Generating Unit 
(CGU) to which the asset belongs.
	
	
The lease liability is initially measured at amortized cost at the present value of the future lease payments. The lease payments are 
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using the incremental borrowing rates in the 
country of domicile of these leases. Lease liabilities are remeasured with a corresponding adjustment to the related right of use asset 
if the group changes its assessment if whether it will exercise an extension or a termination option.
	
	
Lease liability and ROU asset have been separately presented in the Balance Sheet and lease payments have been classified as 
financing cash flows.
	
(15) 	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
Goodwill and intangible assets that have infinite useful life are not subjected to amortization and are tested annually for impairment, 
or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they might be impaired.
Annual Report 2023-24
236
	
	
The carrying values of other assets/cash generating units at each balance sheet date are reviewed for impairment if any indication 
of impairment exists. If the carrying amount of the assets exceed the estimated recoverable amount, an impairment is recognised 
for such excess amount.
	
	
The recoverable amount is the greater of the net selling price and their value in use. Value in use is arrived at by discounting the 
future cash flows to their present value based on an appropriate discount factor that reflects current market assessments of the time 
value of money and the risk specific to the asset. 
	
	
When there is indication that an impairment loss recognised for an asset (other than a revalued asset) in earlier accounting periods 
which no longer exists or may have decreased, such reversal of impairment loss is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss, 
to the extent the amount was previously charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss. In case of revalued assets, such reversal is not 
recognised.
	
(16) 	
Dividends
	
	
Provision is made for the amount of any dividend declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the 
entity, on or before the end of the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the reporting period.
	
(17) 	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
	
	
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, as defined 
above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as they are considered an integral part of the Group’s cash management.
	
(18) 	
Earnings per share
	
	
(i) 	
Basic earnings per share
 	
	
	
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
	
	
	
-	
the profit attributable to owners of the Group
	
	
	
-	
by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the financial year, adjusted for bonus elements 
in equity shares issued during the year and excluding treasury shares.
	
	
(ii) 	
Diluted earnings per share
	
	
	
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take into account:
	
	
	
-	
the after income tax effect of interest and other financing costs associated with dilutive potential equity shares, and
	
	
	
-	
the weighted average number of additional equity shares that would have been outstanding assuming the conversion 
of all dilutive potential equity shares.
(F) 	
Recent Pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments to the existing standards under Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. On March 31, 2024, MCA has not notified any new standards or amendments to the existing 
standards applicable to the Company
Annual Report 2023-24
237
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 2 (a) : Property, Plant & Equipment
 (` in lakh)
Particulars
Plant and 
Machinery
Factory 
Building
Office 
Buildings
Electrical 
Installations
Furniture 
and Fixtures
Vehicles
Computers
Office 
& Other 
Equipment
 Total 
Gross Block
 As at April 1, 2023 
 29,063.49 
 12,635.82 
 267.48 
 1,726.01 
 279.47 
 414.89 
 272.61 
 256.44 
 44,916.21 
 Additions 
 3,949.60 
 616.74 
 3,484.70 
 727.85 
 653.58 
 233.03 
 130.39 
 507.00 
 10,302.89 
 Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 58.77 
 1.49 
 - 
 60.26 
 As at March 31, 2024 
 33,013.09 
 13,252.56 
 3,752.18 
 2,453.86 
 933.05 
 589.15 
 401.51 
 763.44 
 55,158.84 
 Accumulated Depreciation 
 As at April 1, 2023 
 13,096.47 
 2,032.80 
 37.66 
 476.09 
 161.87 
 184.84 
 140.29 
 110.59 
 16,240.62 
 For the year 
 2,364.17 
 609.05 
 60.60 
 227.41 
 76.68 
 45.00 
 68.99 
 133.30 
 3,585.20 
 Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 12.83 
 0.34 
 - 
 13.17 
 As at March 31, 2024 
 15,460.64 
 2,641.85 
 98.26 
 703.50 
 238.55 
 217.02 
 208.94 
 243.89 
 19,812.65 
Net Block as at March 31, 2024 
 17,552.45 
 10,610.71 
 3,653.92 
 1,750.36 
 694.50 
 372.13 
 192.57 
 519.55 
 35,346.19 
Gross Block
As at April 1, 2022 
 28,285.22 
 12,590.84 
 267.48 
 1,696.11 
 275.44 
 406.25 
 194.76 
 215.47 
 43,931.57 
 Additions 
 948.33 
 44.98 
 - 
 29.90 
 4.28 
 90.37 
 80.47 
 40.97 
 1,239.30 
 Disposals 
 170.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.25 
 81.74 
 2.63 
 - 
 254.68 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 29,063.49 
 12,635.82 
 267.48 
 1,726.01 
 279.47 
 414.88 
 272.60 
 256.44 
 44,916.19 
 Accumulated Depreciation 
 As at April 1, 2022 
 10,799.54 
 1,480.88 
 32.93 
 317.29 
 140.29 
 169.04 
 103.09 
 74.30 
 13,117.36 
 For the period 
 2,388.61 
 551.92 
 4.73 
 158.80 
 21.74 
 45.99 
 39.83 
 36.29 
 3,247.91 
 Disposals 
 91.67 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.15 
 30.19 
 2.63 
 124.63 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 13,096.47 
 2,032.80 
 37.66 
 476.09 
 161.87 
 184.84 
 140.29 
 110.59 
 16,240.62 
Net Block as at March 31, 
2023 
 15,967.02 
 10,603.02 
 229.82 
 1,249.92 
 117.60 
 230.04 
 132.31 
 145.85 
 28,675.57 
Annual Report 2023-24
238
Note 2 (b). 1 : Capital work-in-progress
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
 Total 
 As at April 1, 2023 
 11,238.43 
 Additions for the year 
 13,655.75 
 Capitalised during the year 
 (10,047.63)
 As at March 31, 2024 
 14,846.55 
 As at April 1, 2022 
 1,373.24 
 Additions for the year 
 10,930.17 
 Capitalised during the year 
 (1,064.98)
 As at March 31, 2023 
 11,238.43 
Note 2 (b). 2 : Capital work-in-progress Ageing Schedule as of March 31, 2024
(` in lakh)
Capital work-in-progress Ageing Schedule for current year
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of 
TOTAL
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in Progress
 11,240.23 
 3,606.32 
 - 
 - 
 14,846.55 
Temporary projects suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
-	
There are no Projects where the costs have exceeded the original plan approved by the Board of Directors and there are no Projects where 
the project timelines are overdue as on 31st March, 2024
Note 2 (b). 3 : Capital work-in-progress Ageing Schedule as of March 31, 2023.
(` in lakh)
Capital work-in-progress Ageing Schedule for previous year
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of 
TOTAL
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in Progress
 10,111.22 
 1,070.06 
 30.25 
 26.90 
 11,238.43 
Temporary projects suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
There are no Projects where the costs have exceeded the original plan approved by the Board of Directors and there are no Projects where the 
project timelines are overdue as on 31st March, 2023
Note 2 (b). 4 :During the year, the Company has capitalised borrowing cost of ` 859.73 lakh using a capitalisation rate of 7.85% (Previous Year 
` 180.67 lakh at 7.61%)
Annual Report 2023-24
239
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 3 - Right-of-use assets
(` in Lakh)
Particulars
Land and Buildings
As at April 1, 2022
 3,025.31 
Additions
 90.45 
Disposals
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2023
 3,115.76 
Additions
 - 
Disposals
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 3,115.76 
As at April 1, 2022
 74.86 
Depreciation
 37.72 
Impairment loss
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2023
 112.58 
Depreciation
 37.61 
Impairment loss
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 150.19 
Carrying amounts
As at April 1, 2022
 2,950.45 
Balance as at March 31, 2023
 3,003.18 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 2,965.56 
Note 3.1 - Breakdown of lease expenses
(` in lakh)
Particulars
For the Year 
ended  
March 31, 2024
For the Year 
ended  
March 31, 2023
Short-term lease expense
 115.62 
 106.86 
Total lease expense
 115.62 
 106.86 
Note 3.2 - Cash outflow on leases
(` in lakh)
Particulars
For the Year 
ended  
March 31, 2024
For the Year 
ended  
March 31, 2023
Repayment of lease liabilities
 - 
 - 
Interest on lease liabilities
 - 
 - 
Short-term lease expense
 115.62 
 106.86 
Total cash outflow on leases
 115.62 
 106.86 
Annual Report 2023-24
240
Note 4 (a) : Intangible Assets
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
 Computer 
Software 
 Product 
Registration 
 Total 
Gross Block
 As at April 1, 2023 
 516.53 
 257.02 
 773.55 
 Additions 
 26.16 
 160.78 
 186.94 
 Disposals 
 - 
 As at Mar 31, 2024 
 542.69 
 417.80 
 960.49 
 Accumulated amortisation 
 As at April 1, 2023 
 354.44 
 250.58 
 605.02 
 For the year 
 43.67 
 27.08 
 70.75 
 Disposals 
 - 
 As at Mar 31, 2024 
 398.11 
 277.66 
 675.77 
 Net Block as at Mar 31, 2024 
 144.58 
 140.13 
 284.72 
Gross Block
 As at April 1, 2022 
 504.61 
 250.57 
 755.18 
 Additions 
 11.92 
 6.45 
 18.37 
 Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 516.53 
 257.02 
 773.55 
 Accumulated amortisation 
 As at April 1, 2022 
 274.82 
 250.57 
 525.39 
 For the period 
 79.62 
 - 
 79.62 
 Disposals 
 - 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 354.44 
 250.57 
 605.01 
 Net Block as at March 31, 2023 
 162.09 
 6.45 
 168.54 
Note 4 (b) : Intangible Assets under development
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
 Total 
 As at April 1, 2023 
1421.86
 Additions for the year 
395.77
 Capitalised during the year 
 (160.78)
 As at March 31, 2024 
 1,656.85 
 As at April 1, 2022 
 909.25 
 Additions for the year 
 530.52 
 Capitalised during the year 
 (17.91)
 As at March 31, 2023 
 1,421.86 
Annual Report 2023-24
241
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 4 (b). 2 : Intangible Assets under development Ageing Schedule as of March 31, 2024.
(` in lakh)
Intangible Assets under development Ageing Schedule for current 
year
Amount in Intangible Assets under development for a 
period of 
TOTAL
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in Progress
 385.09 
 469.75 
 494.09 
 307.92 
 1,656.85 
Temporary projects suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
There are no projects as on 31st March, 2024 where the project timelines are overdue.
Note 4 (b). 3 : Intangible Assets under development Ageing Schedule as of March 31, 2023.
(` in lakh)
Intangible Assets under development Ageing Schedule for previous 
year
Amount in Intangible Assets under development for a 
period of 
TOTAL
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in Progress
 512.60 
 601.33 
 137.49 
 170.44 
 1,421.86 
Temporary projects suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
There are no projects as on 31st March, 2023 where the project timelines are overdue.
Note 5 : Non-current financial assets- Investments
(` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
A. 
Investment in equity instruments at fair value through Statement of Profit & Loss (Fully 
paid, unquoted)
 Shamrao Vithal Co-operative Bank Ltd
 0.53 
 0.53 
 2,100 (Previous Year 2,100) equity shares of ` 25/- each.
Total A
 0.53 
 0.53 
TOTAL
 0.53 
 0.53 
Note 5.1 : Other disclosures
Aggregate amount of quoted investment
 - 
 - 
Market value of quoted investment
 - 
 - 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 0.53 
 0.53 
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments
 - 
 - 
Note 6 : Non-current financial assets 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Unsecured, considered good (unless otherwise stated)
 Security deposits
 172.73 
 336.50 
 TOTAL
 172.73 
 336.50 
Annual Report 2023-24
242
 Note 7 : Other tax assets / (liabilities) (net) 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Opening balance
 1,093.37 
 243.27 
Less: Current tax payable for the year
 3.66 
 2.67 
Add: Taxes paid
 196.52 
 489.01 
Add: Tax for earlier year
 87.54 
 363.76 
 Closing balance 
 1,373.77 
 1,093.37 
Note 8 : Other non-current assets 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1 	
Capital advances
 29.82 
 1,156.05 
2 	
Balance with Government Authorities
	
i) 	
Considered good
 966.97 
 962.15 
 	
ii) 	
Credit impaired
 93.33 
 93.33 
 	
	
Less : Loss allowance
 (93.33)
 (93.33)
 966.97 
 962.15 
 TOTAL
 996.79 
 2,118.20 
Note 9 : Inventories 
(Valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1 	
Raw materials
 2,919.31 
 12,805.28 
2 	
Work-in-progress
 5,021.96 
 6,155.23 
3 	
Finished goods [stock lying with third party ` 1,833.80 lacs(31 March 2023 : NIL)]*
 11,211.48 
 10,123.91 
4 	
Stores and Spares
 431.91 
 400.35 
 TOTAL
 19,584.66 
 29,484.77 
Note 9.1 : * During the year ended March 31, 2024, an amount of `9.08 Lakh ( previous year ` 89.55 lakh) was charged to the statement of profit 
and loss on account of write-down of inventories.
Note 10 : Current trade receivables (Refer note 38.2) 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
 - Unsecured and considered good
 16,900.40 
 15,490.03 
 - Credit impaired
 7.81 
 1.98 
 Less : Loss allowance
 (7.81)
 (1.98)
 TOTAL
 16,900.40 
 15,490.03 
Annual Report 2023-24
243
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 10.1: Trade Receivables Ageing Schedule
Trade Receivables Ageing Schedule as at March 31, 2024
(` in lakh)
Undisputed Trade receivables
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months - 
1 year
1-2 years
More than 
2 years
 – considered good
 15,832.26 
 1,047.71 
 16.27 
 4.16 
 0.00 
 16,900.40 
 – Credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.99 
 6.82 
 7.81 
TOTAL
 15,832.26 
 1,047.71 
 16.27 
 5.15 
 6.82 
 16,908.21 
Trade Receivables Ageing Schedule as at March 31, 2023
(` in lakh)
Undisputed Trade receivables
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months - 
1 year
1-2 years
More than 
2 years
 – considered good
 13,933.49 
 1,288.42 
 250.36 
 16.22 
 1.54 
 15,490.03 
 – Credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1.98 
 1.98 
TOTAL
 13,933.49 
 1,288.42 
 250.36 
 16.22 
 3.52 
 15,492.02 
Note 10.2: There are no Disputed Trade Receivables during the current year or previous year. 
Note 10.3: Refer note no. 51 for outstanding receivables from Related Party. There are no loss allowances.
Note 11 : Cash and cash equivalents
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1 	
Cash on hand
 0.16 
 0.13 
2 	
Balances with banks:
	
Current Accounts
 46.99 
 47.21 
TOTAL
 47.15 
 47.34 
Note 12 : Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
 1 	
Fixed deposits - maturity more than 3 months and less than 12 months (Refer Note 12.1)
 191.27 
 163.74 
 2 	
Unclaimed Dividend accounts
 4.82 
 4.70 
 TOTAL
 196.09 
 168.44 
Note 12.1: Fixed deposits are restricted and the same is held towards security of bank guarantees.
Note 13 : Current financial assets - loans 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Unsecured, considered good, unless otherwise stated
 Advances to employees
 4.04 
 2.04 
 TOTAL
 4.04 
 2.04 
Annual Report 2023-24
244
Note 13.1: No funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of 
funds) by the Holding Company or its subsidiary companies incorporated in India to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall: directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) by or on behalf of the Holding Company or its 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India or provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
The Holding Company or its subsidiary companies, incorporated in India have not received any funds from any persons or entities, including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Holding Company or its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India shall: directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) by or on behalf of the Funding Parties or provide any guarantee, security or the like from or on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries
 Note 14 : Other current financial assets 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1 	
Security Deposits
 20.47 
 19.68 
2 	
Merchandise exports incentive scheme - scripts in hand
 117.57 
 24.65 
3 	
Interest accrued on financial assets
 7.00 
 15.24 
4 	
Claims receivable
 51.08 
 - 
 TOTAL
 196.12 
 59.57 
 Note 15 : Other current assets 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1 	
Advances to suppliers 
 131.61 
 122.05 
2 	
Balance with government authorities
 	
i) 	
Unsecured and considered good
 2,288.46 
 4,013.92 
 	
ii) 	
Credit impaired
 181.03 
 16.18 
 	
Less : Loss allowance
 (181.03)
 (16.18)
 	
Total Balance with government authorities (net)
 2,288.46 
 4,013.92 
3 	
Prepaid expenses
 500.55 
 497.07 
4 	
Others
 0.06 
 0.02 
 TOTAL
 2,920.68 
 4,633.06 
Annual Report 2023-24
245
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 Note 16 : Share Capital 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1
 Authorised : 
 2,50,00,000 (Previous year: 2,50,00,000) Equity shares of the par value of ` 10 each 
 2,500.00 
 2,500.00 
 TOTAL
 2,500.00 
 2,500.00 
2
 Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up: 
1,96,09,205 (Previous year: 1,96,05,660) Equity shares fully paid up
 1,960.92 
 1,960.57 
 TOTAL
 1,960.92 
 1,960.57 
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
3
Reconciliation of number of shares outstanding at the beginning and end of the year :
 No. of shares 
 No. of shares 
Equity shares :
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 1,96,05,660 
 1,95,97,555 
Issued during the year
 3,545 
 8,105 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 1,96,09,205 
 1,96,05,660 
4	
Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to equity shares
	
Equity Shares: The Company has one class of Equity shares having a par value of ` 10 per share. Each Shareholder is eligible for one vote 
per share held. All Equity Shareholders are eligible to receive dividends in proportion to their shareholdings. The dividends proposed by the 
Board of Directors are subject to the approval of the Shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. In the event of liquidation, the 
Equity Shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion 
to their share holding.
5	
Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company
Equity shares
 As at March 31, 2024 
 As at March 31, 2023 
 No. of shares 
 % of share 
holding 
 No. of shares 
 % of share  
holding 
1	
Godrej Agrovet Limited - Holding company
1,26,99,054
64.76%
1,26,99,054
64.77%
6 	
Shares held by promoters at the end of the year in the company is set out below:
Equity shares
 As at March 31, 2024 
 As at March 31, 2023 
Sl 
No. 
Promoter name
 No. of 
shares 
 % of total 
shares 
% Change 
during the 
year
 No. of 
shares 
 % of 
total 
shares 
% Change 
during the 
year
1
 Godrej Agrovet Limited - Holding company
1,26,99,054
64.76%
-0.01%
1,26,99,054
64.77%
1.48%
2
 Ashok Hiremath
3,90,802
1.99%
0.00%
3,90,802
1.99%
0.00%
7	
3,545 equity shares were issued as a result of the exercise of vested options arising from the:
	
- 	
ESOP 2015: 2,000 shares (Exercise price:- ` 387.35/share)
	
- 	
ESOP 2012(Amended): 1,545 shares (Exercise price:- ` 10/share)
Annual Report 2023-24
246
 Note 17 : Other equity
(` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1. Retained earnings
 27,570.63 
 32,614.59 
2. General reserve
 1,249.28 
 1,249.28 
3. Capital redemption reserve
 0.30 
 0.30 
4. Employee stock options outstanding
 38.07 
 35.81 
5. Securities premium
 6,108.95 
 6,073.56 
6. Foreign currency translation reserve
 0.56 
 2.22 
7. Share application money pending allotment
 - 
 - 
TOTAL EQUITY
 34,967.79 
 39,975.76 
General reserve
General reserve is a free reserve which is created by transferring fund from retained earnings to meet future obligations and purposes.
Capital redemption reserve
Capital redemption reserve was created for buy back of shares. The company may issue fully paid-up bonus shares out of the capital redemption 
reserve.
Employee stock options outstanding
The employee stock options outstanding is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees under the Company’s stock 
option plan.
Securities Premium
Securities Premium is used to record the premium received on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
Foreign currency translation reserve
Exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign operations, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income as described in 
accounting policy and accumulated in a separate reserve within equity. The cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss when the net 
investment is disposed-off.
Note 18 : Non Current Financial Liabilities-Borrowings 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Unsecured from Banks
Term Loan from Bank (Refer Note 18.1)
 10,000.00 
 1,086.25 
Unsecured Others
Non convertible debentures (Refer Note 18.2)
 4,900.00 
 - 
Intercorporate deposits (Refer Note 18.3)
 5,000.00 
 - 
TOTAL
 19,900.00 
 1,086.25 
Note 18.1 : Term Loan from Bank amounting to `10,000 lakhs is repayable in quarterly installments commencing from January 01, 2026 . Current 
interest rate of the loan is 7.85% (Previous year NIL) 
Term loan from Bank during the previous year carries interest rate at 7.60% to 7.98% and is repayable over a period till FY 2024-25. During the 
current year, ` 942.92 lakhs (previous year `4,503.93 Lakh) has been disclosed under current maturity of Long term Borrowing. 
Note 18.2 Non convertible debentures (NCD) is repayable on August 21, 2026 . Interest rate of NCD is 8.40%. During the current year interest of 
`250.78lakh (Previous year ` NIL) has been disclosed under current maturities of long term borrowings.
Note 18.3 Inter corporate deposits (ICD) from Godrej Agrovet Limited is repayable after three year in February, 2027. Interest rate of ICD is 8.5%
The Group does not have any continuing default as on the Balance Sheet date in repayment of loans and interest.
Annual Report 2023-24
247
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 Note 19 : Other non-current liabilities 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Employee benefit payable
 205.00 
 134.92 
 TOTAL 
 205.00 
 134.92 
 Note 20 : Non-current liabilities - provisions 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
 Provision for employee benefits :
 - Provision for compensated absences
 44.16 
 47.82 
TOTAL
 44.16 
 47.82 
 Note 21 : Deferred tax liabilities (net) 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
 Deferred tax liabilities (net) (Refer Note 39)
 676.02 
 2,096.96 
TOTAL
 676.02 
 2,096.96 
 Note 22 : Current financial liablities - borrowings 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1	
Unsecured
	
(a) 	
Cash/Overdraft credit from banks (Refer Note 22.1)
 1.32 
 268.99 
	
(b) 	
Working Capital loan
	
	
Rupee (Refer Note 22.3)
 11,294.45 
 13,563.31 
	
(c) 	
Commercial Paper (Refer Note 22.4)
 17,000.00 
 12,500.00 
	
(d)	
Buyers credit (Refer Note 22.2)
 - 
 2,195.53 
	
(d) 	
Current maturities of long-term debt - Term Loan from Bank and interest on NCD (Refer 
Note 18.1)
 1,193.70 
 4,503.93 
TOTAL
 29,489.47 
 33,031.76 
Note 22.1 : Cash Credit from banks are repayable on demand and carries interest at MCLR + 0.25% (Previous year - MCLR + 0.25%).
Note 22.2 : No Buyers Credit transaction are in banks as on date. (Previous Year: Buyers Credit from banks are repayable on as per due dates 
rates between 7.46% pa to 8.05% pa)
Note 22.3 : Working capital loan (Rupee) from banks carries interest rate at 7.70% to 9.00%(Previous year 7.45% to 8.25%). These loans are 
repayable on different dates within six months from the date of the Financial Statements.
Note 22.4 : Commercial Paper carries interest rate of 8.12% to 8.24% (Previous year - 7.56.% to 7.84%) and are repayable on different dates within 
6 months from the date of the Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023-24
248
 Note 23 : Current - trade payables 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1 	
Trade Payables
	
a. 	
Due to micro and small enterprises (Refer Note 23.1)
 439.10 
 304.78 
	
b. 	
Others
 8,488.67 
 17,413.67 
2 	
Acceptances
 - 
 - 
TOTAL
 8,927.77 
 17,718.45 
Note 23.1: Additional disclosure related to Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
A 	
Principal amount remaining unpaid
 439.10 
 304.78 
B 	
Interest due thereon
 - 
 - 
C 	
Interest paid by the company in term of section 16 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
Development Act, 2006 along with the amount of the payment made to the suppliers beyond the 
appointed day during the year
 - 
 - 
D 	
Interest due and payable for the year of delay in making payment (which have been paid but 
beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the interest specified under Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
 - 
 - 
E 	
Interest accrued and remaining unpaid
 - 
 - 
F 	
Further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such date when 
the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise
 - 
 - 
Note 23.2: Micro and small enterprises as defined under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (MSMED Act) have 
been identified by the Group on the basis of the information available with the Group and the auditors have relied on the same. Accordingly, ` Nil 
is overdue as on March 31, 2024 (Previous year ` Nil) to Micro and Small Enterprises on account of principal or interest.
Note 23.3: Trade Payables Ageing Schedule
Trade Payable Ageing Schedule for current year
(` in lakh)
Undisputed Trade Payable
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
 Accrued 
expenses 
Not due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
> 2 Years
(i)	
MSME
 - 
 290.53 
 148.57 
 - 
 - 
 439.10 
(ii)	
Others
 2,536.78 
 5,631.92 
 318.01 
 0.15 
 1.81 
 8,488.67 
TOTAL
 2,536.78 
 5,922.46 
 466.57 
 0.15 
 1.81 
 8,927.77 
Trade Payables Ageing Schedule for previous year
(` in lakh)
Undisputed Trade Payable
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
 Accrued 
expenses 
Not due
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
> 2 Years
(i) 	
MSME
 - 
 298.61 
 6.17 
 - 
 304.78 
(ii) 	
Others
 3,962.45 
 6,212.13 
 7,198.19 
 27.73 
 13.17 
 17,413.67 
TOTAL
 3,962.45 
 6,510.74 
 7,204.36 
 27.73 
 13.17 
 17,718.45 
Note 23.4: There are no Disputed Trade Payables during the current year or earlier year.
Annual Report 2023-24
249
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 Note 24 : Other financial liabilities 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1	
Non trade payables
 621.10 
 1,032.46 
2 	
Derivative liability
	
- Foreign exchange forward contracts designated as hedge
 12.55 
 35.06 
3	
Unclaimed dividend
 4.82 
 4.70 
4	
Others (includes accrual for bonus, incentives, etc.)
 395.91 
 360.62 
TOTAL
 1,034.38 
 1,432.84 
There are no amount due to be credited to Investor Education and Protection Fund in accordance with Section 125 (2) (c) of the Companies Act, 
2013 as at the year end.
 Note 25 : Other current liabilities 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1	
Advances from customers
 3.34 
 206.68 
2	
Employee payable
 40.34 
 34.87 
3	
Statutory liabilities 
 84.52 
 119.58 
4	
Others
 0.11 
 0.77 
TOTAL
 128.31 
 361.90 
 Note 26 : Current liabilities - provisions 
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
1	
Provision for employee benefits 
	
- Provision for compensated absences
 3.91 
 3.19 
	
- Provision for gratuity 
 112.34 
 42.32 
2	
Provision for sales return (Refer note 26.1)
 19.70 
 29.48 
TOTAL
 135.95 
 74.99 
Note 26.1 - Movement of Provision for Sales return
 (` in lakh)
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
Opening balance
 29.48 
 28.59 
Less:- Utilised during the year
 - 
 - 
Less:- Reversed during the year
 (9.78)
 - 
Add:- Provision for the year
 - 
 0.89 
Closing balance
 19.70 
 29.48 
Note 26.2 : The Group makes a provision on estimated sales return based on historical experience. The Sales returns are generally expected 
within a year.
Annual Report 2023-24
250
Note 27 : Revenue from operations (Refer Note 27.1)
 (` in lakh)
 For the year  
ended  
March 31, 2024 
 For the year 
ended 
 March 31, 2023 
1
Sale of products 
 - Export sales
 32,758.93 
 38,232.54 
 - Domestic sales
 13,011.19 
 24,584.08 
TOTAL
 45,770.12 
 62,816.62 
Note 27.1
1
Sales by performance obligations
 (` in lakh)
Particulars
 For the year  
ended  
March 31, 2024 
 For the year 
ended 
 March 31, 2023 
Upon delivery
 14,638.41 
 24,776.95 
Upon shipment
 31,131.71 
 38,039.67 
TOTAL
 45,770.12 
 62,816.62 
2
Reconciliation of revenue from contract with customers
 (` in lakh)
Particulars
 For the year  
ended  
March 31, 2024 
 For the year 
ended 
 March 31, 2023 
Revenue from contract with customer as per the contract price
 45,878.49 
 63,123.19 
Adjustments made to contract price on account of :-
a) 	
Commission / Discounts
 (108.37)
 (306.57)
 45,770.12 
 62,816.62 
3
Contractual Liabilities 
 3.34 
 206.68 
The amount of `206.68 lakh included in contract liabilities at 31 March 2023, has been recognised 
as revenue during the year ended 31 March 2024.
No information is provided about remaining performance obligation at 31 March 2024 that have 
an original expected duration of one year or less as allowed by IND AS - 115
Annual Report 2023-24
251
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 28 : Other Income
 (` in lakh)
 For the year  
ended  
March 31, 2024 
 For the year 
ended 
 March 31, 2023 
1
Export Incentives
 46.11 
 33.09 
2
Interest income
(a)	
Instruments measured at amortised cost
 	
(i)	
Interest received on deposits
 8.31 
 367.32 
 	
(ii) 	
Interest received on Inter Corporate Deposit
 - 
 26.32 
 	
(iii) 	
Interest received on others
 6.81 
 11.28 
3
Insurance claims
 - 
 11.66 
4
Foreign exchange difference (net)
 497.12 
 839.20 
5
Reversal of allowance for other receivables
 - 
 7.11 
6
Miscellaneous income
 6.04 
 10.03 
TOTAL
 564.39 
 1,306.01 
Note 29 : Cost of materials consumed
 (` in lakh)
 For the year  
ended  
March 31, 2024 
 For the year 
ended 
 March 31, 2023 
1
Stocks at the beginning of the year
 12,805.28 
 8,044.14 
2
Add : Purchases
 21,996.35 
 50,844.59 
 34,801.63 
 58,888.73 
3
Less: Stocks at the end of the year
 2,919.31 
 12,805.29 
TOTAL
 31,882.32 
 46,083.44 
Note 30 : Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress
 (` in lakh)
 For the year  
ended  
March 31, 2024 
 For the year 
ended 
 March 31, 2023 
1
Stocks at the beginning of the year
(a)	
Finished goods
 10,123.91 
 4,489.43 
(b)	
Work-in-progress
 6,155.23 
 5,830.68 
 Total Stock at the beginning of the year
 16,279.14 
 10,320.11 
2
Less : Stocks at the end of the year
 (a) Finished goods
 11,211.48 
 10,123.91 
 (b) Work-in-progress
 5,021.96 
 6,155.23 
 Total Stock at the end of the year
 16,233.44 
 16,279.14 
 Changes in the stock of finished goods and work-in-progress
 45.70 
 (5,959.03)
Annual Report 2023-24
252
Note 31 : Employee benefit expense
 (` in lakh)
 For the year  
ended  
March 31, 2024 
 For the year 
ended 
 March 31, 2023 
1
Salaries, wages, bonus and allowances
 5,476.58 
 4,811.11 
2
Contribution to provident, gratuity and other funds
 290.99 
 254.98 
3
Expense on employee stock based payments (Refer note 43)
 30.11 
 33.07 
4
Staff welfare expense
 376.72 
 126.72 
TOTAL
 6,174.40 
 5,225.88 
Note 32 : Finance Costs
 (` in lakh)
 For the year  
ended  
March 31, 2024 
 For the year 
ended 
 March 31, 2023 
1
Interest expense
Paid towards loans and cash credit
 2,485.63 
 2,015.83 
2
Other borrowing costs
 36.95 
 55.60 
TOTAL
 2,522.58 
 2,071.43 
Note 33 : Depreciation and amortisation expense
 (` in lakh)
 For the year  
ended  
March 31, 2024 
 For the year 
ended 
 March 31, 2023 
1
Depreciation on Property, Plant & Equipment
 3,585.20 
 3,247.91 
2
Amortisation of intangible assets
 70.75 
 79.62 
3
Amortisation of right of use asset (Refer Note 3)
 37.61 
 37.72 
Less: capitalised to Intangible assets under development
 (68.22)
 - 
TOTAL
 3,625.34 
 3,365.25 
Annual Report 2023-24
253
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 34 : Other expenses
 (` in lakh)
 For the year  
ended  
March 31, 2024 
 For the year 
ended 
 March 31, 2023 
1
Power and fuel
 3,586.59 
 4,567.75 
2
Rent
 115.62 
 106.86 
3
Rates and taxes
 311.64 
 64.76 
4
Effluent treatment plant charges
 617.02 
 663.62 
5
Stores and spares consumed 
 403.77 
 418.95 
6
Repairs and maintenance
(a)	
Machinery
 470.65 
 514.90 
(b)	
Buildings
 14.39 
 27.19 
(c) 	
Other assets
 74.86 
 21.67 
7
Insurance 
 378.39 
 644.77 
8
Auditor's remuneration
 24.16 
 22.48 
9
Freight
 262.87 
 751.02 
10
Professional and legal fees
 311.01 
 558.39 
11
Directors sitting fees
 39.00 
 31.50 
12
Allowances for doubtful debts
 5.83 
 1.98 
13
Security charges
 225.62 
 168.33 
14
Loss on sale of Property, Plant and Equipment (Net)
 11.14 
 52.35 
15
Research expenses
 270.04 
 148.53 
16
Travelling expenses
 159.14 
 79.91 
17
Corporate social responsibility (Refer note 47)
 169.02 
 180.73 
18
Miscellaneous expenses
 856.15 
 815.24 
TOTAL
 8,306.91 
 9,840.93 
Annual Report 2023-24
254
Note 35 : Earnings per share
Calculation of weighted average number of equity shares - Basic
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
1
Calculation of weighted average number of equity shares - Basic
(a)	
Number of shares at the beginning of the year
 1,96,05,660 
 1,95,97,555 
	
Number of shares outstanding at the end of the year
 1,96,09,205 
 1,96,05,660 
	
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year
 1,96,07,450 
 1,96,03,024 
2
Calculation of weighted average number of equity shares - Diluted
(a)	
Number of equity shares at the beginning of the year
 1,96,05,660 
 1,95,97,555 
	
Effect of potential equity shares
 3,882 
 9,097 
	
Revised number of potential shares at the beginning of the year
 1,96,09,542 
 1,96,06,652 
(b)	
Number of equity shares outstanding at the end of the year
 1,96,09,205 
 1,96,05,660 
	
Effect of potential equity shares
 2,877 
 3,882 
	
Revised number of potential equity shares outstanding at the end of the year
 1,96,12,082 
 1,96,09,542 
	
Weighted average number of potential equity shares outstanding during the year
 1,96,10,327 
 1,96,06,906 
3
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (Basic/diluted)
Profit/(loss) for the period/year, attributable to the owners of the Group
 (4,692.96)
 2,556.49 
Income/(Expense) recognized in Reserves
 - 
 - 
Employee Compensation Expenses
 - 
 - 
Merger Expenses
 - 
 - 
Profit (loss) for the year, attributable to ordinary shareholders
 (4,692.96)
 2,556.49 
4
Basic Earnings per share (`)
 (23.93)
 13.04 
5
Diluted Earnings per share (`)
 (23.93)
 13.04 
6
Nominal Value of Shares (`)
 10 
 10 
Note 35.1 The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on profit attributed to equity shareholders and weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding after adjustments for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.
Annual Report 2023-24
255
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 36 : Financial Ratios
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2023
Change%
Reasons for 
variation
(a)
Current Ratio (refer note 36. 1)
 1.00 
 0.95 
5.8%
Refer Note. 
36.11
(b)
Debt Equity ratio (refer note 36. 2)
 1.34 
 0.81 
64.4%
(c)
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR) (refer note 36. 3)
 0.20 
 1.25 
-83.8%
(d)
Return on Equity Ratio (refer note 36. 4)
-11.9%
6.3%
-289.5%
(e)
Inventory turnover (refer note 36. 5)
 1.30 
 1.67 
-21.9%
(f)
Trade Receivables turnover ratio (refer note 36. 6)
 2.80 
 2.75 
1.7%
(g)
Trade payables turnover ratio (refer note 36. 7)
 1.62 
 2.77 
-41.6%
(h)
Net capital turnover ratio (refer note 36. 8)
 34.53 
 35.50 
-2.7%
(i)
Net profit ratio (refer note 36. 9)
-10.2%
4.1%
-351.2%
(j)
Return on Capital employed (refer note 36. 10)
-4.3%
7.3%
-159.1%
Note 36. 1 Current ratio : Current assets / Current liabilities
Note 36. 2 Debt Equity ratio : Total Debt / Shareholder’s Equity
Note 36. 3 Debt Service Coverage Ratio : (Net Profit after taxes + Non-cash operating expenses like depreciation and other amortizations + 
Interest +  other adjustments like loss on sale of Fixed assets/Investment etc.) / (Interest & Lease Payments + Principal Repayments)
Note 36. 4 Return on Equity Ratio : Net Profits after taxes – Preference Dividend (if any) / Average Shareholder’s Equity
Note 36. 5 Inventory turnover : Cost of goods sold / Average Inventory
Note 36. 6 Trade Receivables turnover ratio : Net Credit Sales / Average Trade Receivable
Note 36. 7 Trade payables turnover ratio : Net Credit Purchases / Average Trade Payables
Note 36. 8 Net capital turnover ratio : Net Sales / Working Capital
Note 36. 9 Net profit ratio : Net Profit / Net Sales
Note 36. 10 Return on Capital employed : Earning before interest and taxes / (Tangible Net Worth + Total Debt + Deferred Tax Liability)
Reasons for variation:
Note 36. 11 The Debt-Equity, Debt service coverage ratio(DSCR), Return on Equity, Net proft ratio and Return on Capital employed for the current 
financial year are less than that of previous financial year. The group was in losses due to challenging market conditions in the agro-chemical 
industry. The group’s debt has increased to meet its working capital requirements.Trade payables are down due to lower purchases in current year 
as compared to previous years.
Note 37 : Employee benefits
The Group contributes to the following post-employment plans in India.
Defined Contribution Plans:
The Group pays provident fund contributions to publicly administered provident funds as per local regulations and are recognised as expense in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss during the period in which the employee renders the related service. There are no further obligations other than 
the contributions payable to the appropriate authorities. 
The Company recognised ` 220.14 lakh for the year ended March 31, 2024 (Previous Year ` 187.78 lakh ) towards provident fund contribution in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Defined Benefit Plan:
The Group’s gratuity scheme is defined benefit plan. The Group’s liability for the defined benefit schemes is actuarially determined based on the 
projected unit credit method. The Group’s net obligations in respect of such plans is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that the 
employees have earned in return for their services and the current and prior periods that benefit is discounted to determine its present value and 
the fair value of the plan asset is deducted. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.
In accordance with the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, the Group has a defined benefit plan which provides for gratuity payments. 
The plan provides a lump sum gratuity payment to eligible employees at retirement or termination of their employment. The amounts are based on 
the respective employee’s last drawn salary and the years of employment with the Group.
Annual Report 2023-24
256
Liabilities in respect of the gratuity plan are determined by an actuarial valuation, based upon which the Group makes annual contributions to the 
Group Gratuity cum Life Assurance Schemes administered by the LIC of India, a funded defined benefit plan for qualifying employees. Trustees 
adminster the contributions made by the Group to the gratuity scheme.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the defined benefit obligation along with the fair valuation of the plan assets in relation to the gratuity scheme 
was carried out as at March 31, 2024. The present value of the defined benefit obligations and the related current service cost and past service 
cost, were measured using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
Based on the actuarial valuation obtained in this respect, the following table sets out the details of the employee benefit obligation and the plan 
assets as at balance sheet date:
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Defined benefit obligation
 (357.33)
 (253.08)
Fair value of plan assets
244.99
 210.76 
Net defined benefit (obligation)/assets
 (112.34)
 (42.32)
i. 	
Movement in net defined benefit (asset) / liability
	
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for net defined benefit (asset) / liability and its 
components
(` in Lakh)
Defined Benefit Obligation
Fair value of plan assets
Net defined benefit (asset) 
liability
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2023
Opening balance
 253.08 
 226.86 
 210.76 
 215.63 
 42.32 
 11.23 
Included in Profit or Loss
 - 
Current service cost
 33.11 
 28.14 
 - 
 33.11 
 28.14 
Past service cost
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Interest cost (income)
 18.96 
 16.63 
 15.79 
 15.81 
 3.17 
 0.82 
Liability / Assets transferred in / Acquisitions
 18.44 
 3.63 
 18.44 
 3.63 
 - 
 - 
Included in OCI
 - 
 - 
Remeasurement loss (gain):
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial loss (gain) arising from:
 69.09 
 20.29 
 - 
 - 
 69.09 
 20.29 
	
Demographic assumptions
 - 
 (2.00)
 - 
 - 
 (2.00)
	
Financial assumptions
 10.74 
 (4.49)
 - 
 10.74 
 (4.49)
	
Experience adjustment
 58.35 
 26.78 
 - 
 58.35 
 26.78 
Return on plan assets excluding interest 
income
 (6.98)
 (10.29)
 6.98 
 10.29 
 392.67 
 295.55 
238.01
 224.78 
 154.66 
 70.77 
 
Other
Contributions paid by the employer
 - 
 - 
 42.32 
 28.46 
 (42.32)
 (28.46)
Benefits paid
 (35.34)
 (42.47)
 (35.34)
 (42.47)
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 357.33 
 253.08 
244.99
 210.76 
 112.34 
 42.32 
Represented by
(` In lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Net defined benefit asset 
 - 
 - 
Net defined benefit liability
 112.34 
 42.32 
TOTAL
 112.34 
 42.32 
Annual Report 2023-24
257
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
ii. 	
Plan assets
	
Plan assets comprise the following
(` In lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Cash And Cash Equivalents
 1.32 
 4.85 
Insurer managed fund (100%)
243.67
 205.91 
TOTAL
244.99
 210.76 
iii. 	
Actuarial assumptions
	
The following were the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date (expressed as weighted averages).
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Discount rate
7.21%
7.49%
Future salary growth
5.00%
5.00%
Rate of employee turnover
For service 4 years and below 
10.00% p.a. For service 5 years and 
above 2.00% p.a.
For service 4 years and below 
10.00% p.a. For service 5 years and 
above 2.00% p.a.
Mortality rate
Indian Assured Lives Mortality
 2012-14 (Urban)
Indian Assured Lives Mortality
 2012-14 (Urban)
	
Assumptions regarding future mortality have been based on published statistics and mortality tables. 
	
As at 31st March 2024, the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 17 years (31st March 2023- 17 years) 
iv. 	
Sensitivity analysis
	
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions constant, would 
have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below.
(` in Lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Increase
Decrease 
Increase
Decrease 
Discount rate (1% movement)
 (36.09)
 42.98 
 (25.51)
 30.17 
Future salary growth (1% movement)
 43.51 
 (37.11)
 30.63 
 (26.29)
Rate of employee turnover (1% movement)
 7.74 
 (9.05)
 6.28 
 (7.26)
	
The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation as a 
result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occuring at the end of the reporting period.
v. 	
Expected future cash flows
	
The expected future cash flows in respect of gratuity as at March 31, 2024 were as follows
(` in Lakh)
Expected future benefit payments
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
1st Following year
 15.85 
 7.15 
2nd Following year
 14.93 
 7.57 
3rd Following year
 13.43 
 18.57 
4th Following year
 19.63 
 10.69 
5th Following year
 21.90 
 10.22 
Thereafter
 131.00 
 109.80 
	
Other long-term employee benefits: 
	
Compensated absences are payable to employees at the rate of daily salary for each day of accumulated leave on death or on resignation 
or upon retirement. The charge towards compensated absences for the year ended March 31, 2024 based on actuarial valuation using the 
projected accrued benefit method is ` 23.02 lakh (Previous year : ` 10.59 lakh).
	
Terminal Benefits: All terminal benefits including voluntary retirement compensation are fully written off to the Statement of Profit & Loss.
Annual Report 2023-24
258
 Note 38 : Financial instruments – Fair values and risk management
Note 38.1: Accounting classification and fair values
Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy, are presented below. 
It does not include the fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a 
reasonable approximation of fair value.
 (` in lakh) 
March 31, 2024
 Carrying amount 
Fair value
 FVTPL 
 FVOCI 
Amortised 
Cost 
 Total 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets 
I
Non Current Financial Assets
1
Investments
 0.53 
 - 
 - 
 0.53 
 - 
 0.53 
 - 
 0.53 
2
Loans
 - 
 - 
 172.73 
 172.73 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
II
Current Financial Assets
1
Trade receivables
 - 
 - 
16,900.40 
 16,900.40 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 - 
 47.15 
 47.15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
3
Bank balance other than (2) above
 - 
 - 
 196.09 
 196.09 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
4
Loans and advances
 - 
 - 
 4.04 
 4.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
5
Others
 117.57 
 - 
 78.55 
 196.12 
 - 
 117.55 
 - 
 117.55 
 118.10 
 - 
17,398.96 
 17,517.06 
 - 
 118.08 
 - 
 118.08 
Financial liabilities 
I
Non Current Financial Liablities
1
Borrowings
 - 
 - 
19,900.00 
 19,900.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
II
Current Financial liabilities 
1
Borrowings
 - 
 - 
29,489.47 
 29,489.47 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2
Trade payables
 - 
 - 
 8,927.77 
 8,927.77 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
3
Other financial liabilities
 12.55 
 - 
 1,021.83 
 1,034.38 
 - 
 12.55 
 - 
 12.55 
12.55
 - 
59,339.07 
 59,351.62 
 - 
 12.55 
 - 
 12.55 
Annual Report 2023-24
259
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 (` in lakh) 
March 31, 2023
 Carrying amount 
 Fair value 
 FVTPL 
 FVOCI 
 Amortised 
Cost 
 Total 
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total 
I
Non-current Financial Assets
1
Investments
 0.53 
 - 
 - 
 0.53 
 - 
 0.53 
 - 
 0.53 
2
Loans
 - 
 - 
 336.50 
 336.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
II
Current Financial Assets
1
Trade receivables
 - 
 - 
 15,490.03 
 15,490.03 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 - 
 47.34 
 47.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
3
Bank balance other than (2) above
 - 
 - 
 168.44 
 168.44 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
4
Loans and advances
 - 
 - 
 2.04 
 2.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
5
Others
 24.65 
 - 
 34.92 
 59.57 
 - 
 24.65 
 - 
 24.65 
 25.18 
 - 
 16,079.27 
 16,104.45 
 - 
 25.18 
 - 
 25.18 
Financial liabilities 
Non-Current Financial liabilities 
1
Long term borrowings
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
I
Current Financial liabilities 
1
Borrowings
 - 
 - 
 33,031.76 
 33,031.76 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2
Trade payables
 - 
 - 
 17,718.45 
 17,718.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
3
Other financial liabilities
 35.06 
 - 
 1,397.78 
 1,432.84 
 - 
 35.06 
 - 
 35.06 
 35.06 
 - 
 52,147.99 
 52,183.05 
 - 
 35.06 
 - 
 35.06 
Valuation technique used to determine fair value
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include :
- 	
the fair value of the forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
- 	
the fair value of the remaining financial instruments is determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
All of the resulting fair value estimates are included in level 2 where the fair values have been determined based on present values and the discount 
rates used were adjusted for counterparty or own credit risk.
Type
Valuation Technique
Significant 
observable inputs
Inter-relationship between 
significant unobservabel 
inputs and fair value 
measurements
Forward 
contract 
for 
foreign 
exchange contracts
The fair value of the forward contract for foreign 
exchange contracts is determined using forward 
exchange rates at the balance sheet dates
N.A
N.A
Other financial instruments
The fair value of the remaining financial instruments 
is determined using discounted cashflow analysis.
N.A
N.A
Annual Report 2023-24
260
C. 	
Financial risk management
	
The Group has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments:
 
z
Credit risk ;
 
z
	Liquidity risk; 
 
z
Market risk;
 
z
Currency risk;
	
i. 	
Risk management framework
	
	
The Group’s board of directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management 
framework. The board of directors has established the Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for developing and 
monitoring the Group’s risk management policies. The committee reports regularly to the board of directors on its activities.
	
	
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk 
limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to 
reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and 
procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and 
obligations.
	
	
The audit committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures, 
and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The audit committee is 
assisted in its oversight role by internal audit. Internal audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls 
and procedures, the results of which are reported to the audit committee.
Note 38.2 : Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, 
and arises principally from the Group's receivables from customers and loans and advances.
The carrying amount of following financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure:
Trade receivables and loans and advances.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer and the geography in which it operates. 
Credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously monitoring the creditworthiness of customers to which 
the Group grants credit terms in the normal course of business. 
The Group has established a credit policy under which each new customer is analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard 
payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. The Group's sales are backed by letters of credit and Trade Credit Insurance policy from 
Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India (ECGC).
The Group individually monitors the sanctioned credit limits as against the outstanding balances. Accordingly, the Group makes specific provisions 
against such trade receivables wherever required and monitors the same at periodic intervals.
The Group monitors each loans and advances given and makes any specific provision wherever required.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of expected losses in respect of trade receivables and loans and 
advances.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables by type of counterparty was as follows.
(` in lakh)
Carrying amount
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Exports
 10,958.23 
 6,934.15 
Domestic
 5,942.17 
 8,555.88 
Total of Trade Receivables (Net of Loss Allowance)
 16,900.40 
 15,490.03 
Impairment - The ageing of trade receivables that were not impaired is as per Note 10. 1.
Annual Report 2023-24
261
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade and other receivables during the year was as follows:
(` in lakh)
For Trade Receivables
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Balance as at the beginning of the year
 1.98 
 - 
Loss allowance recognised
 5.83 
 1.98 
Amounts written off
 - 
 - 
Balance as at the end of the year
 7.81 
 1.98 
Other financial assets
This comprises mainly of balances with banks, deposits with Government authorities and other receivables. Credit risk arising from these financial 
assets is limited and there is no collateral held against these because the counterparties are banks and government organizations. The Group 
considers that its balances with banks have low credit risk based on the external credit ratings of the counterparties. The Group has created the 
loss allowance for other receivables on specific identification basis. 
Cash and cash equivalents
The Group held cash and cash equivalents of ` 47.15 lakh at March 31, 2024 (previous year ` 47.34 lakh) . The cash and cash equivalents are 
held with bank and financial institution counterparties with good credit rating.
Note 38.3 : Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by 
delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient 
liquidity to meet its liabilities when they are due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking 
damage to the Group’s reputation.
Exposure to liquidity risk
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The amounts are gross and undiscounted, and 
include estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting agreements.
 (` in lakh) 
March 31, 2024
 Contractual cash flows
 Carrying 
amount 
 Total 
0-6 months 
6-12 
months 
 1-2 
years 
 2-5 years 
 More than 
5 years 
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Non current, non derivative financial liabilities
Borrowings
 19,900.00 
 19,900.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 19,900.00 
 - 
Current, non derivative financial liabilities
Cash credit from bank
 1.32 
 1.32 
 1.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Working Capital Loans
 11,294.45 
 11,294.45 
 11,294.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Commercial Paper
 17,000.00 
 17,000.00 
 17,000.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Current maturities of long-term debt
 1,193.70 
 1,193.70 
 1,193.70 
 - 
Trade payables
 8,927.77 
 8,927.77 
 8,706.55 
 64.94 
 153.44 
 2.84 
 - 
Other current financial liabilities
 1,021.83 
 1,021.83 
 1,021.83 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Derivative liability
 12.55 
 12.55 
 12.55 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 59,351.62 
59,351.62
39,230.41
 64.94 
 153.44 
19,902.84
 - 
Annual Report 2023-24
262
 (` in lakh) 
March 31, 2023
 Contractual cash flows
 Carrying 
amount 
 Total 
0-6 months 
 6-12 
months 
 1-2 
years 
 2-5 years 
 More than 
5 years 
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Non current, non derivative financial liabilities
Borrowings
 1,086.25 
 1,086.25 
 - 
 - 
 1,086.25 
 - 
 - 
Current, non derivative financial liabilities
Cash credit from bank
 268.99 
 268.99 
 268.99 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Working Capital Loans
 13,563.31 
 13,563.31 
 13,563.31 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Commercial Paper
 12,500.00 
 12,500.00 
 12,500.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Buyers credit
 2,195.53 
 2,195.53 
 2,195.53 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Current maturities of long-term debt
 4,503.93 
 4,503.93 
 1,843.93 
 2,660.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade payables
 17,718.45 
 17,718.45 
 17,718.45 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other current financial liabilities
 1,397.78 
 1,397.78 
 1,397.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Derivative liability
 35.06 
 35.06 
 35.06 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 53,269.30 
 53,269.30 
 49,523.05 
 2,660.00 
 1,086.25 
 - 
 - 
The gross inflows/(outflows) disclosed in the above table represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to derivative financial liabilities 
held for risk management purposes and which are not usually closed out before contractual maturity. The disclosure shows net cash flow amounts 
for derivatives that are net cash-settled and gross cash inflow and outflow amounts for derivatives that have simultaneous gross cash settlement.
Note 38.4 : Currency Risk
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices – such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices – will affect the Group’s 
income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk 
exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return. The Group uses derivatives to manage market risks. Generally, the Group 
hedge the financial instruments to manage volatility in profit or loss.
Currency risk
The Group operates internationally and portion of the business is transacted in USD, CHF & EURO currencies and consequently the Group is 
exposed to foreign exchange risk through its sales in overseas market and purchases from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies. 
Foreign currency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by purchasing of goods and services in the respective currencies and through 
derivative instruments.
The Group evaluates exchange rate exposure arising from foreign currency transactions and the Group follows established risk management 
policies, including the use of derivatives like foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge exposure to foreign currency risk.
Exposure to currency risk
The summary quantitative data about the Group’s exposure to currency risk as reported to the management of the Group is as follows. The 
following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The amounts are gross and undiscounted, and include 
estimated interest payments and exclude the impact of netting agreements.
Annual Report 2023-24
263
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 (` in lakh) 
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
 USD 
 EUR 
 CHF 
 USD 
 EUR 
 CHF 
Financial Assets
Trade receivables
10,958.23
 - 
 - 
 6,934.15 
 - 
 - 
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 (3,081.47)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Net exposure to foreign currency risk (Assets)
7,876.76
 - 
 - 
 6,934.15 
 - 
 - 
Financial Liabilities
Buyers credit / PCFC
 - 
 - 
 (2,195.53)
 - 
 - 
Trade payables
 (5,986.50)
 - 
 - 
 (14,437.30)
 (31.33)
 2.29 
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 - 
 - 
 7,941.28 
 - 
 - 
Net exposure to foreign currency risk (Liabilities)
 (5,986.50)
 - 
 - 
 (8,691.55)
 (31.33)
 2.29 
Net exposure
1,890.26
 - 
 - 
 (1,757.40)
 (31.33)
 2.29 
Un-hedged foreign currency exposures
Payable
 (5,986.50)
 - 
 - 
 (8,691.55)
 (31.33)
 2.29 
Receivable
7,876.76
 - 
 - 
 6,934.15 
 - 
 - 
Forward exchanges forwards contract has been restated at closing RBI rate.
Sensitivity analysis
A reasonably possible strengthening / (weakening) of the Indian Rupee against all other currencies at 31 March, 2024 would have affected the 
measurement of financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency and affected equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This 
analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant and ignores any impact of forecast sales and purchases.
Annual Report 2023-24
264
Effect ` in lakh
Profit or (loss) before tax
 Strengthening 
 Weakening 
March 31, 2024
USD (4% movement)
75.61
 (75.61)
EUR (3% movement)
 - 
 - 
CHF (4% movement)
 - 
 - 
Total
75.61
 (75.61)
Effect ` in lakh
Profit or (loss) before tax
 Strengthening 
 Weakening 
March 31, 2023
USD (4% movement)
 (70.30)
 70.30 
EUR (3% movement)
 (0.94)
 0.94 
CHF (4% movement)
 0.09 
 (0.09)
Total
 (71.14)
 71.14 
Note: Sensitivity has been calculated using standard Deviation % of Foreign currency rate movement.
Note 38.5 : Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk can be either fair value interest rate risk or cash flow interest rate risk. Fair value interest rate risk is the risk of changes in fair 
values of fixed interest bearing financial assets or borrowings because of fluctuations in the interest rates, if such assets/borrowings are measured 
at fair value through profit or loss. Cash flow interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows of floating interest bearing borrowings will fluctuate 
because of fluctuations in the interest rates. 
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments as reported to the management of the Group is as follows.
 (` in lakh) 
Nominal amount
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Fixed-rate instruments
Financial assets
Deposits
150.69
 360.49 
Bank Deposits
 191.27 
 163.74 
Total
341.96
 524.23 
Financial liabilities
Commercial papers
 17,000.00 
 12,500.00 
Buyer's Credit
 - 
 2,195.53 
Working capital loan
 11,295.76 
 8,382.20 
Total
 28,295.76 
 23,077.73 
Variable-rate instruments
Financial liabilities
Borrowings - Non-Current
 19,900.00 
 1,086.25 
Borrowings - Current
 1,193.71 
 9,954.03 
Total
 21,093.71 
 11,040.28 
Annual Report 2023-24
265
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable-rate instruments
A reasonably possible change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased / (decreased) profit or loss by the 
amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant.
(` in lakh)
Particulars
 Profit/(loss) before tax 
 Profit/(loss) before tax 
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
100 bp increase
100 bp decrease
100 bp increase
100 bp decrease
Variable-rate instruments
 (210.94)
 210.94 
 (110.40)
 110.40 
Cash flow sensitivity (net)
 (210.94)
 210.94 
 (110.40)
 110.40 
The risk estimates provided assume a change of 100 basis points interest rate for the interest rate benchmark as applicable to the borrowings 
summarized above. This calculation also assumes that the change occurs at the balance sheet date and has been calculated based on risk 
exposures outstanding as at that date. The year end balances are not necessarily representative of the average debt outstanding during the year.
Note 39 : Income Taxes
(a) 	
Amounts recognised in profit and loss
 (` in lakh) 
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
Current income tax
In respect of current year
 3.66 
 2.67 
Adjustments in respect of earlier years
 (87.54)
 (363.76)
Deferred income tax liability / (asset), net
In respect of current year
	
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
 (1,489.35)
 932.67 
Adjustments in respect of earlier years
	
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
 87.54 
 363.76 
Deferred tax expense
 (1,401.81)
 1,296.43 
Tax expense recognised in the Statement of Profit & Loss
 (1,485.69)
 935.34 
(b) 	
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
(` in lakh)
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
Before tax
Tax 
(expense) / 
benefit
Net of tax
Before tax
Tax 
(expense) / 
benefit
Net of tax
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements of defined benefit liability 
(asset)
 (76.06)
 19.14 
 (56.92)
 (30.58)
 7.70 
 (22.88)
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
Foreign operations – foreign currency translation 
differences
 (1.66)
 - 
 (1.66)
 1.06 
 - 
 1.06 
 (77.72)
 19.14 
 (58.58)
 (29.52)
 7.70 
 (21.82)
Annual Report 2023-24
266
(c) 	
Reconciliation of tax expense and accounting profit for the year is as under:
(` in lakh)
 March 31, 
2024 
 March 31, 
2023 
Profit before tax
 (6,174.79)
 3,494.73 
Company's domestic tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
Tax using the Company’s domestic tax rate (Current year 25.168% and Previous year 25.168%)
 (1,554.07)
 879.55 
Tax effect of:
Expense not allowed for tax purposes
 68.38 
 55.79 
Change in tax rate
 - 
 - 
Others
 - 
 - 
TOTAL
 (1,485.69)
 935.34 
Adjustments in respect of earlier years
 - 
 - 
Tax expense as per Statement of Profit & Loss
 (1,485.69)
 935.34 
Current tax 
 3.66 
 2.67 
Deferred tax 
 (1,489.35)
 932.67 
	
The Group’s weighted average tax rates for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 were 24.06% and 26.76%, respectively. 
	
The Company in its Income tax return for the previous year had claimed deduction of Research and Development based on the Capital 
expenditure incurred, but not in the books of accounts. Accordingly, current tax pertaining to previous period has been reduced while 
Deferred tax has increased correspondingly.
	
The Group in its computation of Income tax had disallowed provision for inventory which was subsequently allowed at the time of tax audit 
and income tax retun for FY 2022-2023 (AY 2023-2024).Accordingly, current tax pertaining to previous period has been reduced while 
Deferred tax has increased correspondingly.
Annual Report 2023-24
267
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 40 : Movement in deferred tax balances for the year ended March 31, 2024
 (` in lakh) 
Net balance 
April 1, 2023
Recognised 
in profit or 
loss 
 Tax for 
earlier year 
Recognised 
in OCI
Net
 Deferred tax 
liability 
 Deferred tax 
asset 
 Net Deferred 
Tax March 
31, 2024 
Deferred tax asset / (liabilities)
Property, plant and equipment & Intangible 
assets
 (3,182.50)
 368.30 
 - 
 368.30 
 3,550.80 
 (3,550.80)
Provision for gratuity
 10.65 
 (17.80)
 - 
 - 
 (17.80)
 - 
 28.45 
 28.45 
Provision for PLVR
 33.98 
 (17.61)
 - 
 - 
 (17.61)
 - 
 51.59 
 51.59 
Provision for Bonus
 - 
 (23.91)
 (23.91)
 23.91 
 23.91 
Provisions for leave encashement
 12.84 
 0.75 
 0.75 
 - 
 12.09 
 12.09 
Provisions for doubtful debts & other receivables
 28.06 
 (1.47)
 - 
 - 
 (1.47)
 - 
 29.53 
 29.53 
Others-Sales return provision
 7.42 
 2.46 
 - 
 - 
 2.46 
 - 
 4.96 
 4.96 
Carried forward losses
 80.09 
 (2,601.76)
 7.45 
 (2,594.31)
 - 
 2,674.40 
 2,674.40 
Provision for Inventory
 881.79 
 801.70 
 80.09 
 881.79 
 - 
 - 
 - 
OCI Item
 30.71 
 0.00 
 (19.14)
 (19.14)
 - 
 49.85 
 49.85 
Deferred Tax assets / (Liabilities)
 (2,096.96)
 (1,489.34)
 87.54 
 (19.14)
 (1,420.94)
 3,550.80 
 2,874.78 
 (676.02)
Movement in deferred tax balances for the year ended March 31, 2023
 (` in lakh) 
Net balance 
April 1, 2022
ecognised 
in profit or 
loss 
 Tax for 
earlier year 
Recognised
in OCI
Net
 Deferred tax 
liability(net) 
 Deferred tax 
asset 
 Net Deferred 
Tax March 
31, 2023 
Deferred tax asset / (liabilities)
Property, plant and equipment & Intangible 
assets
 (907.39)
 1,853.80 
 421.31 
 - 
 2,275.11 
 3,182.50 
 - 
 (3,182.50)
Provision for gratuity
 2.84 
 (7.81)
 - 
 - 
 (7.81)
 - 
 10.65 
 10.65 
Provision for PLVR
 25.17 
 (8.81)
 - 
 - 
 (8.81)
 - 
 33.98 
 33.98 
Provisions for leave encashement
 11.61 
 (1.23)
 - 
 - 
 (1.23)
 - 
 12.84 
 12.84 
Provisions for doubtful debts & other receivables
 29.35 
 1.29 
 - 
 - 
 1.29 
 - 
 28.06 
 28.06 
Others-Sales return provision
 7.19 
 (0.23)
 - 
 - 
 (0.23)
 - 
 7.42 
 7.42 
Carried forward losses
 - 
 (80.09)
 - 
 - 
 (80.09)
 - 
 80.09 
 80.09 
Provision for Inventory
 - 
 (824.25)
 (57.55)
 - 
 (881.80)
 - 
 881.79 
 881.79 
OCI Item
 23.00 
 - 
 - 
 (7.71)
 (7.71)
 - 
 30.71 
 30.71 
Deferred Tax assets / (Liabilities)
 (808.23)
 932.67 
 363.76 
 (7.71)
 1,288.73 
 3,182.50 
 1,085.54 
 (2,096.96)
The Group offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred tax assets 
and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority. 
Significant management judgement is required in determining provision for income tax, deferred income tax assets and liabilities and recoverability of deferred income tax 
assets. The recoverability of deferred income tax assets is based on estimates of taxable income by each jurisdiction in which the relevant entity operates and the period 
over which deferred income tax assets will be recovered.
Given that the Group does not have any intention to dispose investments in subsidiaries in the forseeable future, deferred tax asset on indexation benefit in relation to such 
investments has not been recognised.
Annual Report 2023-24
268
Note 41 : Capital Management
The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development 
of the business. Management monitors the return on capital as well as the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
The board of directors seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the 
advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position. The primary objective of the Group’s Capital Management is to maximise shareholder 
value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in the light of changes in the economic environment and the requirements 
of the financial covenants, if any.
The Group monitors capital using a ratio of ‘adjusted net debt’ to ‘equity’. For this purpose, adjusted net debt is defined as total borrowings, 
comprising interest-bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Equity comprises all components of equity.
a) 	
The Group’s adjusted net debt to equity ratio at March 31, 2024 was as follows:-
(` in lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Total borrowings
 49,389.47 
 34,118.01 
Less : Cash and cash equivalents
 47.15 
 47.34 
Adjusted net debt
 49,342.32 
 34,070.67 
Total equity
 36,951.77 
 41,955.53 
Adjusted net debt to total equity ratio
 1.34 
 0.81 
b) 	
Dividends
(` in lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
(i) 	
Equity shares
	
Final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2023 of ` 1.50/- (March 31, 2022 - ` 1.50/-) 
per fully paid share
 294.09 
 294.06 
(ii) 	
Dividend not recognised at the end of the reporting period
	
The Board of Directors of the company have not proposed dividend for the year.
 - 
 294.09 
Note 42 : Segment reporting
A. 	
General Information
	
(a) 	
Factors used to identify the entity’s reportable segments, including the basis of organisation - 
	
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(“CODM”) of the Group. The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating 
segments, has been identified as the Managing Director (MD) and Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the Group. The Group has 
identified only one segment i.e. Agrochemicals as reporting segment based on the information reviewed by CODM.
B. 	
Information about geographical segment
(` in lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
(a) 	
Revenue from external customers
	
Within India
 13,011.19 
 24,584.08 
	
Outside India
 32,758.93 
 38,232.54 
(` in lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
(b) 	
Segment assets
	
Within India
 97,492.64 
 97,941.26 
	
Outside India
 0.19 
 0.15 
Annual Report 2023-24
269
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
(` in lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
(c) 	
Segment liabilities
	
Within India
 60,534.75 
 55,981.28 
	
Outside India
 6.31 
 4.62 
C. 	
Information about major customers
	
Revenues from customers of the only segment i.e. Agrochemicals which contributed more than 10% of the group’s total revenues represented 
approximately ` 19,229.61 Lakh from 2 customers (March 31, 2023 - ` 15,365.17 Lakh from 2 customers).
Note 43 : Share based payments 
(a) 	
Employee stock option scheme (ESOP, 2012 as amended by the Shareholders by way of a Special Resolution) 
	
The Company had set up the Employees Stock Option Plan 2012 which was amended by the Shareholders by way of a Special Resolution 
obtained by way of Postal Ballot, whose results have been declared on September 27, 2021
	
The Scheme applies to the Eligible Employees who are in whole time employment of the Company or its Subsidiary Companies. The 
entitlement of each employee would be decided by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the respective Company based on the 
employee’s performance, level, grade, etc.
	
The total number of Stock Option to be awarded under the ESOP Scheme are restricted to 1% of the issued equity share capital at the time 
of awarding the Stock Option, can be awarded to any one employee in any one year.
	
The Stock Options shall vest in the Eligible Employees pursuant to the ESOP Scheme in the proportion of 1/3rd at the end of each year 
from the date on which the Stock Options are awarded for a period of three consecutive years, or as may be determined by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, subject to the condition that the Eligible Employee continues to be in employment of the Company or the 
Subsidiary company as the case may be.
	
The Eligible Employee shall exercise her / his right to acquire the shares vested in her / him all at one time within 1 month from the date on 
which the shares vested in her / him or such other period as may be determined by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
(b) 	
Employee stock option scheme (ESOS, 2015)
	
The Company has implemented Employees under Employee stock option scheme (ESOS, 2015) which was approved by the Shareholders 
at the 21st Annual General Meeting. The employee stock option scheme is designed to provide incentives to all the permanent employees 
to deliver long-term returns. Under the plan, participants are granted options which will vest in 4 years (40% in 1st year, 30% in 2nd year, 
20% in 3rd year and 10% in 4th year) from the date of grant. Participation in the plan is at the discretion of the Compensation Committee / 
Board of Directors of the Company.
	
Once vested, the options remains exercisable for a period of three years.
	
Options are granted at the market price on which the options are granted to the employees under ESOS 2015. When exercisable, each 
option is convertible into one equity share. 
(c) 	
Employee stock option plan (ESOP, 2012) 
	
The Company has implemented Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOP 2012) which was approved by the Shareholders at the Extra-Ordinary 
General Meeting of the Company in the Year 2012. The employee stock option plan is designed to provide incentives to all the permanent 
employees to deliver long-term returns. Under the plan, participants are granted options which will vest in 4 years (40% in 1st year, 30% 
in 2nd year, 20% in 3rd year and 10% in 4th year) from the grant date. Participation in the plan is at the discretion of the Compensation 
Committee / Board of Directors of the Company. 
	
Once vested, the options remains exercisable for a period of seven years.
	
Options are granted under ESOP 2012 at an exercise price of `34/- each. When exercisable, each option is convertible into one equity 
share. 
Annual Report 2023-24
270
	
Set out below is a summary of options granted under both the plans:
	
Employee stock option scheme (ESOP, 2012 as amended by the Shareholders by way of a Special Resolution)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Average 
exercise price 
per share option 
(`)
Number of 
options
Average 
exercise price 
per share option 
(`)
Number of 
options
Opening balance
 10.00 
 3,533 
 10.00 
 3,316 
Granted during the year
 10.00 
 1,856 
 10.00 
 1,322 
Exercised during the year
 - 
 1,546 
 - 
 1,105 
Lapsed during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 3,843 
 3,533 
Vested and exercisable
 - 
 1,546 
Employee stock option scheme (ESOS,2015)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Average 
exercise price 
per share option 
(`)
Number of 
options
Average 
exercise price 
per share option 
(`)
Number of 
options
Opening balance
 387.35 
 2,000 
 387.35 
 5,000 
Granted during the year
Exercised during the year
 387.35 
 2,000 
 387.35 
 3,000 
Lapsed during the year
Closing balance
 - 
 2,000 
Vested and exercisable
 - 
 2,000 
Employee stock option plan (ESOP,2012)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Average 
exercise price 
per share option 
(`)
Number of 
options
Average 
exercise price 
per share option 
(`)
Number of 
options
Opening balance
 34.00 
 300 
 34.00 
 4,300 
Granted during the year
 - 
Exercised during the year
 34.00 
 - 
 34.00 
 4,000 
Lapsed during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance
 300 
 300 
Vested and exercisable
 300 
 300 
	
No options expired during the periods covered in the above tables.
Annual Report 2023-24
271
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date and exercise prices:
Grant date
Expiry date
Exercise price
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Share options
Share options
 January 31, 2015 
January 30, 2026
 34.00 
 300 
 300 
 July 26, 2016 
 July 25, 2023 
 387.35 
 - 
 2,000 
 October 30,2021 
 August 31, 2023 
 10.00 
 - 
 1,105 
 October 30,2021 
 August 31, 2024 
 10.00 
 1,106 
 1,105 
 May 6, 2022 
 June 9, 2023 
 10.00 
 - 
 441 
 May 6, 2022 
 June 9, 2024 
 10.00 
 441 
 441 
 May 6, 2022 
 June 9, 2025 
 10.00 
 440 
 440 
 May 9, 2023 
 May 9, 2024 
 10.00 
 618 
 May 9, 2023 
 May 9, 2025 
 10.00 
 619 
 May 9, 2023 
 May 9, 2026 
 10.00 
 619 
 Total 
 4,143 
 5,832 
Weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at end of period
 0.92 
 0.78 
(i) 	
Fair value of options granted
	
The fair value of grant date of options granted is mentioned in the table below. The fair value at grant date is determined using the 
Black Scholes model which takes into account the exercise price, the term of option, the share price at grant date and expected 
price volatility of the underlying share, the expected dividend yield and the risk free interest rate for the term of the option.
Grant date
Expiry date
Fair Value
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Share options
Share options
 January 31, 2015 
January 30, 2026
 110.49 
 300 
 300 
 July 26, 2016 
 July 25, 2023 
 297.00 
 - 
 2,000 
 October 30,2021 
 August 31, 2023 
 1,239.65 
 - 
 1,105 
 October 30,2021 
 August 31, 2024 
 1,238.16 
 1,106 
 1,105 
 May 6, 2022 
 June 9, 2023 
 1,932.04 
 - 
 441 
 May 6, 2022 
 June 9, 2024 
 1,930.58 
 441 
 441 
 May 6, 2022 
 June 9, 2025 
 1,929.08 
 440 
 440 
 May 9, 2023 
 May 9, 2024 
 1,353.88 
 618 
 - 
 May 9, 2023 
 May 9, 2025 
 1,352.39 
 619 
 - 
 May 9, 2023 
 May 9, 2026 
 1,350.90 
 619 
 - 
 Total 
 4,143 
 5,832 
The model inputs for options granted includes:
 ESOP, 2012 as amended, granted on May 9, 2023 
9th May, 2023
Exercise Price
` 10
Grant Date
9th May, 2023
Expected life of share options 
1 to 3 years
Share price at grant date
1,355.45
Expected price volatility of the company's shares
49% to 53%
Expected dividend yield
0.29%
Risk free interest rate
6.90% to 6.96%
Annual Report 2023-24
272
 ESOP, 2012 as amended, granted on May 6, 2022 
6th May, 2022
Exercise Price
` 10
Grant Date
6th May, 2022
Expected life of share options 
1 to 3 years
Share price at grant date
1,933.64
Expected price volatility of the company's shares
46% to 55%
Expected dividend yield
0.08%
Risk free interest rate
5.487% to 6.932
 ESOP, 2012 as amended, granted on October 31, 2021 
October 30, 2021
Exercise Price
` 10
Grant Date
October 30, 2021
Expected life of share options 
1 to 3 years
Share price at grant date
1,242.71
Expected price volatility of the company's shares
44% to 58%
Expected dividend yield
0.12%
Risk free interest rate
4.107% to 5.124%
ESOS, 2015 granted on 26 July 2016
Options are granted for a consideration as mentioned in the below table and 40% of options vest after 1 year, 30% of options after 2 
years, 20% of options after 3 years and 10% of options after 4 years. Vested options are exercisable for a period of 3 years after vesting.
July 25, 2020
July 25, 2021
July 25, 2022
July 25, 2023
Exercise Price
` 387.35
` 387.35
` 387.35
` 387.35
Grant Date
July 26, 2016
July 26, 2016
July 26, 2016
July 26, 2016
Expiry Date
July 25, 2020
July 25, 2021
July 25, 2022
July 25, 2023
Share price at grant date
` 387.35/-
` 387.35/-
` 387.35/-
` 387.35/-
Expected price volatility of the Group's shares
57%
66%
115%
109%
Expected dividend yield
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
Risk free interest rate
8.27%
8.17%
8.20%
8.32%
The model inputs for options granted includes:
ESOP, 2012- Option B granted on 16 May 2015
Options are granted for a consideration as mentioned in the below table and 40% of options vest after 1 year, 30% of options after 2 
years, 20% of options after 3 years and 10% of options after 4 years. Vested options are exercisable for a period of 7 years after vesting.
May 15, 2023
May 15, 2024
May 15, 2025
May 15, 2026
Exercise Price
` 34/-
` 34/-
` 34/-
` 34/-
Grant Date
May 16, 2015
May 16, 2015
May 16, 2015
May 16, 2015
Expiry Date
May 15, 2023
May 15, 2024
May 15, 2025
May 15, 2026
Share price at grant date
` 138/-
` 138/-
` 138/-
` 138/-
Expected price volatility of the company's shares
71%
139%
121%
108%
Expected dividend yield
0.91%
0.91%
0.91%
0.91%
Risk free interest rate
8.30%
8.19%
8.21%
8.30%
Annual Report 2023-24
273
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
The model inputs for options granted includes:
ESOP, 2012- Option A granted on 31 January 2015
Options are granted for a consideration as mentioned below in the table and vest 40% of options after 1 year, 30% of options after 2 
years, 20% of options after 3 years and 10% of options after 4 years. Vested options are exercisable for a period of 7 years after vesting.
 January 30, 
2023
 January 30, 
2024
 January 30, 
2025
 January 30, 
2026
Exercise Price
` 34/-
` 34/-
` 34/-
` 34/-
Grant Date
January 31, 
2015
January 31, 
2015
January 31, 
2015
January 31, 
2015
Expiry Date
January 30, 
2023
January 30, 
2024
January 30, 
2025
January 30, 
2026
Share price at grant date
` 127.70/-
` 127.70/-
` 127.70/-
` 127.70/-
Expected price volatility of the company's shares
72%
143%
120%
108%
Expected dividend yield
0.78%
0.78%
0.78%
0.78%
Risk free interest rate
8.27%
8.17%
8.20%
8.32%
	
The expected price volatility is based on the historic volatility (based on the remaining life of the options), adjusted for any expected changes 
to future volatility due to publicly available information.
	
b) 	
Expense arising from share based payment transactions
	
	
Total expenses arising from share-based payment transactions recognised in profit or loss as part of employee benefit expense were 
as follows:
(` in lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Employee stock option plan (Note 31)
 30.11 
 33.07 
TOTAL
 30.11 
 33.07 
Annual Report 2023-24
274
Note 44 : Contingent Liabilities
 (` in lakh) 
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts:
(i)
Excise Matter
Excise duty demands relating to clearance/storage of Raw Material/goods from DTA and 
used/manufactured in 100% EOU unit, availment of cenvat credit, etc. The said amount 
includes up-to-date interest.
 11,986.89 
 11,313.00 
(ii)
Customs Matter
The Group has replied the SCN no. 1624 / 2013 -14 dated 9th July 2013 issued by the 
Commissioner of Custom - Raigarh alleging that goods imported in Unit B-16 were kept in 
unit B-17 and therefore are liable for confiscation. The personal hearing of the said SCN 
is pending. The said amount includes upto date interest
 36.89 
 34.83 
(iii)
Goods and Service tax (GST)
a. 	
GST demands relating to issues pertaining to cenvat credit transition to GST. The 
said amount includes up-to-date interest.
 13.86 
 13.86 
b. 	
Issue pertaining to service tax credit of EOU unit -The said amount includes up-to-
date interest.
 167.51 
 155.36 
(iv)
Income tax
The Group has preferred appeal against the order of various income tax authorities in 
which demand of ` 452.34 lakh has been determined for various assessment years. The 
said demand also includes interest payable as determined by the competent authority.
 (i) 	
Pending before DCIT/JCIT/AO
 81.55 
 81.55 
 (ii) 	
Pending before CIT (Appeal)
 370.79 
 370.79 
 (iii) 	
Pending before High Court
 - 
 23.20 
(v)
Sales tax matters
(a)	
Pending before JSCT(Appeal)
 659.93 
 659.93 
(b)	
Pending C & H forms
 66.19 
 66.19 
(vi)
Civil matters
Nath Bio-Genes (India) Ltd has filed a suit against the Group alleging that some product supplied 
by the Group was responsible for the poor germination of its seeds. 
 6,500.00 
 6,500.00 
(vii)
Guarantees outstanding
 765.29 
 755.84 
(viii)
Letters of Credit given by Group (different letter of credits issued to various suppliers for supply 
of materials)
 598.91 
 314.48 
Note 44.1 :  Contingent liabilities represents estimates made mainly for probable claims arising out of litigation/ disputes pending with authorities 
under various statutes (Excise duty, Customs duty, Income tax).The probability and timing of outflow with regard to these matters depend on the 
final outcome of litigations/ disputes. Hence, the Company is not able to reasonably ascertain the timing of the outflow.
Note 45 : 
The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India (“SC”) by their order dated February 28, 2019, in the case of Surya Roshani Limited & others v/s EPFO, set out 
the principles based on which allowances paid to the employees should be identified for inclusion in basic wages for the purposes of computation 
of Provident Fund contribution. The company has started complying with this prospectively from the month of March 2019. In respect of the past 
period there are significant implementation and interpretative challenges that the management is facing and is awaiting for clarity to emerge in this 
regard, pending which, this matter has been disclosed under the Contingent liability section in the financial statements. The impact of the same is 
not ascertainable.
Annual Report 2023-24
275
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
Note 46 : Commitments
(` in lakh)
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Estimated value of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account (net of advances), to the 
extent not provided for:
 118.32 
 5,327.50 
Note 47 : Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure
(` in lakh)
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
1
Amount required to be spent by the company during the year
 169.02 
 180.73 
2
Amount of expenditure incurred on:
(i)	
Construction/acquisition of any asset
 - 
 - 
(ii) 	
On purposes other than (i) above
 161.01 
 141.99 
3
Shortfall at the end of the year
 8.01 
 38.74 
4
Total of previous years shortfall
 8.01 
 39.89 
5
Reason for shortfall
 The amount was carried 
forward for ongoing 
projects 
 The amount was carried 
forward for ongoing 
projects 
6
Nature of CSR activities7Details
 Disaster Relief, Education, Skilling, Employment, 
Entrepreneurship, Health, Wellness and Water, 
Sanitation and Hygiene, Heritage 
Note 48 : Related Party Disclosures
In compliance with Ind AS 24 - "Related Party Disclosures" as notified under Rule 3 of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended, the required disclosures are given below:
Relationships: 
(i)
Ultimate Holding Company:
Godrej Industries Limited (GIL)
(ii)
Holding Company:
Godrej Agrovet Limited (GAVL)
(ii)
Fellow Subsidiaries:
1	
Creamline Dairy Products Limited
2	
Godrej Tyson Foods Limited
3	
Godrej Cattle Genetics Private Limited (formerly known as Godrej Maxximilk Private Limited)
4	
Godrej One Premises Management Private Limited
5	
Godvet Agrochem Limited
(iv)
Associates / Joint Ventures of Godrej Industries Limited (GIL) :
Godrej Consumer Products Limited
(v)
Entities which is controlled/jointly controlled/has significant influence of KMP's of Astec LifeSciences Limited :
Astec Crop Care Private Limited
(vi)
Other related parties
Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited
Annual Report 2023-24
276
(vii)
Post-employment benefit plan (entities) for the benefit of employees of the company
Astec LifeSciences Limited Employees Group Grautity Trust
(viii)
Key Managerial Personnel
1	
Mr. Nadir B. Godrej, Chairman and Non-Executive Director
2	
Mr. Ashok V. Hiremath, Director
3	
Mr. B.S. Yadav, Non-Executive Director
4	
Mr. Burjis Godrej, (Director w.e.f. 25th July, 2022)
5	
Mr. R.R. Govindan, Independent Director
6	
Dr. Bhramanand Vyas, Independent Director
7	
Mr. Vijay Kashinath Khot, Independent Director
8	
Mr. Nandkumar Vasant Dhekne, Independent Director
9	
Ms. Anjali Rajesh Gupte, Independent Director
10	
Mr. Anurag Roy, (Whole-Time Director and Chief Executive Officer)
11	
Mr. Madhur Gundecha (Chief Financial Officer upto 2nd May, 2023)
12	
Mr. K Suryanarayan (Chief Financial Officer w.e.f 3rd May, 2023)
13	
Ms. Tejashree Pradhan, Company Secretary
Related party disclosures as required by IND AS - 24, “Related Party Disclosures”, are given below “
2. 	
The following transactions were carried out with the related parties in the ordinary course of business :
 (` in lakh) 
Sr. No. 
Nature of Transaction
Nature of Relationship
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
1
Sale of materials / finished goods
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
3,579.73
 3,303.46 
2
Sale of Property, plant & equipment
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 1.22 
 - 
3
Purchase of materials / finished goods
Godrej Consumer Products Limited
Other related party
 17.94 
 12.40 
4
Purchase of Property, plant & equipment
Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited
Other related party
 158.27 
 821.32 
5
Expenses Charged by / Reimbursement made to other companies
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 159.72 
 749.13 
Godrej Industries Limited
Holding company
 0.43 
 0.56 
Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited
Other related party
 - 
 0.42 
Godrej One Premises Management Private Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 0.02 
 - 
Creamline Dairy Products Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 2.48 
 - 
6
Expenses Charged to / Reimbursement made by other companies
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 7.12 
 23.05 
7
Dividend Paid
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 190.49 
 186.06 
Annual Report 2023-24
277
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
 (` in lakh) 
Sr. No. 
Nature of Transaction
Nature of Relationship
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
8
Intercorporate deposits taken
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 5,000.00 
 8,300.00 
9
Outstanding Intercorporate deposits
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 5,000.00 
-
10
Intercorporate deposits repaid
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
-
 8,300.00 
11
Interest expense on intercorporate deposits taken
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 39.01 
 20.49 
12
Intercorporate deposits placed
Creamline Dairy Products Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 - 
 2,500.00 
13
Intercorporate deposits returned
Creamline Dairy Products Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 - 
 2,500.00 
14
Interest income on intercorporate deposits given
Creamline Dairy Products Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 - 
 26.32 
15
Capital advances given
Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited
Other related party
 229.36 
 740.44 
16
Contribution to post employement benefit plans
Astec LifeSciences Limited Employees Group Grautity Trust
Other related party
 42.32 
 28.46 
17
Outstanding Receivables
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 2,222.58 
 1,533.64 
18
Outstanding Payables
Godrej Agrovet Limited
Holding company
 132.52 
 84.44 
Godrej & Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited
Other related party
 5.76 
 70.96 
Godrej Consumer Products Limited
Other related party
 9.96 
 10.81 
Creamline Dairy Products Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 1.81 
 - 
Godrej One Premises Management Private Limited
Fellow subsidiary
 0.02 
 - 
19
Remuneration to Key Management Personnel
Short Term Employee Benefit
 290.33 
 677.44 
Post employment gratuity benefits
 5.16 
 31.45 
Share based payment
 20.81 
 24.24 
Dividend Paid
 5.86 
 5.91 
Director's Sitting Fees
 32.63 
 31.84 
Annual Report 2023-24
278
Note 49 : Interest in other entities
(a) 	
Subsidiaries
	
The group’s subsidiaries at March 31, 2024 are set out below. Unless otherwise stated, they have share capital consisting solely of equity 
shares that are held directly by the group, and the proportion of ownership interests held equals the voting rights held by the group. The 
country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of business.
Name of the entity
Principal  activities
Place 
of 
business 
/ 
Country 
of 
incorporation 
Ownership interest held by 
the group
Ownership interest held by 
the non-controlling interest
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2023
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2023
%
%
%
%
Behram Chemicals Private Limited
Manufacturing of 
agrochemicals
India
 65.63 
 65.63 
 34.37 
 34.37 
Comercializadora Agricola 
Agroastrachem Cia Ltda
Distribution of 
agrochemicals
Columbia
 100.00 
 100.00 
 - 
 - 
(b) 	
Non-controlling interests (NCI)
(` in Lakh)
Summarised balance sheet
Behram Chemicals Pvt Ltd
As on  
March 31, 2024
As on  
March 31, 2023
Current Assets
 110.63 
 88.96 
Current liabilities
 0.12 
 0.77 
Net current assets
 110.51 
 88.19 
Non-current assets
 26.19 
 37.19 
Non-current liabilities
 3.59 
 3.46 
Net non-current assets
 22.60 
 33.73 
Net assets
 133.11 
 121.91 
Accumulated NCI
 23.06 
 19.21 
(` in Lakh)
Summarised statement of profit and loss
Behram Chemicals Pvt Ltd
As on  
March 31, 2024
As on  
March 31, 2023
 Revenue 
 16.82 
 13.19 
 Profit for the year 
 11.21 
 8.40 
 Other comprehensive income 
 - 
 - 
 Total comprehensive income 
 11.21 
 8.40 
 Profit allocated to NCI 
 3.85 
 2.90 
 Dividends paid to NCI 
 - 
 - 
Annual Report 2023-24
279
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Business Overview
Statutory Reports
 Financial Statements
1-30
143-280
31-142
(` in Lakh)
Summarised cash flow
Behram Chemicals Pvt Ltd
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
Cash flows from operating activities
 19.82 
 44.13 
Cash flows from investing activities
 (20.44)
 (43.41)
Cash flows from financing activities
 - 
 - 
Total cash flows
 (0.62)
 0.72 
Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 (0.62)
 0.72 
Note 50 : Additional information pursuant to paragraph 2 of Division II of Schedule III to the Companies Act 2013
(` in Lakh)
Name of the entities in 
group
Net assets (total assets 
minus total liabilities)
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in other comprehensive 
income
Share in total comprehensive 
income
As a % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As a % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
As a % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As a % of 
consolidated total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
Parent
Astec LifeSciences Limited
March 31, 2024
99.67%
 37,011.09 
100.24%
(4,700.30)
97.17%
 (56.92)
100.20%
 (4,757.22)
March 31, 2023
99.74%
 41,847.30 
99.67%
 2,550.99 
104.86%
 (22.88)
99.63%
 2,528.11 
Subsidiaries (group's share)
Indian
Behram 
Chemicals 
Private limited
March 31, 2024
0.34%
 127.83 
-0.24%
 11.21 
0.00%
 - 
-0.24%
 11.21 
March 31, 2023
0.27%
 112.70 
0.33%
 8.40 
0.00%
 - 
0.33%
 8.40 
Foreign
Comercializadora 
Agricola Agroastrachem 
Cia Ltda
March 31, 2024
-0.02%
 (6.12)
0.00%
 - 
2.83%
 (1.66)
0.03%
 (1.66)
March 31, 2023
-0.01%
 (4.47)
0.00%
 - 
-4.86%
 1.06 
0.04%
 1.06 
Total
March 31, 2024
100.00%
 37,132.80 
100.00%
(4,689.09)
100.00%
 (58.58)
100.00%
 (4,747.67)
March 31, 2023
100.00%
 41,955.53 
100.00%
 2,559.39 
100.00%
 (21.82)
100.00%
 2,537.57 
Annual Report 2023-24
280
Note 51: Additional regulatory information pursuant to the requirement in Division II of Schedule III to the 
Companies Act, 2013
The remuneration paid to its directors during the current year is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 of the Act.The excess remuneration 
paid to a director is in accordance with the requisite approvals as mandated by the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.
The Notes 1 to 51 form an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For B S R & Co. LLP
Astec LifeSciences Limited
Chartered Accountants
(CIN:L99999MH1994PLC076236) 
Firm Registration Number : 101248W/W-100022
ANURAG ROY
B. S. YADAV 
Whole-Time Director &   Chief Executive Officer
Director 
DIN: 07444595
DIN: 00294803 
Mumbai
Mumbai
May 02, 2024
May 02, 2024
BURJIS PARDIWALA
K SURYANARAYAN 
TEJASHREE PRADHAN 
Partner
Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary 
Membership Number: 103595
ICAI Memb. No. 101853 
ICSI Memb. No. FCS7167 
Mumbai
Mumbai
Mumbai
 May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
May 02, 2024 
ASTEC LIFESCIENCES LIMITED
Registered Office: “Godrej One”, 3rd Floor, Pirojshanagar, 
Eastern Express Highway, Vikhroli (East), Mumbai – 400 079, Maharashtra
Tel.: +91 22 2518 8010; Fax: +91 22 2261 8289; 
Website: www.godrejastec.com; E-mail: astecinvestors@godrejastec.com
