 
Page 1 of 2 
Ref. No.: BBL/166/2024-25 
 
July 27, 2024 
 
BSE Limited  
Dept of Corporate Services 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,  
Dalal Street,  
Mumbai – 400001 
BSE Scrip Code: 541153 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
The Listing Department 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Mumbai – 400051 
NSE Symbol: BANDHANBNK 
 
Dear Sir/Madam,  
 
Sub: Disclosure under the applicable provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI LODR’) – Notice of 10th 
Annual General Meeting, Annual Report for the Financial Year 2023-24, Book 
Closure, and related information 
 
In continuation to the letter bearing Ref. No. BBL/161/2024-25 dated July 26, 2024, 
intimating that the 10th Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) of Bandhan Bank Limited (the 
‘Bank’) will be held on Tuesday, August 20, 2024, at 11.00 a.m. (IST), through Video-
Conferencing (‘VC’) / Other Audio-Visual Means (‘OAVM’), in compliance with relevant 
applicable Circulars, and pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 34(1) and other applicable 
provisions of the SEBI LODR, the Bank hereby submits, copies of the Notice of the 10th AGM 
of the Bank (‘AGM Notice’) and the Annual Report for the Financial Year 2023-24 (‘Annual 
Report’). 
 
In terms of the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI LODR, the Bank 
is providing the facility to the Members holding shares in dematerialized as well as physical 
form to exercise their right to vote by way of electronic means (‘e-voting’) on any or all 
resolutions specified in the AGM Notice. Members may cast their vote remotely on the 
resolutions proposed to be passed at the AGM, using electronic voting system from, Friday, 
August 16, 2024 (9.00 a.m., IST) till Monday, August 19, 2024 (5.00 p.m., IST) (‘remote 
e-voting’). The Bank is also offering the facility to the Members to cast their vote 
electronically during the AGM. The Bank has fixed Tuesday, August 13, 2024 as the Cut-
off Date for the purpose of determining the eligibility of Members to vote either through 
remote e-voting or e-voting during the AGM. Members attending the AGM who have not 
cast their vote(s) by remote e-voting will be able to vote during the AGM. Members may 
please refer to the Notes to the AGM Notice for detailed procedure on attending the AGM 
through VC/OAVM and e-voting related matters. 
 
Page 2 of 2 
 
Further, the AGM Notice and the Annual Report have been made available on the website 
of the Bank at https://www.bandhanbank.com/annual-reports.  
 
The Bank has commenced the dispatch of the AGM Notice and the Annual Report, through 
electronic mode, today, i.e., July 27, 2024. 
 
Further, the Register of Members and Share Transfer Book of the Bank shall remain closed 
from Wednesday, August 14, 2024 to Tuesday, August 20, 2024 (both days inclusive) for the 
purpose of AGM and payment of Dividend. 
 
You are requested to take note of the above. 
 
This disclosure is being simultaneously uploaded on the website of the Bank, 
www.bandhanbank.com. 
 
Thanking you. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
for Bandhan Bank Limited 
 
 
Indranil Banerjee 
Company Secretary 
 
Encl.: As above 
 
 
Cc:  
National Securities Depository Limited 
Trade World, A Wing, 4th Floor, Kamala Mills 
Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg,  
Lower Parel, Mumbai - 400 013 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited  
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 16th Floor,  
Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400 023 
 
KFin Technologies Limited 
Selenium Tower B, Plot Nos. 31 and 32, 
Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally Mandal, 
Hyderabad - 500 032, Telengana 
INDRANIL 
BANERJEE
Digitally signed by 
INDRANIL BANERJEE 
Date: 2024.07.27 23:12:58 
+05'30'
1
Bandhan Bank Limited
CIN: L67190WB2014PLC204622
Registered Office: DN 32, Sector V, Salt Lake, Kolkata – 700091; Phone No.: 91-33-6609 0909;
Head Office: Floors 12th to 14th, Adventz Infinity@5, BN 5, Sector V, Salt Lake City, Kolkata – 700091;
Website: www.bandhanbank.com; E-mail ID: investors@bandhanbank.com
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
Consideration and adoption of the Audited Annual 
Financial Statement of the Bank for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2024 and the Reports of the 
Auditors and the Board of Directors thereon
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 129, 
134 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, 2013, read with relevant rules made thereunder, Section 
29 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 [including any statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force] and 
the rules, circulars, guidelines and notifications issued by 
the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) in this regard, from time 
to time, the Audited Annual Financial Statement of Bandhan 
Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’) for the financial year ended March 
31, 2024, including the Balance Sheet as on that date, the 
Statement of Profit and Loss and the Cash Flow Statement 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 and the 
Reports of the Auditors and the Board of Directors thereon, 
as circulated to the Members and laid before this Meeting, 
be and are hereby considered and adopted.”
2.	
Declaration of dividend on equity shares of the Bank 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and 
Circular No. DBOD.NO.BP.BC.88/21.02.067/2004-05 dated 
May 04, 2005 and other applicable rules, circulars, guidelines 
and notifications issued by the Reserve Bank of India in this 
regard, from time to time, and the applicable provisions 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
[including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof, for the time being in force] and Dividend Distribution 
Policy of Bandhan Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’), a dividend at 
the rate of ₹1.50 (Rupees One and Fifty Paise) per equity 
share having face value of ₹10 (ten) each fully paid-up (i.e., 
15%), as recommended by the Board of Directors, be and is 
hereby declared for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 
and the same be paid out of the profits of the Bank for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2024.”
3.	
Appointment of Ms. Divya Krishnan (DIN: 09276201), 
who retires by rotation as a Director and being 
eligible, offers herself for re-appointment
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 152 
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, 2013, read with relevant rules made thereunder, 
applicable provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
[including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof, for the time being in force] and the rules, circulars, 
guidelines, notifications issued by the Reserve Bank of India 
in this regard, from time to time, and the provisions of the 
Articles of Association and ‘Policy on Appointment and Fit & 
Proper Criteria for Directors’ of Bandhan Bank Limited (the 
‘Bank’), Ms. Divya Krishnan (DIN: 09276201), Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director (Nominee of Bandhan Financial 
Holdings Limited), who retires by rotation at this Meeting 
and being eligible, offers herself for re-appointment, be and 
is hereby re-appointed as a Director of the Bank, liable to 
retire by rotation.”
4.	
Appointment of M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered 
Accountants, as Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank 
and fixation of the remuneration of Joint Statutory 
Auditors
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 139 to 
142 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, 2013, read with relevant rules made thereunder, 
Section 30 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, read with the ‘Guidelines for 
Appointment of Statutory Central Auditors (SCAs)/ Statutory 
Auditors (SAs) of Commercial Banks (excluding RRBs), UCBs 
and NBFCs (including HFCs)’ dated April 27, 2021 issued by 
the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) (‘RBI Guidelines’), and other 
rules, circulars, guidelines and notifications issued by the RBI 
NOTICE
Notice is hereby given that the Tenth ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (the ‘Meeting’/ ‘AGM’) of the Members of Bandhan Bank Limited 
 ('the Bank') will be held on Tuesday, August 20, 2024 at 11:00 A.M. Indian Standard Time (‘IST’), through Video Conferencing (‘VC’)/ 
Other Audio Visual Means (‘OAVM’), to transact the following business(es):
2
in this regard, the applicable provisions of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 [including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being 
in force], provisions of the Articles of Association of Bandhan 
Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’), the Policy for Appointment of 
Statutory Auditors of the Bank, and the approval of RBI, 
M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm 
Registration No.: 109208W), who have offered themselves 
for appointment and have confirmed their eligibility to be 
appointed as Statutory Auditors, be and are hereby appointed 
as Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank, for a period of three 
consecutive years, to hold office from the conclusion of the 
10th Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) until the conclusion of 
the 13th AGM of the Bank to be held in 2027, subject to the 
fulfilment of the eligibility norms each year as per the RBI 
Guidelines and approval of RBI on an annual basis during this 
tenure, for the purpose of audit of the Bank’s accounts, with 
the power to the Board/ Audit Committee of the Board to 
alter and vary the terms and conditions of appointment, etc., 
including by reason of necessity on account of conditions as 
may be stipulated by RBI and/ or any other authority, in such 
manner and to such extent, as may be mutually agreed with 
the Statutory Auditors;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the applicable 
laws and regulations including the relevant rules, circulars, 
guidelines and notifications issued by RBI, from time to time, 
including the RBI Guidelines, M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered 
Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No.: 302049E), who were 
already appointed as Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank at 
the 8th AGM of the Bank held on August 10, 2022, to hold 
office till the conclusion of 11th AGM to be held in 2025 in 
terms of RBI Guidelines, along with M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., 
Chartered Accountants, shall act as Joint Statutory Auditors 
of the Bank until the conclusion of the 11th AGM, at an audit 
fees (statutory audit & limited review) of ₹1,65,00,000 
(Rupees One Crore Sixty Five Lakhs Only) per annum, as 
may be allocated by the Bank between the Joint Statutory 
Auditors, and as may be mutually agreed between the Bank 
and the said Joint Statutory Auditors, depending upon their 
respective scope of works, in addition to certification and 
other fees, out of pocket expenses, outlays and taxes, as 
applicable, with the power to the Board/ Audit Committee of 
the Board to alter and vary the terms of remuneration during 
the current tenure of Joint Statutory Auditors;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the 
Bank [including any Committee thereof or any person(s) 
as have been/ may be authorised by the Board or such 
Committee, in this regard], be and is hereby authorised to do 
all such acts, deeds, matters and things, including the power 
to settle all questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise, 
with regard to the said appointment and remuneration, as 
it may in its absolute discretion deem fit, including but not 
limited to the determination of the scope of works, roles and 
responsibilities of the respective Joint Statutory Auditors, 
negotiating, finalising, amending, signing, delivering, 
executing the terms of appointment, including any contracts 
or documents in this regard, and seeking approval of RBI or 
any other regulatory/ statutory authority, as may be required, 
to give effect to this Resolution, without being required to 
seek any further consent or approval of the Members of 
the Bank.”
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
5.	
Remuneration of Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh (DIN: 
00342477), former Managing Director & CEO
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 
197 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’), read with relevant rules made 
thereunder, Section 35B and other applicable provisions, 
if any, of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (the ‘BR Act’), 
‘Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors/ Chief 
Executive Officers/ Material Risk Takers and Control Function 
Staff’ dated November 04, 2019 (the ‘RBI Guidelines’) and 
other applicable rules, circulars, guidelines and notifications 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India (the ‘RBI’) in this 
regard, from time to time, the applicable provisions of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and other 
applicable laws [including any statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force], 
provisions of the Articles of Association and Compensation 
Policy of Bandhan Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’) and subject 
to approval of the RBI from time to time, and pursuant to 
the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and approval of the Board of Directors, consent 
of the Members of the Bank, be and is hereby accorded 
for the remuneration of Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh (DIN: 
00342477), the former Managing Director & CEO of the 
Bank, from April 01, 2023 to July 09, 2024, on the following 
terms and conditions:
A.	
Fixed Pay and Perquisites (per annum)
Particulars 
Amount in ₹
Basic
1,95,00,000
House Rent Allowance
70,62,500
Retirals (Gratuity)
9,37,500
Other Allowances and Perquisites*
70,00,000
Total Fixed Pay and Perquisites
3,45,00,000
	
*Perquisites include Medical Allowance, Child Education Allowance, 
Conveyance Allowance, Car fuel and driver allowances, Club 
Membership, Insurance Valuation (Group Term Life, Group Mediclaim 
& Accidental Disability) & Health Check-up, mobile handset & 
usage, broadband charges, residential telephone connection & 
usage, expenses relating to personal travel with family in India or 
abroad. All hospitalization and medical expenses for self, spouse, and 
dependents (max self+4) shall be reimbursed on actuals.
3
B.	
Variable Pay (cash and non-cash components) for Financial 
Year 2023-24
Particulars 
Amount in ₹
Cash Component
2,79,00,000
Non-cash component (Black Scholes 
value of Cash Settled Options)
2,79,00,000
Total Variable Pay
5,58,00,000
	
•	
50% of the Cash Component of the variable pay of 
₹ 2.79 crore will be payable upfront and the balance in 
equal installments over 3 years.
	
•	
The grant of the cash settled options shall be based on 
Black Scholes Methodology as on the date of the grant.
	
•	
The vesting of the cash settled options shall be in 
accordance with ESOP scheme, i.e. prorated over a 
period of 4 years with the first vesting after 1 year from 
grant.
	
•	
There shall be no exercise period for the cash settled 
options.
	
•	
The deferred compensation would be subject to malus 
and clawback arrangements in the event of subdued 
or negative financial performance of the Bank and/ 
or the relevant line of business in any year. Further, 
the representative set of situations provided in the 
Bank’s Compensation Policy for invocation of malus 
and clawback clauses shall be applicable on the entire 
variable pay.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the Bank 
[including any Committee thereof or any person(s) as have 
been/ may be authorised by the Board or such Committee, 
in this regard] be and is hereby authorised to execute any 
agreement, document, instrument, writing, etc., as may be 
required, and to file requisite forms or applications with 
statutory/ regulatory authorities, with power to settle all 
questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise in regard 
to the aforesaid remuneration, and to do all such other 
acts, deeds, matters and things, as it may, in its absolute 
discretion, deem fit, to give effect to this Resolution.”
6.	
Remuneration of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 
10082714), as Executive Director & Chief Operating 
Officer
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 196, 
197 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’), read with relevant rules made 
thereunder, Section 35B and other applicable provisions, 
if any, of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (the ‘BR Act’), 
‘Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors/ Chief 
Executive Officers/ Material Risk Takers and Control Function 
Staff’ dated November 04, 2019 (the ‘RBI Guidelines’) and 
other applicable rules, circulars, guidelines and notifications 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India (the ‘RBI’) in this 
regard, from time to time, the applicable provisions of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and other 
applicable laws [including any statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force], 
provisions of the Articles of Association and Compensation 
Policy of Bandhan Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’) and subject 
to approval of the RBI from time to time, and pursuant to 
the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and approval of the Board of Directors, consent 
of the Members of the Bank, be and is hereby accorded for 
the revision in the remuneration payable to Mr. Ratan Kumar 
Kesh (DIN: 10082714), Executive Director & Chief Operating 
Officer of the Bank, with effect from April 01, 2023, on the 
following terms and conditions:
A.	
Fixed Pay and Perquisites (per annum)
Particulars 
Amount in ₹
Basic
87,50,000
House Rent Allowance
43,75,000
Leave Travel Allowance
1,50,000
Retirals (Provident Fund and Gratuity)
14,70,875
Other Allowances and Perquisites*
1,32,54,125
Total Fixed Pay and Perquisites
2,80,00,000
	
*Perquisites include Medical Allowance, Child Education Allowance, 
Conveyance Allowance, Car benefits under the Bank’s Car Scheme, 
Car fuel and driver allowances, Housing Loan under the Bank’s Staff 
Loan Policy, Club Membership, Insurance Valuation (Group Term 
Life, Group Mediclaim & Accidental Disability) & Health Check-up, 
mobile handset & usage, broad-band charges, residential telephone 
connection & usage, expenses relating to personal travel with family 
in India or abroad. All hospitalization and medical expenses for self, 
spouse, and dependents (max self+4) shall be reimbursed on actuals.
B.	
Variable Pay (cash and non-cash components) for Financial 
Year 2023-24
Particulars 
Amount in ₹
Cash Component
81,00,000
Non-cash component (Black Scholes 
value of Employee Stock Options to be 
granted)
2,70,00,000
Total Variable Pay
3,51,00,000
•	
50% of the Cash Component of the variable pay will be 
payable upfront and the balance in equal installments 
over 3 years.
•	
The stock options will be vested over a period of 4 years 
pro-rated as per the Bank’s ESOP Plan Series I.
•	
Vesting will be subject to achievement of a minimum 
performance rating of ‘4’ in the year of vesting, failing 
which, the Options to be vested in that year of vesting 
will be cancelled.
4
•	
The deferred compensation would be subject to malus 
and clawback arrangements in the event of subdued 
or negative financial performance of the Bank and/ 
or the relevant line of business in any year. Further, 
the representative set of situations provided in the 
Bank’s Compensation Policy for invocation of malus 
and clawback clauses shall be applicable on the entire 
variable pay.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the Bank 
[including any Committee thereof or any person(s) as have 
been/ may be authorised by the Board or such Committee, 
in this regard] be and is hereby authorised to execute any 
agreement, document, instrument, writing, etc., as may be 
required, and to file requisite forms or applications with 
statutory/ regulatory authorities, with power to settle all 
questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise in regard 
to the aforesaid remuneration, and to do all such other 
acts, deeds, matters and things, as it may, in its absolute 
discretion, deem fit, to give effect to this Resolution.”
7.	
Appointment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 
10082714) as Managing Director & Chief Executive 
Officer, Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 196 
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 
2013 (the ‘Act’), read with relevant Rules framed thereunder, 
Sections 10B(9), 35B and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (the ‘BR Act’), any 
other applicable rules, regulations, guidelines, clarifications, 
circulars and notifications issued by the Reserve Bank of 
India (‘RBI’), from time to time, applicable provisions of 
the the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (‘SEBI LODR’) and any other applicable laws [including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, 
for the time being in force], the ‘Policy on Appointment 
and Fit & Proper Criteria for Directors’ and the applicable 
provisions of the Articles of Association of Bandhan Bank 
Limited (the ‘Bank’), and pursuant to the recommendation 
of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the 
Board (‘NRC’), and approval of the Board of Directors of 
the Bank (‘Board’), and as per the approval granted by the 
RBI, consent of the Members of the Bank, be and is hereby 
accorded for the appointment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 
10082714), Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer of 
the Bank (‘ED&COO’), as the Interim Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer (‘Interim MD&CEO’), and designated 
as Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank, not liable to retire 
by rotation, with effect from July 10, 2024, for a period of 
three months or till new MD&CEO takes charge, whichever is 
earlier, at his remuneration as the ED&COO of the Bank;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of the Bank [including 
any Committee thereof or any person(s) as have been/ may 
be authorized by the Board or such Committee, in this regard] 
be and is hereby authorized, to execute any agreements, 
documents, instruments and writings, as may be deemed 
necessary, and to file requisite forms or applications with 
statutory/ regulatory authorities, with power to settle all 
questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise in regard to 
the aforesaid appointment, including remuneration, and to 
do all such acts, deeds, matters and things, as it may, in its 
sole discretion, deem fit, to give effect to this Resolution.”
8.	
Approval of material related party transactions with 
promoter entities for banking transactions
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution 
as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the applicable provisions of 
Regulation 23(4) and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI 
LODR’), the Companies Act, 2013, read with relevant rules 
made thereunder, and other applicable laws [including any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the 
time being in force], the ‘Policy on Dealing with Related Party 
Transactions’ and Memorandum and Articles of Association 
of Bandhan Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’), and pursuant to the 
approval and recommendations of the Audit Committee and 
the Board of Directors of the Bank, Members of the Bank do 
hereby approve and accord approval to the Board of Directors 
of the Bank (hereinafter referred to as ‘Board’, which term 
shall be deemed to include Audit Committee empowered by 
the Board, from time to time, to exercise its powers conferred 
by this resolution), for entering into and/ or carrying out and/ 
or continuing with contracts/ arrangements/ transactions 
(whether individual transaction or transactions taken 
together or series of transactions or otherwise) with each 
of the promoter entities, viz., Bandhan Financial Holdings 
Limited (‘BFHL’); Bandhan Financial Services Limited (‘BFSL’); 
Financial Inclusion Trust (‘FIT’); and North East Financial 
Inclusion Trust (‘NEFIT’), being Related Party(ies) within the 
meaning of Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the SEBI LODR, during 
the financial year ending on March 31, 2025 and up to the 
date of the 11th Annual General Meeting of the Bank to be 
held in 2025, with respect to contracts/ arrangements/ 
transactions as detailed out in the Explanatory Statement 
to this resolution, provided that the aggregate value of all 
these transactions with each entity shall not exceed ₹10,000 
crore per annum and the said contracts/ arrangements/ 
transactions shall be carried out on an arm’s length basis and 
in the ordinary course of business of the Bank;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Members of the Bank do 
hereby approve and accord approval to the Board, to sign 
and execute all such documents, deeds, matters and writings, 
including filing the said documents, etc., and do all such 
5
acts, deeds, matters and things and take necessary steps as 
the Board may, in its absolute discretion, deem necessary, 
desirable or expedient to give effect to this Resolution and to 
settle any question that may arise in this regard and incidental 
thereto, without being required to seek any further consent 
or approval of the Members, and that the Members shall be 
deemed to have given their approval thereto expressly by 
the authority of this Resolution;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Members of the Bank, do 
hereby also accord approval to the Board, to delegate all 
or any of its powers herein conferred to any Director(s)/ 
Officer(s) of the Bank, in accordance with applicable laws, 
to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things and also to 
execute such documents, writings, etc., as may be required 
to give effect to this Resolution.”
By Order of the Board
for Bandhan Bank Limited
Indranil Banerjee
Place: Kolkata
Company Secretary
Date: July 26, 2024
FCS No.: 9917
6
Notes:
1.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’), vide its General 
Circular Nos. 14/2020 dated April 08, 2020, 17/2020 dated 
April 13, 2020, 20/2020 dated May 05, 2020, read with 
other relevant circulars, including General Circular No. 
09/2023 dated September 25, 2023 (‘MCA Circulars’) and 
the SEBI, vide its Master Circular dated July 11, 2023, read 
with its Circular dated October 07, 2023 (‘SEBI Circulars’) 
(hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘AGM related 
Circulars’) have permitted holding of the Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’ or ‘Meeting’) through Video Conferencing 
(‘VC’) or Other Audio Visual Means (‘OAVM’) on or before 
September 30, 2024, without the physical presence of the 
Members at a common venue.
2.	
In compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 (the ‘Companies Act’), the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI 
LODR’) and AGM related circulars, the 10th AGM of Bandhan 
Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’) will be held through VC/ OAVM. 
The deemed venue for the AGM shall be the Head Office of 
the Bank at 14th Floor, Adventz Infinity@5, BN 5, Sector V, 
Salt Lake City, Kolkata 700 091.
3.	
Since the AGM will be held through VC/ OAVM, the Route 
Map for the AGM venue is not annexed to this Notice.
4.	
Further, since the AGM is being held through VC/ OAVM, the 
requirement of physical attendance of Members has been 
dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of 
proxies by the Members will not be available for the AGM 
and hence, the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are not 
annexed to this Notice.
5.	
Members attending the AGM through VC/ OAVM shall be 
counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under the 
provisions of Section 103 of the Companies Act, read with 
the AGM related Circulars.
6.	
Institutional/ Corporate Shareholders (i.e., other than 
individuals/ HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send a scanned 
certified copy (PDF/ JPEG Format) of its Board or governing 
body Resolution/ Authorisation, etc., authorising their 
representative on their behalf to vote through remote 
e-voting or attend the AGM through VC/ OAVM and cast 
vote through e-voting during the AGM, to the Scrutinizer by 
email through its registered e-mail address at hansrajjaria@
gmail.com, with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.com and 
investors@bandhanbank.com, or to the Bank at its Head 
Office, addressed to the Company Secretary. Institutional/ 
Corporate Shareholders (i.e., other than individuals, HUF, 
NRI, etc.) can also upload their Board Resolution/ Power of 
Attorney/ Authority Letter, etc., by clicking on “Upload Board 
Resolution/ Authority Letter” displayed under “e-voting” 
tab in their login at the NSDL e-voting website.
7.	
The Bank has appointed National Securities Depository 
Limited (‘NSDL’), to provide VC facility for the AGM and the 
attendant enablers for conducting the AGM. NSDL has also 
been appointed as service provider to provide the electronic 
voting facility for the AGM.
8.	
The relevant explanatory statement pursuant to Section 102 
of the Companies Act and Regulation 36 of the SEBI LODR, 
setting out all material facts relating to ordinary/ special 
businesses from Item Nos. 4 to 8 of this Notice is annexed 
herewith and the same should be taken as part of this Notice.
9.	
Brief profile and other information about the Directors 
proposed to be appointed/ re-appointed, as required under 
Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI LODR and Secretarial Standard 
on General Meetings (‘SS-2’) are forming part of the 
explanatory statement to this Notice.
10.	 All relevant documents referred to in this Notice will be 
available electronically for inspection, without any fee, by 
the Members, up to the date of the AGM. Further, relevant 
Statutory Registers and the certificate from the Secretarial 
Auditor of the Bank, certifying that the Bank’s Employees 
Stock Option Scheme is being implemented in accordance 
with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021, to the extent applicable, and in 
accordance with the resolutions passed by the Members of 
the Bank, will also be available electronically for inspection, 
without any fee, by the Members, during the AGM. Members 
seeking to inspect such documents can send an e-mail to 
investors@bandhanbank.com, mentioning their name, Folio 
No./ DP ID and Client ID and the documents that they seek to 
inspect, with a self-attested copy of their PAN Card attached 
to the email.
11.	 Members seeking any information with regard to the 
financial statements or any matter to be placed at the AGM, 
are requested to write to the Bank on or before Thursday, 
August 15, 2024 through e-mail at investors@bandhanbank.
com, with their name, Folio No./ DP ID and Client ID. The 
same will be addressed suitably by the Bank.
12.	 In terms of the provisions of Section 91 of the Companies 
Act, read with Rule 10 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 and applicable provisions of 
the SEBI LODR, the Register of Members and Share Transfer 
Books of the Bank shall remain closed from Wednesday, 
August 14, 2024 to Tuesday, August 20, 2024 (both days 
inclusive), for the purpose of the AGM and dividend.
13.	 Despatch of AGM Notice and Annual Report:
	
a.	
In compliance with the aforesaid AGM related Circulars, 
Notice of the 10th AGM, along with the Annual Report 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 (‘Annual 
Report’), are being sent only through electronic 
mode to all those Members of the Bank, who have 
registered their e-mail addresses with the Bank/ the 
Bank’s Registrars and Share Transfer Agents, Kfin 
Technologies Limited (‘KFintech’ or ‘RTA’) [in respect 
of shares held in physical form] or with Depositories/ 
7
Depositories Participants (‘DP’) [in respect of shares 
held in dematerialized form]. Physical copy of the same 
may be provided to the Members on request.
	
b.	
Members may note that the Notice and Annual Report 
will also be available on the Bank’s website at https://
www.bandhanbank.com/annual-reports, websites of 
the Stock Exchanges, i.e., BSE Limited and National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.
com and www.nseindia.com, respectively, and on the 
website of Service Provider, i.e., NSDL, at www.evoting.
nsdl.com.
	
c.	
Members holding shares in dematerialised mode are 
requested to register/ update their e-mail addresses 
with their respective DPs. Members holding shares in 
physical mode and who have not yet updated their 
e-mail address, bank details, etc., are requested to 
update the same by submitting duly filled in Form ISR-1 
(available on the website of the Bank at https://www.
bandhanbank.com/sebi-circular), along with relevant 
documents, to the RTA. The communication details of 
RTA are as under:
	
	
KFin Technologies Limited
	
	
(Unit: Bandhan Bank Limited),
	
	
Selenium Tower B, Plot Nos. 31 and 32, Financial District,
	
	
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Mandal,
	
	
Hyderabad - 500 032, Telangana, India
	
	
E-mail ID: einward.ris@kfintech.com
	
	
Website: www.kfintech.com
	
	
Toll-free Number: 1800 309 4001
14.	 THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING 
ARE AS UNDER:
	
a.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the 
Companies Act read with the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended, and 
Regulation 44 of SEBI LODR, the Bank is providing 
the facility to the Members holding shares in physical 
or dematerialised form as on the cut-off date, being 
Tuesday, August 13, 2024, to exercise their rights to 
vote on the resolutions proposed to be passed at the 
AGM by electronic means (‘e-voting’). Members may 
cast their vote remotely on the resolutions proposed 
to be passed at the AGM, using an electronic voting 
system on the dates mentioned hereinbelow (‘Remote 
e-voting’).
	
b.	
E-voting facility will also be made available during the 
AGM and Members attending the AGM who have not 
cast their vote(s) by remote e-voting will be able to 
vote during the AGM through e-voting.
	
c.	
The Bank has engaged the Services of NSDL, for 
providing e-voting facilities.
	
d.	
The e-voting rights of the Members/ beneficial owners 
shall be reckoned in proportion to equity shares held 
by them in the Bank as on Tuesday, August 13, 2024 
(cut–off date fixed for this purpose), subject to the 
provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
	
e.	
The Board of Directors has appointed CS Hansraj Jaria, 
Practising Company Secretary (FCS No. 7703/ CP No. 
19394), failing him, CS Rakesh Agrawal, Practising 
Company Secretary (FCS No. 8792/ CP No. 9014), who 
have communicated their willingness to be appointed, 
to act as the Scrutinizer, to scrutinize the voting process 
in a fair and transparent manner.
	
f.	
The remote e-voting period commences on Friday, 
August 16, 2024 (9.00 A.M. IST) and ends on Monday, 
August 19, 2024 (5.00 P.M. IST). During this period, 
Members of the Bank, holding shares either in physical 
or dematerialised form, as on the cut-off date, i.e., 
Tuesday, August 13, 2024 may cast their votes 
electronically through remote e-voting. The remote 
e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting 
thereafter. Once the vote(s) on a resolution(s) is cast 
by the Member, whether partially or otherwise, the 
Member shall not be allowed to change it subsequently 
or cast the vote again. A person, who is not a Member 
as on the cut-off date, should treat this Notice for 
information purposes only.
	
g.	
A Member can opt for only a single mode of voting, i.e., 
remote e-voting or e-voting during the Meeting. In case 
a Member casts vote(s) through remote e-voting, he/ 
she shall not be allowed to vote again during the AGM.
	
h.	
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-voting 
system?
	
	
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-voting system 
consists of “Two Steps”, which are mentioned below:
	
	
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-voting system
	
	
A)	
Login method for e-voting and joining virtual 
meeting for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode
	
	
	
In terms of Section VI-C of the SEBI Master 
Circular dated July 11, 2023 on ‘e-voting 
facility provided by listed entities’, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode 
are allowed to vote through their demat account 
maintained with Depositories and Depository 
Participants. Shareholders are advised to update 
their respective mobile numbers and e-mail IDs 
in their respective demat accounts, in order to 
access the e-voting facility.
8
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with NSDL.
1.	 Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL, viz., https://eservices.nsdl.com, either on 
a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page, click on the “Beneficial Owner” 
icon under “Login”, which is available under “IDeAS” section. This will prompt you to enter your existing 
User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-voting services under 
Value added services. Click on “Access to e-voting” under e-voting services and you will be able to see 
e-voting page. Click on company name or e-voting service provider, i.e., NSDL and you will be redirected 
to e-voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual 
meeting & voting during the meeting.
2.	 If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.
com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/
IdeasDirectReg.jsp.
3.	 Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.
nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-voting system is 
launched, click on the icon “Login”, which is available under “Shareholder/ Member” section. A new 
screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e., your sixteen digit demat account number 
held with NSDL), Password/ OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful 
authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-voting page. Click on 
company name or e-voting service provider, i.e., NSDL, and you will be redirected to e-voting website of 
NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and voting during 
the meeting.
4.	 Shareholders/ Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning the QR 
code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
      
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with CDSL
1.	 Users who have opted for CDSL Easi/ Easiest facility, can login through their existing User ID and password. 
Option will be made available to reach e-voting page without any further authentication. To login through 
Easi/ Easiest, the users are requested to visit CDSL website, www.cdslindia.com, and click on the login icon 
and New System Myeasi Tab and then enter existing my easi username & password.
2.	 After successful login, the Easi/ Easiest user will be able to see the e-voting option for eligible companies, 
where evoting is in progress as per the information provided by company. On clicking the evoting option, 
the user will be able to see e-voting page of the e-voting service provider for casting your vote during the 
remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is also 
links provided to access the system of all e-voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-voting 
service providers’ website directly.
3.	 If the user is not registered for Easi/ Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website, 
www.cdslindia.com. Click on login, go to New System Myeasi Tab and then click on the registration option.
4.	 Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by providing Demat Account Number and PAN 
at the e-voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate the user 
by sending OTP on registered Mobile and E-mail as recorded in the Demat Account. After successful 
authentication, user will be able to see the e-voting option where the evoting is in progress and also able 
to directly access the system of all e-voting Service Providers.
Individual Shareholders 
(holding securities in 
demat mode) login 
through their depository 
participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository Participant 
registered with NSDL/ CDSL for e-voting facility. Upon logging in, you will be able to see e-voting option. Click 
on e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/ CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, 
wherein you can see e-voting feature. Click on company name or e-voting service provider, i.e., NSDL, and 
you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or 
joining virtual meeting and voting during the meeting.
9
	
	
Important Note: Members who are unable to retrieve 
User ID/ Password are advised to use Forgot User ID 
and Forgot Password related options available at 
abovementioned websites.
	
	
Helpdesk 
for 
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding 
securities in demat mode for any technical issues 
related to login through Depositories, i.e., NSDL and 
CDSL:
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities 
in demat mode 
with NSDL
Members facing any technical 
issue in login can contact NSDL 
helpdesk by sending a request 
at  evoting@nsdl.com or call at 
022 - 4886 7000
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities 
in demat mode 
with CDSL
Members facing any technical 
issue in login can contact CDSL 
helpdesk by sending a request 
at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.
com or contact at toll free no. 
1800 22 5533
	
(e)	
EVEN of Bandhan Bank Limited is ‘129467’.
	
(f)	
Password details for shareholders other than Individual 
shareholders are given below:
	
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-voting, then 
you can use your existing password to login and 
cast your vote.
	
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-voting system for the 
first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial 
password’, which was communicated to you. 
Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you 
need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the 
system will force you to change your password.
	
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
	
(i)	
If your email ID is registered in your demat 
account or with the Bank, your ‘initial 
password’ is communicated to you on your 
e-mail ID. Trace the e-mail sent to you from 
NSDL from your mailbox. Open the e-mail 
and open the attachment, i.e., a .pdf file. 
	
B)	
Login Method for e-voting and joining virtual meeting 
for shareholders other than Individual shareholders 
holding securities in demat mode and shareholders 
holding securities in physical mode.
	
	
How to Login to NSDL e-voting website?
	
	
(a)	
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web 
browser by typing the following URL: https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal 
Computer or on a mobile.
	
	
(b)	
Once the home page of e-voting system is 
launched, click on the icon “Login”, which is 
available under “Shareholder/Member” section.
	
	
(c)	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your 
User ID, your Password/ OTP and a Verification 
Code as shown on the screen.
	
	
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL 
eservices, i.e., IDeAS, you can login at https://
eservices.nsdl.com/ with your existing IDeAS 
login. Once you login to NSDL eservices after 
using your login credentials, click on e-voting and 
you can proceed to Step 2, i.e., Cast your vote 
electronically.
The password to open the .pdf file is your 8 
digit client ID for NSDL account, last 8 digits 
of client ID for CDSL account or folio number 
for shares held in physical form. The .pdf 
file contains your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial 
password’.
	
	
	
(ii)	
If your email ID is not registered, please 
follow steps mentioned below in process 
for those shareholders whose email IDs 
are not registered, at page no. 10.
	
(g)	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the 
‘Initial password’ or have forgotten your password:
	
	
a)	
Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If you 
are holding shares in your demat account with 
NSDL or CDSL) option available on www.evoting.
nsdl.com.
	
	
b)	
“Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are 
holding shares in physical mode) option available 
on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
(d)	
Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding shares, i.e., 
Demat (NSDL or CDSL) or Physical
Your User ID is:
a)	 For Members who hold shares 
in demat account with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example, if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12******, then your User ID is 
IN300***12******.
b)	 For Members who hold shares 
in demat account with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example, if your Beneficiary ID is 12**************, then your User ID is 
12**************.
c)	 For Members holding shares in 
Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the Bank.
For example, if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 101456, then User ID is 
101456001***.
10
	
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the password by 
aforesaid two options, you can send a request 
at evoting@nsdl.com, mentioning your demat 
account number/ folio number, your PAN, your 
name and your registered address, etc.
	
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the votes on the 
e-voting system of NSDL.
	
(h)	
After entering your password, tick on Agree to 
“Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
	
(i)	
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
	
(j)	
After you click on the “Login” button, home page of 
e-voting will open.
	
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join General 
Meeting on NSDL e-voting system.
	
How to cast your vote electronically and join General 
Meeting on NSDL e-voting system?
	
a)	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see 
all the companies “EVEN” in which you are holding 
shares and whose voting cycle and General Meeting is 
in active status.
	
b)	
Select “EVEN” of ‘Bandhan Bank Limited’, i.e., 129467, 
to cast your vote during the remote e-voting period or 
to cast your vote during the AGM. For joining virtual 
meeting, you need to click on “VC/ OAVM” link placed 
under “Join Meeting”.
	
c)	
Now, you are ready for e-voting as the Voting page 
opens.
	
d)	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options, i.e., 
assent or dissent, verify/ modify the number of shares 
for which you wish to cast your vote and click on 
“Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
	
e)	
Upon 
confirmation, 
the 
message 
“Vote 
cast 
successfully” will be displayed.
	
f)	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you 
by clicking on the print option on the confirmation 
page.
	
g)	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will 
not be allowed to modify your vote.
i.	
General Guidelines for shareholders
	
(a)	
Institutional shareholders (i.e., other than individuals, 
HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send scanned copy (PDF/ 
JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority 
Letter, etc., with attested specimen signature of the 
duly authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to 
vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail to hansrajjaria@
gmail.com, with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.com 
and investors@bandhanbank.com, or to the Bank at 
its Head Office, addressed to the Company Secretary. 
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, 
HUF, NRI, etc.) can also upload their Board Resolution/ 
Power of Attorney/ Authority Letter etc. by clicking on 
“Upload Board Resolution/ Authority Letter” displayed 
under “e-voting” tab in their login.
	
(b)	
It is strongly recommended not to share your password 
with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential. Login to the e-voting website 
will be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key 
in the correct password. In such an event, you will need 
to go through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or 
“Physical User Reset Password?” option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
	
(c)	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and e-voting 
user manual for Shareholders available at the 
download section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call 
on: 022 - 4886 7000 or send a request to Ms. Pallavi 
Mhatre, Senior Manager, at evoting@nsdl.com for 
any further clarification(s) or write to the Company 
Secretary of the Bank at its registered office or at 
investors@bandhanbank.com.
j.	
Process for those shareholders whose e-mail IDs are not 
registered with the depositories/ RTA for procuring User 
ID and password for e-voting for the resolutions set out in 
this Notice:
	
(a)	
In case shares are held in physical mode, please provide 
Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned copy of the 
share certificate (front and back), PAN (self-attested 
scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAAR (self-attested 
scanned copy of Aadhaar card) by e-mail to investors@
bandhanbank.com.
	
(b)	
In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide 
DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 digit beneficiary 
ID), Name, client master or copy of Consolidated 
Account Statement, PAN (self-attested scanned copy 
of PAN card), AADHAAR (self-attested scanned copy 
of Aadhaar card) to investors@bandhanbank.com. If 
you are an Individual shareholder holding securities in 
demat mode, you are requested to refer to the login 
method explained at step 1 (A), i.e., Login method for 
e-voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode.
	
(c)	
Alternatively, Shareholders/ Members may send a 
request to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring USER 
ID and password for e-voting by providing above 
mentioned documents.
15.	 INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR E-VOTING ON THE DAY 
OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:
a)	
The Bank has opted to provide the same electronic voting 
system during the AGM, as being used for remote e-voting, 
and the said facility shall be operational till all the resolutions 
11
proposed in the Notice are considered and voted upon 
during the AGM.
b)	
Only those Members/ Shareholders, who will be present in 
the AGM through VC/ OAVM facility and have not cast their 
vote on the Resolutions through remote e-voting and are 
otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote 
through e-voting system in the AGM.
c)	
Facility to cast vote through e-voting will be made available 
on the VC screen and will be activated once the voting is 
announced at the AGM. The voting rights of the Members 
shall be in proportion to their share of the paid-up voting 
equity share capital of the Bank as on the cut-off date being 
Tuesday, August 13, 2024, subject to the provisions of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, as amended.
d)	
Members who have voted through remote e-voting will be 
eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will not be eligible 
to vote at the AGM.
e)	
The details of the person who may be contacted for any 
grievances connected with the facility for e-voting on the day 
of the AGM shall be the same person mentioned for Remote 
e-voting, at page no. 10.
16.	 INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING THE AGM 
THROUGH VC/ OAVM ARE AS UNDER:
a.	
Members will be provided with a facility to attend the AGM 
through VC/ OAVM through the NSDL e-voting system. 
Members may access by following the steps mentioned 
above for Access to NSDL e-voting system. After successful 
login, you can see link of “VC/ OAVM” placed under “Join 
Meeting” menu against company name, i.e., ‘Bandhan Bank 
Limited’. Members are requested to click on “VC/ OAVM” 
link placed under the “Join Meeting” menu. The link for VC/ 
OAVM will be available in Shareholder/ Member login where 
the EVEN (i.e., 129467) of ‘Bandhan Bank Limited’ will be 
displayed. Please note that the members who do not have 
the User ID and Password for e-voting or have forgotten the 
User ID and Password may retrieve the same by following 
the remote e-voting instructions mentioned in the Notice to 
avoid last minute rush.
b.	
The facility to join the AGM shall be opened thirty minutes 
before the scheduled time of the AGM and shall be kept 
open throughout the proceedings of the AGM on a first-
come, first-served basis.
c.	
In case of joint holders attending the Meeting, only such joint 
holder who is higher in the order of names will be entitled to 
vote at the AGM, provided the votes are not already cast by 
remote e-voting by the first holder.
d.	
Pursuant to the provisions of the AGM related Circulars, 
at least 1,000 Members are allowed to register and attend 
the AGM through VC/ OAVM on a first-come, first-served 
basis. However, the said restriction is not applicable to large 
Shareholders (Members holding 2% or more shareholding), 
Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel, the Chairpersons of the Audit Committee, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee, Auditors, etc.
e.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through 
Laptops for better experience.
f.	
Further, Members will be required to allow Camera and use 
Internet with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during 
the Meeting.
g.	
Please note that Participants connecting from Mobile 
Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via Mobile 
Hotspot may experience Audio/ Video loss due to fluctuation 
in their respective networks. It is, therefore, recommended 
to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to mitigate any kind of 
aforesaid glitches.
17.	 Any person, who becomes a Member of the Bank after this 
Notice is sent through e-mail and holds shares as on the 
Cut-off Date, i.e., Tuesday, August 13, 2024, may obtain 
the login ID and password by sending a request at 
evoting@nsdl.com or to the Bank. However, if you are 
already registered with NSDL for remote e-voting, then you 
can use your existing User ID and Password for casting your 
vote. If you have forgotten your Password, you can reset 
your Password by using “Forgot User Details/ Password” 
or “Physical User Reset Password” option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on 022 - 4886 7000. In case 
of Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode 
who acquire shares of the Bank and become Members of 
the Bank after sending of the Notice and hold shares as 
on the Cut-off Date, i.e., Tuesday, August 13, 2024, may 
follow steps mentioned in this Notice under “Access to NSDL 
e-voting system”.
18.	 Members of the Bank under the category of Institutional 
Investors are encouraged to attend and vote at the AGM.
19.	 Speaker Registration
a)	
Members who would like to express their views or ask 
questions during the AGM may register themselves by 
following the procedure as mentioned above for login and 
thereafter, click on the link “Speaker Registration” available 
against the EVEN of ‘Bandhan Bank Limited’.
b)	
The Speaker Registration will be available from Friday, 
August 16, 2024 to Sunday, August 18, 2024, for those 
Members, holding shares either in physical or demat mode, 
as on the Cut-off Date, i.e., Tuesday, August 13, 2024. 
Only those Members who are registered will be allowed to 
express their views or ask questions during the AGM. The 
Bank reserves the right to restrict the number of questions 
and number of speakers, depending upon the availability of 
time as appropriate for smooth conduct of the AGM.
12
20.	 Dividend Related Information:
a.	
The Board of Directors has recommended a dividend of 
₹1.50 (Rupees One and Fifty Paise Only) per equity share 
having a face value of ₹ 10 each (i.e., 15%) from the profits 
of the Bank for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, for 
the approval of Members.
b.	
The Record Date fixed for the purpose of determining the 
eligibility of Members for dividend is Tuesday, August 13, 
2024. The dividend, if declared by the Members in the 
ensuing AGM, will be paid within 30 days of the date of 
its declaration, electronically or in physical form, to the 
Members whose names appear on the Bank’s Register of 
Members/ Beneficial Owners as on the Record Date.
c.	
Further, as per the provisions of the SEBI Master Circular 
dated May 07, 2024, read with SEBI Circular dated June 10, 
2024, SEBI has mandated that the security holders holding 
shares in physical form, who have not updated their PAN 
or Contact Details (Postal Address with PIN and Mobile 
Number) or Bank Account Details or Specimen Signature, 
then the dividend shall be paid only through electronic mode 
to such security holders, with effect from April 01, 2024, only 
upon furnishing all the said details in entirety.
d.	
Shareholders are requested to register/ update their 
complete bank details:
	
•	
if shares are held in demat mode: with the DPs 
with whom they maintain their demat accounts, by 
submitting forms and documents as may be required 
by the DPs; and
	
•	
if shares are held in physical mode: by furnishing 
their bank account details, as mandated by SEBI, by 
submitting duly filled in Form ISR-1 to KFintech, along 
with self-attested copy of PAN card, bank details (bank 
account number, bank and branch name, address of 
the bank, 11 digits IFSC Code, 9 digits MICR No.) and 
original cancelled cheque leaf bearing the name of the 
shareholder printed on it and reflecting active core 
bank account number.
e.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Income-tax Act, 1961 (‘IT Act’), 
dividends paid or distributed by the Bank shall be taxable in 
the hands of the shareholders and the Bank shall be required 
to deduct tax at source (‘TDS’) at the prescribed rates from 
the dividend to be paid to Members, subject to the approval 
of dividend by the shareholders in the ensuing AGM. No tax 
will be deducted on payment of dividend to the resident 
individual shareholders, if the total dividend paid does not 
exceed ₹ 5,000 during a financial year. The rate of TDS would 
vary depending on the residential status of the shareholder 
and documents registered with the Bank.
A. 	
RESIDENT SHAREHOLDERS:
A.1 	 Tax Deductible at source for resident shareholders
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
TDS/ withholding 
Tax Rate
Documents required (if any)
1
Valid PAN updated in the 
Bank’s Register of Members
10%
No document required, if dividend does not exceed ₹5,000/-, no TDS/ 
withholding tax will be deducted. Also, please refer to note (C)(v) below
2
No PAN/ Valid PAN not 
updated in the Bank’s Register 
of Members
20%
 TDS/ Withholding tax will be deducted, regardless of the dividend 
amount, if PAN of the shareholder is not registered with the Bank/ 
KFintech/ Depository Participant.
All the shareholders are requested to update, on or before 
Tuesday, August 13, 2024, their PAN with their Depository Participant 
(if shares are held in electronic form) or with the Bank/ KFintech (if 
shares are held in physical form). Please quote all the folio numbers 
under which you hold your shares while updating the records. Please 
also refer to note (C)(v) below.
3
Availability of lower/ nil tax 
deduction certificate issued by 
the Income Tax Department 
u/s 197 of the IT Act.
Rate specified in 
the certificate
Lower tax deduction certificate obtained from the Income Tax Authority 
to be submitted on or before Tuesday, August 13, 2024. 
	
In terms of the provisions of Section 206AB of the IT Act, a person will be treated as a ‘specified person’ who has not furnished the 
return of income for the FY 2022-23 within time limit prescribed under Section 139(1) of the IT Act and the aggregate of TDS was 
₹50,000/- or more in the said financial year, then TDS will be deducted at higher rate @ 20%.
	
If PAN is not submitted/ is inoperative on non-linking of PAN with Aadhaar/ is invalid, TDS would be deducted @ 20% as per Section 
206AA of the IT Act.
13
A.2 	 No TDS on dividend payment to resident shareholders, if the Shareholders submit and register following documents as mentioned 
in column no. 4 of the below table with the Bank/ KFintech/ Depository Participant on or before Tuesday, August 13, 2024:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
(2)
TDS/ Withholding 
Tax Rate (3)
Documents required (if any)/ Remarks
(4)
1
Submission of form 15G/ 15H
NIL
Declaration in Form No. 15G (applicable to an individual 
who is below 60 years)/ Form 15H (applicable to an 
individual who is 60 years and above), fulfilling certain 
conditions.
2
Shareholders to whom section 194 of the 
IT Act does not apply as per the Second 
proviso to Section 194 such as LIC, GIC, etc.
NIL
Documentary evidence for exemption u/s
194 of the IT Act.
3
Shareholder covered u/s 196 of IT Act 
such as Government, RBI, corporations 
established by Central Act and mutual funds.
NIL
Documentary evidence for coverage u/s 196 of IT Act
4
Category I and II Alternative Investment 
Fund
NIL
SEBI registration certificate to claim benefit under Section 
197A (1F) of IT Act 
5
•	
Recognised provident funds
•	
Approved superannuation fund
•	
Approved gratuity fund
NIL
Necessary documentary evidence as per Circular No. 
18/2017 issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT)
6
National Pension Scheme
NIL
No TDS/ withholding tax as per section 197A (1E) of IT Act
7
Any resident shareholder exempted from 
TDS deduction as per the provisions of the 
IT Act or by any other law or notification
NIL
Necessary documentary evidence substantiating 
exemption from deduction of TDS
B. 	
NON-RESIDENT SHAREHOLDERS:
	
The table below shows the withholding tax on dividend payment to non-resident shareholders who submit, on or before Tuesday, 
August 13, 2024, the following document(s), as mentioned in column no. 4 of the below table, to the Bank/ KFintech. In case all 
necessary documents are not submitted, then the TDS/ Withholding tax will be deducted @ 20% (plus applicable surcharge and cess).
Sr. No.
(1)
Particulars
(2)
TDS/ Withholding 
Tax Rate (3)
Documents required (if any)
(4)
1
Foreign Institutional Investors 
(FIIs)/ Foreign Portfolio Investors 
(FPIs)/ Other Non-Resident 
shareholders
20% (plus 
applicable 
surcharge and 
cess) or tax treaty 
rate, whichever is 
beneficial
FPI registration certificate in case of FIIs/ FPIs
To avail beneficial rate of tax treaty following tax documents 
would be required:
1.	 Tax Residency certificate issued by revenue authority of the 
country of residence of shareholder for the year in which 
dividend is received
2.	 Self-attested copy of the PAN card, if any, allotted by the 
Indian Income Tax authorities.
3.	 Form 10F filled & duly signed
4.	 Self-declaration from the shareholder primarily covering the 
following:
	
•	
Shareholder is eligible to claim the benefit of respective 
tax treaty;
	
•	
Shareholder receiving the dividend income is the 
beneficial owner of such income;
	
•	
Dividend income is not attributable/ effectively connected 
to any Permanent Establishment (PE) or Fixed Base in 
India;
	
•	
Shareholder complies with any other condition prescribed 
in the relevant Tax Treaty and provisions under the 
Multilateral Instrument (‘MLI’);
	
•	
Shareholder does not have a place of effective 
management in India.
(Note: Application of beneficial Tax Treaty Rate shall depend 
upon the completeness of the documents submitted by the Non- 
Resident shareholder and review to the satisfaction of the Bank)
14
Sr. No.
(1)
Particulars
(2)
TDS/ Withholding 
Tax Rate (3)
Documents required (if any)
(4)
2
Availability of Lower/ NIL tax 
deduction certificate issued by 
Income Tax Authority
Rate specified in 
certificate
Lower tax deduction certificate obtained from Income Tax 
Authority
3
Any Non-Resident shareholder 
exempted from Withholding 
Tax (WHT) deduction as per the 
provisions of Income Tax Act 
or any other law such as The 
United Nations (Privileges and 
Immunities) Act 1947, etc.
NIL
Necessary documentary evidence substantiating exemption from 
WHT deduction
C. 	
Important Points to Note:
(i)	
The Bank will issue a soft copy of the TDS certificate to its 
Members through email registered with the Bank/ KFintech, 
post payment of the dividend. Members will be able to view 
the TDS Credit from the Income Tax Department’s website 
https://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in (refer to Form 26AS).
(ii)	
The aforesaid documents such as Form 15G/ 15H, documents 
under sections 196 and 197A of the IT Act, FPI Registration 
Certificate, Tax Residency Certificate, Lower Tax Certificate, 
etc., can be uploaded on the link, https://ris.kfintech.com/
form15 on or before Tuesday, August 13, 2024, in order 
to enable the Bank to determine the appropriate TDS/ 
withholding tax rate applicably. Any communication on 
the tax determination/ deduction received post Tuesday, 
August 13, 2024 shall not be considered. Formats of Form 
15G/ Form 15H can be downloaded from the link https://ris.
kfintech.com/form15.
(iii)	 As per NSDL Circular NSDL/CIR/II/03/2023 dated January 
11, 2023, the Resident Non-Individual Members, such 
as, Insurance companies, Mutual Funds, Alternative 
Investment Fund (AIF) and other domestic financial 
institutions established in India, and Non-Resident Non-
Individual Members, such as, Foreign Portfolio Investors 
may submit the relevant forms, declarations and 
documents through their respective custodians, who are 
registered with NSDL for tax services, on or before Tuesday, 
August 13, 2024.
(iv)	 Application of TDS rate is subject to necessary verification 
of the Members’ details by the Bank, as available in Register 
of Members as on the Record Date, and other documents 
available with the Bank/ KFintech.
(v)	
In case TDS is deducted at a higher rate, an option is still 
available with the Members to file the return of income and 
claim an appropriate refund.
(vi)	 No TDS will be deducted in case of resident individual 
shareholders who furnish their PAN details and whose 
dividend does not exceed ₹5,000/-.
	
All the shareholders are requested to update their PAN with 
their Depository Participant (if shares are held in electronic 
form) and with the Bank/ KFintech (if shares are held in 
physical form) against all their folio holdings on or before 
Tuesday, August 13, 2024.
(vii)	 In the event of any income tax demand (including interest, 
penalty, etc.) arising from any misrepresentation, inaccuracy 
or omission of information provided by the Member(s), such 
Member(s) will be responsible to indemnify the Bank and 
also, provide the Bank with all information/ documents and 
co-operation in any appellate proceedings.
(viii)	 This Communication is not exhaustive and does not purport 
to be a complete analysis or listing of all potential tax 
consequences in the matter of dividend payment. Members 
should consult their tax advisors for requisite action to be 
taken by them.
Voting and results related matters:
21.	 Since the resolutions as set out in this Notice are being 
conducted through e-voting, the said resolutions will not be 
decided on a show of hands at the AGM.
22.	 The Scrutiniser will, after the conclusion of e-voting at the 
AGM, scrutinise the votes cast during the AGM and votes 
cast through remote e-voting, and make a consolidated 
Scrutiniser’s Report and submit the same, not later than 
2 days of the conclusion of the AGM, to the Chairman or the 
Managing Director & CEO or the Company Secretary, who 
shall countersign the same. The result of e-voting shall be 
declared forthwith upon receipt of the Scrutinizer’s Report.
23.	 The result declared, along with the Scrutiniser’s Report, 
shall be placed on the Bank’s website at https://www.
bandhanbank.com/annual-reports and on the website 
of NSDL at www.evoting.nsdl.com, immediately after the 
declaration of the result and shall also be simultaneously 
submitted to BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited. The e-voting results will also be displayed at 
the Registered Office and Head Office of the Bank.
15
24.	 Subject to receipt of requisite number of votes, 
the Resolutions proposed in the Notice shall be deemed 
to be passed on the date of the AGM, i.e., Tuesday, 
August 20, 2024.
Shareholders related matters:
25.	 In terms of the provisions of the SEBI LODR, securities of 
listed companies can be transferred only in dematerialised 
form with effect from April 01, 2019. Further, SEBI, vide 
its circular dated January 25, 2022, has also advised listed 
companies and Registrar & Transfer Agents to issue shares 
in dematerialised form while processing service requests for 
transmission, transposition, issue of duplicate certificates, 
renewal, splitting, consolidation of share certificate, etc. 
In view of the above and to eliminate all risks associated 
with physical shares and for ease of portfolio management, 
Members holding shares in physical form are requested to 
consider converting their shareholdings into dematerialized 
form. Members can contact the Bank’s RTA, KFintech, for 
assistance in this regard.
26.	 Mandatory furnishing of PAN, KYC details and Nomination 
by holders of physical securities: SEBI vide Section V of its 
‘Master Circular for Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents’ dated May 07, 2024, has mandated furnishing of 
PAN, KYC details and nomination by holders of physical 
securities and linking PAN with Aadhaar. Members holding 
shares in physical mode and who have not yet updated their 
KYC, including e-mail address, mobile no., bank details, etc., 
are requested to update the same by submitting duly filled 
in Form ISR-1 with relevant documents to the RTA or the 
Bank. Similarly, for updation of signature, Form ISR-2; for 
nomination, Form No. SH 13; for change in nomination, Form 
No. SH 14; and for opt out of nomination, Form ISR -3; and 
for cancellation of nomination, Form ISR-3, along with Form 
No. SH 14, duly filled in all respect, with relevant documents, 
shall be submitted to the RTA or the Bank. The detailed 
process of submission of PAN, KYC details and nomination, 
along with necessary forms, are available on the website of 
the Bank at www.bandhanbank.com/sebi-circular.
27.	 In case a holder of physical securities fails to furnish any of 
the above mentioned details (except choice of nomination), 
the security holder shall be eligible to lodge grievance or 
avail any service request from the RTA only after furnishing 
all such details/ documents. Further, payment of dividend in 
respect of such folios shall be done only through electronic 
mode with effect from April 01, 2024 upon furnishing of 
all the aforesaid details (except choice of nomination) in 
entirety.
28.	 Members are requested to note that, in order to facilitate the 
Members to access portfolio services rendered by RTA and 
to check requests, viz., annual reports, change of address, 
change/ update Bank mandate and download standard 
forms, RTA has launched a website, https://kprism.kfintech.
com/, for Members. 
29.	 Online processing of investor service requests and 
complaints by RTAs: SEBI, vide Section VII of its Master 
Circular dated May 07, 2024, advised RTAs to digitize 
the process of service requests/ complaints and provide 
a mechanism or portal for investors to lodge service 
requests/ complaints online. In view of the same, KFintech 
has digitized the process of service requests/ complaints 
and has launched a webpage, which can be accessed at 
https://kprism.kfintech.com/signup. Investors may register/ 
signup, using their Name, PAN, Mobile Number and Email ID, 
for online processing of service requests. Post registration, 
users can login via OTP and execute activities, like, raising 
Service Request, Query, Complaints, check for status, KYC 
details, Dividend, Interest, Redemptions, e-Meeting and 
e-voting details.
30.	 As an ongoing endeavour to enhance Investor experience 
and leverage new technology, facilities provided by RTA for 
smooth updation of KYC are as follows:
	
eSign Facility: Common and simplified norms for processing 
investor’s service requests by RTAs and norms for furnishing 
PAN, KYC details and Nomination requires that eSign option 
be provided to Investors for raising service requests. URL: 
https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/isrforms.aspx.
	
KYC Status: To ensure that shareholders have requisite 
information regarding their folios, the RTA has created 
a webpage at https://kprism.kfintech.com/, where the 
Members may access the KYC status of their respective folios 
by registering with the first holder’s PAN details.	 
31.	 Transfer of unclaimed/ unpaid dividends to the IEPF: 
Members are requested to note that dividends which are 
not claimed within seven years from the date of transfer 
to the Bank’s Unpaid Dividend Account, will, as per the 
provisions of Section 124 of the Companies Act and rules 
made thereunder, be transferred to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (‘IEPF’). Further, pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, read with 
the IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) 
Rules, 2016 (‘IEPF Rules’), as amended, all shares in respect 
of which dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven 
consecutive years or more shall be transferred to the demat 
account of the IEPF Authority. The details of unpaid dividend 
and the unclaimed shares transferred to the IEPF Authority 
during FY 2023-24 and the process for claiming these are 
provided in the Report on Corporate Governance forming 
part of the Annual Report for FY 2023-24.
32.	 As per Rule 5 of the IEPF Rules, information containing 
the names and the last known addresses of the persons 
entitled to receive the sums lying in the account referred 
to in Section 125(2) of the Companies Act, nature of the 
amount, the amount to which each person is entitled, the 
due date for transfer to IEPF, etc., is provided by the Bank 
16
on its website at the link: https://www.bandhanbank.com/
unclaimed-dividend. The concerned Members are requested 
to verify the details of their unclaimed dividend, if any, from 
the website and lodge their claim with KFintech before the 
unclaimed dividends are transferred to the IEPF. The Bank 
has also sent a communication to all the Members, whose 
dividends have remained un-encashed, with a request to 
send the requisite documents to the Bank/ KFintech for 
claiming such un-encashed dividends and the newspaper 
notice was also issued in this regard in an English national 
daily and in Bengali and Gujarati language newspapers.
By Order of the Board
for Bandhan Bank Limited
Indranil Banerjee
Place: Kolkata
Company Secretary
Date: July 26, 2024
FCS No.: 9917
17
STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 AND OTHER APPLICABLE PROVISIONS
Statements with respect to items under Ordinary/ Special Business covered in the Notice of Meeting are given below:
Item No. 4:
In terms of the Guidelines for Appointment of Statutory Central 
Auditors (SCAs)/ Statutory Auditors (SAs) of Commercial Banks 
(excluding RRBs), UCBs and NBFCs (including HFCs) dated April 27, 
2021, issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) (‘RBI Guidelines’), 
for entities with asset size of ₹15,000 crore and above, as at the 
end of the previous year, the statutory audit should be conducted 
under joint audit of a minimum of two audit firms [Partnership 
Firms/ Limited Liability Partnerships (LLPs)]. Further, in order to 
protect the independence of the auditors/ audit firms, entities will 
have to appoint the SCAs/ SAs for a continuous period of three 
years, subject to the firms satisfying the eligibility norms each year. 
Furthermore, Commercial Banks (excluding RRBs) will be required 
to take prior approval of RBI for appointment/ re-appointment of 
SCAs/ SAs, on an annual basis.
In view of the above RBI Guidelines, the Bank has adopted a Policy 
for Appointment of Statutory Auditors of the Bank (‘Policy’). 
Accordingly, in terms of the RBI Guidelines and the Policy of the 
Bank, the Bank is required to have two Statutory Auditors to act as 
its Joint Statutory Auditors.
M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm 
Registration No.: 107122W/W100672), was appointed as the 
Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank, in its 7th AGM, for a period 
of three years, to hold office from the conclusion of the 7th AGM 
until the conclusion of the 10th AGM of the Bank to be held in 
2024. Further, M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered Accountants (ICAI 
Firm Registration No. 302049E) were appointed as the Joint 
Statutory Auditors of the Bank, in its 8th AGM, for a period of 
three years, to hold office as Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank 
until the conclusion of its 11th AGM. Therefore, since the term 
of M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants, as the Joint 
Statutory Auditor of the Bank will end with the conclusion of 
this AGM of the Bank, the Bank is required to appoint one more 
audit firm to act as the Joint Statutory Auditor of the Bank, along 
with M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered Accountants, in place of the 
retiring auditors. Accordingly, on the basis of recommendation 
of the Audit Committee of the Board (‘ACB’) and considering 
the profile, experience and expertise in the audit of banking and 
financial service sector, the Board of Directors recommends the 
appointment of M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants 
(ICAI Firm Registration No.: 109208W), as Joint Statutory Auditors 
of the Bank, for a period of three years, to hold office from the 
conclusion of this 10th AGM until the conclusion of the 13th AGM 
of the Bank, for the approval of the Shareholders at the ensuing 
AGM, subject to approval of RBI on an annual basis. As per the 
requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Companies Act’), 
M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants, have confirmed 
that the appointment, if made, would be within the limits specified 
under Section 141(3)(g) of the Companies Act and that they are 
not disqualified to be appointed as Statutory Auditors in terms 
of the provisions of Sections 139 and 141 of the Companies Act 
and rules made thereunder. Further, the Bank has also received 
an eligibility certificate from M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered 
Accountants, in Form-B, as prescribed under the aforesaid RBI 
Guidelines. They have also been subject to peer review by ICAI.
M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants, having ICAI 
Firm Registration No.: 109208W, was established in the year 
1952. Currently, the firm has 17 partners and more than 175 audit 
professionals. The firm has been rendering services for over 70 
years and has extensive experience in the fields of Assurance, Risk 
Consulting & Internal Audit, Corporate Advisory and Tax. The firm 
has clients in the financial services industry including Banks, NBFCs, 
Insurance companies besides Corporates engaged in infrastructure, 
cement, chemical, pharma, power, oil & gas, hospitality, real estate, 
automobiles, etc. The firm is/ has been carrying out the statutory 
audits for number of banks, both public sector and private sector 
including foreign banks operating in India.
Considering the increase in total business of the Bank crossing 
₹2.5 lakh crore necessitating increased effort and manpower for 
conducting audit, the Audit Committee of the Board and the Board 
have recommended for an increase in audit fees (statutory audit & 
limited review) to be paid to Joint Statutory Auditors, from current 
₹1,50,00,000 (Rupees One Crore and Fifty Lakh Only) per annum 
to ₹1,65,00,000 (Rupees One Crore and Sixty Five Lakh Only) per 
annum to M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered Accountants, and M/s. V. 
Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants, Joint Statutory Auditors 
of the Bank, for FY 2024-25 and onward for their remaining tenure, 
as may be allocated by the Bank between the Joint Statutory 
Auditors, and as may be mutually agreed between the Bank and 
the said Joint Statutory Auditors, depending upon their respective 
scope of work, in addition to Certification and other Fees, out of 
pocket expenses, outlays and taxes as applicable. The Board/ ACB 
shall have the power to alter and vary the terms and conditions 
of appointment and remuneration, including allocation of audit 
fees between the Joint Statutory Auditors depending upon their 
respective scope of work and/ or by reason of necessity, on 
account of conditions as may be stipulated by the RBI and/ or 
any other authority, in such manner and to such extent as may be 
mutually agreed between the Bank and the said Joint Statutory 
Auditors. The remuneration paid to the Joint Statutory Auditors 
will be disclosed in the Report on Corporate Governance as well as 
the Annual Financial Statement of the Bank.
Approval of RBI has already been received for appointment of M/s. 
Singhi & Co., Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No: 
302049E) and M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants 
(ICAI Firm Registration No: 109208W) as the Joint Statutory 
Auditors of the Bank for the Financial Year 2024-25 for their third 
year and first year, respectively.
Since the appointment of M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered 
Accountants, as the Joint Statutory Auditors is proposed, in 
place of the retiring auditors, viz., M M Nissim & Co LLP, as per 
the provisions of the RBI Guidelines, and the existing Statutory 
18
Auditors, viz., M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered Accountants, shall 
act as the Joint Statutory Auditors with them, no special notice is 
required under Section 140(4) of the Act for moving the resolution 
set out at Item No. 4 of this Notice.
Your Board of Directors, therefore, recommends passing of the 
Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 4 of this Notice.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank or 
their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially 
or otherwise, in the resolution set out at Item No. 4 of this Notice.
Item No. 5:
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh (DIN: 00342477) had been the 
MD&CEO of the Bank w.e.f July 10, 2015. His third term of three 
years, as approved by the RBI and the Members of the Bank, was 
from July 10, 2021 to July 09, 2024. Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, 
vide his letter dated April 05, 2024 to the Board of Directors, 
expressed his desire to retire from the services of the Bank as the 
MD&CEO upon completion of his said tenure on July 09, 2024, 
which was noted by the Board. Accordingly, Mr. Ghosh ceased 
to be the MD&CEO of the Bank, effective July 10, 2024. The 
remuneration of Mr. Ghosh as the MD&CEO was subject to prior 
approval of RBI and approval of Members of the Bank, on the basis 
of recommendations of the NRC and the Board of Directors. The 
remuneration of MD&CEO is also subject to the provisions of the 
Companies Act, Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the RBI Guidelines 
on Compensation of Whole Time Directors/ Chief Executive 
Officers/ Material Risk Takers and Control Function staff dated 
November 04, 2019 and the Compensation Policy of the Bank.
In view of the above and pursuant to approval of RBI on fixed pay, 
the proposal for remuneration (Fixed and Variable) of Mr. Ghosh, 
as the MD&CEO, for FY 2022-23 was placed before the Members 
of the Bank, at its 9th AGM held on August 18, 2023, which was 
approved by the Members. Subsequently, the variable pay of Mr. 
Ghosh, as the MD&CEO, for FY 2022-23, was also approved by the 
RBI. Approval of Members is now sought by way of the resolution 
set at Item No. 5 of this Notice for the remuneration of Mr. Ghosh, 
as the MD&CEO of the Bank, for the period from April 01, 2023 up 
to July 09, 2024, on the basis of the recommendations of the NRC 
and the Board.
The proposed remuneration comprises fixed pay for the period 
from April 01, 2023 up to July 09, 2024 and variable pay for 
FY 2023-24, wherein the Bank has received the RBI’s approval for 
payment of fixed pay to Mr. Ghosh for FY 2023-24. Accordingly, a 
fixed pay of ₹ 3.45 crore per annum is proposed for Mr. Ghosh, as 
the MD&CEO of the Bank, for the period from April 01, 2023 up 
to July 09, 2024, as against ₹3,00,25,800 for FY 2022-23. Further, 
considering the Bank’s performance as per Balanced Score Card 
(‘BSC’) methodology and on the basis of the recommendation of 
the NRC, the Board recommends the variable pay of Mr. Ghosh, 
as MD&CEO, for FY 2023-24, as stated in the resolution, which 
is subject to approval of the RBI. The proposed revision in the 
remuneration of the MD&CEO is in line with the Compensation 
Policy of the Bank. Further, for overall performance assessment 
of the MD&CEO, BSC is used. The BSC is a performance evaluation 
technique that takes into consideration a number of financial 
and non-financial performance indicators aligned to the long-
term strategy of the organisation. The performance goals are 
organised to address four perspectives, viz., financial, customer, 
internal process and people, the latter three being drivers of 
future performance. In the BSC, the Bank has considered financial 
performance measures, asset quality, the cost to income ratio, 
adherence to anchor wise risk appetite, compliance management 
and other strategic initiatives with longer horizons. As per the RBI 
guidelines dated November 04, 2019, the performance based 
variable pay is subject to in-year adjustment, malus or clawback. 
Further, the deferred composition of the variable pay would be 
subject to malus and clawback arrangements in the event of 
subdued or negative financial performance of the Bank and/ or the 
relevant line of business in any year. Further details are provided 
in the Report on Corporate Governance and Financial Statement 
forming part of the Bank’s Annual Report for FY 2023-24.
The required details of Mr. Ghosh as per the Secretarial Standard 
on General Meetings (‘SS-2’) are annexed to this Notice.
Your Board of Directors, therefore, recommends passing of 
Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 5 of this Notice, with 
respect to the remuneration of Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, the 
former Managing Director & CEO of the Bank, for the period as 
mentioned above.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank or 
their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially 
or otherwise, in the resolution set out at Item No. 5 of this Notice.
Item No. 6:
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714) has been the Executive 
Director & Chief Operating Officer (‘ED&COO’) of the Bank since 
March 31, 2023. His current tenure as ED&COO, as approved by 
the RBI and the Members of the Bank, is of three years, from 
March 31, 2023 upto March 30, 2026. The remuneration of an 
Executive Director is subject to prior approval of RBI and approval 
of Members of the Bank, on the basis of recommendations of the 
NRC and the Board of Directors. The remuneration of an Executive 
Director is also subject to the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013, Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the RBI Guidelines 
on Compensation of Whole Time Directors/ Chief Executive 
Officers/ Material Risk Takers and Control Function staff dated 
November 04, 2019 and the Compensation Policy of the Bank.
In view of the above and pursuant to approval of RBI on fixed 
pay, the proposal for remuneration (Fixed) of Mr. Ratan Kesh, for 
FY 2023-24, was approved by the Members of the Bank, via Postal 
Ballot, on June 22, 2023. Approval of Members is now sought by 
way of the resolution set at Item No. 6 of this Notice for revision in 
the remuneration of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, for FY 2023-24, on the 
basis of the recommendations of the NRC and the Board.
19
The proposed revised remuneration comprises fixed pay and 
variable pay. In line with the RBI approval, a fixed pay of ₹2.80 
crore per annum is proposed for Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, for 
FY 2023-24, as against ₹2.50 crore per annum, which was previously 
approved by the Members. The increase in fixed remuneration is 
purely on account of increase in perquisite value for availing the 
Bank provided car benefits and the Staff Housing Loan availed by 
him at concessional rate of interest, in line with the approval of the 
Shareholders granted vide Postal Ballot on June 22, 2023. Further, 
considering the Bank’s performance as per Balanced Score Card 
(‘BSC’) methodology and on the basis of the recommendation of 
the NRC, the Board recommends the performance based variable 
pay of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh for FY 2023-24, as stated in the 
resolution, which is subject to approval of the RBI. The proposed 
revision in the remuneration of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh is in line 
with the Compensation Policy of the Bank. Further, for overall 
performance assessment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, ED&COO, 
BSC is used. The BSC is a performance evaluation technique that 
takes into consideration a number of financial and non-financial 
performance indicators aligned to the long-term strategy of the 
organisation. The performance goals are organised to address four 
perspectives, viz., financial, customer, internal process and people, 
the latter three being drivers of future performance. In the BSC, 
the Bank has considered financial performance measures, asset 
quality, the cost to income ratio, adherence to anchor wise risk 
appetite, compliance management and other strategic initiatives 
with longer horizons. As per the RBI guidelines dated November 
4, 2019, the performance based variable pay is subject to in-year 
adjustment, malus or clawback. Further, the deferred composition 
of the variable pay would be subject to malus and clawback 
arrangements in the event of subdued or negative financial 
performance of the Bank and/ or the relevant line of business in 
any year. Further details are provided in the Report on Corporate 
Governance and Financial Statement forming part of the Bank’s 
Annual Report for FY 2023-24.
The required details of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh as per the Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings (‘SS-2’) are annexed to this Notice.
Your Board of Directors, therefore, recommends passing of 
Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 6 of this Notice, with 
respect to the proposed revision in the remuneration of Mr. Ratan 
Kumar Kesh, ED&COO of the Bank.
Save and except Mr. Kesh and his relatives, none of the other 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank or their relatives 
are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, 
in the resolution set out at Item No. 6 of this Notice.
Item No. 7:
Considering the fact that Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, former 
Managing Director & CEO (‘MD&CEO’), was to retire on July 09, 
2024, the Board, at its meeting held on July 06, 2024, pursuant 
to the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee of the Board (‘NRC’) and the approval of the RBI, 
approved the appointment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 
10082714), Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer of the 
Bank (‘ED&COO’), as the Interim MD&CEO of the Bank and Key 
Managerial Personnel, not liable to retire by rotation, with effect 
from July 10, 2024 for a period of three months, or till a new 
MD&CEO takes charges, whichever is earlier, at his remuneration as 
the ED&COO of the Bank, subject to approval of the Shareholders 
of the Bank.
The aforesaid appointment of Mr. Kesh as Interim MD&CEO will 
be at the same remuneration, as approved by the Shareholders 
on June 22, 2023, and as may be revised by the Shareholders, 
as per Item No. 6 of this Notice. Accordingly, the approval of the 
Shareholders of the Bank is sought for the appointment of Mr. 
Ratan Kumar Kesh as the Interim MD&CEO of the Bank. Further, 
upon completion of the said tenure of Mr. Kesh as the Interim 
MD&CEO of the Bank, Mr. Kesh will continue to be the ED&COO 
of the Bank, as per the RBI approved tenure as Executive Director.
The required details of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh as per the Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings (‘SS-2’) are annexed to this Notice.
Mr. Kesh is not debarred from holding office of Director by virtue 
of any order of the Securities and Exchange Board of India or 
any other such authority. In the opinion of the Board, Mr. Kesh 
continues to meet the fit and proper criteria and is a person of 
integrity, and has requisite qualifications, skills, experience and 
expertise in specific functional areas, to continue as a Director of 
the Bank, which are beneficial to the Bank.
Accordingly, Mr. Kesh fulfils the conditions for his aforesaid 
proposed appointment as the Interim MD&CEO of the Bank, as 
prescribed under the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 
and the relevant Rules made thereunder, the SEBI LODR, the BR 
Act and other guidelines issued by the RBI, from time to time. 
Further, Mr. Kesh’s proposed appointment is in compliance 
with the provisions of Section 10A of the BR Act, in particular, 
on account of him having the requisite experience/ expertise in 
banking, information technology and payments & settlement 
systems, as required under Section 10A(2)(a) of the BR Act.
Your Board of Directors, therefore, recommends passing of 
Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 7 of this Notice, with 
respect to the aforesaid proposed appointment of Mr. Ratan 
Kumar Kesh, as the Interim MD&CEO of the Bank.
Save and except Mr. Kesh and his relatives, none of the other 
Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank or their relatives 
are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, 
in the resolution set out at Item No. 7 of this Notice.
Item No. 8:
As per the provisions of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(‘Companies Act’), transactions with related parties which are 
at arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of business, are 
exempted from the obligation of obtaining prior approval of 
shareholders. However, in terms of the provisions of Regulation 
23(4) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI LODR’) such transactions, if material, 
require prior approval of shareholders by way of an ordinary 
resolution, notwithstanding the fact that the same are at arm’s 
length basis and in the ordinary course of business.
20
As per Regulation 2(1)(zc), read with the proviso to Regulation 
23(1) of the SEBI LODR, transactions involving transfer of resources, 
services or obligations between a listed entity and any person or 
entity forming a part of the promoter or promoter group of the 
listed entity are considered as ‘related party transactions’ (‘RPT’), 
and as ‘material RPT’, if the transaction with a related party to 
be entered into individually or taken together with previous 
transactions during a financial year, exceeds ₹1,000 crore or 
10% of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed entity, as per 
the last audited financial statements of the listed entity, whichever 
is lower.
The Bank, during the ordinary course of its banking business, 
enters into certain transactions with its related parties (‘RPs’), 
which would include current account (‘CA’)/ saving account (‘SA’) 
transactions, fixed deposits, payment of interest, banking charges 
for various services and facilities or other banking services. 
Although the fixed deposit transactions are exempt from the 
RPTs under the SEBI LODR, there are possibilities that CA/ SA 
transactions of the promoter entities with the Bank might exceed 
₹1,000 crore or 10% of the annual turnover (₹21,034.27 crore 
for FY 2023-24) of the Bank during a financial year. Therefore, it 
is required to seek the prior approval of the shareholders of the 
Bank for CA/ SA transactions. In addition to CA/ SA transactions, 
the Bank may pay interest on deposits or levy charges to the 
promoter entities for the normal banking services provided by the 
Bank to them. Accordingly, the Audit Committee and the Board 
have approved and recommended such material transactions with 
promoter entities, subject to an overall limit of ₹10,000 crore per 
annum for each party, to the Shareholders for approval.
Further, SEBI vide its circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/
CIR/P/2022/47 dated April 08, 2022 (replaced by SEBI Master 
Circular dated July 11, 2023), clarified that the Member’s approval 
of omnibus RPTs approved in an AGM shall be valid up to the 
date of the next AGM for a period not exceeding fifteen months. 
Hence, it is proposed to seek approval of the Members for the 
below mentioned transactions at this AGM and the approval of 
the Members for such transactions will remain valid till next AGM.
In view of the above, approval of the Members is sought for the following:
Sl. No. Description
Details 
1.
Name of the related party(ies) and 
relationship 
Promoter Entities of Bandhan Bank Limited:
a.	 Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited (‘BFHL’);
b.	 Bandhan Financial Services Limited (‘BFSL’);
c.	 Financial Inclusion Trust (‘FIT’); and
d.	 North East Financial Inclusion Trust (‘NEFIT’)
2.
Name of the director or key 
managerial personnel who is 
related, if any
Ms. Divya Krishnan (Nominee of BFHL) is on the Board of the Bank as well as BFHL.
Mr. Pankaj Sood (Nominee of Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd.) is on the Board of the Bank 
as well as BFHL and BFSL.
3.
Nature of concern or interest of the 
related party (financial/ otherwise)
Financial
4.
Nature and particulars of the 
transaction(s)
Acceptance of Current/ Savings Account Deposits Transactions, other normal banking 
transactions and levy of charges for banking transactions and services.
The Bank is required to accept deposits from public, repayable on demand. The aforesaid 
promoter entities maintain Current/ Savings Account with the Bank, wherein the Bank is 
in receipt of deposits, from time to time. Further, the Bank also provides other normal 
banking services to the said promoter entities. Normal banking/ service charges are 
levied and received by the Bank from the said promoter entities.
5.
Monetary value of transaction(s)
Aggregate value of all these transactions with each related party, as mentioned above, 
shall not exceed ₹10,000 crore per annum.
6.
Material Terms
With respect to the banking transactions, the terms would be as per the policy of the 
Bank or as may be prescribed by the RBI, from time to time. However, no interest is paid 
by banks on current account balance maintained by a customer. The Bank levies normal 
banking charges on the current account customers for various services. Further, the Bank 
also pays interest on the savings account/ term deposits, if any, made by the promoter 
entities with the Bank, on the terms as applicable to other unrelated parties.
7.
Tenure of the transaction(s)
Tenure shall depend on the discretion of the customer.
8.
Justification for why the transaction 
is in the interest of the Bank
The aforesaid banking transactions are done in furtherance of the banking business of the 
Bank with its customers, which may include Related Parties of the Bank, and are in the 
interest of the Bank.
21
Sl. No. Description
Details 
9.
Details of transaction relating to 
any loans, inter-corporate deposits, 
advances or investments made or 
given by the Bank or its subsidiary
Not Applicable 
10.
Valuation or other external report
Not applicable for the said transactions
11.
Percentage of counterparty’s 
annual consolidated turnover that 
is represented by the value of the 
proposed RPT
May not be relevant, since the majority of the proposed transactions are in the nature of 
CA/ SA deposits and withdrawal.
The maximum value of transactions, during FY 2024-25 and for 
the next financial year (until the holding of 11th Annual General 
Meeting of the Bank), between the Bank on one side and promoter 
entities, as mentioned above, individually on the other side, may 
exceed the threshold of “material RPTs” under the SEBI LODR, 
i.e., ₹1,000 crore or 10% of the annual consolidated turnover of 
the Bank, as per the last audited Financial Statement of the Bank, 
whichever is lower, for each such Party. However, the aggregate 
value of the aforementioned transactions with each of these 
related parties have been proposed at ₹10,000 crore per annum. 
All these transactions will be executed at arm’s length basis and in 
the ordinary course of business of the Bank.
Based on the information on the transactions as provided above, 
the Audit Committee has approved and recommended entering 
into the said transactions and accordingly, the Board of the Bank 
has recommended the same for approval of Members.
The Members may please note that in terms of provisions of the 
SEBI LODR, no related party of the Bank shall vote to approve the 
Ordinary Resolution at Item No. 8 of this Notice.
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited (‘BFHL’), promoter of the 
Bank, holds 64,41,15,857 shares in the Bank, representing 39.98% 
of the paid-up voting equity capital of the Bank. Other than BFHL, 
no other promoter/ promoter group entity is holding any equity 
shares of the Bank.
Your Board of Directors, therefore, recommends the passing of the 
Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 8 of this Notice.
Except Ms. Divya Krishnan (being a common director on the 
boards of the Bank and BFHL) and Mr. Pankaj Sood (being a 
common director on the boards of the Bank, BFHL and BFSL) 
and their relatives, none of the other Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank or their relatives are, in any way, concerned 
or interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution set out at 
Item No. 8 of this Notice.
By Order of the Board
for Bandhan Bank Limited
Indranil Banerjee
Place: Kolkata
Company Secretary
Date: July 26, 2024
FCS No.: 9917
22
ANNEXURE TO ITEM NOS. 3, 5, 6, AND 7 OF THE NOTICE
[Pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI LODR and SS-2]
Ms. Divya Krishnan (DIN: 09276201):
Ms. Divya Krishnan
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee of BFHL)
Age
56 Years
Qualification
MBA from IIM, Ahmedabad
Date of Appointment on Board
May 11, 2022
Brief Resume including Experience
Ms. Divya Krishnan is a finance and investment banking professional and is currently a 
visiting faculty at Ashoka University. Ms. Krishnan was formerly Chief Investment Officer 
(‘CIO’) and Head of Investment at SBI Mutual Fund. Prior to becoming CIO, Ms. Krishnan 
worked as a fund manager at SBI Funds.
Post her voluntary exit from SBI in 2001, Ms. Krishnan has served as a consultant to a 
number of leading non-profits and NGOs. She worked closely with non-profit institutions, 
catalysing growth through impactful programs. She has been an invitee as Scholar-in-
Residence by a leading private University in the US, guiding students to effectively 
support developmental initiatives in India.
Ms. Krishnan was a member of the Working Group on Disabilities to develop the 12th Five 
Year Plan for the local state government. She has also served as a volunteer teacher for 
slum children in Mumbai and for primary school children in Hong Kong and in Trivandrum.
Ms. Krishnan did her MBA at IIM Ahmedabad and was awarded a prestigious industry 
scholarship for outstanding scholastic achievement during her time there. Ms. Krishnan 
is an alumnus of Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi and La Martiniere School, Kolkata.
Nature of her expertise in specific functional 
areas
Finance and Investment Banking
Other Directorship
Listed Companies: Nil
Unlisted Companies: Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
Listed entities from which the person has 
resigned in the past three years
None
Chairmanship/ Membership of Committees 
in other companies
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited:
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee - Chairperson
Audit Committee – Member
Relationship with other Directors, Managers 
and Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the Bank
(including shareholding as a beneficial owner) 
(as on July 26, 2024)
Ms. Krishnan does not hold any equity shares in the Bank, neither does she hold any 
equity share as a beneficial owner of the Bank.
No. of board meetings attended during the 
year (i.e., FY 2023-24)
18/18
Terms and conditions of appointment or re-
appointment including remuneration
Appointed as a Non-Executive Non-lndependent Director [Nominee of Bandhan Financial 
Holdings Limited], liable to retire by rotation, effective May 11, 2022. Ms. Krishnan will 
be eligible for sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses for attending the Board and 
Committee meetings, as applicable, and fixed remuneration as may be approved by the 
Board and Members, from time to time, in terms of RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021, 
from the date of her appointment, on proportionate basis.
Remuneration last drawn
Remuneration details provided in the Report on Corporate Governance forming part of 
Annual Report for FY 2023-24.
23
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh (DIN: 00342477)*:
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
Former Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Age
63 years
Qualification
M. Sc. in Statistics. Attended the HBS-ACCION programme on Strategic Leadership 
at Harvard Business School in April 2006. Completed a Certification Programme in IT 
& Cyber Security conducted by Institute for Development and Research in Banking 
Technology (IDRBT), established by RBI
Date of Appointment on Board
December 23, 2014 and as the MD & CEO effective July 10, 2015
Brief Resume including Experience
Mr. Ghosh has been one of India's foremost proponents of financial inclusion. He has 
more than three decades of experience in microfinance, banking and development 
terrain.
'Bandhan' is the name of the not-for-profit entity that Mr. Ghosh had set up in 
April 2001, with the objective of changing the lives of the underprivileged by giving 
them small loans and handholding them in their entrepreneurial journey. The entity 
transformed from an NGO to an NBFC in April 2006, and finally into a universal bank in 
August, 2015. This is the first instance of a microfinance institution transforming into 
a universal bank in India.
Nature of his expertise in specific functional 
areas
Financial Services (Micro Finance Sector), Medium & Small-Scale Industry, Banking, 
Finance and Business Management
Other Directorship
None
Listed entities from which the person has 
resigned in the past three years
None
Chairmanship/ Membership of Committees in 
other companies
Not Applicable
Relationship with other Directors,
Managers and other Key Managerial
Personnel of the Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the Bank
(including shareholding as a beneficial owner)
Mr. Ghosh holds 16,74,436 equity shares in the Bank (not holding any equity shares of 
the Bank as a beneficial owner).
No. of board meetings attended during the year 
(i.e., FY 2023-24)
17/18
Terms and conditions of appointment or 
re‑appointment, including remuneration
Remuneration as proposed in Item No. 5 of this Notice
Remuneration last drawn
Remuneration details provided in the Report on Corporate Governance forming part of 
Annual Report for FY 2023-24.
*The aforesaid details of Mr. Ghosh are as on July 09, 2024.
24
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714):
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh
Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer (currently Interim MD&CEO)
Age
53 years
Qualification
B.E (Mechanical), PGDBM (MBA)
Date of Appointment on the Board
March 31, 2023 (July 10, 2024 as Interim MD&CEO)
Brief Resume including Experience
Mr. Kesh has around three decades of experience across industries in leadership roles 
in multiple domains – Operations, Technology, Transaction Banking, Product, Affluent 
Banking, Operations Risk, Enterprise Governance, Intelligent Automation, Digital, Cx 
and Organisation Transformation. He was recognized among the 50 most talented 
Quality Professionals in India by the World Quality Congress. He was also recognized 
as one of India’s top 25 Emerging Tech Leaders by BIOCON Network in collaboration 
with MeitY.
At Bandhan Bank, he has been the Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer since 
March 31, 2023. He is leading multiple functions including Technology, Operations, 
Customer Experience, Transformation, Internal Audit, Recovery, and other support 
functions. Mr. Kesh successfully led the IT transformation at the Bank and has been 
playing an instrumental role in optimizing the processes, controls, customer services, 
business excellence, etc., at the Bank.
He was part of the core team to lead organisation transformation with technology, 
digital, governance, quality and customer focus during his tenures at ICICI Bank, HDFC 
Bank, Yes Bank and Axis Bank. He was among the first few in the Indian Banking Industry 
to launch full-fledged Service Quality Framework and Service CRM while in HDFC Bank. 
To his credit, he transformed the Axis Bank’s operations by imbibing technology, digital 
and AI.
He is a B.E (Mechanical Engineering) from NIT, Durgapur and MBA from NMIMS. He is 
also certified Quality Engineer from Quality Council of Indiana, USA and has completed 
advance leadership course from IIM-A and Strategic Agility from Harvard.
Nature of his expertise in specific functional 
areas
Banking, Information Technology, Payment & Settlement systems
Other Directorship
Nil
Listed entities from which the person has 
resigned in the past three years
Nil
Chairmanship/ Membership of Committees in 
other companies
Not Applicable
Relationship with other Directors, Managers 
and Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the Bank  
(including shareholding as a beneficial owner) 
(as on July 26, 2024)
300 equity shares of ₹10 each (not holding any other equity share of the Bank as a 
beneficial owner)
No. of board meetings attended during the 
year (i.e., FY 2023-24)
18/18
Terms and conditions of appointment or 
re‑appointment, including remuneration
Proposed to be appointed Interim MD&CEO, designated as Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Bank, not liable to retire by rotation, with effect from July 10, 2024, for a 
period of three months or till new MD&CEO takes charge, whichever is earlier, at his 
remuneration as ED&COO of the Bank.
His remuneration as an ED&COO of the Bank is as proposed in Item No. 6 of this Notice.
Remuneration last drawn
Remuneration details provided in the Report on Corporate Governance forming part of 
Annual Report for FY 2023-24.
Springboarding into the future
Annual Report
2023-2024
Bandhan Bank 2.0
Corporate Overview
1 
Introduction to Theme
2 
Company Overview
4 
Our Journey so Far
6 
Key Performance Indicators
10 
Chairman’s Message
12 
MD & CEO’s Message
16 
Board of Directors
23 
Core Management Team
24 
Diversified Product Suite
33 
Information Technology
35 
Operational Excellence
36 
Human Capital
40 
Risk Management
44 
Building Brand Bandhan Bank
46 
Treasury Management
46 
Compliance
47 
Stories of Transformation
50 
Committed to Making a Difference 
in the Communities
Statutory Reports
54 
Board’s Report
84 
Report on Corporate Governance
123 Management Discussion and 
Analysis Report
137 Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report
Financial Statement
178 Financial Statement
Stories Inside
About this Report
The Bank’s key purpose is to ensure that every 
individual falls under the purview of formal banking. 
In order to achieve this, the Bank is reaching out to 
the unbanked and under-banked population of the 
country and providing the rightful access to basic 
banking and financial services while also catering to 
metro and urban India through its various products 
and services. This demonstrates how the Bank is 
living its purpose.
Forward-looking Statement
This report contains forward-looking statements, which 
may be identified by their use of words like ‘plans’, 
‘expects’, ‘will’, ‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, ‘intends’, ‘projects’, 
‘estimates’ or other words of similar meaning. All 
statements that address expectations or projections 
about the future, including but not limited to statements 
about the Bank’s strategy for growth, product 
development, market position, expenditures and financial 
results, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking 
statements are based on certain assumptions and 
expectations of future events. The Bank cannot guarantee 
that these assumptions and expectations are accurate or 
will be realised. The Bank’s actual results, performance 
or achievements could thus differ materially from those 
projected in any such forward-looking statements. The 
Bank assumes no responsibility to publicly amend, modify 
or revise any forward-looking statements, on the basis 
of any subsequent developments, information or events. 
The Bank has sourced the industry information from the 
publicly available resources and has not verified those 
information independently.
To view this report online, please visit 
the investors’ corner section at:
www.bandhanbank.com
Bandhan Bank has laid a robust foundation, 
setting the stage for an ambitious leap into 
the future. The trust of its customers has 
been pivotal to the Bank’s success, and the 
Bank is committed to strengthening this 
trust by continuing to provide a superior 
banking experience.
Bandhan Bank’s journey forward is driven by 
key investments in cutting-edge technology, 
enhanced digital experience, nurturing 
talent development, and an extensive 
distribution network. These focus areas 
ensure that the Bank develops a more 
capable and resilient ecosystem to drive 
future growth, while ensuring effective risk 
management and strong compliance.
With a commitment to continually 
enhancing customer experience, fostering 
innovation and creating greater on-ground 
impact, the Bank is ready for its next 
growth phase.
This year’s theme – ‘Bandhan Bank 2.0:  
Springboarding into the future’ –  
captures the very essence of the Bank’s 
journey, leveraging the strong foundation 
built over the years.
Leaping Forward and Upward
Company Overview
Bandhan Bank remains steadfast in 
its commitment to inclusive growth, 
embodying the principle of ‘Aapka 
Bhala, Sabki Bhalai’. This philosophy 
underscores the Bank’s mission to 
provide comprehensive banking 
solutions that cater to all customers. 
Trust is the cornerstone of the Bank’s 
relationship with its customers built 
through consistent demonstration of 
reliability and integrity. By offering 
a wide range of financial services, 
the Bank continues to build a strong 
reputation as a preferred banking 
partner for all - whoever and 
wherever they may be.
The Bank’s dedication to inclusive and 
sustainable development remains resolute 
through offering comprehensive 360-degree 
financial services tailored to meet the 
dynamic demands of its customers. From 
the country’s last-mile population to tier-1 
cities, Bandhan Bank ensures that services 
are accessible to all. By focussing on inclusive 
and last-mile banking, the Bank not only 
helps to transform lives but also drives 
economic growth across diverse regions. 
Whether through innovative digital banking, 
retail banking, or SME banking, the Bank 
consistently strives to meet and exceed 
customer expectations.
 Metro
 Urban 
 Semi-urban
 Rural 
Banking Outlets as on March 31, 2024*
*Basis original classification at the time of opening
37%
12%
18%
33%
Values
C
R
E
A
T
E
Exemplary Governance
Respect for All
Accountability, 
Professionalism & Discipline
Effective 
Teamwork & Commitment
Transparency & Integrity
Cost-Effective & Simple
Your Bank’s Philosophy
Vision
To be a world class bank for convenient 
and affordable financial solutions to all, 
in an inclusive and sustainable manner.
Mission
To provide our customers with 
accessible, simple, cost-effective and 
innovative financial solutions in a 
courteous and responsible manner. To 
create value for all stakeholders with a 
committed team, robust policies and 
superior systems and technology.
2
Bandhan Bank Limited
Expanding Nationwide 
Presence
The Bank is committed to extending 
its reach nationwide. While it 
maintains a strong presence in 
the East, the Bank is actively 
diversifying geographically and 
expanding its footprint.
Growing Footprint
The Bank has continued its growth trajectory through its expanded reach, now serving over 3.35 crore customers across 35 states and 
union territories. This extensive outreach is made possible through a vast network of nearly 6,300 banking outlets, ensuring accessibility 
and convenience for customers nationwide. 
Distribution of Banking Outlets 
as on March 31, 2024
 East
 North-East
 Central
 North
 South
 West
Jammu & 
Kashmir
 3
Himachal  
Pradesh
 3   1
Chandigarh
 5
NCT of Delhi
 64   20
Dadra & Nagar Haveli
 2   1   1
Goa
 2   4 
Karnataka
 43   112   16
Uttarakhand
 22   27 
Ladakh
 2
Punjab
 35   24
Haryana
 48   36
Rajasthan
 45   171   15
Maharashtra
 82   217   50
Andhra Pradesh
 20   149
Mizoram
 3   5
Manipur
 3   6
Nagaland
 4   8
Telangana
 30   126
Gujarat
 65   183   48
Madhya Pradesh
 65   210   35
Uttar Pradesh
 120   424   5
Arunachal Pradesh
 1
Sikkim
 2   6
Meghalaya
 1   7
Bihar
 129   546   1
Jharkhand
 52   119   1
West Bengal
 546   1179   2
Puducherry
 1   4
Tamil Nadu
 39   76   12
Andaman & Nicobar Islands
 2
Kerala
 26
Branches
Banking Units
Home Loan Centres
Chhattisgarh
 31   85   11
Odisha
 68   184
Assam
 107   381
Tripura
 29   89
45%
11%
11%
7%
16%
10%
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
3
Our Journey so Far
With humble beginnings as 
an NGO to becoming India’s 
largest NBFC-MFI and to a 
universal bank, the journey 
of Bandhan Bank has seen 
many transformations. 
The growth story has been 
made possible because of 
the trust and faith reposed 
by all stakeholders.
Started as a society that stood for 
financial inclusion and women 
empowerment through sustainable 
livelihood creation, along with the 
launch of microfinance operations 
in rural Bengal.
Started operations as a universal bank 
on August 23, with 2,523 banking 
outlets, after becoming India’s first 
microfinance institution to get a 
universal banking licence.
Microfinance portfolio 
was transferred from 
society to NBFC.
Acquired an NBFC and established 
Bandhan Financial Services Private 
Limited, with continued focus on 
financial inclusion.
Became the largest 
microfinance institution 
(MFI) in the country.
2001
2015
2009
2006
2010
4
Bandhan Bank Limited
Emerged as the 8th most valued 
bank in India on the basis of market 
capitalisation on the day of listing on 
stock exchanges.
Bandhan Bank acquired the stake of 
HDFC Limited in GRUH Finance, one 
of India’s foremost affordable housing 
finance companies.
Crossed the milestone of  
`1,50,000 crore of  
total business.
Crossed the milestone 
of `2,00,000 crore of 
total business.
2018
2019
2021
2022
2023
Migrated to a new 
state-of-the-art  
Core Banking System (CBS).
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
5
Key Performance Indicators
The Bank has continued its growth momentum throughout the reporting period. The Bank’s focus 
on technology, people, distribution, process and risk management ensured a year of sustained 
business growth.
Total Business
(` in crore)
Advances
(` in crore)
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24*
1,28,928 1,65,015 1,95,669 2,17,191 2,59,923
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24*
71,846
87,043
99,338
1,09,122 1,24,721
*(TLTRO amount `147 crore includes in FY 23-24 Advance)
Business Mix in FY 23-24 (` in crore)
Assets
 EEB Group    EEB Individual    Retail Loans   
 Commercial Banking    Mortgages
40,745
21,502
5,578
26,980
Liabilities
 Term Deposit Retail    Term Deposit Others
 Savings Account    Current Account
43,650
41,401
40,486
9,665
29,916
6
Bandhan Bank Limited
Deposits
(` in crore)
CASA
(` in crore)
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
57,082
77,972
96,331
1,08,069 1,35,202
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
21,028
33,827
40,079
42,455
50,151
CASA Ratio
(%)
Net Worth
(` in crore)
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
36.84
43.38
41.61
39.29
37.09
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
14,975
17,148
16,130
18,402
20,366
Net Total Income
(` in crore)
Profit After Tax
(` in crore)
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
7,873
9,586
11,537
11,728
12,490
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
3,024
2,205
126
2,195
2,230
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
7
Capital Adequacy Ratio
(%)
Net Interest Margin
(%)
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
27.43
23.47
20.10
19.76
18.28
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
8.12
7.78
8.17
7.21
7.35
Cost to Income Ratio
(%)
Gross NPA
(%)
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
30.82
29.39
30.54
39.54
46.84
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
1.48
6.81
6.46
4.87
3.84
8
Bandhan Bank Limited
Net NPA
(%)
Branches
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
0.58
3.51
1.66
1.17
1.11
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
1,018
1,147
1,189
1,411
1,700
Banking Units
Number of Customers
(in crore)
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
3,541
4,163
4,450
4,588
4,597
FY
19-20
FY
20-21
FY
21-22
FY
22-23
FY
23-24
2.01
2.30
2.63
3.00
3.36
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
9
Chairman’s Message
Dear Shareholders,
It is my immense privilege to present 
Bandhan Bank’s Annual Report for the 
year ended March 31, 2024. Throughout 
the year, the Board has focussed on 
ensuring your Bank’s progress towards 
long-term strategic goals, including 
portfolio and geographical diversification, 
while building new capabilities to unlock 
further value-generating opportunities. 
Today, with a presence in 35 states and 
union territories in India, nearly 6,300 
banking outlets, and a loyal customer 
base of over 3.35 crore, your Bank is 
successfully executing its strategy and 
progressing on the path to becoming 
a stronger universal bank. Moreover, 
your Bank continues to have a positive 
and significant impact on its customers 
and the wider communities, reiterating 
its steadfast commitment to inclusive 
banking in line with your Bank’s 
philosophy of Aapka Bhala, Sabki Bhalai.
Indian Economic Review
Against the backdrop of global 
uncertainty, India continues to be an 
outlier in terms of GDP growth. In  
FY 23-24, the economy grew by a robust 
8.2%, driven primarily by strong growth 
in investments, manufacturing, and 
government spending. The growth in 
investments is particularly significant 
for the revival of the capital expenditure 
cycle, which supports long-term 
economic growth. Despite the challenges,  
Bandhan Bank has shown remarkable 
resilience and is well-positioned to 
navigate these uncertain times.
However, since mid-2022, investments 
and GDP growth have recovered much 
faster than consumption. This divergence 
is significant, as household consumption 
accounts for approximately 60% of 
nominal GDP. One of the primary reasons 
for muted household consumption has 
been the lagged impact of the pandemic 
across consumer segments, exacerbated 
by subsequent global uncertainties. 
However, it is heartening to witness 
that, of late, high-frequency indicators 
have started improving, including for 
the rural economy.
After a challenging fiscal deficit of 9.2% 
of GDP in FY 20-21 due to COVID-related 
expenditures, India’s fiscal landscape has 
shown remarkable resilience, with the 
deficit narrowing to 5.6% of GDP by  
FY 23-24, and is likely to be 4.9% in 
FY 24-25. India has also largely managed 
to steer its inflation trajectory well, with 
retail inflation staying within the Reserve 
Bank of India’s 2-6% target range since 
a spike in mid-2023, and the policy 
repo rate has remained unchanged 
at 6.5% since February 2023. Among 
other indicators of robust economic 
performance, the total gross GST 
collection during FY 23-24 surpassed 
the ₹20 lakh crore milestone, registering 
an 11.7% increase compared to 
the previous year.
One of the major drivers behind 
India’s resilient growth narrative is the 
digitalisation of the economy. Initiatives like 
Aadhaar, Unified Payments Interface (UPI), 
and widespread Internet penetration have 
helped formalise the economy and drive 
financial inclusion. Key initiatives such as 
the PM Jan Dhan Yojana, which has notably 
increased the percentage of women with 
bank accounts, along with the Skill India 
Mission, Start-Up India, and Stand-Up India, 
have also significantly impacted the socio-
economic landscape.
Indian Banking Sector’s  
Performance
The pressures on asset quality from the 
previous credit cycle are subsiding, creating 
a favourable business environment and 
bolstering the banking sector’s growth 
potential. Bank loans grew by 16.3% in  
FY 23-24, compared to 15% in the previous 
year. This growth figure excludes the impact 
of a major bank merger. The demand for 
credit in the past year was driven by a wide 
variety of sectors, such as agriculture and 
allied activities, industry, and services.
The lending patterns of banks witnessed 
some changes during the year. Lending to 
large companies recovered, with credit 
to industry growing by 8.5% compared 
to 5.6% in the previous year. However, 
the growth of personal loans moderated 
as unsecured loans slowed to 20.8% 
compared with 26.7% in the previous 
year. This lower growth rate followed 
As Bandhan Bank embarks on 
a new era of growth, a strong 
leadership team is critical for 
steering the next phase of this 
journey. In FY 22-23, the Bank 
announced the appointment  
of Ratan Kumar Kesh as 
the Chief Operating Officer. 
The Board was delighted to 
welcome Rajinder Kumar 
Babbar, Chief Business Officer, 
in the year in review. 
10
Bandhan Bank Limited
the Reserve Bank of India’s decision 
to increase risk weights for unsecured 
consumer loans and credit cards. While 
these measures have led to higher capital 
costs for institutions and impeded the 
growth of such loans, they will ultimately 
create a more robust and transparent 
financial system.
Additionally, for the first time, the 
combined net profit of listed public and 
private sector banks exceeded ₹3.1 lakh 
crore, a 39% increase from ₹2.2 lakh 
crore in the previous year. Meanwhile, 
the GNPA ratio of scheduled commercial 
banks continued its downward trend, 
reducing to a 12-year low of 2.8% by the 
end of FY 23-24, from 3.9% a year earlier. 
This underscores the improvement in 
asset quality and the overall health of the 
banking sector.
Bandhan Bank’s Progress
Your Bank delivered a stable performance 
in FY 23-24, with deposits, gross 
advances, and net interest income 
recording good growth. While Profit 
after Tax (PAT) registered a relatively 
subdued growth during the year, it was 
due to technical write-offs and increased 
provisions made as a prudent measure. 
These technical write-offs primarily 
pertain to loans within the Emerging 
Entrepreneurs Business portfolio, which 
faced headwinds during the pandemic 
and have a long vintage. On an underlying 
basis, adjusting for these one-offs would 
make PAT growth considerably higher. 
The capital adequacy ratio reflects a 
well-capitalised balance sheet, ensuring 
financial stability and resilience.
One of the major highlights of the year 
was the successful transition to a new 
Core Banking System (CBS), aligning 
with the Bank’s near-term vision of 
transforming its IT capabilities. The Bank 
is also building a robust surround system 
to create a tech stack that will align well 
with the Bank’s focus on deposit-led 
assets growth, as also deepening the 
relationship with customers with focus 
on cross-sell initiatives leveraging data 
and analytics. 
Further strengthening portfolio quality 
remains a critical focus for the Bank. In 
line with this objective, the Bank plans to 
invest in dedicated credit and collections 
verticals, leverage data analytics and 
technology, and use early warning 
systems. Additionally, the Bank will 
continue to improve its portfolio quality 
by leveraging customer relationships. 
The Bank also aims to grow its asset book 
by improving the portfolio mix, with a 
greater emphasis on secured assets.
Strengthening the 
Leadership Team
As Bandhan Bank embarks on a new era 
of growth, a strong leadership team is 
critical for steering the next phase of this 
journey. In FY 22-23, the Bank announced 
the appointment of Ratan Kumar Kesh 
as the Chief Operating Officer. The Board 
was delighted to welcome Rajinder Kumar 
Babbar, Chief Business Officer, in the year 
in review. The Bank also appointed Rajeev 
Mantri as the new Chief Financial Officer. 
The core management team was further 
strengthened with the appointment 
of Gopalkrishnan Santosh, Head – 
Mortgages and Consumer Lending, 
and Satish Kumar – Head – Wholesale 
Banking. With this evolved leadership 
team bringing a wealth of experience 
and domain knowledge, the Bank is now 
on a stronger footing to drive its future 
strategic direction.
In April 2024, Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, 
Managing Director & Chief Executive 
Officer, announced his decision to retire 
upon the completion of his tenure on  
July 9, 2024. His contribution as 
the founder of Bandhan Bank is 
immeasurable, having grown the 
organisation from a microfinance 
institution to a universal bank employing 
over 75,000 people and remaining 
steadfastly committed to financial 
inclusion. On behalf of the Board, 
management, and all the employees 
of the Bank, we extend our deepest 
thanks and appreciation to him for his 
exceptional leadership over the years. 
His passion and expertise have built 
Bandhan Bank into an organisation deeply 
rooted in values and one that truly brings 
transformational impact on the lives 
of many. We wish him the best for his 
future endeavours.
In line with the Bank’s Business Continuity 
Plan and Succession Plan, the Board 
has appointed a search firm to identify 
potential candidates for the role of 
Managing Director & Chief Executive 
Officer. In the interim, Ratan Kumar 
Kesh has assumed the responsibility 
of the MD & CEO.
Looking Ahead
Despite various global uncertainties, 
India’s macroeconomic parameters 
remain strong. The RBI projects GDP 
growth of 7.2% and CPI inflation of 4.5% 
for FY 24-25. Subsiding inflationary 
pressures, combined with the realisation 
of a likely normal monsoon, may open 
up the possibility of rate cuts by the RBI 
in the second half of FY 24-25. A normal 
monsoon is also expected to revive rural 
demand, leading to an increase in private 
consumption growth. Economic growth is 
further expected to be driven by a rise in 
private corporate investments.
Against this favourable backdrop, the 
Indian banking sector is well-positioned 
to sustain its growth momentum. While 
the anticipation of an RBI rate cut may 
result in some margin adjustments due to 
the possible re-pricing of advances, it also 
presents opportunities for more affordable 
borrowing. Although loan growth might 
experience moderation if deposit growth 
does not accelerate, the sector remains 
resilient. Additionally, by proactively 
addressing risks related to geopolitical 
tensions, fluctuating crude oil prices, and 
weather variations affecting agricultural 
output, the sector can continue to 
contribute positively to economic growth 
projections across various segments.
Looking forward, your Bank is well-
positioned to benefit from the unfolding 
economic growth due to its trusted 
customer relationships, extensive 
geographic reach, excellent product 
portfolio, digital transformation, 
strengthened leadership, and enduring 
commitments to financial inclusion, 
community impact, and business 
sustainability. The focus remains on 
providing accessible, simple, cost-effective, 
and innovative financial solutions to 
support the growth aspirations of our 
customers and India. In this journey, we 
thank you for your continued trust and 
belief in Bandhan Bank.
Warm regards, 
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha 
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
11
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to present to you the Annual 
Report of your Bank for the financial 
year 2023-24. The year was a landmark 
year for your Bank, as we saw a surge in 
your Bank’s deposit-led assets growth. 
A key driving factor in this growth was 
the new technology stack that the Bank 
implemented in October 2023. Along 
with business growth, your Bank saw 
significant improvement in asset quality 
as well. All of these, put together, ensured 
that the financial year ended on a 
high for your Bank.
I feel privileged to write this note on 
behalf of the Bank. Under the leadership 
and guidance of our visionary founder, 
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, your Bank 
has seen unprecedented success in 
terms of business and impact creation. 
He has created a legacy, and the 75,000+ 
employees of the Bank are committed to 
continuing this legacy forward. From the 
bottom of our hearts, we thank Mr. Ghosh 
for his vision, leadership and guidance in 
making Bandhan Bank one of the biggest 
names in banking in India.
Your Bank embarked upon a 
transformational journey a few years 
back. Despite the hurdles created by the 
impact of the pandemic, I am happy to 
share that the journey is well underway. 
Significant developments in the period 
in review with respect to technology, 
people, and business transformation 
have made your Bank more resilient 
and future-ready, establishing a 
robust foundation for the next phase 
of its growth, and in the making of 
Bandhan Bank 2.0.
Operating Environment
Despite uncertainties in the global 
economic landscape, India has 
maintained steady momentum. Through 
timely and effective policy actions aimed 
at achieving macroeconomic stability, 
along with transformative scale-up 
in physical and digital infrastructure, 
India has successfully navigated both 
domestic and global challenges. This 
has ensured the continuation of a high 
growth trajectory, with the GDP growth 
rate at 8.2% for FY 23-24.
Against this positive economic backdrop, 
the performance of the Indian banking 
sector has been encouraging. Despite 
higher interest rates, bank credit has 
increased by 16% – the fastest growth in a 
decade. This expansion is driven by a strong 
post-pandemic recovery and sustained 
demand for retail loans, with corporate 
loan demand also on the rise due to private 
sector growth. While garnering deposits 
was a challenge for the industry for a 
good part of the year in review, in the last 
quarter, we saw deposits jump back. An 
indication of this is the lowering of the CD 
ratio of banks.
Performance Review
Your Bank’s strategic investments in people, 
technology, and distribution over recent 
years have significantly enhanced its ability 
to leverage the favourable operating 
environment. Additionally, during FY 23-24, 
your Bank implemented several measures 
to deepen the relationship with customers 
and drive preference and loyalty. These 
efforts were supported by digital and 
analytics initiatives aimed at boosting 
employee productivity.
Significant developments 
in the period in review 
with respect to technology, 
people, and business 
transformation have made 
your Bank more resilient and 
future-ready, establishing 
a robust foundation for the 
next phase of its growth, and 
in the making of Bandhan 
Bank 2.0.
MD & CEO’s Message
12
Bandhan Bank Limited
Customer’s trust in your Bank remains 
strong, as reflected by the addition 
of 0.36 crore customers in the year in 
review, marking an increase of 12% 
year-on-year. This growth has expanded 
the total customer base to 3.36 crore. 
Moreover, the total number of customer 
transactions has impressively grown by 
47% year-on-year. Similarly, in terms 
of transaction value, there has been a 
robust increase of 33% year-on-year, 
reflecting sustained and expanding 
customer engagement.
Once again outpacing industry growth 
of 14%, your Bank’s total deposits grew 
by 25.1% to reach ₹1,35,202 crore as of 
March 31, 2024. The Bank has continued 
to focus strongly on granular retail 
deposits, as evidenced by the share of 
retail deposits to total deposits, which 
stood at 69.4%. CASA deposits, standing 
at ₹50,151 crore as of March 31, 2024, 
have shown impressive growth of 18.1% 
year-on-year. Despite tight liquidity in the 
market, the CASA ratio remains healthy at 
37.1%. Of the total deposits of your Bank, 
microfinance customers contribute to 
only about 4% of the total deposits.
For the fiscal year, overall advances 
registered a growth of 14.3%, reaching 
₹1,24,721 crore as on March 31, 2024. 
This growth in the loan book reflects an 
uptick across different asset verticals, 
aligning with your Bank’s near-term vision 
of diversifying its asset book.
For the year in review, the Emerging 
Entrepreneurs Business (EEB) portfolio 
has demonstrated healthy growth. It 
added more than 21 lakh new borrowers 
and grew by 10.2% year-on-year. 
Consistent with your Bank’s diversification 
strategy, group loans now constitute 
about 32.7% of the overall loan portfolio, 
down from 59.4% as on March 31, 2021. 
The growth within retail and commercial 
banking has been particularly impressive; 
the retail loan book (excluding housing 
loans) surged by 0.6% year‑on‑year, and 
the commercial banking vertical grew 
by 33.6% year-on-year. Additionally, the 
housing finance book has registered a 
growth of 11.2%.
Aligning with your Bank’s medium-term 
strategic goals, and the focus on the 
secured portfolio, the proportion of 
secured assets in the total loan book 
stands at 42.6% in FY 23-24.
Your Bank’s overall collection efficiency 
(excluding NPA) has remained stable  for 
the year. There has been an improvement 
in asset quality, with Gross NPA and Net 
NPA for FY 23-24 at 3.84% and 1.11%, 
respectively, compared to 4.87% and 
1.17% in the previous year. I would like 
to highlight that for the loans disbursed 
post-2022, your Bank is showing strong 
performance, characterised by a good 
recovery rate and low slippage. To provide 
more context, the FY 23-24 loan book, 
consisting of all loans disbursed from 
April 2023, has demonstrated robust 
performance, with a reduction in gross 
NPA. This underlines a positive outlook  
for your Bank’s financial health.
The encouraging operational performance 
has translated into strong financial 
metrics for FY 23-24. The net profit 
stood at ₹2,230 crore, up by 1.6% from 
₹2,195 crore in the previous year. The Net 
Interest Income (NII) reached ₹10,326 
crore, compared to ₹9,259 crore in the 
previous year, registering a growth of 
11.5%. Total credit costs have remained 
stable at 3.39%, while delivering an RoA 
of 1.44% and ROEs of 10.65% for the year.
Geographic Diversification
As a pan-India bank, Bandhan Bank 
remains steadfast in its mission to 
expand its geographic footprint across 
the country. Your Bank also emphasises 
building a robust network spanning 
diverse market segments – from 
metropolitan areas and Tier 1 cities to 
small towns and rural hinterlands – driven 
by the objective of serving the needs of 
emerging India and being a bank for all. 
This expansion approach has enabled the 
Bank to cater to a broader customer base 
and solidify its position as a bank for all.
A landmark achievement in terms of 
geographical expansion was your Bank’s 
entry into the union territory of Ladakh 
with branches in Leh and Kargil. In the 
year in review, your Bank bolstered its 
distribution by adding 289 branches and 
9 banking units. As a result, it now has 
6,297 banking units across 35 states and 
union territories across the country. While 
the Bank continues to hold its strength in 
the East of the country, significant strides 
have also been made in alignment with 
the strategic objective of geographic 
diversification, with non-east regions 
now constituting 55% (including 10% 
in NE) of your Bank’s outlets, and rest 
45% is only East.
While the Bank continues to 
hold its strength in the East 
of the country, significant 
strides have also been 
made in alignment with 
the strategic objective of 
geographic diversification.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
13
IT and Digital Transformation
Your Bank’s successful transition to a 
new Core Banking System (CBS) was 
among the biggest highlights of the 
year. A migration from one CBS to 
another at the scale that your Bank 
did, is unprecedented. I am happy to 
inform you that despite the challenges 
that the scale presented, your Bank was 
able to complete the migration without 
major disruption of banking services for 
customers. This migration represents the 
initial phase of your Bank’s technological 
transformation journey.
In conjunction with the CBS migration, 
your Bank also launched an all-new 
omni-channel online banking experience. 
The new Internet banking platform and 
mBandhan mobile app provide seamless 
banking experiences to customers. 
Leveraging the new CBS and surround 
systems, your Bank is positioned to 
become more agile, introduce innovative 
products and services, use data and 
analytics more effectively, and foster 
seamless banking experiences.
The strengthening of your Bank’s digital 
capabilities is evident in its improved 
digital banking performance. Presently, 
around 95% of the total general banking 
transactions occur digitally, with 
digital registrations recording a 21% 
year‑on‑year increase. Additionally, digital 
transaction volume has surged by 52% 
year-on-year, while UPI transactions 
have grown by an impressive 51%. The 
increasing transition to digital channels 
highlights customers’ trust in your 
Bank’s digital solutions and underscores 
your Bank’s steadfast commitment to 
delivering seamless banking experiences.
Further, your Bank’s advanced digital 
infrastructure has unlocked new growth 
opportunities. I am pleased to announce 
that your Bank has been empanelled for 
central and state government businesses. 
Additionally, the states of Assam and 
Meghalaya have authorised your Bank 
to integrate the Electronic Government 
Receipt Accounting System (e-GRAS), 
serving as a unified online collection 
medium for all tax and non-tax revenues. 
Your Bank has also received authorisation 
from the RBI for the disbursement 
of central civil pensions. All these 
developments help your Bank to reach 
out to more customers and strengthen its 
position as a bank for all.
People Initiatives
Your Bank enhanced its workforce 
throughout the year. The total number 
of employees crossed 75,000 during the 
year, making your Bank one of the largest 
employers in the country. The Bank also 
fulfilled some key leadership positions like 
the ED and Chief Business Officer, Head – 
Mortgage and Consumer Lending, Head – 
Commercial Banking, among others. Your 
Bank developed a new technology team 
structure to align with the Bank’s growth 
direction. To keenly focus on maintaining 
asset quality, your Bank also set up a 
recovery structure. New and dedicated 
verticals like customer experience and 
process quality were also established to 
focus on enhancing customer stickiness 
and efficiency of operations.
Your Bank has always focussed on training 
and development. Its endeavour is 
continual improvement of people and 
fulfilment of vacancies through in-house 
resources. In the year in review, the 
Bank conducted a total of 26.8 lakh 
man-hours of training. 8,709 employees 
got their grade promotions, giving 
them the opportunity to take on higher 
responsibilities within the Bank.
Societal Impact
Bandhan Bank’s journey is deeply rooted 
in its commitment to transforming lives 
and fostering community development. 
Each initiative aims to make a significant 
impact in areas such as education, 
healthcare, livelihood promotion, 
sustainable development, climate action, 
financial literacy, skill enhancement, 
and employment. Our strong focus on 
inclusive banking particularly aims to 
support the growth of small businesses 
and empower women entrepreneurs 
from villages and economically weaker 
sections. This approach creates a 
multiplier effect on employment 
generation, financial inclusion, and 
equitable development.
The strengthening 
of your Bank’s digital 
capabilities is evident in its 
improved digital banking 
performance. Presently, 
around 95% of the total 
general banking transactions 
occur digitally, with digital 
registrations recording a 
21% year‑on‑year increase. 
Additionally, digital 
transaction volume has 
surged by 52% year-on-year, 
while UPI transactions  
have grown by an 
impressive 51%.
14
Bandhan Bank Limited
During the year, your Bank’s CSR further 
expanded its impact to cover more than 
24 lakh beneficiaries across 14 states.
Business Outlook
Powered by investment and consumption, 
the Indian economy is expected to sustain 
and accelerate the growth trajectory over 
the next several years. Your Bank remains 
dedicated to supporting the growth 
momentum of our nation to achieve 
prosperity for all Indians.
While your Bank will continue to 
focus on retaining its strength in the 
microfinance market, it will ensure that 
the agenda of diversification of the 
asset book is on track. Your Bank will 
grow Housing Finance, Retail Assets 
and SME Lending to a larger share. The 
share of secured assets will continue to 
increase. Your Bank’s North Star of being 
a Bank for all will continue to guide it in 
its journey ahead.
Your Bank has expanded its reach 
significantly in the last three years. As 
I have mentioned earlier, the Bank has 
a new CBS, and surround systems are 
being implemented. These systems, along 
with a robust analytics model, coupled 
with the relevant control mechanisms 
will help in strengthening the quality of 
business further.
Your Bank is also on the brink of launching 
many new products and services, 
focussed on varied customer segments. 
The Bank is also in mature stages of 
strengthening the cross-sell mechanism 
with a digital loan origination system 
(LOS). The Bank’s payment system is 
being upgraded to ride the UPI wave and 
enhance customer convenience. Your 
Bank has already launched Bharat QR for 
payment ease for merchants. With the 
launch of trade finance solutions, your 
Bank can now offer an entire suite of 
solutions specifically imports, exports 
and trade remittances.
Your Bank has always focussed on 
cost efficiency. It is exploring Robotic 
Process Automation (RPA) and Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) to drive greater 
efficiency, not only to optimise costs 
but also to deliver superior value to 
customers. While people are your 
Bank’s strength, to enhance productivity 
further, your Bank is exploring various 
digital solutions.
The Bank will soon enter its 10th year. 
This decade has been phenomenal  
and the Bank is privileged to have won 
the trust of all stakeholders. As the Bank 
moves into Bandhan Bank 2.0,  
I am sure that the 10th year of Bandhan 
Bank will be punctuated with significant 
developments with new products and 
solutions, digitalisation at scale and 
technology backbone to support the 
goals and vision of the Bank.
The Bank’s future is promising. With 
a capable leadership team, a robust 
franchise built on shared vision and 
values, and ongoing transformation, 
I am confident that your Bank 
will continue to progress steadily, 
enriching the lives of all stakeholders 
and delivering sustainable long-term 
value. Thank you for reposing your 
faith in the Bank.
Warm regards, 
Ratan Kumar Kesh
Managing Director & 
Chief Executive Officer
The Bank will soon enter 
its 10th year. This decade 
has been phenomenal and 
the Bank is privileged to 
have won the trust of all 
stakeholders. As the Bank 
moves into Bandhan Bank 
2.0, I am sure that the 
10th year of Bandhan Bank 
will be punctuated with 
significant developments 
with new products and 
solutions, digitalisation 
at scale and technology 
backbone to support the 
goals and vision of the Bank.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
15
Board of Directors
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha 
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Dr. Sinha is the former Director of Heritage Business School 
(‘HBS’) and currently designated as Chief Mentor. He has also 
served on the Board of NABARD.
Dr. Sinha has taught at Presidency College and Indian Institute of 
Management Calcutta (‘IIMC’). He served IIMC as Professor of 
Economics for 25 years. He served three terms on the Board of 
Governors at IIMC and also as the Dean during 2003-06.
He received the Best Teacher Award in 2004 and Best Faculty 
Award in 2005 from the IIMC Alumni Association. In 2012, 
2014 and 2015, he won the Most Popular Teacher Award 
from the outgoing MBA students of IIMC.
He has held visiting appointments at University of Calcutta, 
Indian Statistical Institute, National Institute of Public Finance 
and Policy, University of Southern California, Washington 
University in St. Louis, Curtin University and Curtin Business 
School at Perth and Kyoto University. He has been actively 
engaged in training and consulting for a number of 
organisations in the public and private sector, as well as for 
international agencies in the fields of economics. He has also 
authored publications on various topics including economics, 
rural economy, management, etc.
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha is an economist with a Ph.D. from the 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles. He is also an 
M.S. in Economics, University of Rochester, USA, and Master 
in Economics from University of Calcutta and B.A. (Economics 
Honours), Presidency College, Calcutta.
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri
Independent Director
Dr. Ramasastri is widely known for his commendable domain 
knowledge in Banking technologies such as cybersecurity, 
analytics, cloud computing, and payment systems, in addition to 
his other areas of expertise. He was the Director of the Institute 
for Development and Research in Banking Technology (‘IDRBT’) 
from 2014-2020. Prior to joining IDRBT, he was the Chief General 
Manager‑in‑charge of the Department of Information Technology 
at RBI. In RBI, he had spearheaded many important projects, 
including the implementation of the Next Generation RTGS, 
adoption of XBRL and ISO 20022, and preparation of the IT Vision 
of RBI from 2011-17.
He has authored two books titled ‘Quantitative Methods for 
Valuation of Assets’ and ‘Quantitative Methods for Banking and 
Finance’. He had also guided the Bank of Mauritius, Bank of 
Malaysia and Bank of Uganda on the implementation of Data 
Warehouse, XBRL, etc., and delivered talks on standards and 
technology for data reporting at the International Monetary Fund 
and Bank of International Settlements.
Dr. Ramasastri holds a PhD in Finance from the Indian Institute 
of Technology Madras (‘IITM’) and has held top ranks in M.Sc. 
(Statistics) from University of Madras and B.Sc. (Statistics) from 
Loyola College, Madras. He also attended Advanced Management 
Programmes at the University of Oxford and Kellogg 
School of Management.
16
Bandhan Bank Limited
Dr. Aparajita Mitra 
Independent Director
Dr. Mitra, a Doctorate in Agriculture (Dept. of Plant Molecular 
and Cellular Biology, Bose Institute), having extensive experience 
and expertise of more than three decades in the field of 
agricultural sciences. She has done extensive research and 
published articles in the field of commercial micropropagation 
of Horticulture/tree and medicinal species, DNA extraction and 
sequencing, DNA fingerprinting (plants), gel electrophoresis, 
protein and isozyme analysis, etc. Dr. Mitra is a recipient of the 
CSIR Fellowship and the ‘Women Scientist Award’ from the 
Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, 
2005 for the project “Identification of Disease Resistant Genetic 
Markers in Bamboo Spp.”
She has also guided various postgraduate students from 
well-known universities on their projects in the domain of 
Plant Tissue culture part. She has been associated with various 
organisations, such as:
 Director on the Board of Uncarbon Private Limited 
(since February 2022)
 Director and Editor of Artfact, Arts Acre Foundation (since 2021)
 Member, Advisory Board of the Department of Biotechnology 
(‘DBT’) Sponsored Post Graduation Diploma - “Quality 
Assurance Testing of Tissue Culture raised Plant”, a DBT (GoI) 
supported Skill Development Program, Certified by “Life Science 
Sector: Skill Development Council” at Rama Krishna Mission 
Vivekananda Centenary College, Rahora, Kolkata
 Visiting faculty in the Institute of Agricultural Sciences, 
University of Calcutta (since 2014)
 Tissue Culture Consultant in Pallishree Limited, DBT certified 
commercial lab, since its inception (since 2011) and R&D-
Head, since 2021
 Laboratory and Organic Farming Consultant in Maple Orgtech 
(India) Limited and Tega Industries Private Limited (since 2016)
 Research Officer in The Agri-Horticultural Society of India (2002-
2004 and 2008-2020)
 As DST Women Scientist in the Bose Research 
Institute (2005-2007)
Dr. Mitra is a Ph.D in Agriculture, M. Tech., (Applied Botany, Dept. 
of Agricultural Engineering, IIT KGP) and B.Sc in Botany (Hons), 
Chemistry and Zoology, M.Sc. (Genetics and Plant Breeding). She 
has also done hands-on training in cell cloning from National 
Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow.
Arun Kumar Singh
RBI (Nominee) Additional Director
been associated with committees / working groups related to 
operational risk, MCLR, stress testing, payment and small finance 
banks, prompt corrective action, financial resolution, returns 
rationalisation, etc. He was involved in framing banking policies 
in various capacities. As head of Enforcement Department, he 
was responsible for enforcement action against commercial 
banks, small finance and payment banks, NBFCs, cooperative 
banks, credit information companies, payment system operators, 
asset reconstruction companies, etc. He was also the head of 
Information Technology, Reserve Bank of India, spearheading 
technological development in RBI, particularly, in the areas of 
Currency Management, Government Banking, Payment System, 
e-Kuber, Cyber Security, Data Centre upgradation, Internal 
Applications, IT Infrastructure, etc. He was Regional Director for 
Rajasthan and carried out his Central Banking responsibilities in 
the areas of currency management, financial inclusion, financial 
literacy, banking / non-banking development, Government 
banking, etc. in the state of Rajasthan.
Mr. Singh has served as RBI nominee director on the Board of 
Uttar Bihar Gramin Bank (RRB), Union Bank of India, Reserve Bank 
Information Technology Pvt. Ltd. (ReBIT), Mumbai, Reserve Bank 
Innovation Hub (RBiH), Bengaluru, and Institute for Development 
in Research and Banking Technology (IDRBT), Hyderabad.
Mr. Singh has done his Graduation in Economics and MBA in 
Finance and HR. He is also a Certified Associate of the India 
Institute of Banking (CAIIB)
Mr. Singh was appointed by the Reserve Bank of India as an 
additional director on the board of the Bank w.e.f. June 24, 2024, 
for a period of one year. Mr. Singh is a former Senior Central 
Banker and has a wide and rich experience of working in RBI 
for 35 years in the field of Banking and Non-Banking Regulation 
and Supervision, Enforcement actions against banks and non-
banks, Information Technology, Financial Inclusion, Monetary 
Policy, Government Banking, etc. He has acted as Principal 
Inspecting Officer / Senior Supervisory Manager for various 
commercial banks and NBFCs and has actively participated in 
first Asset Quality Review (AQR) of banks as well as Risk-based 
Supervision (RBS) related processes and development. He has 
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
17
Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar 
Independent Director 
Mr. Tendulkar is a qualified Chartered Accountant and Company 
Secretary. He has more than 41 years of experience in Finance, 
General Management and Operations in IT, Telecom and 
Manufacturing industries. He has extensive experience working 
with American and European based multinational organisations 
and has successfully resolved multidimensional, dynamic and 
challenging issues.
He was an Executive Director with Hewlett Packard Enterprise 
India Limited for almost 14 years. He was also associated with 
many IT Companies including Tata Telecom, AT&T, USA, Digital 
Global Soft etc. Currently, he is an Independent Director of 
Siemens Gamesa Renewal Power Private Limited, PSB Alliance 
Private Limited and Global Vectra Helicorp Ltd.
Mr. Tendulkar is the recipient of many awards such as CFO 100 
Roll of Honor in 2012 and 2016 from 9.9 Media, Best CFO of 
Hewlett Packard worldwide, Special Achievement Award for 
leading the Best Finance Team in APAC and Japan Region for  
FY 04-05, Best Governance Award in year 2000 from the Institute 
of Chartered Finance Analyst handed over by ex-Prime Minister,  
Dr. Manmohan Singh and was also nominated for the prestigious 
CNBC TV 18 CFO award in 2006.
Divya Krishnan
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
(Nominee of Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited)
Ms. Krishnan is a finance and investment banking professional 
and is currently a visiting faculty at Ashoka University.  
Ms. Krishnan was formerly Chief Investment Officer (‘CIO’) and 
Head of Investment at SBI Mutual Fund. Prior to becoming CIO, 
Ms. Krishnan worked as a fund manager at SBI Funds.
Post her voluntary exit from SBI in 2001, Ms. Krishnan has 
served as a consultant to a number of leading non-profits 
and NGOs. She worked closely with non-profit institutions, 
catalysing growth through impactful programmes. She has 
been an invitee as Scholar‑in-Residence by a leading private 
University in the US, guiding students to effectively support 
developmental initiatives in India.
Ms. Krishnan was a member of the Working Group on 
Disabilities to develop the 12th Five Year Plan for the local 
state government. She has also served as a volunteer 
teacher for slum children in Mumbai and for primary school 
children in Hong Kong and in Trivandrum.
Ms. Krishnan did her MBA at IIM Ahmedabad and was 
awarded a prestigious industry scholarship for outstanding 
scholastic achievement during her time there. Ms. Krishnan 
is an alumnus of Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi and 
La Martiniere School, Kolkata.
18
Bandhan Bank Limited
Philip Mathew 
Independent Director 
Mr. Mathew, a HR practitioner, has almost 30 years of work 
experience. He was with HDFC Bank for around 16 years before 
leaving in 2018 as the Chief People Officer. During his tenure 
at HDFC Bank, he was involved in various HR related initiatives, 
such as, successful transition to a cloud-based enterprise-wide 
HR application, amongst the first to adopt the new governance 
and risk management standards set by Compensation Guidelines 
by RBI, implementation of HR metrics, recognition as ‘Best 
Employer’ in the BT Survey in 2016, etc., and with regard to 
training and development, online learning, revisiting instructional 
design and systematic measurement of training effectiveness of 
designated programmes.
His experience as a HR practitioner spans across organisations 
involved in manufacturing and financial services. His career 
journey has been through the entire landscape of HR with 
significant depth. He was Plant HR In-charge at Rallis India Ltd 
and Marico Industries Ltd, Project Lead for roll-out of new PMS at 
ANZ Grindlays Bank, a brief corporate stint at Colgate-Palmolive 
before becoming Head HR at Sharekhan.com and thereafter, 
moved to HDFC Bank in 2002, where he started as AVP – HR 
Operations and grew to become the Chief People Officer for 
HDFC Bank. Currently, he is associated with development of HR 
related solutions.
Mr. Mathew is M.A. (PM and IR) from the Tata Institute of Social 
Sciences and B.Sc. (Statistics) from the Loyola College.
Pankaj Sood
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
(Nominee of Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd.)
Mr. Sood has over 24 years of experience in private equity and 
M&A transactions in India. Currently, he heads the Private Equity 
(Direct Investments) business of GIC Singapore in India and 
Africa. He joined GIC in 2010 and is based in the Mumbai office. 
Prior to GIC, Mr. Sood was an investment banker in India in Kotak 
Investment Bank, Ernst & Young and SBI Capital Markets.
He is a post-graduate from Indian Institute of Management, 
Calcutta and has a bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering 
from Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
19
Rajinder Kumar Babbar
Executive Director & Chief Business Officer
Mr. Babbar has over 35 years of experience across the 
banking sector in various leadership roles. He is an 
accomplished senior leader, with vast experience across 
multiple spheres of banking. He has a proven track record 
of creating new businesses and propelling existing ones, 
consistently delivering growth multiples in AUM, market 
share, and profitability.
During his tenure spanning more than 23 years with HDFC 
Bank, he has handled various leadership assignments and 
has successfully led large teams across Transportation and 
Infrastructure Finance, Rural Banking and Retail Liabilities. He 
was the Group Head  - Transportation, Infrastructure and Tractor 
Finance Group at HDFC Bank.
Prior to this, he was responsible for building and managing 
the Rural Banking Group for the HDFC Bank covering farmer 
finance, MSME loans to intermediaries, related retail assets and 
third party products. Under his leadership, the rural businesses 
witnessed robust growth, making it one of the best rural 
franchises in the industry for any bank or financial institution in 
terms of size and profitability.
Prior to joining HDFC Bank Ltd, he has worked with Centurion 
Bank, Bank of Punjab and Central Bank of India, handling various 
roles and responsibilities.
He is Bachelor in Science, LLB, LLM Corporate Law and Criminal 
Law and is currently pursuing PhD from NMIMS, Mumbai. He 
has also completed a leadership development programme 
from IIM Ahmedabad.
Ratan Kumar Kesh
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Kesh has around three decades of experience across 
industries in leadership roles in multiple domains – 
Operations, Technology, Transaction Banking, Product, 
Affluent Banking, Operations Risk, Enterprise Governance, 
Intelligent Automation, Digital, Cx and Organisation 
Transformation. He was recognised among the 50 most 
talented Quality Professionals in India by the World 
Quality Congress.
He was also recognised as one of India’s top 25 Emerging Tech 
Leaders by BIOCON Network in collaboration with MeitY.
At Bandhan Bank, he has been the Executive Director and 
Chief Operating Officer since March 31, 2023. He is leading 
multiple functions including Technology, Operations, Customer 
Experience, Transformation, Internal Audit, Recovery, and other 
support functions. Mr. Kesh successfully led the IT transformation 
at the Bank and has been playing an instrumental role in 
optimising the processes, controls, customer services, business 
excellence, etc., at the Bank.
He was part of the core team to lead organisation transformation 
with technology, digital, governance, quality and customer focus 
during his tenures at ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Yes Bank and Axis 
Bank. He was among the first few in the Indian Banking Industry 
to launch full-fledged Service Quality Framework and Service 
CRM while in HDFC Bank. To his credit, he transformed the Axis 
Bank’s operations by imbibing technology, digital and AI.
He is a B.E. (Mechanical Engineering) from NIT, Durgapur and 
MBA from NMIMS. He is also certified Quality Engineer from 
Quality Council of Indiana, USA and has completed advance 
leadership course from IIM-A and Strategic Agility from Harvard.
20
Bandhan Bank Limited
Subrata Dutta Gupta 
Independent Director 
Mr. Dutta Gupta has a rich experience of more than 35 years in 
Asset-based Financing, with 20 years dedicated to the Mortgage 
industry in India and 11 years to Development Finance. His 
domain expertise has been in investment and advisory services 
related to the mortgage industry, covering areas like strategic 
planning, business plan, underwriting and policy formulation. 
He has an extensive experience in mentoring the workforce at 
startups in the Housing Finance sector, grooming and upskilling 
them on lending to the informal and low income borrowers, 
including developing business plans and data analytics platforms.
Mr. Dutta Gupta worked at the International Financial 
Corporation (‘IFC’), World Bank Group for more than a decade 
from 2008 to 2019 and retired as the Principal Financial Officer 
of IFC. During his stint at IFC, he worked in South Asia, South 
East Asia, and Central Asia. He has also been associated with 
BHW Birla Home Finance as the Managing Director, with SREI 
International Finance as Senior Vice President and with Classic 
Financial Services and Enterprises Ltd. as the Regional Manager 
for Operations.
Mr. Gupta holds a Master of Arts degree in Economics from the 
Delhi School of Economics.
Santanu Mukherjee 
Independent Director 
Mr. Mukherjee is the former Managing Director of the erstwhile 
State Bank of Hyderabad, an associate bank of the country’s 
largest lender  - State Bank of India. He has four decades of 
experience in the fields of banking, finance, risk management, 
etc. in various capacities. From 2013 to mid of 2014, he was 
acting as Chief General Manager of State Bank of Bikaner 
and Jaipur. He has also worked as a Chief Executive Officer of 
State Bank of India, Paris from 2004 to 2008. He joined as a 
probationary officer and carried out important domestic and 
overseas assignments in the SBI Group.
Currently, he is also on the Boards of Aurobindo Pharma 
Limited, NACL Industries Limited, Muthoot Housing Finance 
Company Limited, Suven Life Sciences Limited, Sumedha 
Fiscal Services Limited, Rainbow Children’s Medicare Limited, 
etc. He is also on the Board of Governors of the Institute of 
Management and Technology Hyderabad and an Independent 
External Monitor for National Sanskrit University and HLL Infra 
Tech Services Limited.
Mr. Mukherjee holds a B.Sc. (Honours) degree from Presidency 
College under the University of Calcutta and CAIIB from the 
Indian Institute of Bankers.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
21
Suhail Chander 
Independent Director 
Wholesale Banking. His extensive experience covers the entire 
gamut from retail, small and medium enterprise, mid-sized 
corporates to large corporates.
Mr. Chander started his professional journey in banking as a 
trainee at ANZ Grindlays Bank in 1983 and since then has worked 
in foreign banks in India and abroad and a private sector bank 
in India. He retired as the Head of Corporate and Institutional 
Banking at IndusInd Bank in March 2020.
Currently he is a member of the Board of Canara Robeco Asset 
Management Company Limited.
Mr. Chander is a Chartered Accountant. He also holds a 
Bachelor of Arts (Honours) degree in Economics from the 
University of Delhi.
Mr. Chander is a veteran Banker. He has 37 years of rich 
experience in Banking Operations, Trade Finance, Retail and 
Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt 
Independent Director 
small Indian and multinational businesses. Being in the audit 
profession, he has a good understanding of the business 
environment, business risks, controls, accounting and financial 
reporting issues relevant to businesses operating in India.
He was with KMPG for over 10 years (Senior Independent 
Director), with E&Y for 2 years and with R S M and Co. Chartered 
Accountants for 19 years and for a few months with Lovelock 
Lewis. He has been a member of various committees of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, such as Accounting 
Standards Board, Audit Standards Board, Information Technology 
Committee, Financial Reporting Review Group and Professional 
Development Committee of WIRC.
Currently, he is on the Boards of FDC Limited, IRB Infrastructure 
Developers Limited, JK Files & Engineering Limited, Maini 
Precision Products Limited, etc.
Mr. Bhatt is a qualified Chartered Accountant and a Bachelor 
in Law. He has 35 years of experience in large, medium and 
22
Bandhan Bank Limited
Core Management Team
Santanu Banerjee
Head - Human Resources
Rajeev Mantri
Chief Financial Officer
Satish Kumar
Head - Wholesale Banking
Gopalkrishnan Santosh
Head - Consumer Lending & Mortgages
Nand Kumar Singh
Head - Banking Operations & Customer Services
Sujoy Roy
Head - Branch Banking
Amitava Goswami
Chief Compliance Officer
Arindam Sarkar
Head - Treasury
Biswajit Das
Chief Risk Officer
Manoj Kumar Mauni
Chief Technology Officer
Siddhartha Sanyal
Chief Economist & Head Research
Suresh Chandran
Head - Commercial Banking
Dhruba Jyoti Chaudhuri
Head - Corporate Services
Sankar Saha
Head - Project & Premises
Vishal Wadhwa
Head - Emerging Entrepreneurs Business
Troy Joseph Stuart
Chief Digital Officer
Ravi Lahoti
Chief Audit Executive
Pinaki Halder
Chief Information Officer
Ronti Kar
Head - Innovation Hub & Fintech Partnership
Radhika Raghavan
Head - Customer Experience,  
Process Quality & Transformation
Jagannadha Rao Suvvari
Head - Legal
Subhash Balkrishna Samant
Head - Housing Finance
Ravindra Baburaya Gadiyar
Head - Commercial & Retail Credit
Indranil Banerjee
Company Secretary
P Ramaswamy
Chief of Internal Vigilance
Partha Pratim Samanta
Head - Small Enterprise Business & Agri Loan
Satyajit Ghosh
Head - Group Loans
Piush Jha
Head - Credit Card
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
23
Your Bank provides an array 
of liability products designed 
to promptly and effectively 
cater to diverse banking 
requirements across various 
customer segments. Prioritising 
customer satisfaction, the 
Bank consistently calibrates 
its product suite and offers 
convenient banking solutions 
to meet customers’ needs. 
These, along with robust 
marketing strategies and regular 
customer communication, lay 
the roadmap for your Bank to 
advance towards its goals and 
achieve sustainable growth.
RETAIL LIABILITIES
In FY 23-24, the Bank’s deposit portfolio witnessed 
a robust growth of 25% with a total deposit base of 
`1,35,202 crore as of March 31, 2024. 
In FY 23-24, the Bank’s deposit portfolio 
witnessed a robust growth of 25% with a 
total deposit base of ₹1,35,202 crore as of 
March 31, 2024. The growth in deposits 
was primarily driven by the diverse range 
of liability products across term, savings 
and current account deposits, with the 
total retail deposit book growing by 22%.
The affluent segment of customers, 
showing preference for premier products 
like Elite and Premium Savings Accounts, 
have contributed to the growth of your 
Bank’s Savings offering and bolstered 
its product proposition. Concurrently, 
the Bank has also prioritised the senior 
citizen customer base, by launching 
INSPIRE, a programme designed to 
offer specialised services tailored to 
their unique needs. With the objective 
of serving diverse consumer segments 
across various demographics, your Bank 
aims to introduce many other segment 
specific offerings.
As part of the marketing strategy and 
to improve customer communication, 
multiple product-focussed campaigns 
were implemented during the year 
in review. These campaigns aimed at 
informing customers about product 
benefits, including interest rates, and 
technology-driven services provided 
by the Bank. In FY 23-24, the Bank 
introduced RuPay Platinum Debit Card, 
demonstrating its commitment to 
offering products with greater benefits 
for customers. The entire range of debit 
cards garnered a total card fee income of 
₹75.49 crore as of March 31, 2024.
The Current Account segment also 
demonstrated a strong performance, 
marked by consistent balances and 
adept financial management. Strategic 
initiatives including enhanced EDC 
penetration, CAM Channel development, 
re‑engagement with ETB customers 
brought a focussed project, and 
intensified focus on new branches to 
effectively meet customer demands, 
demonstrating resilience in a competitive 
market landscape. The overall Current 
Account book sustained a commendable 
growth rate of 51% as of March 31, 2024.
The Bank’s Merchant Acquiring Business 
(MAB) plays an important role in drawing 
current account relationships. MAB is 
actively enrolling POS/EDC devices with 
a consistent month-on-month increase 
Diversified Product Suite
24
Bandhan Bank Limited
The year in review was a 
milestone year for your Bank’s 
digital banking services. With 
the launch of the new CBS, 
your Bank’s digital banking 
capability got a significant 
fillip. With the surround 
systems being put in place, the 
Bank will be able to provide 
even higher order digital 
banking services in future.
DIGITAL BANKING
There was a significant increase in online banking 
usage in FY 23-24, signalling a notable surge in the 
acceptance and adoption of digital banking services 
among customers of the Bank.
Your Bank’s digital efforts are aligned 
to its commitment to customer-
centricity which helps it in enhancing its 
offerings using analytics and consumer 
behaviour patterns, while ensuring a risk 
calibrated approach.
With the launch of the new CBS, your 
Bank also introduced a new digital 
banking experience – Internet Banking 
and mBandhan, the mobile app. With 
175+ features, the Bank’s new digital 
platforms make banking easier and even 
more accessible while delivering on 
the critical parameters of security and 
continual technology upgrade to continue 
providing a modern banking experience.
Your Bank also focussed on driving digital 
adoption among existing customers. 
The results have been very encouraging. 
and offering Payment Gateway services 
to merchants across all categories. The 
MAB business witnessed substantial 
growth during the year, reporting a 
326% (YoY) increase in acquisitions 
and a 52% (YoY) rise in throughout, 
resulting in accumulation of balances in 
associated accounts.
The Bank’s expansive branch network 
has been instrumental in driving deposit 
growth. The Bank opened 289 new 
branches in FY 23-24, taking the total 
number of branches to 1,700, spread 
across 35 states and union territories. 
One important achievement for the Bank 
was its entry into the union territory of 
Ladakh with branches in Leh and Kargil.
To fortify its relationship with customers, 
the Bank is constantly accelerating its 
customer engagement endeavours and 
effectively communicating with them 
through various marketing campaigns, 
social media outreach, and branch‑level 
initiatives. Additionally, the Bank 
seamlessly transitioned to the latest Core 
Banking System  - Flexcube and rolled 
out a new Internet Banking platform and 
mBandhan app, promising an improved 
customer experience.
Your Bank remains committed to 
harnessing the power of technology to 
provide innovative digital solutions that 
prioritise security, convenience, and user-
friendliness. The Bank will continue to 
deliver top-notch banking solutions and 
serve the customers with unwavering zeal 
and commitment in the years ahead.
There was a significant increase in online 
banking usage in FY 23-24, signalling 
a notable surge in the acceptance and 
adoption of digital banking services 
among customers of our Bank. The 26% 
annual growth in digital registrations 
underscores the Bank’s successful 
endeavours in promoting digital banking 
channels and enhancing customer 
awareness of digital banking products.
New Digital Product, 
Enhancements and Integrations
Your Bank has a roadmap of new digital 
products designed to enable customers, 
both new-to-bank and existing-to-bank, 
to bank from where they want and 
how they want. The Neo+ Digital Saving 
Account with vKYC has helped customer 
open savings accounts with Bandhan 
Bank seamlessly and in paperless manner. 
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
25
The Emerging Entrepreneurs 
Business (EEB) offers affordable 
and convenient loans to 
borrowers at the bottom of the 
pyramid, empowering them to 
cultivate their entrepreneurial 
spirit and transform their lives. 
As your Bank taps into the 
enormous opportunities that 
lie ahead, it also continues to 
use inclusive banking as a tool 
to support this lesser privileged 
segment of the society and 
help them springboard into 
the future.
EMERGING 
ENTREPRENEURS  
BUSINESS
The endeavour of your Bank is to nurture entrepreneurs 
and help them to move up the socio-economic hierarchy, 
supporting them through holistic financial services, as 
and when required.
Your Bank’s EEB strategy is guided by its 
long-held philosophy of inclusive banking 
and economic empowerment of the 
disadvantaged sections of the society. 
The endeavour of your Bank is to nurture 
these entrepreneurs and help them to 
move up the socio-economic hierarchy, 
supporting them through holistic financial 
services, as and when required.
 A wide array of loans is offered 
through Banking Units (BU) to benefit 
small business owners in need of 
financial assistance
 Group Loans and Small Business and 
Agri Loans (SBAL) business channels 
are operated by the Bank through BUs
 Small Enterprise Loans (SEL) are 
operated by your Bank from branches
Empowering Banking Units
Each BU is linked to a Bandhan Bank 
branch for operational convenience.  
The BUs are self-sufficient and can easily 
open loan accounts after necessary 
credit checks and appraisals. BU officials 
can also seamlessly open deposit 
accounts by using tabs.
Tabs are transforming how BUs operate 
and form the cornerstone for their 
operational efficiency. These tabs are 
connected to the Core Banking System 
The enhancements in Corporate Internet 
Banking have resulted in a jump in logins 
on the platform. Your Bank has increased 
the number of integration partnerships 
with payment gateways to deliver a more 
varied payment options for customers.
Way Forward
Moving forward, your Bank will 
continue to innovate by focussing on 
several key areas:
 Using agile technology, your 
Bank will create capabilities to 
continually evolve user experience 
of the digital assets to make banking 
more convenient.
 By optimising processes and ensuring 
platform stability, your Bank will 
continue to enhance the digital 
banking experience for retail and 
corporate customers while continuing 
to deliver best-in-class services.
 With a commitment to ensuring 
safe banking for all customers, a 
number of safety measures has been 
implemented and will continue to be 
augmented on an ongoing basis.
 Your Bank has already integrated the 
retail and corporate Internet banking 
platforms with CBDT for seamless 
payment of direct taxes to the 
government. It will continue to explore 
more such integrations that will add 
value to customers and also help in 
nation-building.
26
Bandhan Bank Limited
(CBS) through cellular data and are 
put to efficient use by the Relationship 
Officers (RO) who carry them to their 
group meetings and leverage them for 
reconciling customer’s instalment on a 
real-time basis.
To ensure timely and effective support to 
the BUs in their day-to-day functioning, 
your Bank has a structure comprising 
circles, territories, divisions, areas and 
banking unit catchments. A central 
operation team maintains oversight of 
the quality of operations and adherence 
to prevalent guidelines at all times. 
Your Bank lays significant emphasis on 
processes and controls to help maintain 
uniform and consistent standards in 
transaction processing and service 
delivery, as well as compliance with the 
regulatory and statutory guidelines.
EEB Performance
During the financial year under review, 
your Bank offered loans to 21 lakh new 
borrowers, clearly reflecting the Bank’s 
commitment to financial inclusion. As on 
March 31, 2024, the portfolio for Group 
Loans stood at ₹40,745 crore whereas 
SBAL and SEL portfolio stood at ₹21,502 
crore and ₹5,672 crore respectively. The 
division’s accelerated growth is attributed 
to the introduction of additional credit 
control measures by your Bank to 
improve the quality of portfolio. Your 
Bank now features a diverse product 
portfolio under its Group Loans, SBAL 
and other categories, which are offered 
to customers through banking units and 
branches, enabling your Bank to easily 
meet their varied demands and needs.
Group loans
1
  Srishti Loan: It provides timely 
funds to start a new business or grow 
an existing one. Loan size ranges from 
₹15,000 to ₹1,50,000.
2
  Subriddhi Loan: Loan amount 
is up to 50% of the disbursement 
amount of the existing primary loan. It 
is sanctioned to help customers fulfil 
their extra business requirement during 
their ongoing loan.
3
  Suraksha Loan: Loan size is up 
to ₹15,000 and is sanctioned to help 
existing customers meet their emergency 
expenses, e.g. medical, drinking water 
and sanitation.
4
  Sushiksha Loan: Loan size is up 
to ₹10,000 and is sanctioned to help 
customers meet expenses towards the 
education of their children.
5
  Baazar Loan: With a loan size 
ranging from ₹26,000 to ₹1,50,000, 
Baazar Loan has been instituted for small 
entrepreneurs who have an existing 
super-saver account with your Bank. This 
loan provides financial support to deposit 
customers for their working capital needs.
Small Business and Agri Loans
1
  Sahayata Loan: The loan funds 
growing business needs of individuals 
involved in an array of income generation 
activities. Loan amount ranges from  
₹50,001 to ₹5,00,000.
2
  Suyog Loan: The loan amount 
is up to 50% of the disbursement 
amount of the ongoing Sahayata loan. 
It is sanctioned to help customers fulfil 
their additional short-term business 
requirement during their ongoing loan.
Small Enterprise Loans
1
  Small Enterprise Loans are  
instituted for small enterprises who 
require both working capital and term 
loan. Loan amount ranges from  
₹3,00,000 to ₹25,00,000.
Fortifying Business
During FY 23-24, various initiatives were 
taken by your Bank to enhance the 
portfolio mix, digitise systems, improve 
collections and encourage customers to 
participate in your Bank’s digital payment 
endeavours, with the ultimate aim to 
enhance operational efficiency and 
improve customer experience.
 As a definitive step towards digitising 
the business channels, your Bank 
deployed cutting-edge technology and 
upgraded to a new CBS.
 Your Bank has taken several initiatives 
to strengthen the credit assessment 
process for Group Loan and SBAL, and 
other loans to have a better portfolio. 
A separate Loan Sanctioning team has 
further been deployed to seamlessly 
manage the loan sanctioning process 
for Group Loans.
 Your Bank has also deployed a 
separate and independent Recovery 
team to improve recovery collections 
from delinquent customers. While 
the Business team restricts slippages 
by focussing on collections from the 
standard accounts, the Recovery 
team focusses on collections from 
the NPA accounts.
 Your Bank has deployed several 
analytics-driven models to improve 
both sourcing and recovery. Some of 
the key initiatives in this regard are - 
identification of good borrowers for 
a higher ticket loan based on a data-
driven renewal base, identification of 
potential borrowers for graduating 
to individual loan, categorisation of 
delinquent borrowers based on their 
propensity to repay and prioritising 
collections accordingly, etc.
The awareness regarding the use of 
digital payment solutions such as 
smartphone-based transactions and 
use of credit/debit cards for online 
transactions is still low amongst EEB 
customers. To build better awareness, 
customer-focussed training is being 
conducted by your Bank. The training 
focusses on helping the customers 
understand the benefits of digital 
payments as well as various other 
aspects such as linking their bank 
account with mobile number and 
Aadhaar. Your Bank has also taken 
initiative by informing the customers to 
pay through online transactions.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
27
The Housing Finance vertical 
is a strong pillar for your Bank. 
Comprising a fourth of the Bank‘s 
asset book, it has grown from 
strength to strength to become 
a robust franchise. The Bank 
offers a comprehensive range of 
home and property loan options 
to meet the diverse needs of its 
customers, including purchasing, 
building, repairing, renovating, 
and expanding residential 
units. Aligned with your Bank’s 
commitment to being a bank for 
all, these loans are offered to 
both salaried and self-employed 
individuals, including those new 
to credit, empowering them to 
overcome financial hurdles and 
springboard to their dream home.
HOUSING FINANCE
Your Bank expanded its home loan network to over  
450 branches and more than 300 banking units  
offering micro-home loans, spread across 22 states  
and union territories.
Affordable Home Loans form the core 
of your Bank’s housing finance business, 
representing over 70% of the outstanding 
portfolio balance. A substantial portion 
of this portfolio meets Priority Sector 
Lending (PSL) norms.
Despite a challenging macro-economic 
environment, the housing finance 
segment witnessed robust growth 
in FY 23-24. In the period, your Bank 
expanded its home loan network to over 
450 branches and more than 300 banking 
units offering micro-home loans, spread 
across 22 states and union territories. 
Focussed on acquiring quality business 
and reducing delinquency, the Bank 
disbursed ₹7,270 crore in FY 23-24, 
marking a 14% growth. Additionally, Gross 
Non-Performing Assets (GNPA) were 
reduced to below 1.6% while the portfolio 
demonstrated commendable growth and 
stood at over ₹29,916 crore.
To drive the housing finance business 
forward, the Bank intends to implement 
a comprehensive strategy that integrates 
advanced technology, robust analytics, 
meticulous risk management, and a 
customer-centric approach. Utilisation 
of cloud-based solutions, AI-driven 
automation, and mobile accessibility will 
enable the Bank to establish a scalable 
and efficient technology platform, thus 
ensuring a seamless journey for the 
customers. Plans to reinforce the Bank’s 
robust risk mitigation and compliance 
efforts through advanced analytics, 
compliance automation, and regular 
audits are also underway. Streamlining 
core operations by revamping existing 
processes and workflow automations 
is also expected to enhance overall 
efficiency. The entire year in review 
had the housing finance business run 
on the new CBS. The efficiencies of 
the new system, ability to cater to 
newer audiences and the commitment 
of the teams ensured that the 
book size grew 11%.
Furthermore, significant investments 
in workforce development, including 
comprehensive training programmes 
and talent acquisition, will foster a 
technologically adept team, capable 
of driving dynamic business growth. 
Through these focussed efforts, your 
Bank aims to solidify its position as a 
leader in the affordable housing finance 
sector, delivering unparalleled value to 
customers and stakeholders.
28
Bandhan Bank Limited
In the year in review, your 
Bank has made substantial 
advancements in enhancing 
its key capabilities and 
competitiveness through 
strategic investments in 
technology, talent, and 
distribution. These, along with 
our focussed efforts on CV/CE 
Loans, Gold Loans, Auto Loans, 
Two-Wheeler Loans and 
Personal Loans, have positioned 
the Retail Assets division as a 
forward-thinking unit, poised 
for a new era of success.
RETAIL ASSETS
Collaboration with leading two-wheeler manufacturers 
and dealers further enabled your Bank to strengthen 
its market presence.
CV/CE Loan
The Commercial Vehicle (CV) and 
Construction Equipment (CE) Loan 
segment has been instrumental 
in supporting the infrastructure 
development and logistics sectors. To 
meet the evolving needs of customers 
willing to avail such loans, innovative 
financing solutions and flexible 
repayment structures were introduced 
by your Bank over the past year. Strategic 
alliances with leading manufacturers 
and dealers have fuelled the product’s 
rapid growth, making it one of your 
Bank’s fastest-growing product in its first 
year. Going forward, the Bank intends 
to enhance its digital lending platforms, 
broaden the product range, and offer 
customised solutions to cater to the 
unique requirements of businesses 
in this sector.
Gold Loan
The Gold Loan product continued to 
perform strongly, providing customers 
with quick and hassle-free access to funds 
against their gold assets. In FY 23-24, your 
Bank focussed on further improving its 
systems, processes, and schemes to cater 
to the diverse needs of its customer in 
a better manner. Customer’s trust was 
further reinforced through the Bank’s 
robust security measures and transparent 
processes. Moving forward, leveraging 
advanced digital tools will further simplify 
the gold loan process while exploring 
innovative product variations will help the 
Bank attract a broader customer base and 
grow at a rapid pace.
Auto Loan
Over the past year, the Auto Loan product 
experienced remarkable growth of over 
70%, while maintaining superior portfolio 
quality. The growth was supported by 
concerted efforts to streamline existing 
processes which led to a reduction in 
approval time and enhanced customer 
satisfaction. With competitive interest 
rates and flexible repayment options, 
your Bank has become a preferred choice 
for customers in search of a suitable Auto 
Loan to finance their dream cars. Moving 
forward, your Bank is poised to accelerate 
its growth by expanding partnerships 
with automotive dealers and exploring 
new financing models, such as green car 
loans, to meet the growing demand for 
eco-friendly vehicles.
Two-Wheeler Loan
The Two-Wheeler Loan segment saw a 
substantial uptick in demand, driven by 
your Bank’s customer-centric approach 
and attractive financing solutions. The 
growth was supported by the launch of 
several initiatives to promote inclusive 
finance, including special schemes for 
first-time buyers and rural customers. 
Collaboration with leading two-wheeler 
manufacturers and dealers further 
enabled your Bank to strengthen its 
market presence. Moving forward, the 
Bank shall remain focussed on enhancing 
its digital onboarding and expanding its 
footprint in the emerging markets to 
capture new growth opportunities and 
capitalise on untapped potential.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
29
Personal Loan
Learning continually from experience and 
tracking emerging trends in unsecured 
lending has helped your Bank update its 
sourcing model for optimised results, 
and consistently align its Personal Loan 
offerings with the evolving needs of 
consumers, ultimately contributing to a 
steady portfolio growth in the last fiscal 
year. In the future, your Bank intends 
to leverage the power of data analytics 
to further personalise its loan offerings 
and introduce processes that enhance 
overall customer experience.
FY 23-24 was a transformative year 
for the Bank’s Retail Assets business, 
marked by significant achievements and 
strategic investments in key areas. With 
a commitment to driving innovation, 
improving customer experience, and 
enhancing product suite, the Bank is 
poised to springboard into the future, 
solidifying its position as a progressive 
and future-ready bank and achieving 
sustainable growth.
Your Bank is keenly focussed on 
the retail segment. Your Bank 
also engages with medium-sized 
businesses to ensure that it 
continues to create impact in 
the fields of financial inclusion, 
employment generation and 
equitable economic growth. 
Your Bank has set up specialised 
verticals within the Wholesale 
Banking Group to increase its 
presence in these areas both 
vertically and horizontally.
WHOLESALE BANKING
In the NBFC segment, the Bank’s primary focus is 
to offer secured financing through products like 
Housing Loan, Loan Against Property, Gold Loan, 
Business Purpose Loan, Commercial and Vehicle 
Loans, among others.
Financial Institution Group (FIG)
The Bank strives to meet the diverse 
credit needs across various sectors, with a 
dedicated focus on Institutional Lending, 
catering to Non-Banking Financial 
Companies (NBFCs), Housing Finance 
Companies (HFCs) and public financial 
institutions. In FY 24-25, the Bank plans 
to foray into the financial requirements 
of Education and Healthcare Institutions, 
through its existing product suite, which 
includes Term Loans, Working Capital 
Limits, Cash Credit and Overdraft facilities.
In addition to traditional lending, the Bank 
also has credit exposure through Direct 
Assignments and Investment exposure 
through Pass through Certificates (PTCs) 
and Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs). 
In the NBFC segment, the Bank’s primary 
focus is to offer secured financing 
through products like Housing Loan, 
Loan Against Property, Gold Loan, 
Business Purpose Loan, Commercial 
and Vehicle Loans, among others. 
On the other hand, in the NBFC-MFI 
(Microfinance institutions) segment, the 
Bank is primarily focussed on Priority 
Segment funding.
FIG segment features a diverse portfolio 
across various locations in India. Its 
Total Advances stood at ₹12,815 crore as 
on March 31, 2024, compared to ₹10,387 
crore as on March 31, 2023, registering a 
growth of 23% year-on-year (YoY). 
Mid-Market Group (MMG)
Mid-Market Group (‘MMG’) offers 
loan products to majorly Small and 
Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and large 
corporate borrowers for meeting their 
working capital and capital expenditure 
30
Bandhan Bank Limited
requirements, including non-fund-based 
facilities. This usually comprises secured 
loans extended to businesses involved in 
manufacturing, trading, services, among 
others, with acceptable credit rating.
The segment offers both fund-based and 
non-fund based facilities including Term 
Loan, Cash Credit, Overdraft, Loan Against 
Property, Construction/Project Finance, 
Lease Rental Discounting, Letter of Credit 
(LoC), Bank Guarantee (BG), etc. While, 
Cash Management Services (CMS) have 
already been launched, implementation 
of Trade Finance and Supply Chain 
Finance is in advanced stages.
Total MMG Advances stood at ₹6,701 
crore as on March 31, 2024, compared 
to ₹3,605 crore as on March 31, 2023; a 
growth of 86% year-on-year (YoY).
Commercial – LAP
The segment primarily offers 
Loans Against Property (‘LAP’) to 
proprietorships, partnerships and private 
limited companies, in line with the 
Bank’s overall objective of increasing its 
secured lending portfolio. Other than 
sourcing business from open market, 
the segment leverages your Bank’s 
widespread network to build and improve 
customer engagement and cater to their 
additional financial requirements. Moving 
ahead, the Bank aims to deploy advanced 
technology to achieve faster turnaround 
time, an imperative to accelerate 
business volume in this segment. The 
segment offers bouquet of income-linked 
programmes to cater to most of the 
sectors in the market.
Total Advances in the segment stood 
at ₹516 crore as on March 31, 2024, 
compared to ₹53 crore as on March 31, 
2023; demonstrating a growth of 870% 
year-on-year (Y-o-Y).
Business Banking Group (BBG)
Business Banking Group (‘BBG’) offers 
loan products to Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to 
fulfil their working capital or capital 
expenditure requirements. These are 
secured loans, usually in the range of  
₹5 lakh to ₹15 crore, extended to 
businesses involved in manufacturing, 
trading, and services. The loans are 
offered in the form of secured credit 
facilities including Term Loan, Cash Credit, 
Overdraft or Lease Rental Discounting, or 
as non-fund-based facilities like the Letter 
of Credit or Bank Guarantee.
Few of the Schematic Loan products 
offered within the segment are as follows:
1
	 SME Business Connect
Ranging from ₹10 lakh to ₹5 crore, these 
loans help entrepreneurs to finance their 
working capital and capital expenditure 
requirements. They are offered against 
primary security such as current or fixed 
assets, and collateral security such as 
residential property, commercial property 
or liquid securities. SME Business Connect 
loans are provided as fund-based facilities 
like Overdraft, Cash Credit, or Term Loan 
and non-fund-based facilities like Letter of 
Credit or Bank Guarantees.
2
	 SME GST Connect
These loans help entrepreneurs to  
finance their working capital requirement 
and are provided as an overdraft or  
fund-based facilities. Ranging between  
₹25 lakh and ₹3 crore, the loans are 
offered against collateral security which 
can be in the form of current assets, 
property or liquid securities.
3
	 Bandhan CGTMSE Loan
Bandhan CGTMSE Loan is offered by 
your Bank to finance the working capital 
and capital expenditure requirements 
of Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs). 
These loans are provided as fund-based 
and non-fund-based facilities without 
any collateral security or third-party 
guarantee. The loan amount ranges 
from ₹5 lakh to ₹5 crore, with maximum 
credit guarantee limit of ₹5 crore per 
borrower. Collateral security for the 
remaining uncovered portion of the credit 
facility can be obtained under “Hybrid/
Partial Collateral Security” product, 
introduced by CGTMSE.
Total Advances of the segment stood 
at ₹1,010 crore as on March 31, 2024, 
compared to ₹535 crore as on  
March 31, 2023; registering a growth  
of 89% year-on-year (YoY).
Agri-Business Loan
Providing credit for agricultural 
activities not only augments crop 
production but also empowers 
farmers and provides the much-
required impetus to agricultural 
sector, the backbone of Indian 
economy. Recognising this, the Bank 
offers a wide range of credit facilities 
and provides extensive financial 
support to all participants of the 
agriculture value-chain.
Currently, the segment provides 
Kisan Cash Credit (KCC) loans to 
borrowers engaged in farming 
activities, including animal husbandry, 
horticulture, pisciculture, etc., 
at competitive interest rates and 
minimal documentation. By doing 
so, your Bank is making it easier for 
farmers to access credit and make 
necessary investments in their farms 
to increase productivity.
To expand its reach and benefit 
a larger number of farmers, the 
segment offers (i) both fund-based 
and non-fund-based credit facilities 
to entities involved in agri-ancillary 
products and services, such as 
food and agri processors, agri input 
dealers, etc. (ii) credit facilities to 
support development of agricultural 
infrastructure, (iii) financing to 
Corporate Agri customers, with a key 
focus to on-board quality customers, 
and (iv) commodity finance.
Total Advances of the segment 
stood at ₹268 crore as on March 31, 
2024 compared to ₹127 crore as on 
March 31, 2023; a growth of 112% 
year-on-year (YoY).
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
31
In the endeavour to be a bank for 
all, and to be the one destination 
for all financial services, your Bank 
remains committed to providing a 
comprehensive range of insurance 
and investment solutions and 
supporting customers’ financial 
well-being. Over the past year, the 
Bank has focussed on enhancing 
its service offerings, leveraging 
analytics, customer insights, and 
technology to better meet its 
customers’ evolving needs.
THIRD-PARTY PRODUCTS
To keep pace with the customers, your Bank has 
built strong synergies with third parties to offer 
robust product propositions suited closely to the 
customers of the Bank.
Bandhan Bank has been steadfast in 
its commitment to serving customers 
throughout different life stages, supported 
by a well-established and diversified 
network of branches, as well as robust 
Internet and mobile banking platforms. 
The market for third-party distribution of 
financial products, including life insurance, 
general insurance, and mutual funds, 
is rapidly evolving with the evolution of 
customer needs and preferences. To keep 
pace with the customers, your Bank has 
built strong synergies with third parties 
to offer robust product propositions 
suited closely to the customers of 
the Bank. In addition to the focussed 
products, the Bank has also established 
a strong distribution network for third 
party products, both offline through the 
distribution network and online, through 
the digital banking platforms. The focus 
is to provide the customers of the Bank 
with need-based solutions to manage their 
financial well-being.
Non-Life Insurance
In response to the increased importance 
of health and financial security post-
pandemic, Bandhan Bank has strengthened 
its partnerships with reputable insurance 
providers such as Bajaj Allianz General 
Insurance Company and Niva Bupa Health 
Insurance Company. Through these 
partnerships, the Bank offers a diverse 
range of general insurance products, 
including home, health, motor, personal 
accident, and critical illness insurance. 
These offerings are designed to help 
customers manage health-related risks 
and ensure financial protection against 
uncertainties. The Bank’s strong focus on 
providing a safety net around health-related 
risks has led to a comprehensive array of 
products and solutions tailored to secure 
the specific health needs of its customers 
and protect against unforeseen events.
Life Insurance
India’s expanding economy and growing 
middle class have driven the growth of 
the life insurance market. Bandhan Bank, 
as a trusted corporate agent for leading 
insurance companies such as Bajaj Allianz 
Life, HDFC Life, and Kotak Life, provides 
a wide range of life insurance products. 
These include protection plans, savings 
plans, market-linked products like Unit 
Linked Insurance Plans (ULIP), and annuity 
products with both immediate and deferred 
annuity options. These products cater to 
different customer segments and life stages, 
helping individuals secure their lives and 
achieve their long-term financial goals. 
The Bank’s offerings are aligned with the 
market’s demand for financial security 
and are designed to support customers 
in their journey towards financial 
stability and planning.
Mutual Funds
The mutual fund market has witnessed 
significant participation from retail 
investors, driven by the widespread 
availability of digital platforms and 
comprehensive data. Bandhan Bank 
has partnered with leading mutual fund 
companies such as Bandhan, HDFC, 
ICICI Prudential, UTI, Nippon India, SBI, 
Aditya Birla Sun Life, Kotak, Franklin, 
Axis, and Mirae Asset. Through these 
partnerships, the Bank offers a wide 
variety of mutual fund products across 
asset classes via its Retail Internet 
Banking, Mobile Banking, and Branch 
Banking channels. These products are 
tailored to meet the diverse investment 
needs of customers, providing benefits 
such as asset diversification, disciplined 
savings, and tax advantages in certain 
products. The Bank focusses on mutual 
funds to help customers build wealth and 
achieve their financial objectives through 
professional management and strategic 
investment options.
32
Bandhan Bank Limited
Information Technology 
FY 23-24 was a milestone year in the journey of your Bank. In 
October 2023, your Bank undertook a mega migration of the 
Core Banking System (CBS). The significant scale and complexity 
of this transformation makes it a unique case in the Indian 
banking sector. It is a matter of pride that the Bank was able to 
migrate to the new CBS without significant disruption of banking 
services to customers. 
This migration gives your Bank the capability to expand its product offerings, 
extend its reach, and deliver a best-in-class banking experience. The new CBS, 
with the surround systems, will enable the Bank to provide an enhanced, 
personalised, and frictionless experience and seamless digital banking services. 
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
33
Your Bank now has a full-fledged core 
and surround systems framework that 
has been upgraded and transformed 
to provide better customer service. 
With the introduction of the new CBS, 
online banking, treasury system, debit 
card management system, and trade 
services, among others, your Bank 
has built more capability, security and 
efficiency through its tech framework. 
The state-of-the-art CBS allows for 
stricter adherence to compliance and 
regulatory guidelines, and effective 
risk management. 
Your Bank is now working towards 
taking banking to the next level for 
its customers. API banking, cloud 
infrastructure and recovery systems are 
being implemented to make the Bank 
more accessible, offer a wider range of 
services, be more data-driven, and have 
a tech platform that allows for scale. 
While the Bank already has a robust 
cyber and data security infrastructure, 
it is keenly focussing on enhancing the 
same on an ongoing basis to keep pace 
with its ever-evolving nature.  
We are in an experience economy and 
customer experience is a key focus 
area for all service sector players. With 
the new tech platform and surround 
infrastructure, your Bank is building 
capabilities to leverage data and 
analytics to provide a hyper-personalised 
experience for customers. The newly 
created and dedicated Customer 
Experience team works closely with 
the tech team to identify and introduce 
or improve parameters that lead to 
better customer experience. The Bank 
is actively evaluating and implementing 
efficiency builders like Robotic Process 
Automation (RPA) and the usage of 
Artificial Intelligence and Machine 
Learning in decision-making. To empower 
employees to serve customers better, 
the Bank is in the advanced stages of 
implementing CRM modules for various 
business verticals. 
Your Bank will continue to focus on 
product-led technology. It is in the 
advanced stages of introducing a cash 
management system and transaction 
banking services. The Bank has recently 
tied up with a renowned global tech 
giant for Loan Origination System 
(LOS) for the Housing Finance vertical. 
Integration with payment systems like 
UPI and NPCI ecosystem will make your 
Bank more accessible to customers and 
non-customers alike. The integration with 
Government systems and tax payments 
is already underway, and the Bank has 
implemented the same for a few states. 
With these developments and a host of 
other services, your Bank will become a 
front-runner in tech-enabled banking. 
People are a critical component of 
technology development. While the Bank 
continues to focus on implementing 
and upgrading technology solutions for 
better customer experience and service, 
it is also continually evaluating people 
capabilities to keep pace with the tech 
advancement. Your Bank has on-boarded 
key people in the year under review 
to strengthen the tech talent in line 
with the Bank’s vision. Moving forward, 
the evaluation and enhancement of 
tech teams will be an ongoing part of 
the Bank’s agenda.
34
Bandhan Bank Limited
Operational Excellence
The Bank, in its pursuit 
of operational excellence 
has had a two-pronged 
approach – it systematically 
manages its business and 
operational processes, 
and it has invested in 
developing the right 
organisational culture. 
The Bank has made 
substantial investments 
to build a sustainable 
and scalable operations 
ecosystem across critical 
areas. Additionally, the 
Bank has implemented a 
robust business continuity 
plan to ensure seamless 
operational management 
and resilience. The Bank 
has also built a strong 
market reputation, 
backed by the faith and 
trust of its customers, by 
providing seamless banking 
experiences, personalised 
solutions, and door-Step 
banking facilities. 
Over the past few years, the banking landscape has transformed rapidly, moving from 
traditional models to a dynamic, data and digital-driven environment. Your Bank has 
embraced these changes, ensuring its operations remain efficient, robust, and customer-
focussed. The Bank’s commitment to operational efficiency is evident in its smooth 
and robust banking operations. It has continually updated its processes to adapt to 
the changing customer preferences, ensuring a swift pace of growth. This adaptability 
has been mirrored by the Bank’s employees, who have seamlessly integrated into the 
enhanced operational model. The Bank recognises that technology will continue to drive 
changes in its operating models, and prepared itself to respond proactively to future 
demands. The Bank’s IT transformation initiatives aim to make it future-ready, aligning 
with the evolving preferences of its customers. By providing services accessible anytime 
and anywhere, the Bank meets the demands of its varied customer base.
In an era of rapid transformation within the banking ecosystem, the Bank has 
consistently adhered to the philosophy of operational excellence. This philosophy 
focusses on continuous improvement and optimisation of business processes and 
systems to achieve superior service delivery, creating a preferred experience for its 
customers. The Bank aims to increase efficiency, reduce waste and costs, and enhance 
quality and customer satisfaction. 
Technological Advancements
To build and sustain momentum for 
transforming India, the Bank successfully 
completed a robust Core Banking 
System Transformation during FY 23-24. 
To ensure ease of banking, the Bank 
leverages technology in every aspect 
of its value proposition, from designing 
products and streamlining processes to 
improving delivery and monitoring.
The Bank has adopted seamless 
digitalisation and cutting-edge 
technologies to stay ahead of the 
curve, introducing various digital-driven 
products and encouraging customers 
to adopt digital banking channels. One 
such initiative is the digital acceptance 
platform, Bharat QR, to facilitate 
payments. In its effort towards a 
paperless banking ecosystem, the Bank 
has introduced paperless onboarding 
of customers, a digital EMI payment 
mechanism, and the issuance of online 
debit instructions supported by two-
factor authentication using Internet 
banking, debit card, and Aadhaar 
credentials followed by OTP. 
Senior Citizen Focus
Senior citizens are an integral part of 
the Bank’s customer base, and providing 
them with the best banking solutions has 
always been a priority. With this objective, 
the Bank has relaunched the Respect 
Programme as “Inspire”, designed to fulfil 
the banking and lifestyle needs of senior 
citizens. It includes enhanced features 
covering all aspects of their medical 
needs – personal care, medication, and 
healthcare facilities.  
Grievance Redressal Mechanism
The Bank has established a robust 
grievance redressal mechanism to 
address customers’ concerns effectively. 
This mechanism aims to provide timely 
and satisfactory resolutions to customer 
complaints, focussing on identifying the 
root causes of service deficiencies.
Commitment to Excellence
The Bank reaffirms its dedication to 
operational excellence. By leveraging 
advanced technology, enhancing 
operational efficiency, expanding service 
offerings, and maintaining a strong focus 
on customer satisfaction, the Bank is 
well-positioned to navigate the evolving 
banking landscape. The Bank’s journey 
forward is guided by its commitment to 
operational excellence and its mission 
to help customers manage their money 
better, ensuring a prosperous future for 
all stakeholders.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
35
The sustained business 
momentum of your Bank 
in FY 23-24 was backed 
by the exemplary skills 
and capabilities of your 
Bank’s employees and their 
unwavering commitment to 
deliver customer-oriented 
service. Acknowledging the 
vital importance of human 
capital, your Bank has aligned 
its policies and practices 
with industry gold standards, 
efficiently managing its 
workforce and relying on it 
as the foundation for future 
growth and success.
Your Bank’s greatest assets are the 
people that make the Bank. Keeping the 
HR policies and practices relevant and 
competitive with industry best practices 
is an ongoing endeavour of the Bank. As 
has been the practice at your Bank since 
its inception, a fine mix of old and new 
employees ensures that we bring in the 
experience while giving opportunities 
for the people already at the Bank to 
take up larger or different roles for 
their career progression. In the year in 
review, the Bank’s processes continued 
to transition from traditional to digital 
platforms, enhanced user experience, 
streamlined operations, and boosted 
employee productivity. Moreover, the 
Bank continued its efforts towards 
improving employee performance, 
augmenting employee wellness, aligning 
learning modules to evolving and in-
demand skills, and providing a robust 
forum for employee feedback. Emphasis 
was also placed on building a strong, 
collaborative, and empathetic leadership 
model. The Bank also continued its focus 
on the growth of branches and channels 
to achieve greater penetration in the 
market and strengthen itself as a true 
Bank for all. By continuously enhancing 
the HR practices, your Bank strives 
to remain a dynamic, inclusive, and 
innovative workplace. 
Workforce Expansion
The Bank’s network expanded significantly 
in FY 23-24 to reach a total of 6,297 
banking outlets as on March 31, 2024. 
The establishment of 42 retail asset 
centres further reflect the Bank’s strategic 
focus on retail banking, enabling it to 
meet the customer’s requirement for 
consumer loans, mortgages, and other 
retail finance more efficiently. 
To support this expansion and fulfil its 
commitment to superior service delivery 
and operational excellence, the Bank has 
quadrupled its workforce since inception. 
The total workforce of your Bank stood at 
an impressive 75,748 as against 69,702 
in the previous year. The new employees 
were picked from a variety of functions 
and skill sets, the ones that your Bank 
is focussing on for the next phase of 
growth and those that will assist the Bank 
to achieve its near-term and long-term 
strategic goals. Campus recruitment 
drives were organised to contribute to 
the growth and development of young 
professionals entering the workforce 
and creating a talent pipeline for the 
upcoming years. Your Bank visited 95 
top ranked institutes and handpicked 
680 young talents for various roles and 
locations across India.     
Human Capital
36
Bandhan Bank Limited
In FY 23-24, the Bank accelerated its 
efforts towards building a strong Learning 
and Development (L&D) proposition 
for its employees, in alignment with 
its strategy for growth across new 
businesses. The L&D programmes 
aimed at equipping the employees with 
Building a Capable Workforce through Learning, Development and Talent Management 
the necessary skillset, mindset and 
knowledge to meet the challenges of the 
rapidly changing banking landscape in 
the country. Focussed on key strategic 
initiatives, the Bank formulated and 
implemented engaging learning 
initiatives to build and enhance employee 
competencies. Thematic programmes 
were organised to improve employee 
productivity, ensure strict compliance  
to risk culture and regulations, increase 
employee engagement, foster employee 
wellness and develop digital skills.
Some of the key metrics and training interventions implemented during FY 23-24 are enumerated below:
11.3 lakh learning hours logged during 
the year, a growth of 84% from FY 22-23.
The Bank invested in building a robust 
digital learning ecosystem owing to 
which the digital learning penetration 
among employees doubled in  
FY 23-24. Logins on the Bank’s Learning 
Management System (LMS), Bandhan 
Edge, reached 8,40,310 as on March 31, 
2024, a whopping 277% higher from the 
previous financial year.
Management Development Programmes 
and Leadership Development Programs 
were conducted internally as well as 
externally to enhance managerial and 
leadership skills.
Multiple learning measures were 
implemented to improve the compliance 
culture within the Bank. Mandatory 
training modules on POSH, Information 
Security, and KYC-AML/CFT were launched. 
Per employee learning hours grew 
by 66% to 50.9 hours in FY 23-24.
Productivity-based programmes 
were launched for new businesses/
channels like Affluent Channel, 
Government business, Current 
Account and other business units 
to improve employee productivity.
‘Grow with Bandhan’, a new initiative 
was launched for all employees 
to self-nominate themselves for 
continuous learning. The initiative 
included specially-curated, byte-sized 
skill, behaviour, attitude and mindset 
building programmes for personal and 
professional growth.
In FY 23-24, 99% employees were 
trained in at least one training 
format (Internal  - Classroom/
External/E‑Learning).
The L&D initiatives emphasised 
on building operational 
excellence as a key theme. 
Programmes on customer 
service, first-time-right and 
branch operations were 
conducted for the employees.
‘RISE’, a culture building 
programme, was 
launched as a part of the 
organisational development 
strategy. The programme 
emphasised on the areas of 
professionalism, collaboration, 
transparency and speed.   
The Bank has in place a well-defined 
capability building architecture spanning 
functional training and leadership 
development programmes to equip 
employees with the required skill sets 
across multiple domains such as banking, 
compliance, financial and digital services. 
This aligns new hires to the culture of the 
Bank and imparts functional knowledge, 
preparing them for their role. Periodic 
review of the Bank’s learning content and 
design is crucial to realign it as per the 
evolving business needs, ensuring that 
the staff stays abreast with the latest skills 
and developments and are adequately 
equipped to deliver service excellence. 
This is done by the Bank’s L&D team in 
partnership with the business teams.
Succession Planning and 
Leadership Development
A structured succession planning 
and leadership development process 
enables the Bank to identify and groom 
leaders for next level roles. The Bank 
closely tracks the leadership bench for 
senior management positions and has 
created a strong pipeline for critical 
leadership roles. Contributing to a 
positive work environment and long-
term organisational success, the Bank 
has promoted 8,709 employees through 
a competency-based grade promotion 
process. In alignment with the Bank’s 
Succession Planning Policy, most 
leadership positions arising from the 
Bank’s growth and expansion were filled 
through internal role elevations. This 
policy was also extended to mid-level 
positions in retail lending.     
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
37
Employee Engagement
The Bank’s growth story has been 
fuelled by its committed and motivated 
employees who make the Bank an 
exceptional place of work. In an 
endeavour to motivate them and 
build a happy and satisfied workforce, 
employee engagement programmes have 
been a regular feature on the Bank’s 
annual calendar. 
In the year under review, the Bank 
organised multiple town-halls with the 
top management. A cricket tournament, 
Women’s Day celebration, festival 
celebrations and other local level 
engagement programmes were also 
organised to boost employee morale. 
Aiming to enhance employee wellness, 
various health awareness initiatives 
were planned by the Bank. This included 
online health awareness programmes, 
regular communication to employees 
on topics such as potential health risk at 
workforce and road safety, and a session 
on ‘Prevention of Diabetes’ on World 
Diabetes Day. Additionally, a webinar on 
‘Common Gynaecological Problem for 
Working Women’ was also conducted 
on the International Women’s Day. 
Service Awards were further distributed 
to recognise and appreciate employees’ 
long-term association with the Bank.     
Health and Wellness
Employee health and wellbeing is non-
negotiable. Focussing on them results in 
a happier and more productive workforce 
which further creates a positive impact 
on customer satisfaction and retention. 
In view of this, the Bank proactively 
designed and implemented various 
wellness solutions across business units 
and workforce group. 
The Bank is focussed on integrated and 
holistic wellbeing of its employees and 
covers multiple benefits such as Group 
Mediclaim, Group Term Insurance, Group 
Personal Accidental Coverage, Medical 
Extension Plan, Bandhan Wellness and 
Digital Care Plan (B Well Digi Care Plan). 
A network of wellness partners, health 
check-up and diagnostic vendors has 
been established by the Bank to enable 
a seamless experience for employees 
across the country. The Bank’s employee 
offerings are being constantly enhanced 
by adding new entitlements, features 
and benefits. As a token of appreciation 
and to foster positive relationships with 
former employees, the Bank extended 
its coverage for retired employees, their 
dependents and the dependents of 
deceased staff. 
Best-in-class hospitals and expert doctors 
have been empanelled by the Bank to 
provide emergency medical consultations 
and services to employees at discounted 
rates. Multiple health camps were 
also organised, enabling employees to 
regularly monitor their health. Moreover, 
the Bank organised preventive annual 
health check-ups as a proactive measure 
to ensure a physically fit workforce.
38
Bandhan Bank Limited
Digital@HR
Your Bank works with a highly 
comprehensive and integrated platform, 
which is designed to meet diverse 
business and people needs. The Bank 
created employee delight through 
process automation. Performance 
Management System (PMS) has been 
developed, with wide customisation 
choices linking individual performance to 
business outcomes, capturing feedback 
from primary and agile project teams and 
many more features. Putting people in 
charge of their careers was the goal of 
the performance management process. 
The appraisal process was 100% digital 
and transparent. Digitisation in HR not 
only helped in employee satisfaction but 
also ensured accuracy of information 
while complying with the required 
regulatory norms. The Bank launched 
several digital initiatives for employees 
like HR Service Desk automated ticketing 
system, online staff loan application 
platform, IJP portal, etc. Your Bank also 
seamlessly integrated the HRMS with the 
new CBS, a development that was critical 
and important for the Bank. The Bank 
ensured compliance with all regulatory 
and statutory norms in its employee 
processes and promoted employee 
adherence to the Bank’s Code of Conduct 
through education and awareness 
programmes. The Bandhan Bank Alumni 
Portal is a digital platform which was 
launched to provide ex-employees with a 
smooth relieving experience and access 
to important documentation after their 
exit from the Bank. As employee needs 
evolve, the Bank is committed to serving 
employees with passion and care.
Notable Milestones
The Bank’s onboarding process was 
modernised and digitised to help new 
hires get quickly acquainted with the 
Bank’s culture, values, and operations, 
settle in smoothly and shorten time 
to productivity. To better understand 
employees’ needs and areas for 
improvement, the Bank conducted 
engagement surveys and branch visits. 
The insights gathered from these 
surveys and one-on-one connection 
during branch visits helped the Bank to 
address the real concerns and aspirations 
of the workforce.
The Bank has achieved several significant 
milestones in creating a workplace that 
prioritises a human-centric approach 
and has undertaken multiple initiatives 
which highlight the Bank’s commitment 
to fostering a supportive and progressive 
workplace environment:
 Digitisation has been a core strategy, 
with more digital solutions getting 
integrated into major HR processes, 
including creation of an Employee 
Achievement Dashboard and mapping 
out goals during onboarding.
 Your Bank is committed to fostering 
a transparent work culture. As a part 
of this, goals are established and Key 
Result Areas (KRAs) are uploaded at 
the time of employee onboarding itself. 
This approach provides employees 
with clear metrics and performance 
indices, ensuring they understand how 
to positively impact both the Bank and 
their own development journey. By 
integrating the performance appraisal 
process into the HRMS, the Bank 
aims to provide all employees with 
clear insights into their performance, 
assessments, and competencies.
 The Bank prioritises gender sensitivity 
and inclusiveness in its HR policy by 
identifying specific roles for women 
across various geographies and 
hierarchical levels. This commitment 
to diversity and equal opportunity has 
increased the female workforce by 
18%, fostering a more balanced and 
inclusive workplace.
 In addition to salary reviews, the 
Bank introduced performance-linked-
pay (PLP) to reward exceptional 
performance and contributions by the 
employees. This not only motivated 
the employees but also aligned their 
efforts with the Bank’s strategic 
goals. The PLP is over and above the 
appraisal based variable pay that 
eligible employees receive after the 
appraisal cycle.
 To promote employee well-being 
and work-life balance, the Bank has 
increased the total leave balance 
by 20% and introduced special 
occasion leaves.
 Numerous sessions with eminent 
doctors were organised to guide 
employees towards a healthier 
lifestyle. A Medical Extension Plan 
has also been introduced to address 
outpatient treatment for employees.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
39
Risk Management
Springing Forward with Care
A robust risk management strategy aligned with 
industry’s best practices and proactive identification 
and mitigation of potential risks is a priority at 
your Bank. Taking a leap into the future, your 
Bank’s holistic approach towards managing risks 
will continue to differentiate it, empower decision-
making, protect stakeholder interest and win their 
trust and loyalty.
Risks managed by the Bank include credit risk, credit 
concentration risk, market risk, liquidity risk, interest rate 
risk in banking book, operational risk, fraud risk, conduct 
risk, outsourcing risk, compliance and legal risk, information 
security (InfoSec) risk, reputational risk, strategic risk, 
business risk and their underlying interlinkages.
Do not judge me by my successes; judge me by how 
many times I fell down and got back up again.
- Nelson Mandela
Alignment of business strategy and risk appetite should minimise the firm’s exposure 
to large and unexpected losses. In addition, the firm’s risk management capabilities 
need to be commensurate with the risks it expects to take.
- Jerome Powell
RISK AND RESILIENCE
Risk management and resilience are closely intertwined. 
Effective risk management practices contribute to resilience 
by reducing the likelihood and severity of adverse events. 
	 In recent years, unexpected global events have disrupted 
businesses across different parts of the world. The 
confluence of a global pandemic, massive supply 
chain disruptions, and many other challenges have 
fuelled inflation, escalated cost of living, led to large-
scale cyberattacks, etc. As a response to such massive 
adversities, operational resilience has become more 
vital than ever.
	 Your Bank recognises the critical need for shaping up a 
resilient and robust organisation that can adapt quickly 
and take informed decisions and actions. Regular 
measures are therefore taken to assess the immediate 
and potential future effects and proactively map probable 
corrective actions.
	 Resilience testing, through various extreme but 
plausible scenarios, is done regularly to make the Bank 
ready for uncertainties, apart from testing for normal 
risk scenarios.
	 Your Bank prioritises streamlining core business 
processes which support critical services and products. A 
comprehensive crisis and Business Continuity Plan (BCP), 
developed with key stakeholders that can be quickly 
activated, has been put in place.
	 No business can exist without its employees. Recognising 
this, your Bank puts people first while preparing for any 
disruptions. By showing genuine care for employees 
and their families who may be affected by a crisis, the 
Bank continuously boosts employee morale. Driven by 
the belief that “We are all in this together”, your Bank’s 
commitment for its people goes beyond social media 
posts or other marketing content. A people-centric 
culture along with efforts that prioritise employee 
well-being creates the foundation for employee 
trust and loyalty, which extends well beyond the 
period of disruption.
40
Bandhan Bank Limited
The first step in the risk management process is to 
acknowledge the reality of risk. Denial is a common 
tactic that substitutes deliberate ignorance for 
thoughtful planning.
- Charles Tremper
The key to risk management is never putting 
yourself in a position where you cannot live to 
fight another day.
- Richard S. Fuld, Jr
APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT
RISK GOVERNANCE
	 Your Bank’s Risk Management Framework describes its 
approach to risk management, and includes provisions 
for risk governance arrangements; appetite and limits for 
risk exposures; policies for the management of various 
risk types; risk culture standards; and risk reporting. The 
key arrangements and standards for risk management 
and internal controls that support your Bank’s compliance 
with statutory and regulatory requirements are also 
clearly defined under this framework.
	 Your Bank follows a dynamic way of setting the risk 
appetite, which is in sync with the evolving scenario. 
A testament to your Bank’s prudent approach, various 
additional scenarios over and above that mandated by 
the regulator are considered and analysed, to gauge the 
various stress levels that the Bank might face in a dynamic 
macro and micro economic scenario.
Banks need well-defined roles and responsibilities for 
managing risks, with robust mechanisms capable of holding 
individuals and teams accountable for their risk management 
decisions and actions. This includes establishing risk 
committees, risk appetite frameworks, and efficient 
escalation procedures to ensure that the risks are identified, 
assessed, and managed at all levels within the organisation.
	 The risk governance framework provides guidance 
on adopting a more holistic approach to manage risk, 
emphasising four related elements:
	
 Developing the corporate risk profile.
	
 Establishing a risk function that manages risk in an 
integrated manner.
	
 Practising integrated risk management; and
	
 Ensuring continuous risk monitoring.
	 Your Bank has a robust Risk Appetite Framework (‘RAF’) 
which is reviewed on an annual basis. RAF’s monitoring 
parameters are aligned with the Bank’s short-term 
as well as medium and long-term strategies and 
business plans.
	 Scenarios and measurement approaches for quantifying 
risk and capital demands are implemented across the 
material risk types. Continuous monitoring, stress 
testing tools and escalation processes safeguard the 
key capitals and liquidity levels. Systems, processes 
and policies are critical components of your Bank’s risk 
management capability.
	 Lessons learnt from the recent uncertainties 
helped your Bank to strengthen its Risk Assessment 
Framework further. The learnings were incorporated 
to regulate socio-political risks and conduct risk within 
the framework and take them into consideration 
while formulating the Bank’s strategy and business 
expansion plan.
	 Your Bank keeps risk appetite as a guiding document 
while planning for the growth strategy.
	 Your Bank follows three levels of Risk Governance 
Framework – Board, Committees of the Board, 
Management Committees.
	 The Bank’s Board, through the Risk Management 
Committee of the Board (RMCB), is updated regularly 
and as necessary, on special developments in its risk 
situation, risk management and risk controlling.
	 The Risk Management Committee of the Board (RMCB) 
deliberates with the Management on the issues of 
aggregate risk disposition and risk strategy. It also 
supports the Board in monitoring the implementation 
of this strategy.
	 Various risk-related committees at Executive Level, such 
as Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO), Credit 
Risk Management Committee (CRMC), Operational 
Risk Management Committee (ORMC), Market Risk 
Management Committee (MRMC), Business Continuity 
and Planning Management Committee (BCPMC), 
Information Security Committee (ISC), etc., serve as 
formalised decision-making forums, which enable the 
views of risk decision takers and risk managers to be 
taken into account.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
41
	 The Chief Risk Officer (CRO) is directly responsible for all the 
risk management functions, such as Credit Risk Management, 
Market Risk Management, Operational Risk Management, 
Liquidity Risk Control and Information Security. In addition, 
the CRO is also responsible for monitoring, analysing, and 
reporting risks on a comprehensive basis.
	 Independence of the CRO is ensured through a fixed 
tenure, reporting structure and periodic reviews by the 
Board and RMCB.
If you get the culture right, most of the other stuff 
will just take care of itself.
- Tony Hsieh
RISK CULTURE
Your Bank believes in the philosophy of “Setting the Tone from 
the Top”. The Board and Management fosters a strong risk 
culture within the organisation which influences the rest of the 
employees and drives strong risk resilience across all roles and 
levels, in turn safeguarding the key capitals and upholding your 
Bank’s reputation.
Risk culture at your Bank is nurtured through:
i.	 Regular and adequate risk management training of employees 
based on their profiles and roles in risk management. 
Every risk taken needs to be approved within the risk 
management framework.
ii. Issuing weekly/monthly newsletters and publications on 
various areas of risks.
iii. Issuing directions on measures required for strengthening of 
risk culture, formulation of policies and frameworks, whistle 
blower mechanism, risk appetite framework, etc.
iv. Placing emphasis on taking risks within the defined 
risk appetite. Also ensuring that the risk taken is 
adequately compensated in line with risk adjusted 
performance measures.
Key Drivers of Risk Culture
	 Leadership and 
‘Tone from the top’
	 Decision-Making
	 Risk Governance Structure 
	 Recruitment, 
Training and Competence
	 Reward 
	 Learning Environment 
 Viable and consistent role modelling from 
senior leadership; core values practised 
in daily actions 
 Transparent and coordinated decision-making 
 Continuous and constructive challenging of 
preconceptions, decision-making and actions
 High standards of analytical insight and 
information-sharing at all levels
 Rapid escalation of issues and concerns 
 Failures used as critical learning opportunities
 Incentives that encourage all members to  
“do the right thing” while considering the 
overall health and operation of the organisation
 Focus on external stakeholders of risk  
(e.g., customers, markets, societies)
RISK 
CULTURE
Strong Risk Culture Demonstrates 
42
Bandhan Bank Limited
The art of communication is the 
language of leadership.
- James Humes 
RISK AWARENESS & COMMUNICATION
Your Bank believes that communication plays a pivotal role in 
building enhanced risk awareness amongst the stakeholders, 
especially in matters related to risk culture and cybersecurity, 
and that a risk aware employee and customer is in itself a way 
to mitigate undesired risks.
Your Bank periodically evaluates its current culture and risk awareness status by following a well-defined Risk Culture Management 
Process, which is depicted below:
If you don’t risk anything, you risk even more.
- Erica Jong 
RISK STRATEGY AND CAPITAL
Your Bank aims to maintain adequate capitalisation on an 
ongoing and forward-looking basis, i.e. internal capital supply to 
exceed internal capital demand. The Bank maintains compliance 
with the lCAAP (Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process) 
as required under Pillar 2 of Basel III, through its robust risk 
management and governance framework, methodologies, 
processes and infrastructure.
The Bank employs a strategic planning process that aligns its 
risk strategy and appetite with its commercial objectives – a 
continuous monitoring process against approved risk, leverage 
and capital. Regular reporting of risk, leverage and capital to 
management; and a robust stress testing framework.
The ICAAP, Risk Appetite Framework, and Strategic 
Document are annually approved by the Board and reviewed 
on a periodic basis, ensuring alignment between risk, 
capital and strategy.
Your Bank runs regular awareness campaigns and adopts 
various modes to educate its employees regarding the various 
aspects of risk management. These include:
	 Periodic newsletters
	 Circulars
	 Floor level awareness sessions and workshops
	 Innovative messaging through desktop screensavers
	 Information security awareness for customers through 
multilingual text messages, emails and social media posts
	 Framework for gauging the efficacy of Information 
Security Awareness
RISK 
CULTURE MANAGEMENT 
PROCESS
Underpin the desired 
risk culture with 
appropriate incentive
Monitor 
performance against 
desired risk culture
Evaluate current culture 
and risk awareness 
Define attributes 
driving risk culture
Create risk culture  
education and  
awareness
Embed the 
desired risk culture
Consistently 
promote risk culture
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
43
Your Bank is a pan-India 
universal bank with the 
goal of being truly a bank 
for all. With that direction 
in consideration, your Bank 
has focussed on creating 
visibility across the country 
through various Marketing 
initiatives. 
Launch of Sonic Branding – 
Call of Bandhan
Like the logo of the Bank is a visual 
identity unique to what it stands for, a 
sonic identity helps establish the brand 
better. In FY 23-24, your Bank launched its 
sonic identity – Call of Bandhan. The track 
has been composed by the renowned and 
award-winning composer, Amit Trivedi. 
The sonic identity has been created 
keeping the values that the Bank stands 
for. Your Bank has implemented the ‘Call 
of Bandhan’ across various touchpoints 
like call centre hold tune, caller tune for 
the official branch mobile numbers and 
also in various communication that the 
Bank develops from time to time. 
Large Scale Awareness Campaigns
Television
Your Bank onboarded Sourav Ganguly 
as the brand ambassador in FY 22-23. 
Using his persona, the Bank executed 
three campaigns on TV to reinforce the 
trust that your Bank is known for. These 
campaigns continued to build on the 
synergy between the Bank and Sourav 
Ganguly, leveraging his mass appeal.
Further, with the closure of FY 22-23, 
the Bank showcased the key milestone 
achievements through a television 
campaign to highlight the strength of 
your Bank in numbers. The campaign 
showcased the Bank’s strong financial 
performance in the fourth quarter of  
FY 22-23, highlighting the Bank’s 
significant achievements and building 
confidence among the Bank’s 
stakeholders. By presenting robust 
financial results, this campaign aimed 
to reinforce trust and assurance in the 
Bank’s strategic direction, demonstrating 
the Bank’s ability to deliver consistent 
growth and value. 
Through various campaigns, your  
Bank has ensured visibility in over 60 TV 
channels, with communication in  
11 languages in the past year to 
reach out to a wide set of audience 
across geographies.
Building Brand Bandhan Bank 
Outdoor design
44
Bandhan Bank Limited
Out-of-Home 
The Bank expanded its out-of-home 
(OOH) advertising efforts, enhancing its 
visibility and reach across various cities. 
To increase awareness among mass 
affluent customer, the Bank hired display 
sites in major airports across the country. 
These sites carried various messages 
ranging from product communication to 
financial strength. 
In Kolkata, the home market for the 
Bank, through sites in prime locations 
throughout the city, the brand garnered 
maximum exposure and engagement. The 
campaigns through these sites have been 
instrumental in keeping the Bank’s brand 
top-of-mind among existing and potential 
customers, reinforcing the Bank’s strength 
in the market. 
Impact Media Partnerships
To further boost the Bank’s visibility, 
Bandhan Bank partnered with prominent 
properties such as ABP Ideas of India, Zee 
Cine Awards, Zee SaReGaMaPa, among 
others. These strategic partnerships 
have significantly enhanced the Bank’s 
reach and presence, allowing the Bank to 
connect with a broader audience through 
trusted media channels. In addition to 
visibility, the Bank also got screen time in 
these high-viewership properties where it 
communicated relevant messages to the 
target audience.
Digital Outreach
The Bank furthered its presence in digital 
media in FY 23-24. The Bank has adopted 
a two-pronged approach towards 
digital media – 
 Drive large scale engagement and 
visibility by leveraging key days 
in the year like Mother’s Day, 
Children’s Day, etc. 
 Drive product visibility through  
various targeted social media posts 
The overall reach on social media 
platforms soared by 317%, while 
impressions increased by 181% over  
the previous year. Additionally, in  
Online Reputation Management (ORM), 
the Bank witnessed a reduction in First 
Level Response time by 65%, further 
emphasising the focus of the Bank in 
addressing customer issues and requests. 
Website traffic also showed impressive 
gains, with traffic from social media 
increasing by 17% and user traffic 
increasing by 20%.
Product Marketing Initiatives
The Bank’s marketing efforts were 
significantly ramped up for its diverse 
product offerings, including home loans, 
car loans, personal loans, fixed deposits, 
and savings accounts. Each campaign was 
meticulously tailored to meet the specific 
needs of the Bank’s customers and drive 
product awareness. 
The Bank’s product marketing efforts are 
closely aligned to the business priorities 
by markets. The objective is to enable 
teams on ground to generate more 
business through concerted efforts. 
Through a mix of product benefits and 
key propositions, the marketing efforts 
are aimed to generate customer interest, 
brand affinity thus enabling sales closure. 
Fraud Awareness and  
Cyber Jagrookta Campaigns 
In FY 23-24, Bandhan Bank undertook 
extensive efforts to educate and alert 
customers about potential fraud activities 
and cyber security threats. Through SMS, 
emailers, and social media campaigns, 
the Bank aimed to enhance customer 
awareness and promote safe banking 
practices. These campaigns highlighted 
various types of fraud, precautionary 
measures, and steps to take in case of 
suspicious activities. The comprehensive 
approach ensured that customers were 
well-informed and equipped to protect 
themselves from cyber threats and fraud.
Foundation Day Celebration
The Foundation Day celebration on 
August 23, 2023, was a grand event held 
at the JW Marriott Hotel in Kolkata. Mr. 
Keki Mistry, Director, HDFC Bank, was 
the chief guest, and, renowned singer, 
Shreya Ghoshal gave a mesmerising 
performance. This celebration not only 
marked another year of success for 
Bandhan Bank but also reinforced the 
Bank’s commitment to its customers 
and stakeholders.
Chief Guest, Mr. Keki Mistry, Director, HDFC Bank, 
delivering the anniversary lecture at the Foundation Day.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
45
Pioneering New Paths for Financial Stability and Success
Treasury Management
The Treasury department of your Bank stands as a centre of 
financial acumen, meticulously balancing the assets and liabilities 
to optimise liquidity, interest rate risk, and profitability, while 
complying with all statutory requirements. With a competent 
team, technological prowess, and forward-thinking approach, the 
department is well-equipped to enable your Bank to unlock its 
potential and move into the next phase of growth.
Your Bank’s strategic priority lies in 
building resilience so as to ensure 
robust financial health irrespective of 
the economic climate. This is where a 
competent Treasury team with a keen 
eye on regulatory requirements and 
market trends brings in its expertise. The 
department’s responsibilities further 
extend to efficiently managing your Bank’s 
investments and trading activities in 
diverse financial instruments including 
bonds, equities and foreign exchange 
markets. By leveraging the sophisticated 
interfaces available and deployed by the 
Bank, and with a deep understanding 
of market dynamics, the Treasury team 
maximises returns while managing the 
risks. Moreover, the department serves 
as an epicentre for foreign exchange 
(forex) activities within your Bank 
and helps clients to easily navigate 
the ever-expanding and complex 
landscape of global currency markets.
The completion of a major IT 
infrastructure upgrade during FY 
23-24 has further enhanced the 
department’s capacity to serve its 
stakeholders in a seamless manner.
Compliance
The Compliance Department plays a pivotal role in the corporate 
governance structure of the Bank. Commitment to compliance is 
embedded throughout the organisation, starting from the highest 
levels where both the Board and Management actively foster a 
robust risk and compliance culture. The Bank maintains a steadfast 
commitment to upholding stringent compliance standards,  
aligning with regulatory, statutory, and internal guidelines.  
A comprehensive Compliance Policy has been established, outlining 
the Bank’s compliance philosophy and clearly delineating roles and 
responsibilities within the Compliance Department.
The Compliance Department supports 
the Board and Management in managing 
the Bank’s compliance risks. It ensures 
that all Bank activities strictly adhere to 
guidelines issued by the RBI and other 
regulators, as well as various statutory 
provisions, standards, and codes prescribed 
by bodies such as FEDAI, FIMMDA, etc. 
The Compliance Department collaborates 
closely with various other departments 
of your Bank to provide guidance on 
regulatory requirements, ensuring 
thorough understanding and compliance.
Additionally, the Compliance Department 
collaborates with the Risk and Internal 
Audit Departments to monitor various 
activities of the Bank with emphasis on 
active risk management. It serves as the 
primary point of contact with the RBI 
and other regulatory entities, offering 
guidance on regulatory interpretation 
and actively monitoring and testing for 
any deviations or gaps. The Department 
supports effective implementation of 
regulatory guidelines and reports regularly 
to the Audit Committee of the Board (ACB), 
the Board, and Management on the 
Bank’s compliance status in response to 
regulatory changes.
The Bank maintains a robust Anti-Money 
Laundering (AML) Policy supported 
by effective tools to mitigate AML 
risk, ensuring ongoing compliance 
and proactive risk management. 
Periodic reviews by the ACB assess the 
Compliance Department’s performance 
and the Bank’s compliance with 
regulatory guidelines.
46
Bandhan Bank Limited
Springboard to Equality
Stories of Transformation
Prembati
Location: Mathura
Prembati and her family were struggling to make ends 
meet. Back then, their business was modest. Despite 
these hardships, they began crafting clay products 
with just two machines and two staff members, 
relying heavily on manual labour. Realising the need 
for financial support to grow their business, Prembati 
turned to Bandhan Bank.
Her first loan from Bandhan Bank, a sum of ₹10,000, 
marked the beginning of a transformative journey. With 
each subsequent loan, her business took significant 
leaps. They invested in more machines, expanded their 
product range, and increased production capacity. 
Today, they operate with five machines, and her family 
is actively involved in the business. The business also 
provides employment to five skilled craftsmen from 
the community, producing 2,500 to 3,000 units of clay 
products daily to meet the ever-growing demand.
Bandhan Bank has 
been our lifeline. 
From the very first 
loan, they believed 
in us and supported 
us through thick and 
thin. We will remain 
forever grateful for their 
unwavering support.
Looking ahead, Prembati plans to use the next loan from 
Bandhan Bank to acquire a dyeing machine, which will 
further enhance their production capabilities and expand 
their product range.
Their clay products are highly sought after and sold 
to wholesalers across Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. Their 
product’s superior quality caused the demand to surge 
rapidly. With a substantial profit of around ₹80,000 per 
month, their financial stability has dramatically improved 
from their initial earnings of around ₹8,000 per month.
This transformation reaffirms that nothing is impossible 
with determination and hard work. And, with a little help 
from Bandhan Bank, Prembati has not only improved the 
family’s financial and lifestyle conditions but also created 
job opportunities for others in the community.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
47
Soniya Duseja
Location: Surat
Soniya Duseja’s story began with a desire to start her 
own business. However, she faced the harsh reality of 
financial struggles, constantly battling to make ends 
meet. Limited finances and the daily grind of managing 
household expenses left her feeling constrained. 
Despite these significant challenges, Soniya’s spirit 
remained undaunted.
With limited funds, Soniya started small, selling goods 
from a simple table in a vacant room of her house. 
However, the meagre profits of ₹15,000 per month 
were insufficient to sustain her ambitions. Responding 
to customer demands, especially for cosmetics, Soniya 
envisioned expanding her business but lacked the 
necessary funds. Soniya’s fortunes changed in 2019 
when a neighbour introduced her to Bandhan Bank. 
Securing her first loan of ₹25,000, Soniya wasted no 
time investing in her business. With each loan, she 
diligently expanded her product range, rented a shop 
and reinvested the profits for further growth.
As her business flourished, Soniya’s shop underwent 
a remarkable transformation. With an increasing 
monthly sales exceeding ₹2.5 lakh and monthly profits 
reaching around ₹1 lakh, Soniya expanded the shop and 
renovated her home. Today, her fully furnished shop 
offers a diverse array of products for women, including 
cosmetics, bags, and dresses.
Soniya’s success story extends beyond business metrics. 
With her son and daughter-in-law joining the business, 
Bandhan Bank was a beacon of hope 
when all other doors were closed. 
Their faith in my potential allowed 
me to build my dream business from 
scratch. Today, I am proud of what 
I have achieved, and I owe it all to their 
incredible support.
Soniya’s enterprise has transformed into a collaborative 
family venture. The shop is now staffed by one employee 
to assist her with daily management.
Remarkably, Soniya’s shop, which initially had a stock 
value of just ₹40,000, now boasts inventory worth over 
₹10 lakh. Her current loan with Bandhan Bank stands 
at ₹4 lakh, a testament to the institution’s unwavering 
support in her journey. Reflecting on her journey, Soniya 
expresses profound gratitude towards Bandhan Bank, 
whose support proved instrumental when no other 
avenue seemed viable.
48
Bandhan Bank Limited
Jamimahrani Samuel
Location: Goa
Jamimahrani Samuel used to run a restaurant while 
her husband managed a wholesale vegetable shop. 
However, when the COVID-19 lockdown hit, the 
restaurant faced tough times, leading them to shut 
it down. During this challenging period, Jamimahrani 
found joy in the arrival of their baby boy and became 
a full-time mother. As their son grew, Jamimahrani’s 
entrepreneurial spirit reignited, urging her to reopen 
her restaurant. However, the lack of funds posed to be a 
hurdle for her.
Fortunately, fate smiled upon them when they 
discovered that Bandhan Bank’s banking outlet was 
conveniently located right above their vegetable shop. 
Seizing the opportunity, Jamimahrani approached the 
Bank’s staff, sharing their situation and requesting for a 
loan to help her restart the restaurant.
Things took a turn for Jamimahrani, when her 
association with Bandhan Bank began. By granting 
Jamimahrani her first loan of ₹2,00,000, the Bank not 
only provided financial assistance but also instilled 
confidence in her ability to succeed.
Bandhan Bank came 
into our lives at a time 
when we had lost all 
hope. Their support 
allowed us to revive my 
restaurant and thrive 
despite the pandemic. 
They have shown us 
that with the right 
support, we can achieve 
our dreams and more. 
We are deeply thankful.
With the financial support from Bandhan Bank, 
Jamimahrani reopened her restaurant, fondly named “777 
Eater’s Den”. She found a cosy space to lease and hired a 
team of three skilled cooks, two waiters, and a competent 
manager to bring her vision to life. As “777 Eater’s Den” 
opened its doors, it quickly gained popularity, with locals 
gathering in large numbers to enjoy their favourite 
dishes. Meanwhile, her husband continued to run the 
vegetable shop.
Today, Jamimahrani’s shop is thriving. With daily sales 
exceeding ₹70,000 and monthly profits surpassing 
₹2,00,000, their financial stability has dramatically 
improved, with a little help from Bandhan Bank.
Encouraged by their success, the couple expressed their 
desire to expand their businesses further, with plans to 
seek additional support from Bandhan Bank in the future. 
Jamimahrani’s journey is a testament to the transformative 
impact of the Bank’s support, not just in their lives but 
in the larger context of women empowerment and 
employment generation.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
49
Committed to Making a Difference 
in the Communities
The Bank’s journey is rooted in its commitment to transforming 
lives and fostering community development. The Bank conducts 
its CSR initiatives through various agencies, including Bandhan-
Konnagar. Each programme aims to have a profound impact in areas 
such as education, healthcare, livelihood promotion, sustainable 
development, climate action, financial literacy, skill enhancement, 
and job creation.
Targeting the Hardcore  
Poor Programme
The programme takes a 
comprehensive approach, 
offering free assets, 
consistent counselling and 
mentoring support. To 
ensure their basic needs are 
met during the initial phase, 
a weekly consumption 
stipend is provided.
This is a unique initiative specifically 
designed for the most vulnerable women. 
Through this programme, women are 
provided with grants in the form of 
non-monetary assets, enabling them 
to generate income and improve their 
livelihoods. Within a span of 24 months, 
these women undergo a transformative 
journey, lifting themselves out of 
extreme poverty and integrating into 
mainstream society.
The programme takes a comprehensive 
approach, offering not only free assets 
but also consistent counselling and 
mentoring support. To ensure their basic 
needs are met during the initial phase, a 
weekly consumption stipend is provided. 
Financial literacy training equips them 
with the knowledge to make informed 
financial decisions, while education on 
relevant social issues enhances their 
awareness and overall well-being. The 
programme also focusses on building 
their confidence.
Over the years, this intervention has 
demonstrated a positive impact on the 
lives of many participants. They achieve a 
reasonable monthly income, experience 
improved health, and are able to provide 
support to their families.
8
States
5,903
Villages
50,500
No. of women covered
3.2x-4.2x
approximate increase in 
household income 
50
Bandhan Bank Limited
Health Programme
Education Programme
As part of this initiative, 
interested women from 
the villages are selected 
and provided with 
comprehensive training to 
become health volunteers 
known as Swastha 
Sahayikas (SS).
In rural areas, Bandhan 
Education Centres and 
Bandhan Academy have been 
established to provide quality 
education to pre-primary and 
primary students. Bandhan 
Education Centres prioritise the 
education of girls and provide 
free complimentary reading 
materials and school kits.
5
States
5
States
5,213
Villages
1,484
Villages
13,44,558 
No. of women covered
1,14,391
No. of students covered
100%
Stakeholders reported 
improvement in nutritional levels, 
health, safe drinking water and  
access to healthcare services and 
menstrual hygiene products
- RY Impact Assessment Study
100%
Students were able to identify 
numbers, and alphabets, can read 
texts, and perform basic calculations 
to meet the goals of Foundational 
Literacy and Numeracy (FLN)
-EY Impact Assessment Study
This programme aims to raise health 
awareness and reduce healthcare 
expenses for underprivileged families, 
with special emphasis on the well-being 
of children under five years of age, 
pregnant women, lactating mothers, and 
adolescent girls. It focusses on topics 
such as safe motherhood, child nutrition, 
personal hygiene, and sanitation.
The education programme strives to 
provide quality education in a supportive 
environment to underprivileged children 
across different age groups in pre-primary 
and primary classes. It adopts a unique 
and cost-effective model to ensure 
access to education and empower these 
children with the skills and knowledge 
necessary for their overall growth 
and future success. The programme 
focusses on classroom learning, 
attendance, and offers opportunities for 
extracurricular activities.
These volunteers play a crucial role in 
the villages by organising regular health 
forums and providing health education 
to the community. The programme 
also includes services related to linkage 
and referral, the distribution of health 
kits, and the establishment of water 
treatment plants to ensure access to 
safe drinking water.
Additionally, under the programme, 
low-cost formal schools known as 
Bandhan Academy have been established. 
These schools offer comprehensive 
development opportunities for children, 
including academic education and 
engagement in extracurricular activities.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
51
Employing the 
Unemployed Programme
Financial Literacy  
Programme 
Bandhan Skill Development 
Centres (BSDC) have been 
established to offer skill 
development courses in 
various domains, including 
sales, hospitality, ITes-BPO, 
computerised accounting, 
refrigerator and air 
conditioner repair, and more.
The objective is to raise 
awareness among the rural 
populace and disadvantaged 
women regarding financial 
matters and empower 
them to take charge of their 
personal finances
5
States
2
States
17
Centres
2,017
Villages
17,114 
No. of youth covered
4,76,872 
No. of women covered
75% 
Youths placed in various industries 
with average monthly income 
of nearly `11,000
-EY Impact Assessment Study
100%
Stakeholders can understand 
and manage their finance better 
and feel confident in using digital 
financial services
-EY Impact Assessment Study
This programme focusses on tackling 
the issue of unemployment in India 
by providing vocational training to 
unemployed youth. To achieve this, 
Bandhan Skill Development Centres 
(BSDC) have been established to offer skill 
development courses in various domains, 
including sales, hospitality, ITes-BPO, 
computerised accounting, refrigerator 
and air conditioner repair, and more.
This programme focusses on promoting 
financial literacy and inclusion in rural 
communities, recognising that financial 
knowledge and access to financial 
services are vital for individuals and 
communities to progress towards 
sustainable growth.
Upon successful completion of the skill 
development courses, candidates have 
the option to explore entrepreneurial 
opportunities or secure employment with 
well-established companies. By providing 
vocational training and facilitating job 
placement, the programme strives to 
empower unemployed youth, enabling 
them to become self-reliant and 
contribute to the nation’s workforce.
This initiative places special emphasis 
on enhancing participants’ financial 
awareness and confidence. Participants 
are equipped with the knowledge 
and skills to access a range of banking 
services, including insurance and 
pension schemes.
52
Bandhan Bank Limited
Climate Action  
Programme 
7
States
180
Villages
4,17,525  
No. of saplings planted
Aligned with the United Nations’ 
Sustainable Development Goal 13 and 
the Paris Accord, the Climate Action 
Programme aims to combat climate 
change and its impacts. Recognising the 
interconnectedness of climate action with 
the broader 2030 Agenda and the 16 
Sustainable Development Goals.
Climate change is primarily driven by 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and it 
is crucial to reduce these emissions and 
enhance carbon sequestration to mitigate 
its effects. Your Bank’s Climate Action 
Programme contributes to this goal 
through the following strategies:
Reducing Atmospheric Carbon
Climate Change Adaptation 
Carbon sequestration through 
plantation and agroforestry   
Building resilience to climate change 
and extreme weather conditions 
among vulnerable communities by 
addressing the interrelated SDGs
Reducing GHG emissions through 
clean development practices and 
technologies in energy, agriculture, 
and allied sectors
Mitigating climate change impacts
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC) 2021 states that the 
agricultural sector in India faces high 
vulnerability to drastic weather events 
due to poor climate-resilient agricultural 
practices, inadequate water management, 
over-dependence on conventional energy 
sources, extensive chemical use harming 
soil health, loss of soil quality and topsoil, 
excessive groundwater dependence, 
biodiversity loss, and disruptions to 
ecosystem balance, contributing to high 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
Considering these vulnerabilities in the 
agricultural sector, this year the Bank 
launched a new initiative on Climate 
Smart Villages (CSV) under the Climate 
Action Programme. The aim of this 
programme is to develop a holistic 
climate action approach for villages 
to enhance climate resilience. This 
includes ensuring water security and 
mitigating erratic rainfall patterns through 
water conservation to protect rain-fed 
agriculture and promoting the adoption 
of climate-resilient crop varieties.
The Climate Action Programme also 
maintains its commitment to carbon 
sequestration through afforestation, 
particularly mangrove plantation, and the 
greening of urban spaces.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory  
Reports
Financial  
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
53
54
Bandhan Bank Limited
Board’s Report
To
The Members,
Your Board of Directors present the Tenth Annual Report on the business and operations of your Bank, together with the Audited Financial 
Statement for the Financial Year (‘FY’) ended March 31, 2024.
Financial Performance of the Bank
The financial highlights for the FY under review, are presented below:
(Figures in ` crore)
Particulars
 For the FY ended
 March 31, 2024
 March 31, 2023
Deposits:
1,35,201.99
1,08,064.69
- Savings Bank Deposits
40,486.15
36,038.10
- Current Account Deposits
9,664.55
6,412.43
- Term Deposits
85,051.28
65,614.16
Advances (Net):
1,21,136.78
1,04,756.77
- Cash Credits, Overdrafts and Loans repayable on demand
22,844.68
22,048.64
- Term Loans
98,292.10
82,708.13
Total Assets/ Liabilities
1,77,841.66
1,56,037.09
Net Interest Income
10,325.61
9,259.62
Non-Interest Income
2,164.65
2,468.55
Less: Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)
5,613.20
4,494.17
Profit before Depreciation, Provisions and Tax
6,877.06
7,234.00
Less: Depreciation
237.58
142.65
Less: Provisions
3,696.57
4,198.37
Profit Before Tax (PBT)
2,942.91
2,892.98
Less: Provision for Tax
713.35
698.34
Profit After Tax (PAT)
2,229.56
2,194.64
Balance in Profit & Loss Account brought forward from previous year
7,453.78
6,009.94
Appropriations:
Transfer to Statutory Reserves
557.39
548.66
Transfer to Statutory Reserve u/s 36(1)(viii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961
98.41
169.21
Transfer to Capital Reserve
4.18
1.74
Transfer to Investment Reserve
153.28
-
Transfer to Investment Fluctuation Reserve
(50.68)
31.19
Dividend pertaining to previous year paid during the year
241.63
-
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet
8,679.13
7,453.78
EPS (Basic) (in ₹)
13.84
13.62
EPS (Diluted) (in ₹)
13.84
13.62
State of Affairs of the Bank
While your Bank completed eight years of its operation during the 
FY under review, it has continued to demonstrate strong growth 
both on liability as well as loan side. During the FY, total deposits 
grew further from ₹1,08,064.69 crore as on March 31, 2023 to 
₹1,35,201.99 crore as on March 31, 2024 registering a growth of 
25.1 per cent. whereas total advances (net) grew further from 
₹1,04,756.77 crore as on March 31, 2023 to ₹1,21,136.78 crore 
as on March 31, 2024 registering a growth of 15.6 per cent. Your 
Bank has also crossed ₹2.5 lakh crore in terms of total business 
and the size of Balance Sheet crossed ₹1.75 lakh crore. The strong 
growth of your Bank reflects the trust of millions of customers 
and their continued association over the years with the Bank. 
Your Bank stayed on the path of building on faith reposed by its 
customers which is reflected in its staggering customer base of 
3.36 crore as on March 31, 2024.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
55
During the FY under review, your Bank has been on the course 
with its strategic priorities of portfolio diversification. As on March 
31, 2024, microfinance loan book has been reduced to 32.7 per 
cent. of the total asset book from 34.9 per cent. as on March 31, 
2023 whereas Commercial Banking portfolio was at 21.6 per cent., 
Housing portfolio at 24 per cent., Retail portfolio at 4.5 per cent. 
and SBAL portfolio was at 17.2 per cent. of the total loan book of 
your Bank as on March 31, 2024.
With regard to the strategic priority of geographical diversification, 
among the new banking outlets opened during the year under 
review, the majority were outside of the core markets of East and 
North East India, resulting in an increased presence in the western 
and southern parts of the country. During the FY under review, 
your Bank has added 298 new banking outlets taking the total 
count of banking outlets to 6,297 as on March 31, 2024. Out of the 
total banking outlets, 33 per cent. are in rural, 37 per cent. in semi-
urban, 18 per cent. in urban and 12 per cent. in metro locations. 
The number of customers has increased from 3 crore as on March 
31, 2023 to 3.36 crore as on March 31, 2024. Expansion of network 
of banking outlets and customer base, resulted in higher deposits 
growth of 25.1 per cent. The Current Account and Savings Account 
(‘CASA’) deposits have recorded an increase of 18.1 per cent. from 
₹42,450.53 crore as on March 31, 2023 to ₹50,150.70 crore as on 
March 31, 2024.
During the FY under review, the total income (net) of your 
Bank has increased by 6.5 per cent. to ₹12,490.26 crore as 
against the total income of ₹11,728.17 crore for FY 2023. Net 
Interest Income for the FY 2024, stood at ₹10,325.61 crore 
compared to ₹9,259.62 crore for FY 2023, representing a 
growth of 11.5 per cent. NIM for the FY 2024 was 7.3 per cent. 
The Profit After Tax (‘PAT’) stood at ₹2,229.56 crore for the 
FY 2024, an increase of 1.6 per cent. as compared to ₹2,194.64 
crore for FY 2023. Consequently, Return on Average Equity (‘ROAE’) 
was 10.7 per cent. and Return on Average Asset (‘ROAA’) was 
1.4 per cent. Correspondingly, basic as well as diluted Earnings 
Per Share (‘EPS’) increased from ₹13.62 to ₹13.84 as at the end of 
FY 2024 in comparison to FY 2023. The GNPA as on March 31, 
2024 was 3.84 per cent. whereas net NPA was 1.11 per cent.
Your Bank continues to focus on financial inclusion by providing 
various financial services to the underserved. The Reserve Bank 
of India (‘RBI’) has mandated Priority Sector Lending (‘PSL’) of 
a minimum 40 per cent. of advances for all banks. Your Bank’s 
PSL was ₹60,123 crore as on March 31, 2024 as compared to 
₹54,176 crore as on March 31, 2023. At the end of FY 2024, 
PSL as a proportion of the gross advances of ₹1,24,574.05 crore 
was 48 per cent.
Highlights of various business segments of your Bank during the FY 
under review are mentioned below:
Emerging Entrepreneurs Business
The Emerging Entrepreneurs Business (‘EEB’) of your Bank has been 
serving borrowers at the bottom of the pyramid with affordable 
and convenient loans to help them develop into entrepreneurs 
and transform their lives. Your Bank’s EEB strategy is guided by 
its long-held philosophy of financial inclusion and economic 
empowerment of the disadvantaged sections of the society. The 
endeavour of your Bank is to nurture these entrepreneurs and help 
them move up the socio-economic hierarchy. In their movement 
upwards, your Bank is by them to support with whichever financial 
service they may require in the journey.
Your Bank offers a wide array of loans through Banking Unit (‘BU’) 
outlets under EEB vertical to benefit small business owners in 
need of financial assistance. Your Bank operates its Group Loans 
and Small Business & Agri Loans (‘SBAL’) business channels from its 
BU outlets while Small Enterprise Loans (‘SEL’) are operated from 
the bank branches.
Each BU is linked to a bank branch for operational convenience. 
BUs are self-sufficient and empowered to open deposit accounts 
using TABs and also open loan accounts after necessary credit 
checks. The highlight of the BUs’ operations is the TABs that are 
connected to the Core Banking System (‘CBS’) through cellular 
data. Relationship Officers (‘RO’) carry these TABs to their group 
meetings, and the entire instalment reconciliation for the customer 
happens through these TABs on real-time basis. To ensure timely 
and effective support to the BUs in their day-to-day functioning, 
your Bank has a structure comprising Circles, Territories, Divisions, 
Areas and BU Catchments. A central operation team maintains 
oversight of the quality of the operations and adherence to 
prevalent guidelines at all times. Your Bank lays significant emphasis 
on processes and controls to help maintain uniform and consistent 
standards in transaction processing and service delivery, as well as 
compliance with regulatory and statutory guidelines.
During the FY under review, your Bank’s commitment towards 
financial inclusion is also reflected in the fact that it offered loans 
to 21,09,921 new borrowers under Group Loan and SBAL during 
the FY 2024. The portfolio for Group Loans stood at ₹40,745.31 
crore whereas SBAL and SEL portfolio stood at ₹21,501.74 crore 
and ₹5,671.83 crore, respectively, at the end of FY 2024, as your 
Bank worked towards bringing additional measures in credit 
control in order to improve the quality of its portfolio.
Your Bank now has several loan products under its Group Loans, 
SBAL and other categories, which are provided from BU outlets 
and branches to cater better to the varied demands and needs of 
its customers:
Group loans
1.	
Srishti Loan: Timely funds to start a new business or grow an 
existing one. Loan size is from ₹15,000 to ₹1,50,000.
2.	
Subriddhi Loan: Loan amount is up to 50 per cent. of the 
disbursement amount of running primary loan. Sanctioned 
to help customers fulfil their extra business requirement 
during their ongoing loan.
3.	
Suraksha Loan: Loan size is up to ₹15,000 and is sanctioned 
to help existing customers meet their emergency expenses, 
e.g. - medical, drinking water and sanitation.
56
Bandhan Bank Limited
4.	
Sushiksha Loan: Loan size is up to ₹10,000 and is sanctioned 
to help customers meet expenses towards the education of 
their children.
5.	
Baazar Loan: With a loan size from ₹26,000 to ₹1,50,000, 
this product is for small entrepreneurs, who have an existing 
super-saver account with your Bank. This loan provides 
financial support to deposit customers for their working 
capital needs.
Small Business and Agri Loans
1.	
Sahayata Loan: Loan to fund growing business needs 
of individuals involved in an array of income generation 
activities. Loan amount is from ₹50,001 to ₹5,00,000.
2.	
Suyog Loan: Loan amount is up to 50 per cent. of the 
disbursement amount of running Sahayata loan. Sanctioned 
to help customers fulfil their additional short-term business 
requirements during their ongoing loan.
Small Enterprise Loan (‘SEL’)
In the current economic scenario, India is a country burgeoning 
with small businesses which are regularly in need of short to 
medium-term funding to maintain and grow their businesses. 
The SEL vertical of your Bank empowers these businesses to 
expand by extending them business loans tailored to suit their 
needs. As on March 31, 2024, the SEL book stands at ₹5,671.83 
crore, with over 1.22 lakh customers.
Your Bank’s SEL product is served through more than 1,400 
branches pan India, with presence in 29 states and union 
territories. With the COVID pandemic now firmly behind us, the 
SEL portfolio is now expected to grow at a much faster rate than 
in the recent past, thus making it all the more essential for your 
Bank to offer loans to these firms, and aid them in their pursuit 
of growth and expansion, in turn contributing to the overall 
betterment of the economy.
In an endeavor to understand its customers better, your Bank’s 
SEL vertical has constantly taken inputs from borrowers and 
with the help of these inputs, updated and added to the catalogue 
of offered products to remain at par with other leading banks in 
the country.
The following products are presently offered under SEL:
• 	
SEL Term Loans (₹1.01 lakh to ₹10 lakh)
	
These are term loans with a tenure of one to three years, 
and they are aimed towards financing working capital or 
asset creation needs of small businesses or other short-term 
business requirements. These loans range from ₹1.01 lakh to 
₹10 lakh.
• 	
SEL Max Loans (₹10.01 lakh to ₹25 lakh)
	
This is similar to SEL Term Loans, but it is targeted towards 
slightly larger enterprises in terms of revenue, which might 
need loans of value higher than ₹10 lakh. These loans range 
from ₹10.01 lakh to ₹25 lakh.
• 	
SEL Cash Credit (₹5 lakh to ₹25 lakh)
	
This is a revolving credit facility, whereby a limit will be set up 
in the customer’s loan account and the customer can avail 
of whatever amount is required and pay interest only on the 
utilised amount. The limit is subject to renewal on a yearly 
basis. These loans range from ₹5 lakh to ₹25 lakh.
• 	
SEL Secured Overdraft Loans (₹10.01 lakh to ₹25 lakh)
	
This overdraft product has been added to your Bank’s SEL 
product bouquet during FY 2023 with a vision to cater to the 
MSME borrowers who need working capital in the form of an 
overdraft and are willing to pledge security for the loan. The 
range for this product is from ₹10.01 lakh to ₹25 lakh and the 
overdraft limits are subject to renewal on a yearly basis.
During the FY under review, your Bank has taken the following 
initiatives:
•	
Your Bank has taken a new step towards digitising its business 
channels by upgrading to a new CBS in the FY 2024. This step 
strengthens your Bank’s commitment towards providing 
a quicker, better and hassle-free banking experience to all 
segments of its customers.
•	
Your Bank has taken several initiatives to strengthen the 
credit assessment process for Group Loans and SBAL, and 
other loans in order to have a better portfolio. Your Bank 
has further deployed a separate Loan Sanctioning team to 
manage the loan sanctioning process for Group Loans.
•	
Your Bank has also deployed a separate independent 
Recovery Team to improve recovery collections from 
delinquent customers where the business team will focus on 
collections from standard accounts to restrict slippages while 
the recovery team will have a focused approach to collection 
from NPA accounts.
•	
Your Bank has deployed several analytics-driven models 
to improve both, sourcing and recovery. Some of the key 
initiatives in this regard are: the identification of good 
borrowers for a higher ticket loan based on a data-driven 
renewal base, identification of potential borrowers for 
graduating to individual loan, categorisation of delinquent 
borrowers based on their propensity to repay and prioritising 
collections accordingly, etc.
•	
Awareness about using digital solutions, like smartphone-
based transactions and use of credit/ debit cards for online 
transactions are still persistent issues to the customers under 
the Banking Unit vertical. To overcome these challenges, 
your Bank is giving training to make the customers aware 
about the benefits of digital payments and various other 
aspects, such as seeding bank accounts with mobile number 
and Aadhaar. Your Bank has also taken initiative by informing 
the customers to pay through online transactions.
•	
Your Bank has always placed strong emphasis on training 
and development to upskill and reskill staff to ensure 
that they stay relevant to the fast-changing world across 
levels and locations. This includes online and classroom 
training sessions.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
57
Wholesale Banking
Financial Institution Group (FIG)
Your Bank continuously strives to meet the diverse credit needs 
across sectors, with a dedicated focus on Institutional Lending 
catering to Non-Banking Financial Companies (‘NBFCs’) and 
Housing Finance Companies (‘HFCs’) to public financial institutions. 
In FY 2024-25, your Bank is planning to foray into the financial 
requirements of Education & Healthcare Institutions through its 
existing product suite, which includes term loans, working capital 
limits, cash credit and overdraft facilities. Your Bank also has credit 
exposure through Direct Assignments and Investment exposure 
through Pass Through Certificates (‘PTCs’) and Non-Convertible 
Debentures (‘NCDs’). In the NBFCs segment, your Bank’s primary 
focus is secured financing through housing loan, loan against 
property, gold loan, business purpose loan, commercial & 
vehicle financing, etc. While in the NBFC-MFI (Microfinance 
institutions) segment, the focus is to cater primarily to the priority 
segment funding.
FIG segment has a diverse portfolio with geographical presence 
across the country. The Total Advances of the segment stood 
at ₹12,814.89 crore as on March 31, 2024 as compared to 
₹10,386.72 crore as on March 31, 2023, a growth of 23 per cent. 
during FY 2024. 
Mid-Market Group
Mid-Market Group (‘MMG’) offers loan products to majorly Small 
& Medium Enterprises (‘SMEs’) and large corporate borrowers 
for meeting their working capital and capital expenditure 
requirements, including non-fund based facilities. These are 
generally secured loans extended to businesses involved in 
manufacturing, trading, services, etc., with acceptable credit 
ratings. The segment offers both fund-based and non-fund based 
facilities including term loan, cash credit, overdraft, loan against 
property, construction/ project finance, lease rental discounting, 
Letter of Credit (‘LoC’), Bank Guarantee (‘BG’), etc. While, the 
Cash Management Services (‘CMS’) and Trade Finance have already 
been launched, the implementation of Supply Chain Finance is 
in process.
The Total Advances of the segment stood at ₹6,700.68 crore as 
on March 31, 2024 as compared to ₹3,605 crore as on March 31, 
2023, a growth of 86 per cent. during FY 2024.
Commercial – LAP
This segment caters primarily to proprietorships, partnerships 
and private limited companies for Loans Against Property (‘LAP’). 
This is in line with your Bank’s overall objective of increasing the 
secured lending portfolio. The segment will leverage your Bank’s 
more than 300 branches besides sourcing from the open market, 
along with a higher level of engagement to meet additional 
financial requirements of customers. As we move along, your Bank 
will use technology for better turnaround time which is essential 
for scaling up the business volume in this space. The segment 
offers a bouquet of income-linked programmes to cater to most of 
the sectors in the market.
The Total Advances of the segment stood at ₹515.50 crore as on 
March 31, 2024 as compared to ₹53.14 crore as on March 31, 
2023, a growth of 870 per cent. during FY 2024.
Business Banking Group
Business Banking Group (‘BBG’) offers loan products to the needs 
of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (‘MSMEs’) to meet their 
working capital or capital expenditure requirements. These are 
secured loans generally between ₹5 lakh to ₹15 crore extended to 
businesses involved in manufacturing, trading, and services. The 
loans are extended in the form of secured credit facilities including 
term loan, cash credit, overdraft or lease rental discounting or as 
non-fund-based facilities like letter of credit or bank guarantee. 
Some of the schematic loan products offered by the segment are 
as follows:
•	
SME Business Connect
	
These loans help entrepreneurs in financing their working 
capital and capital expenditure requirements against primary 
security of current or fixed assets and collateral security 
including residential or commercial property or liquid 
securities. These loans, ranging from ₹10 lakh to ₹5 crore, are 
provided as fund-based facilities like overdraft, cash credit, 
or term loan and non-fund-based facilities like letter of credit 
or bank guarantees.
•	
SME GST Connect
	
These loans, for financing entrepreneurs’ working capital 
needs, are provided as an overdraft or fund-based facilities. 
These loans are offered against collateral security, which can 
be in the form of current assets, property or liquid securities. 
The loan quantum ranges from ₹25 lakh to ₹3 crore.
•	
Bandhan CGTMSE Loan
	
Your Bank offers loans to finance the working capital and 
capital expenditure of Micro and Small Enterprises (‘MSEs’). 
These loans are provided as fund-based and non-fund-
based facilities, without any collateral security or third-party 
guarantee. The loan quantum ranges from ₹5 lakh to ₹5 
crore, with credit guarantee of CGTMSE up to a maximum 
limit of ₹5 crore per borrower. Collateral security for the 
remaining uncovered portion of the credit facility can be 
obtained under “Hybrid/ Partial Collateral Security” product, 
introduced by CGTMSE.
The BBG fund based book was at ₹1,009.65 crore as on March 31, 
2024 as against ₹535 crore as on March 31, 2023, registering a 
growth of about 89 per cent. during FY 2024.
Agri-business Loans
Providing credit for agricultural activities not only helps increase 
crop production but also empowers farmers, and supports the 
backbone of the Indian economy - the agricultural sector. Your Bank 
recognises the importance of this sector and offers a wide range 
of credit facilities to provide financial support to all participants 
in the Agri value-chain system. Currently, the segment provides 
Kisan Cash Credit (‘KCC’) loans to borrowers engaged in farming 
activities, including animal husbandry, horticulture, pisciculture, 
etc., with competitive interest rates and minimal documentation. 
58
Bandhan Bank Limited
By doing so, your Bank is making it easier for farmers to access 
credit and invest in their farms to increase productivity.
Currently, the segment is expanding its reach by offering 
(i) both fund-based and non-fund-based credit facilities to entities 
involved in agri-ancillary products and services, such as food and 
agri processors, agri input dealers, etc.; (ii) credit facilities to 
support development of agricultural infrastructure; (iii) financing 
to Corporate Agri customers, with a key focus to on-board quality 
customers, and (iv) commodity finance.
The Total Advances of the segment stood at ₹267.78 crore as on 
March 31, 2024 as compared to ₹126.52 crore as on March 31, 
2023, a growth of 112 per cent. during FY 2024.
Housing Finance
Your Bank has continued its focus on the long-term strategy 
for Housing finance. This business has seen a robust growth in 
the financial year in spite of the challenging macro-economic 
environment. In addition to the existing business channels, in the 
financial year, your Bank has introduced a Prime lending channel, 
which has impacted positively with a higher disbursement and 
portfolio growth along with a lowered delinquency risk.
During the FY under review, your Bank has expanded its home 
loan network to over 450 branches offering housing loans and 320 
Banking Units offering micro-home loans spread across 18 states 
and 2 union territories.
With a focus on acquiring quality business and reducing 
delinquency, your Bank has disbursed ₹7,270 crore during the 
financial year, representing a growth of 14 per cent., and has been 
able to reduce its GNPA to 1.6 per cent. from 3.9 per cent. in the 
previous financial year while growing the portfolio to ₹29,915.65 
crore, a growth of around 11 per cent.
Although the Prime channel has been contributing significantly 
to the overall business, your Bank’s focus has still remained its 
affordable housing business, which is its primary strength. This is 
indicative by its sanctioning average ticket size of sub ₹20 lakh. 
During the FY, your Bank continued the special campaign “Junoon 
Rahe Barkaraar (JBR)” for higher ticket loans, offering attractive 
and competitive rates of interest to customers with good credit 
history and high credit scores. This campaign has continued to 
attract better credit-worthy customers.
The introduction of Direct Sales Agent (‘DSA’) in the previous FY 
has continued to gain traction and has been contributing to overall 
disbursement. The newly introduced prime channel has also seen 
steady traction since its introduction during the FY.
Your Bank continues to offer loans at floating rates linked to an 
External Benchmark Rate (‘EBR’), which has adopted the repo 
rate announced by RBI as the EBR rate. Your Bank has continued 
to offer the existing customers who are not on EBR, an option to 
convert their loans to EBR linked loans. As per the directive by 
RBI, your Bank has also provided an option to the customer to 
choose between “impact to EMI or term or both” based on their 
eligibility for their benchmark-linked loans at the time of change in 
benchmark rates during their loan tenure.
Retail Asset
In order to cater to a broader demography and mitigate risk, your 
Bank has constantly strived to introduce and reinforce several 
Retail Asset products throughout the FY 2024. Customers now have 
access to a range of loan options including Gold Loans, Personal 
Loans, Two-Wheeler Loans, Car Loans, and Commercial Vehicle & 
Construction Equipment (‘CVCE’) Loans offered by your Bank.
•	
Gold Loan: Designed to address customers’ immediate 
financial requirements swiftly, our Gold Loan offers a 
streamlined documentation process, quick processing, and 
extensive branch coverage. With loan amounts ranging from 
₹10,000 to ₹40,00,000 and flexible tenure options up to 
3 years, customers benefit from competitive interest rates.
•	
Personal Loan: During the FY 2024, your Bank has constantly 
recalibrated the personal loan approach and refined the 
acquisition strategy keeping aligned to the market dynamics. 
A specialised sales team does the procurement of loans, 
catering to both existing customers and newcomers to the 
Bank. Throughout FY 2024, your Bank has been methodically 
broadening this sector across all distribution channels, 
encompassing vital markets. Personal loans, featuring 
competitive interest rates, are available within the range of 
₹50,000 to ₹25,00,000, with a maximum tenure of 5 years.
•	
Two-Wheeler Loans: Your Bank has demonstrated 
remarkable growth, maintaining a consistent trajectory, 
and has now surpassed a customer base of over 1,00,000 
happy customers, with over 90 per cent. of these being 
new to bank customers. Harnessing its digital prowess, your 
Bank streamlined the loan approval process, achieving an 
impressive approval time of just 5 minutes for more than 90 
per cent. of applicants. This revamped loan service is tailored 
to meet diverse customer needs, offering financing upto 
₹5,00,000. Moreover, your Bank has adapted the product 
to meet industry standards, introducing a dealer/ channel-
based distribution model to extend its reach across various 
geographical locations.
•	
Car Loan: The Car Loan product has been meticulously crafted 
to simplify vehicle ownership and enhance accessibility for all 
customers. Offering competitive interest rates and adaptable 
repayment options, its Car Loan extends financial support 
for the acquisition of both new and pre-owned vehicles. By 
harnessing our digital capabilities, your Bank streamlines 
the application process, ensuring a seamless experience 
with swift approval times, thus enabling customers to 
realise their dream of owning a car sooner. Your Bank has 
developed a range of product schemes catering to a diverse 
array of customer profiles, including salaried individuals, 
self-employed individuals, and non-individual entities, with 
loan amounts spanning from ₹1 lakh to ₹1 crore. Leveraging 
its extensive network of manufacturers and dealers, your 
Bank is committed to delivering the finest deals to both 
existing and new customers, ensuring unparalleled value 
and satisfaction.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
59
•	
CVCE Loan: Road transport is crucial for moving goods and 
people as it offers complete connectivity and adaptability. 
Your Bank has introduced Commercial Vehicle Financing 
for customers to support this sector. It’s designed for self-
employed individuals and businesses needing loans from 
₹1 lakh to ₹15 crore. Your Bank is dedicated to providing 
exceptional value to its valued customers, using its wide 
branch network, partnerships with manufacturers, and 
dealer connections to offer the best deals possible.
Branch Banking
Your Bank provides an array of retail liability products designed 
to promptly and effectively cater to diverse banking requirements 
across various customer segments. Prioritising customer 
satisfaction, your Bank consistently innovates and offers 
convenient banking solutions to meet its customers’ needs.
During FY 2024, your Bank’s deposit portfolio witnessed a 
robust growth of 25 per cent. with a total deposit base of 
₹1,35,202 crore as of March 31, 2024. The growth in deposits 
was primarily driven by the varied liability products of term, 
savings and current account deposits with the total retail 
deposit book (CASA + Retail Term Deposits) growing by 
22 per cent.
The Affluent segment, comprising our premier products like 
Elite & Premium Savings Accounts, has progressively bolstered 
the Savings product proposition. Concurrently, your Bank has 
prioritised the Senior Citizen demography, by launching ‘Inspire’, 
a programme designed to offer specialised services tailored to 
their needs. Your Bank aims to scale this up and launch other 
segment-specific offerings catering to the needs of varied 
customer category. In order to enhance communication efforts, 
your Bank has developed product-focused campaigns aimed at 
informing customers about features, rates, and technology-driven 
services. During FY 2024, your Bank introduced RuPay Platinum 
Debit Card, remaining committed to providing customers better 
card value proposition, features and benefits along with a diverse 
selection of debit card choices. The entire collection of Debit Cards 
has garnered a total card fee income amounting to more than 
₹70 crore as of March 31, 2024. The card fee income consists of 
Issuance Fee, Annual Fee and Re-issuance Fee.
The Current Account segment also demonstrated a strong 
performance during FY 2024, marked by consistent balances 
and adept financial management. Strategic initiatives including 
enhanced EDC penetration, CAM Channel development, re-
engagement with existing customers via the NEEV project, and 
intensified focus on new branches have effectively met customer 
demands, demonstrating resilience in a competitive market 
landscape. The overall Current Account Book has sustained a 
commendable growth rate of 51 per cent. as of March 31, 2024.
The Merchant Acquiring Business (‘MAB’) serves as a crucial factor 
in drawing current account relationships. MAB is actively enrolling 
POS/ EDC devices with consistent month-on-month increases 
and offering Payment Gateway services to merchants across all 
categories. The MAB business has witnessed substantial growth, 
with 326 per cent. increase in acquisitions over previous year and 
52 per cent. rise in throughput, resulting in the accumulation of 
balances in associated accounts.
Your Bank’s expansive branch network has been instrumental in its 
achievements. Throughout FY 2024, a total of 289 branches were 
added, elevating your Bank’s overall presence to 1,700 branches, 
spanning diverse locations nationwide.
To fortify its relationship with customers, your Bank is engaging 
in communication through marketing campaigns, social media 
outreach, and branch-level initiatives. Your Bank has also 
seamlessly transitioned to the latest Core Banking System - 
Flexcube and rolled out a new Internet Banking platform and 
mBandhan app, boasting upgraded features.
Your Bank will continue to harness technology to provide innovative 
digital solutions that prioritise security, convenience, and user-
friendliness. Your Bank is dedicated to delivering top-notch banking 
solutions to the customers and eagerly anticipates serving them 
with unwavering zeal and commitment in the years ahead.
Third Party Products
Your Bank currently distributes mutual funds, life insurance 
and general insurance, including health insurance and 3 in 1 
online trading products to its customers. FY 2024 has been a 
year of transformation and integration. Your Bank continues to 
demonstrate a continued focus on offering a value-led, robust and 
comprehensive product proposition to its customers. In the life 
insurance business, your Bank continues in its quest of offering a 
wide bouquet of products to cater to different life cycles and life 
stages of its customers. Your Bank has also been working tirelessly 
to build a strong distribution ecosystem augmented by analytics 
and technology to offer the best in class insurance solutions to 
its customer base. In the General Insurance business, your Bank 
continued to serve its customers in their quest towards healthy 
living, by offering them a wide variety of health insurance solution-
based product propositions. In mutual funds distribution, your 
Bank continues to focus on a research-driven distribution strategy 
with a vision of providing its customers ease and flexibility while 
planning for investments. This year, your Bank has launched 
the distribution of Mutual Funds through its Mobile Banking 
(‘mBandhan’) platform, which along with the existing distribution 
available through the Retail Internet Banking (‘RIB’) platform 
demonstrated your Bank’s continuous efforts towards offering 
customers further convenience and benefits.
Your Bank continues to invest towards building a customer value-
centred, segment-driven, data-led, analytics and research-based, 
and technology embedded, product distribution propositions, 
across all Third Party Products and continues to seek out 
opportunities to add new product suites to serve customers’ 
financial needs holistically.
The total mutual fund AUM managed under your Bank’s code 
during FY under review was ₹1,024.84 crore, on which the Bank 
earned an income of ₹6.31 crore.
A total of ₹131.55 crore and ₹519.85 crore of general and retail 
life insurance business, respectively, were garnered through the 
60
Bandhan Bank Limited
retail network during FY 2024, earning a fee income of ₹15.16 
crore and ₹214.80 crore, respectively. During FY under review, 
the life insurance business through all asset verticals amounted 
to ₹279.59 crore, earning an income of ₹47.10 crore. The insurer 
wise segmented commission income is as follow: Bajaj Allianz 
Life Insurance: ₹170.24 crore; HDFC Life Insurance: ₹83.94 crore; 
Kotak Life Insurance: ₹7.72 crore; Bajaj Allianz General Insurance: 
₹4.63 crore; Niva Bupa Health Insurance: ₹7.67 crore; Oriental 
General Insurance: ₹2.9 crore; and HDFC ERGO General Insurance: 
₹ -0.05 crore.
Your Bank has also earned ₹0.15 crore as commission for the 
distribution of Atal Pension Yojana, NPS Lite Swavalamban schemes 
of PFRDA and others during the FY 2024.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Your Bank’s core commitment to creating inclusive growth is 
reflected in its Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) initiatives, 
which focus on the empowerment of the marginalised sections 
of the societies residing in the vicinity of its operational area. The 
marginalised communities are confronted with multi-dimensional 
vulnerabilities, at the core of which is the challenge to secure 
sustained livelihoods. Accordingly, the interventions of your Bank’s 
CSR initiatives are appropriately designed to build their capabilities 
for securing sustainable livelihoods.
To address its societal commitments, your Bank has adopted a 
comprehensive CSR policy that outlines the CSR programmes of 
your Bank, which are in line with Schedule VII to the Companies 
Act, 2013 (the ‘Companies Act’). These programmes are being 
undertaken in the vicinity of your Bank’s operational areas.
For the seamless implementation and monitoring of the CSR 
programme, your Bank has constituted the Corporate Social 
Responsibility and Sustainability Committee of the Board 
(‘CSR&SCB’), in accordance with the provisions of Section 135 of 
the Companies Act read with the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 (‘CSR Rules’). The CSR&SCB 
also oversees the implementation of the Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Reporting (‘BRSR’) related initiatives of the 
Bank. The composition of the CSR&SCB is given in the Corporate 
Governance Report which forms part of this Report.
During the FY under review, your Bank has contributed ₹40.05 
crore towards 16 CSR programmes implemented through a Project 
Implementing Agency (‘PIA’) and contribution to PMCARES Funds 
as stipulated in the clauses of Schedule VII to the Companies Act. 
Bandhan Konnagar (‘BK’), PIA for the CSR programmes of the Bank 
is also a related party of the Bank and CSR spending through BK 
is approved by Audit Committee of the Board as related party 
transaction, in addition to CSR&SCB and the Board. These CSR 
programmes were spread across 273 project locations covering 
5,240 villages in 47 districts of 7 states of India. The outreach 
during the FY under review was 1,33,243 families, thereby taking 
the cumulative reach since inception to 24,47,456 families.
In terms of the provisions of Rule 8(3) of the CSR Rules, your Bank 
appointed Ernst and Young LLP (‘EY’) to carry out an independent 
Impact Assessment of its CSR Programmes. Further, in terms of 
the General Circular No. 14/2021 dated August 25, 2021, issued by 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, the Impact 
Assessment Report is available at the Bank’s website https://www.
bandhanbank.com/beyond-banking, and the programme wise 
summary of the same is mentioned in the subsequent sections.
The details of CSR programmes undertaken pursuant to the 
provisions of the Companies Act and in accordance with the 
Annual Action Plan, during the FY under review are given as 
Annex – 1 and form part of this Report. The CSR Policy of the Bank 
is available on your Bank’s website: https://bandhanbank.com/
sites/default/files/2023-01/CSR-Policy-210123.pdf.
Some of the key programmes of your Bank’s CSR initiatives are:
Targeting the Hard-Core Poor Programme
During the FY under review, your Bank has contributed ₹10.90 
crore (₹16.50 crore in FY 2023 and ₹27.88 crore in FY 2022) towards 
Targeting the Hard-Core Poor (‘THP’) programme. The programme 
is designed for ultra-poor women-headed households, providing 
them with a range of gainful micro-enterprises in the form of 
farm, non-farm and mixed assets, along with handholding support 
and training on confidence building, enterprise skills, consumer 
interaction, marketing and financial skills. They are also provided 
with sustenance allowance to meet their daily needs until they 
generate substantial income from the provided assets. Within a 
period of 18-24 months, these ultra-poor women start graduating, 
uplifting themselves from extreme poverty1 and getting linked to 
mainstream society2.
During the year under review, 3,000 ultra-poor women were 
provided farm, non-farm and mixed assets to sustain their 
livelihoods, thereby cumulatively taking the total women-headed 
households to be impacted through the programme since its 
inception to 50,500 women. In the current financial year, the 
programme covered 9 districts of Assam, Jharkhand, Odisha, 
Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.
The Impact Assessment Study carried out by EY indicated that 
18,000 ultra-poor women-headed households were alleviated 
from below the poverty line to above the national poverty line1 
(₹1,059.42 for rural and ₹1,286 for urban areas1) with a significant 
increase in their business assets and household income having an 
average monthly income of ₹7,200. Additionally, these households 
had improved savings habits and had access to safe sanitation, 
social security schemes and health schemes.
Bandhan Health Programme
During the FY under review, your Bank has contributed ₹7.01 crore 
(₹12.02 crore in FY 2023 and ₹18.49 crore in FY 2022) towards six 
health programmes covering 16 districts in 3 states of India. These 
health programmes covered 52,578 new beneficiaries during 
1 Poverty Line benchmarked according to the Suresh Tendulkar Committee Poverty Lines per capita monthly expenditure, 2011-12, Niti Aayog, Government 
of India 
2 India SDG Index Score for Goal 1 – No Poverty; Goal 2 – Zero Hunger and SGD 5 – Gender Equality
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
61
the FY, thereby taking the cumulative coverage to 13,44,558 
households.
The Impact Assessment Study conducted by EY indicated that 
the programme contributed to achieving 100 per cent. access 
to health services after the implementation of the programme 
compared to 78 per cent. respondents who did not have access 
to health services. The health services included Anti Natal Care 
(‘ANC’), institutional delivery, Post Natal Care (‘PNC’), nutritional 
support and child health evaluation, thereby leading to a change in 
behavioural practices and 100 per cent. of the respondents noticed 
an improvement in their health and health-seeking behaviour.
The Impact Assessment Study indicated that 100 per cent. of the 
adolescent girl respondents have received menstrual health and 
hygiene awareness and access to menstrual hygiene products.
The study also indicated that 100 per pent. of the respondents 
received access to safe drinking water.
Bandhan Education Programme
Your Bank’s education programme provides quality education 
to the children belonging to the marginalised section of society 
in its catchment area. The education programme enables the 
children to improve their learning outcomes, especially in Science, 
Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (‘STEM’) subjects 
and increase their retention and classroom engagement. The 
programme also provides training to the teachers belonging to the 
communities, government schools and schools run by the various 
charitable trusts that are providing free education to transform 
their pedagogy and integrate various teaching and learning tools 
in their lesson plans and track the comprehensive continuous 
assessment of each child.
Your Bank contributed ₹9.78 crore (₹15.99 crore in FY 2023 and 
₹17.01 crore in FY 2022) towards the education programme 
enrolling 1,605 new students, thereby taking the cumulative 
outreach to 1,14,391 marginalised children across 32 districts of 
five states of India.
The Impact Assessment Study conducted by EY indicated that 
100 per cent. of the children received free books and school kits 
to facilitate their learning. 100 per cent. of the students who 
completed class 3 were able to identify numbers and alphabets, 
can read text and perform basic calculations to meet the learning 
goals of Foundational Literacy and Numeracy1 (‘FLN’).
Skill Development Programme
Your Bank’s skill development initiatives provide market-linked 
and job-ready employable skills to the youths from marginalised 
sections of society in various domains. This initiative not only 
provides on-the-job training and job placement facilitation in the 
organised sector but also a follow-up of the placements so that the 
youths are settled in their job post-training.
During the FY under review, your Bank contributed ₹4.08 crore 
(₹3.69 crore in FY 2023 and ₹4.79 crore in FY 2022) towards the 
skill development initiatives in eight districts of three states of 
India. The PIAs operated 12 skill development centres in domains 
like Warehousing and Logistics, Retail and Customer Care, Sales 
and Marketing, ITeS and BPO, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning, 
Computer Accounting, Hardware and Networking, BFSI, etc.
During the FY, 3,227 candidates were enrolled, thereby taking 
the total to 17,114 youths who have been trained under this 
programme till date, of which 11,090 were placed with net salaries 
ranging from ₹8,000 to ₹15,000 plus other performance-based 
allowances and social security benefits like Provident Fund (‘PF’) 
and Employee State Insurance (‘ESI’).
The Impact Assessment Study conducted by EY indicated that 
13,707 youths were trained by the end of FY 2023. The study 
indicated that 85 per cent. of the respondents secured their 
first job after the completion of the training provided under the 
Employing the Unemployed Programme (‘EUP’). The EUP provided 
them with job readiness skills, career counselling, job placement 
assistance and other resources to enhance their employability.
Bandhan Financial Literacy Programme
Your Bank has been imparting financial literacy to underprivileged 
women to raise awareness regarding better financial planning 
and accessing Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (‘BFSI’) 
related products and services, including digital banking. Your Bank 
recognises the fact that imparting financial knowledge is vital to 
the financial inclusion agenda and to addressing the sustainable 
development of rural communities. 
Through this initiative, your Bank has financially empowered 
4,76,872 women in the states of Assam and West Bengal to 
improve their savings and access Banking services. According 
to the EY Impact Assessment Report, 100% of the women, after 
completing the training, feel that they are more confident in taking 
independent financial decisions and can also do digital banking.
Bandhan Sustainable Livelihood Programme
Your Bank under its CSR initiatives, has piloted a unique initiative 
to empower underprivileged entrepreneurs to set up small 
businesses. These entrepreneurs are imparted with professional 
business incubation training and facilitation for accessing statutory 
licenses and business loans. They are also trained in various 
aspects of marketing, customer relationships, financial planning 
and management, business development plans, filing of various 
taxation etc. 
Through this initiative, your Bank aims to convert the job-seeking 
to job-creators. To date, 81 youths have been successfully 
incubated to independently manage their enterprises and 21 are 
currently being trained to undertake their enterprises.
1 Foundational Literacy and Numeracy refers to basic skills in reading, writing, and mathematics. It is the ability to read and understand a basic text, write 
and perform simple mathematical operations as adopted by Ministry of Education, Government of India.
62
Bandhan Bank Limited
Climate Action Programme
The Climate Action Programme focuses on climate change 
adaptation and carbon sequestration. Major initiates are water 
conservation and afforestation, as mentioned below:
Water Conservation
The water conservation initiative aims at water security and 
drought-proofing in some of the high moisture-stressed regions of 
India, thereby providing a safety net to agriculture and livestock-
based livelihoods. These initiatives facilitate participatory 
watershed management by empowering the communities to 
participate in the planning and implementation of local water 
resource development. Measures such as building, reviving 
and maintaining water-harvesting structures, prioritisation 
and judicious use of water for every community member, crop 
planning and water-efficient farming, use of drought-resistant 
varieties, cultivation of high-value crops requiring less water, etc., 
create a multiplier effect in drought-proofing and climate change 
adaptation measures and higher income generation.
During the FY under review, 27 water harvesting structures, with 
a storage capacity of 13,500 kilolitres, in the form of farm ponds, 
were constructed in the farmers’ fields to provide them critical 
irrigation support.
Cumulatively, the programme has supported the construction of 
50 water harvesting structures with a storage capacity of over 
1,33,500 kilolitres of water in three states. These structures not 
only provide drinking water to over 1,500 families but also support 
participatory irrigation of various crops.
Afforestation
Your Bank’s afforestation initiatives have contributed towards the 
project of establishing a “Bio-shield” to save the mangroves in the 
Bharuch district of Gujarat. Mangrove plantation of 67,540 saplings 
was carried out on 20 Hectares in a stretch of 1 km of coastline 
along with plantation of other medical plant species and fodder 
species, sequestering 2,248 tonnes of CO2 annually. The fodder 
bank was created to offset the biotic pressure from the mangrove 
area. The project created 4,629 person-days of employment and 
benefited 9,123 beneficiaries with additional income-generating 
avenues from fodder and medicinal plant harvesting.
Additionally, in this FY, the plantation under agroforestry and 
mangrove plantation reached to 82,238 saplings in West Bengal. 
Thereby, taking the cumulative plantation to 4,17,525 saplings in 
41 districts of 7 states in India.
Dividend
Pursuant to Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI LODR’), the 
Board of Directors of your Bank has adopted a Dividend Distribution 
Policy that, inter-alia, balances the objectives of appropriately 
rewarding shareholders and retaining capital to maintain a healthy 
capital adequacy ratio. In addition to the Dividend Distribution 
Policy, the dividend payout ratio of your Bank is also guided by 
the Circulars on dividend issued by RBI, from time to time. Policies 
of the Bank are reviewed at least once a year and accordingly, 
Dividend Distribution Policy of the Bank was reviewed by the 
Board during the FY, with no changes. The Policy is available on 
the Bank’s website at https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/
files/2022-09/Dividend-Distribution-Policy.pdf.
In line with this policy and in recognition of the financial 
performance during FY 2024, while retaining capital to maintain 
a healthy capital adequacy ratio to meet growth requirements, 
your Directors are pleased to recommend a dividend of ₹1.50 per 
equity share of ₹10 each fully paid-up (15%) for the FY 2024, as 
was paid for the FY 2023, for approval of the shareholders at the 
10th Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) of the Bank.
Pursuant to the provisions of Income-tax Act, 1961 (‘IT Act’), 
dividends paid or distributed by your Bank shall be taxable in 
the hands of the shareholders and your Bank shall be required 
to deduct tax at source (‘TDS’) at the prescribed rates from 
the dividend to be paid to Members, subject to the approval of 
dividend by the shareholders in the ensuing AGM. Further details 
are available in the notice of the 10th AGM of the Bank.
Transfer to Reserves
In line with the RBI regulations, your Bank has transferred an 
amount of ₹557.39 crore to the statutory reserve during the 
financial year ended March 31, 2024.
Issuance of Equity Shares & Capital Adequacy Ratio
During the FY under review, your Bank has allotted 1,33,268 
equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid-up, pursuant to exercise of 
stock options by the eligible Employees of your Bank, aggregating 
to ₹13,32,680.
Post allotment of aforesaid equity shares, the issued, subscribed 
and paid-up equity share capital of your Bank stood at 
₹16,10,96,97,480, comprising 1,61,09,69,748 equity shares of ₹10 
each fully paid-up as on March 31, 2024.
Your Bank has not issued any equity shares with differential voting 
rights during the FY under review.
The authorised share capital of your Bank was ₹32,00,00,00,000, 
comprising 3,20,00,00,000 equity shares of ₹10 each, as on 
March 31, 2024.
Your Bank’s Capital Adequacy Ratio (‘CAR’), calculated in line 
with the RBI Circular on Capital Adequacy Framework, stood at 
18.28 per cent. as on March 31, 2024, well above the minimum 
regulatory requirements, out of which Tier 1 CAR was 17.21 per 
cent. and Tier 2 CAR was 1.07 per cent.
Performance 
and 
Financial 
Position 
of 
the 
Subsidiaries, Associates or Joint Venture
Your Bank did not have any subsidiary, associate or joint venture 
company during the FY 2024. Accordingly, no statement is required 
to be reported in Form AOC-1.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
63
Rating of Various Debt Instruments
Details of rating of various debt instruments of the Bank as on 
March 31, 2024 are as under:
Instruments
Rating
Rating 
Agency
Amount 
(₹ in crore) 
Term Loan from 
Banks
[ICRA]AA(Negative)
ICRA
80
Certificate of 
Deposit
[ICRA]A1+
ICRA
6,000 (1)
CRISIL A1+
CRISIL
Non-Convertible 
Debentures(3)
[ICRA]AA(Negative)
ICRA
1,295 (2)
CRISIL AA-/Stable
CRISIL
(1) rating of ICRA is for ₹3,000 crore only
(2) rating of ICRA is for ₹75 crore only
(3) transferred from erstwhile Gruh Finance Limited pursuant to the 
effectiveness of the Scheme of Amalgamation.
Board of Directors
The composition of the Board of Directors of your Bank (‘Board’) 
is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act, the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 (the ‘BR Act’), the SEBI LODR, other 
applicable laws and its Articles of Association. At the end of 
March 31, 2024, the Board of your Bank had fourteen Directors, 
out of which nine were Independent Directors, two were 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors i.e. one Nominee each 
of Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited (‘BFHL’) and Caladium 
Investment Pte. Ltd. (‘Caladium’), and the Managing Director & 
CEO, and two Executive Directors.
Appointments
Mr. Pankaj Sood (DIN: 05185378)
The Board of Directors of your Bank, at its meeting held on 
February 09, 2024, on the basis of the recommendation of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Bank (‘NRC’), 
approved the appointment of Mr. Pankaj Sood (DIN: 05185378) as 
an Additional Non-Executive Non-Independent Director [Nominee 
of Caladium, Investor of the Bank], with effect from February 12, 
2024, subject to Shareholders approval. Accordingly, Shareholders 
of the Bank, on April 21, 2024, have accorded their approval, via 
Postal Ballot process, for the appointment of Mr. Sood as the 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee of Caladium), 
with effect from February 12, 2024, liable to retire by rotation.
Mr. Sood, aged 49 years, has over 24 years of experience in private 
equity and M&A transactions in India. Currently, he heads the 
Private Equity (Direct Investments) business of GIC Singapore in 
India and Africa. He joined GIC in 2010 and is based in the Mumbai 
office. Prior to GIC, Mr. Sood was an investment banker in India in 
Kotak Investment Bank, Ernst & Young and SBI Capital Markets.
He is a post-graduate from the Indian Institute of Management, 
Calcutta and has a bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering from 
the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur.
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar (DIN: 10540386)
The Board of Directors of the Bank, at its meeting held on 
March 07, 2024, on the basis of the recommendation of the NRC 
and as per the approval granted by the RBI, had approved the 
appointment of Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar (DIN: 10540386) as the 
Whole-time Director [Category: Additional Director], designated 
as Executive Director & Chief Business Officer (‘ED&CBO’) and 
Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank, for a period of three years, 
liable to retire by rotation, with effect from March 08, 2024, 
subject to Shareholders’ approval. Accordingly, the Shareholders 
of the Bank, on April 21, 2024, have accorded their approval, 
via Postal Ballot process, for appointment of Mr. Babbar as the 
Whole-time Director, designated as ED & CBO and Key Managerial 
Personnel, for a period of three years, with effect from March 08, 
2024 up to March 07, 2027, liable to retire by rotation.
Mr. Babbar, aged 56 years, has over 35 years of experience 
across the banking sector in various leadership roles. He is an 
accomplished senior leader, with vast experience across multiple 
spheres of banking. He has a proven track record of creating new 
businesses and propelling existing ones, consistently delivering 
growth multiples in AUM, market share, and profitability.
During his tenure spanning more than 23 years with HDFC Bank, he 
has handled various leadership assignments and has successfully 
led large teams across Transportation and Infrastructure Finance, 
Rural Banking and Retail Liabilities. He was the Group Head - 
Transportation, Infrastructure and Tractor Finance Group at HDFC 
Bank. Prior to that, he was responsible for building and managing 
the Rural Banking Group for the HDFC Bank covering farmer 
finance, MSME loans to intermediaries, related retail assets and 
third party products. Under his leadership, the rural businesses 
witnessed robust growth, making it one of the best rural franchises 
in the industry for any bank or financial institution in terms of size 
and profitability. Prior to joining HDFC Bank Ltd, he has worked 
with Centurion Bank, Bank of Punjab and Central Bank of India, 
handling various roles and responsibilities.
He is Bachelor in Science, LLB and LLM Corporate Law & Criminal 
Law and is currently pursuing PhD from NMIMS, Mumbai. He has 
also completed a leadership development programme from IIM 
Ahmedabad.
Mr. Arun Kumar Singh (DIN: 09498086)
Reserve Bank of India vide its letter dated June 24, 2024, has 
appointed Mr. Arun Kumar Singh, Chief General Manager (retired), 
Reserve Bank of India, as an Additional Director on the Board of 
Bandhan Bank Limited, in exercise of powers conferred to it under 
Section 36AB of the BR Act, for a period of one year from June 24, 
2024 to June 23, 2025 or till further orders, whichever is earlier.
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714)
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, MD&CEO of the Bank, vide letter 
dated April 05, 2024, informed the Board of Directors that he 
would retire from the services of the Bank as the MD&CEO upon 
completion of his current tenure on July 09, 2024, which was noted 
by the Board at its meeting held on April 05, 2024. Accordingly, 
pursuant to the approval of the RBI and on the basis of the 
recommendation of the NRC, the Board, at its meeting held on 
July 06, 2024, has approved the appointment of Mr. Ratan Kumar 
Kesh, Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer (‘ED&COO’), 
as Interim MD&CEO of the Bank, with effect from July 10, 2024, 
for a period of three months or till new MD&CEO takes charge, 
64
Bandhan Bank Limited
whichever is earlier, subject to approval of Shareholders at the 
ensuing AGM of the Bank.
Re-appointments
Ms. Divya Krishnan (DIN: 09276201)
In terms of the provisions of Section 152 of the Companies Act, 
Ms. Divya Krishnan, Non-Executive Non-Independent Director, 
being longest in office, shall retire at the ensuing AGM and being 
eligible, offers herself for re-appointment.
The resolution(s) in respect of appointment(s)/ re-appointment(s) 
of the Directors, as aforesaid, have been included in the Notice 
convening the 10th AGM of the Bank. Brief profiles of these 
Directors, together with other requisite disclosures/ details, have 
been annexed to the said Notice. None of the Directors proposed 
for appointment/ re-appointment, would attain the age of 75 years 
during the continuation of their tenure on the Board of the Bank.
Shareholders approved appointments/ re-appointments
During 
the 
FY 
under 
review, 
following 
appointments/ 
re-appointments were approved by the Shareholders by Postal 
Ballot process on June 22, 2023, and at the 9th AGM of the Bank 
held on August 18, 2023:
•	
By way of Postal Ballot approved on June 22, 2023:
	
(i)	
Appointment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714) 
as a Director of the Bank.
	
(ii)	
Appointment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714) 
as Whole-time Director, designated as Executive 
Director and Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank, 
liable to retire by rotation, for a period of three years, 
effective March 31, 2023.
•	
At the 9th AGM of the Bank held on August 18, 2023:
	
(i)	
Re-appointment of Ms. Divya Krishnan (DIN: 09276201) 
as a Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the 
Bank (Nominee of BFHL), being longest in office and 
liable to retire by rotation, retired at the 9th AGM of the 
Bank, and who, being eligible, had offered herself for 
re-appointment.
	
(ii)	
Re-appointment of Mr. Suhail Chander (DIN: 06941577) 
as an Independent Director of the Bank, not liable to 
retire by rotation, for the second term of five years, 
effective March 19, 2024.
	
(iii)	 Re-appointment of Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta (DIN: 
08767943) as an Independent Director of the Bank, not 
liable to retire by rotation, for the second term of five 
years, effective March 19, 2024.
Cessations
Dr. Holger Dirk Michaelis (DIN: 07205838)
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 10A(2A)(i) of the BR Act read 
with relevant RBI Circular, total tenure of a Non-Executive Director, 
continuously or otherwise, on the board of a bank, shall not 
exceed eight years. Accordingly, tenure of Dr. Holger Dirk Michaelis 
(DIN: 07205838), Nominee Director (Nominee of Caladium) on 
the Board of the Bank expired on the close of business hours on 
February 11, 2024.
The Board places on record its sincere appreciation for the 
contributions made by Dr. Holger Dirk Michaelis, during his tenure 
as Director of the Bank.
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh (DIN: 00342477)
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, MD&CEO of the Bank, vide letter 
dated April 05, 2024, informed the Board of Directors that he 
would retire from the services of the Bank as the MD&CEO upon 
completion of his current tenure on July 09, 2024, which was noted 
by the Board at its meeting held on April 05, 2024. Accordingly, Mr. 
Ghosh retired as the MD&CEO of the Bank at the close of business 
hours on July 09, 2024.
The Board expressed its deep appreciation and gratitude for the 
extraordinary contributions that Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh had 
made as the founder of the Bank. The Board acknowledged that 
Mr. Ghosh, through his vision, deep dedication and tireless efforts, 
led the Bank since its inception towards remarkable growth and 
established it as a respected and trusted universal bank with pan-
India presence, providing services in an inclusive and sustainable 
manner. The Board also affirmed his role in building the Bank’s 
values around business ethics, consumer focus and corporate 
responsibility towards society at large, which shall continue to 
guide the Bank in the future.
Necessary disclosures with regard to the above appointments/ 
re-appointments/ cessations have been made to the Stock 
Exchanges, the RBI and the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
Key Managerial Personnel
During the FY under review, Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar was 
appointed as ED&CBO and Key Managerial Personnel (‘KMP’) for a 
period of three years effective March 08, 2024.
Further, Mr. Sunil Samdani, Chief Financial Officer (‘CFO’) and KMP 
of the Bank ceased to be associated with the Bank from the close 
of business hours on October 19, 2023. In the interim, the Board, 
at its meeting held on October 18, 2023, appointed Mr. Abhijit 
Ghosh, Head - Finance & Accounts, as the Interim CFO and KMP 
of the Bank, with effect from October 20, 2023, till the time a new 
CFO is appointed by the Board.
Mr. Rajeev Mantri was appointed as CFO and KMP of the Bank 
with effect from February 22, 2024. Accordingly, Mr. Abhijit Ghosh 
ceased to be the Interim CFO and KMP of the Bank with effect 
from February 22, 2024.
Accordingly, as on March 31, 2024, Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, 
MD & CEO; Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, ED&COO; Mr. Rajinder Kumar 
Babbar, ED&CBO; Mr. Rajeev Mantri, CFO; and Mr. Indranil 
Banerjee, Company Secretary of the Bank were the KMP of the 
Bank, as per the provisions of the Companies Act and rules made 
thereunder. However, post March 31, 2024, Mr. Chandra Shekhar 
Ghosh ceased to be MD & CEO and KMP of the Bank on the close 
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
65
of business hours on July 09, 2024, upon completion of his tenure, 
and Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, ED&COO, was appointed as the interim 
MD&CEO and KMP of the Bank from July 10, 2024 for a period 
of three months or till the time new MD&CEO joins, whichever 
is earlier.
Meetings of the Board and Board Committees
The Board met eighteen times during the FY under review i.e., 
on May 17, 2023; May 19, 2023; May 26, 2023; June 04, 2023; 
July 12, 2023; July 14, 2023; September 09, 2023; October 16, 
2023; October 18, 2023; November 24, 2023; February 07, 2024; 
February 09, 2024; February 22, 2024; February 23, 2024; March 
07, 2024; March 19, 2024, March 20, 2024 and March 30, 2024. 
The details of the Board meetings held during the FY, attendance 
of Directors at the meetings, and other details have been provided 
separately in the Report on Corporate Governance forming part of 
this Report, enclosed as Annex - 4.
Your Bank currently has the following nine Board Committees:
1. 	
Audit Committee of the Board (ACB);
2. 	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee (NRC);
3. 	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of the Board (SRCB);
4. 	
Risk Management Committee of the Board (RMCB);
5. 	
IT Strategy Committee of the Board (ITSCB);
6. 	
Customer Service Committee of the Board (CSCB);
7. 	
Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee 
of the Board (CSR&SCB);
8. 	
Committee of Directors (COD);
9. 	
Special Committee for Monitoring High-Value Frauds 
(SCMHVF).
The details with respect to the composition, terms of reference, 
numbers of meetings held, attendance of members, etc., of 
these Board Committees are provided in the Report on Corporate 
Governance forming part of this Report.
Additionally, meeting(s) of Independent Directors, without the 
attendance of non-independent directors and members of 
management, were also held during the FY under review. The 
details of such meeting(s) have been provided separately in the 
Report on Corporate Governance forming part of this Report.
Declaration from Independent Directors
The Bank has received necessary declarations from all the 
Independent Directors under Section 149(7) of the Companies Act 
and Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI LODR that they meet the criteria 
of independence laid down under Section 149(6) of the Companies 
Act read with allied Rules, and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI 
LODR, respectively. The Board has reviewed the disclosures of 
independence submitted by the Independent Directors and is of 
the opinion that the Independent Directors of the Bank fulfil the 
conditions specified in the Companies Act and the SEBI LODR, 
and are independent of the management. In the opinion of the 
Board, all the Independent Directors possess requisite expertise, 
experience, integrity and proficiency as required under the 
applicable laws and policies of the Bank.
Familiarisation 
Programmes 
for 
Independent 
Directors
The details of the familiarisation programme(s) for the Independent 
Directors of the Bank have been provided separately in the Report 
on Corporate Governance forming part of this Report.
Board Evaluation
Pursuant to recommendation of the NRC, the Board has framed the 
‘Performance Evaluation Policy for the Board, Committees, Non-
Independent/ Whole-time Directors and Independent Directors‘ 
(the ‘Board PE Policy’), in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of the Companies Act, the SEBI LODR and SEBI Guidance Note on 
Board Evaluation. In terms of the Board PE Policy, performance 
evaluation of the Board and its Committees, Chairman and 
individual Directors are done on various parameters. Parameters 
for the Board include various aspects, such as, structure, meetings, 
appointments, agenda, discussions, evaluation of risks, strategy, 
governance and compliance, conflict of interest, etc.
Parameters for Board Committees include various aspects, such 
as, meetings, effectiveness, agenda, discussion and dissent, 
minutes, etc.
Parameters for the Directors include various aspects, such as, 
knowledge and competency, integrity, functioning, commitment, 
contribution, attendance, initiative, teamwork, communication, 
corporate governance, updates, etc., and in case of Independent 
Directors, additional parameters include fulfilment of the 
independence criteria and their independence from the 
management.
The evaluation process has been carried out electronically. The 
Board of Directors has done the evaluation of Independent 
Directors, excluding the Independent Director being evaluated. 
Similarly, Independent Directors have done the evaluation of the 
Board as a whole, Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Independent 
Directors, Executive Director and the MD & CEO. The respective 
Chairmen of Board Committees have done performance 
evaluation of their respective Committees. Thereafter, the 
report on performance evaluation of Directors, excluding NRC 
members, and the Chairman was submitted to the NRC, whereas 
the report on performance evaluation of the Board as a whole, 
Board Committees and Directors who were NRC members was 
submitted to the Board for necessary action. The NRC, after 
considering the performance evaluation report of Directors, 
excluding NRC members, made its recommendations to the Board 
for continuation/ re-appointment of Directors. Thereafter, the 
Board considered the recommendations of the NRC, and report 
on the performance evaluation of the NRC members, the Board 
as a whole and the Board Committees. The Board evaluation 
has provided some valuable inputs for optimising the roles 
and responsibilities, quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of 
information between the Bank’s management and the Board.
66
Bandhan Bank Limited
The Board of Directors of the Bank is satisfied with the outcome of 
the performance evaluation process. They were of the view that 
the Directors have been discharging their roles and responsibilities 
as expected by the Board and as required under the applicable 
regulatory provisions. The Board continues to be duly constituted 
representing various expertise, skill sets, knowledge and 
qualification required for the banking business. There was no 
observation during the performance evaluation of the previous 
years; and so is the case with the current year.
Policy on Appointment of Directors
Appointment of Directors on the Board is guided by the provisions 
of the BR Act and the guidelines/ circulars issued by the RBI, from 
time to time, the Companies Act and the SEBI LODR. In view of 
these provisions, your Bank has adopted a ‘Policy on Appointment 
and Fit & Proper Criteria for Directors’. In terms of this Policy, 
while appointing directors, the NRC/ Board considers fit and 
proper criteria, various skill sets, professional knowledge, practical 
experience, integrity, gender diversity and additionally, status of 
independence in case of Independent Directors. The details of the 
same have been included in the Report on Corporate Governance 
forming part of this Report. The Policy on Appointment and Fit 
& Proper Criteria for Directors is reviewed on an annual basis 
and accordingly, the Policy was reviewed by your Board on the 
recommendations of the NRC during the FY, to align with the 
regulatory requirements. The Policy is available on the Bank’s 
website at: https://www.bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/files/2023-12/Policy-on-Appointment-and-
Fit%20-Proper-Criteria-for-Directors-website-131223.pdf.
Remuneration Policy
Your Bank has formulated and adopted a comprehensive 
‘Compensation Policy’ for its Directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
and Employees, in terms of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 
read with the relevant Rules made thereunder, Regulation 19 of 
the SEBI LODR and the guidelines/ circulars issued by the RBI, in 
this regard, from time to time. The details of the same have been 
included in the Report on Corporate Governance forming part of 
this Report. The Compensation Policy is reviewed on an annual 
basis and accordingly, the Policy was reviewed by the Board on the 
recommendation of the NRC with one addition relating to deferred 
variable cash pay. The updated Compensation Policy of your 
Bank is available on your Bank’s website at https://bandhanbank.
com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../sites/default/files/2024-07/
Compensation-Policy-20072024.pdf
Employees Remuneration
As on March 31, 2024, your Bank had 75,748 employees. The 
information with regard to the remuneration of directors and 
employees of the Bank, as required under Section 197(12) of the 
Companies Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, forms 
part of this Report as Annex – 2.
The statement containing names of top ten employees in terms of 
remuneration drawn and the particulars of employees as required 
under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act read with Rule 5(2) and 
5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, forming part of this report, is available for 
inspection during business hours up to the date of the ensuing AGM 
in terms of Section 136 of the Companies Act and any member 
interested in obtaining a copy of the same may send request to the 
Company Secretary.
Employee Stock Options
Your Bank has instituted Employees Stock Option Scheme 
(‘ESOP’), i.e., Bandhan Bank Employee Stock Option Plan Series 
1 (‘ESOP Scheme’) to enable its employees to participate in your 
Bank’s future growth and financial success. Your Bank provides 
its employees with a platform for participating in important 
decision making and instilling long-term commitment towards 
the future growth of the Bank by way of rewarding them through 
stock options. ESOP Scheme of your Bank is in compliance with 
the provisions of the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 (‘SEBI SBEBSE’) and no change 
has been made therein during the financial year under review. The 
ESOP Scheme is administrated by the NRC. In terms of the ESOP 
Scheme, the Options would vest not earlier than one year and 
not later than four years from the date of grant as decided by the 
NRC/ Board. The Options granted shall be equally vested over four 
years. The exercise period shall be a maximum of five years from 
the date of the respective vesting of Options. Since your Bank has 
been allotting fresh equity shares upon exercise of Options, the 
source of the shares is of primary issuance.
In terms of the Compensation Policy of your Bank and the 
Shareholders’ approved ESOP Scheme, fresh grants have been 
made during the financial year under review to the eligible 
employees. Except the MD&CEO, none of the Directors were 
allotted equity shares under the ESOP Scheme during the financial 
year under review. The information pertaining to the ESOP Scheme 
as prescribed under the SEBI SBEBSE is available on the website of 
your Bank at https://bandhanbank.com/annual-reports.
Further, as required under the SEBI SBEBSE, a certificate from 
the Secretarial Auditor of the Bank certifying that your Bank has 
implemented the ESOP Scheme in accordance with the applicable 
provisions of the SEBI SBEBSE and resolution(s) passed by 
Shareholders, will be made available electronically during the AGM.
Deposits
Being a banking company, the disclosures required as per Rule 
8(5)(v) & (vi) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, read with 
Sections 73 and 74 of the Companies Act, are not applicable to 
your Bank. The details of the deposits received and accepted by 
your Bank, as a banking company, are enumerated in the Financial 
Statement for the FY ended March 31, 2024, and forms part of this 
Annual Report for FY 2024.
Compliance and Audit
Your Bank has a Compliance Department (‘CD’) and an Internal 
Audit Department (‘IAD’), which independently carry out 
evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls. 
These departments ensure that operating and business units 
adhere to the laid down internal processes and procedures as 
well as to the legal and regulatory/ statutory requirements. 
For effective discharge of their duties, it is ensured that these 
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
67
departments are manned by appropriately qualified personnel, 
have necessary know-how and skill set and also undergo regular 
in-house and external training.
The Compliance Function is one of the key elements in your Bank’s 
corporate governance structure. The compliance starts from the 
top, and the Board and the Senior Management play an important 
role in driving the compliance culture. Your Bank remains 
committed to adhere to the highest standards of compliance vis-à-
vis regulatory prescriptions and internal guidelines. Your Bank has 
a robust Compliance Policy, outlining the compliance philosophy, 
and roles and responsibilities of the CD.
The CD assists the Board and Top/ Senior Management in 
managing the compliance risk of your Bank. The CD ensures that 
overall business of your Bank is conducted in strict adherence 
to the guidelines issued by the RBI and other regulators, various 
statutory provisions, standards and codes prescribed by FEDAI, 
FIMMDA, etc., by evaluating the products/ processes, guiding 
business departments on the various regulatory guidelines with 
a special emphasis on better understanding of the perspective. 
It closely works with operational risk and internal audit functions 
and monitors various activities of your Bank with more emphasis 
on active risk management.
As the focal point of contact with the RBI and other regulatory 
entities, the CD evaluates the adequacy of internal controls and 
examines any systemic correction that is required, based on its 
analysis and interpretation of regulatory guidelines and deviations 
observed during monitoring and testing. Your Bank has a robust 
Anti Money Laundering (‘AML’) framework and tools to manage 
the AML risk. It periodically apprises Top/ Senior Management, 
the ACB and the Board on compliance levels, based on the 
changes in the external regulatory environment. The CD submits 
the compliance report to the ACB at regular intervals providing the 
compliance status with the laws/ rules and regulations applicable 
to your Bank.
The IAD has implemented the Risk Based Audit approach and 
independently carries out internal and concurrent audit of various 
functions in your Bank, primarily to assess the effectiveness of 
internal control in critical systems and processes, and compliance 
with regulatory guidelines. The IAD also maintains a strong 
oversight through Off-site Monitoring of various aspects for 
faster detection and resolution of anomalies, if any, identified. 
IAD further ensures that independent checks and balances are in 
place, and that laid down policies and procedures are followed and 
recommendations for improvements in processes and systems 
controls are suitably adhered to.
For review of effectiveness of controls, significant audit findings 
along with corrective and preventive action taken by your Bank 
are placed before the ACB periodically and directions, if any, 
given by the ACB are tracked closely for suitable closure in a time 
bound manner.
To maintain the independence of these departments, the 
performance evaluation of the Chief Compliance Officer (‘CCO’) 
and the Chief Audit Executive (‘CAE’) is carried out by the ACB.
Internal Financial Control
Your Bank also engages external firms to carry out independent 
review of internal controls, processes, reporting, etc. and 
accordingly recommendations, if any, are made by them to your 
Bank/ the ACB for improvement.
Considering the internal financial controls of the Bank, and the 
work performed by the auditors, including the audit of internal 
financial controls over financial reporting by the auditors and the 
reviews performed by management under the supervision of the 
ACB, the Board of Directors is of the opinion that the internal 
financial controls established and maintained by your Bank 
are adequate.
Related Party Transactions
During the FY under review, there were no materially significant 
transactions with related parties, which could lead to a potential 
conflict of interest between your Bank and these parties. Prior 
approval of the ACB is sought for all the related party transactions. 
Further, prior omnibus approval is also obtained from the ACB for 
the related party transactions, which are of a repetitive nature 
as well as for the normal banking transactions which cannot be 
foreseen. The quarterly updates on the details of transactions 
with the related parties, are placed before the ACB. The Related 
Party Transactions that were entered, during the FY under review, 
were on an arm’s length basis and were in the ordinary course 
of business, pursuant to the approval of the ACB. In terms of the 
provisions of Regulation 23 of the SEBI LODR, the approval of 
Shareholders was obtained at 9th AGM of the Bank for material 
related party transactions with the promoter entities, i.e., 
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited, Bandhan Financial Services 
Limited, Financial Inclusion Trust, North East Financial Inclusion 
Trust and promoter group entity, Bandhan AMC Limited, for the 
FY 2024 and upto 10th AGM of the Bank for banking transactions at 
arm’s length and in the ordinary course of the banking business of 
the Bank. The proposal for material related party transactions for 
FY 2025 and upto 11th AGM of the Bank is being submitted before 
the shareholders at 10th AGM for their approval.
In terms of the amended definition of Related Party under the SEBI 
LODR, the promoter and member of the promoter group of the 
Bank are considered as Related Parties with effect from April 01, 
2023. Accordingly, as on March 31, 2024, the following entities 
forming part of the promoter and promoter group are related 
parties of the Bank:
(a)	
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited (Promoter)
(b)	
Bandhan Financial Services Limited (Promoter)
(c)	
Financial Inclusion Trust (Promoter)
(d)	
North East Financial Inclusion Trust (Promoter)
(e)	
Bandhan Konnagar (Promoter Group)
(f)	
Bandhan AMC Limited (Promoter Group)
(g)	
Bandhan Mutual Fund Trustee Limited (Promoter Group)
(h)	
Bandhan 
Investment 
Managers 
(Mauritius) 
Limited 
(Promoter Group)
68
Bandhan Bank Limited
(i)	
Quadra Medical Services Private Limited (Promoter Group)
(j)	
Quadra Hospital And Medical Services Private Limited 
(Promoter Group)
(k)	
Gamma Spect - Imaging & Diagnostic Centre Private Limited 
(Promoter Group)
(l)	
Quadramedical Research & Foundation Private Limited 
(Promoter Group)
(m)	 Bandhan Life Insurance Limited (Promoter Group)
There were no Related Party Transactions required to be reported 
in Form AOC-2. However, necessary disclosure as required under 
the Accounting Standards (AS 18) read with RBI’s Master Direction 
No.: RBI/DOR/2021-22/83 DOR.ACC.REC.No.45/21.04.018/2021-
22 dated August 30, 2021, as may be updated from time to time, 
has been made in the note no. 18.12 to the Annual Financial 
Statement for the FY 2024. Your Bank has a Policy on dealing 
with Related Party Transactions, which is reviewed on annual 
basis and accordingly, the Policy was reviewed by the Board on 
the recommendation of the ACB, with no changes. The Policy is 
available on your Bank’s website: https://bandhanbank.com/
sites/default/files/2022-09/Policy-on-Dealing-with-Related-Party-
Transactions.pdf.
Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments
In terms of the provisions of Section 186(11) of the Companies 
Act, the provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act, except 
sub-section (1) thereof, do not apply to any loan made, any 
guarantee given, security provided, or any investment made by a 
banking company in the ordinary course of its business. However, 
the particulars of investments made by your Bank are disclosed 
in the Financial Statement for the FY 2024, as per the applicable 
provisions of the BR Act.
Whistle Blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism
Your Bank has adopted the Board approved Vigilance Policy 
and Whistle Blower Policy, as required under Section 177 of the 
Companies Act, Regulation 22 of the SEBI LODR and applicable 
circulars issued by the RBI.
These Policies aim to provide an avenue to raise concerns on 
Ethical, Legal or Regulatory violations and promptly addressing 
them while assuring the confidentiality and protection of the 
Whistle Blower against any form of retaliation. Your Bank is 
committed to conduct all its business operations and transactions 
by maintaining highest ethical, moral and legal standards. The 
complaints/ disclosures under the Scheme covers the areas such 
as corruption/ malpractices, misuse of office, criminal offences, 
suspected/ actual fraud, failure to comply with existing rules and 
regulations, where such acts result in financial loss/ operational 
risk, loss of reputation, etc., which may be detrimental to the 
interest of your Bank, its depositors and the public.
Your Bank promotes and makes available at all times, a Clean, 
Open and Transparent workplace, wherein business transaction, 
professionalism and productivity are seen as hallmarks of business 
practice. Your Bank is also committed to conduct all its business 
operations and transactions by maintaining highest ethical, moral 
and legal standards.
Your Bank encourages its employees, all stakeholders and 
members of general public, who have concerns about 
suspected misconduct, to come forward and express these 
concerns without fear of retaliation or unfair treatment. The 
Whistle Blower Policy provides adequate safeguards against 
the victimisation of the Directors and employees who avail this 
mechanism and ensures that the personnel get direct access 
to the Chairman of the ACB. None of the Bank’s personnel has 
been denied access to the ACB.
The said Policies are available on your Bank’s website at https://
bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../sites/default/
files/2023-12/Whistle-Blower-Policy-141223.pdf 
and 
https://
bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../sites/default/
files/2023-12/Vigilance-Policy-141223.pdf.
Significant and Material Orders passed by Regulators 
or Courts or Tribunals
During FY 2024, no significant or material orders were passed by 
any Regulators or Courts or Tribunals against your Bank impacting 
its going concern status and operations in future. However, 
during the FY 2024, the RBI, vide its order dated March 04, 
2024, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 47A(l)(c) 
read with Section 46(4)(i) of the BR Act, had imposed a penalty 
of ₹29.55 lakh on your Bank, for non-compliance with certain 
directions contained in the ‘Reserve Bank of India (Interest Rate 
on Deposits) Directions, 2016’. Your Bank has enhanced its review 
and monitoring mechanism to avoid such incidents in future.
Statutory Auditors and their Report
In terms of the ‘Guidelines for Appointment of Statutory Central 
Auditors (SCAs)/ Statutory Auditors (SAs) of Commercial Banks 
(excluding RRBs), UCBs and NBFCs (including HFCs)’ dated April 27, 
2021 (‘RBI Guidelines on Auditors’) issued by the RBI, banks shall 
appoint the Statutory Auditors for a continuous period of three 
years, subject to the firms satisfying the eligibility norms each 
year and the approval of the RBI on an annual basis. Further, in 
terms of the RBI Guidelines on Auditors and your Bank’s Policy for 
Appointment of Statutory Auditors, it is required to appoint two 
Statutory Auditors. Accordingly, the Members of your Bank, at the 
8th AGM held on August 10, 2022, had approved the appointment 
of M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration 
No. 302049E), as the Joint Statutory Auditors of your Bank for a 
period of three years, to hold office from the conclusion of the 
8th AGM until the conclusion of the 11th AGM of your Bank to be 
held in 2025. M/s. Singhi & Co. is holidng the office of Statutory 
Auditors along with M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants 
(ICAI Firm Registration No. 107122W/W100672), who will hold 
office till the conclusion of the 10th AGM.
Therefore, your Bank is required to appoint one more audit 
firm to act as a Joint Statutory Auditor of the Bank in place of 
retiring auditors, M M Nissim & Co LLP. Accordingly, on the 
basis of recommendation of the ACB, the Board of Directors 
has recommended the appointment of M/s. V Sankar Aiyar & 
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
69
Co., Chartered Accountants (FRN 109208W), as Joint Statutory 
Auditors of the Bank, for a period of three years to hold office 
from the conclusion of the 10th AGM until the conclusion of the 
13th AGM of the Bank, for the approval of the shareholders at 
the ensuing AGM, subject to approval of RBI on an annual basis. 
Approval of RBI has already been received for appointment of 
M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered Accountants (FRN 302049E) and 
M/s. V Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants (FRN 109208W) 
as the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank for the FY 2024-25 for 
their third year and first year, respectively.
The Independent Auditor’s Report, given by the Joint Statutory 
Auditors on the financial statement of the Bank for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2024, forms part of this Annual Report. 
There has been no qualification, reservation, adverse remark or 
disclaimer given by the Auditors in their Report. Also, no offence 
of fraud was reported by the Joint Statutory Auditors of your Bank 
under Section 143(12) of the Companies Act read with Rule 13(3) 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rule, 2014.
Secretarial Auditor and its Report
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Companies Act 
and Regulation 24A(1) of the SEBI LODR, the Board had appointed 
CS Hansraj Jaria, Practising Company Secretary (FCS No.: 7703, 
C.P. No.: 19394), as the Secretarial Auditor to conduct Secretarial 
Audit of the Bank for FY 2023-24. Accordingly, the Secretarial Audit 
Report for FY 2023-24 is enclosed to this Report as Annex – 3. There 
is no qualification, reservation, adverse remark or disclaimer in the 
Secretarial Audit Report. Further, no offence of fraud was reported 
by the Secretarial Auditor of your Bank under Section 143(12) of 
the Companies Act read with Rule 13(3) of the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rule, 2014.
Cost Records
In terms of the provisions of Section 148(1) of the Companies 
Act read with Rule 3 of the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) 
Rules, 2014, your Bank is not required to maintain cost records 
and accordingly, is not required to undergo cost audit.
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance is based on the principles of conducting 
business with integrity, fairness and being transparent in all 
transactions, making necessary disclosures. Decisions are made 
in compliance with the laws of the land, with full accountability 
and responsibility towards the stakeholders, and a commitment to 
conducting all business in an ethical manner. Your Bank is committed 
to achieving the highest standards of Corporate Governance 
and adhering to the Corporate Governance requirements set 
by the regulators. A separate section on Corporate Governance 
standards followed by your Bank and the relevant disclosures, 
as stipulated under the SEBI LODR, the Companies Act and rules 
made thereunder, forms part of this Report as Annex – 4.
A Certificate from CS Anjan Kumar Roy, Practising Company 
Secretary (FCS No.: 5684/  CP No.: 4557), regarding compliance 
with the conditions of Corporate Governance, as stipulated in the 
SEBI LODR, is annexed to the Report on Corporate Governance, 
which forms part of this Report.
Annual Return
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 92(3) read with Section 
134(3)(a) of the Companies Act, the draft Annual Return of your 
Bank, in Form No. MGT-7, as on March 31, 2024, is available on 
your Bank‘s website at https://bandhanbank.com/annual-reports. 
Further, the final Annual Return of your Bank, as on March 31, 
2024, will be available on your Bank’s website at the said link, upon 
filing of the same with the Registrar of Companies under Section 
92(4) of the Companies Act.
Management Discussion & Analysis
The Management Discussion & Analysis Report for the FY 2024, as 
prescribed under the SEBI LODR, forms part of this Report, and is 
enclosed as Annex – 5.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
In terms of the provisions of Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI LODR 
read with SEBI Circular dated July 12, 2023, Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report (‘BRSR’) of your Bank providing its 
performance against the nine principles of the ‘National Guidelines 
on Responsible Business Conduct, 2019’ (‘NGRBCs’), formulated 
by Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, forms part 
of this Report and, is enclosed as Annex – 6.
Integrated Reporting
Your Bank has been disclosing its ESG performance through an 
independent Integrated Report following the Internal Framework 
set by the International Integrated Reporting Council, which 
shall be hosted separately on the website of your Bank and can 
be accessed at https://bandhanbank.com/annual-reports. The 
report provides information including financial and non-financial 
parameters, which would enable the members to make well-
informed decisions and have a better understanding of your 
Bank’s performance. It also deals with various aspects such as 
organisational strategy, governance framework, performance and 
prospects of value creation, based on the six forms of capital, viz., 
financial capital, manufactured capital, intellectual capital, human 
capital, social and relationship capital, and natural capital.
Compliance with Secretarial Standards
The Board of Directors affirms that your Bank has complied with 
the applicable provisions of the Secretarial Standards issued by 
the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, viz., SS-1 relating 
to Meetings of the Board and its Committees; and SS-2 relating to 
General Meetings.
Information under the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013
Your Bank has adopted zero tolerance towards any action on 
the part of any of its employees, which may fall under the ambit 
of ‘sexual harassment’ at workplace and is fully committed to 
uphold and maintain the dignity of every woman constituent 
associated with your Bank. It takes all necessary measures to 
ensure a harassment free workplace and has instituted an Internal 
Committee for redressal of complaints and to prevent/ prohibit 
sexual harassment, in compliance with the guidelines enumerated 
in the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
70
Bandhan Bank Limited
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. At the beginning of the FY 
under review, three complaints were pending, which were resolved 
during the FY. Further, nineteen complaints were received during 
the FY, out of which fifteen complaints had been closed during the 
FY. Four complaints were pending at the end of the FY which have 
since been closed.
Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption and 
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
In our endeavour to achieve aggressive goals to reduce carbon 
footprints, the conservation of energy has been integrated with 
the vision of the organisation and its operations. Your Bank has 
made it mandatory to use BEE Standard Energy Efficient equipment 
and promote Energy Efficient Building Design in line with Energy 
Conservation Building Code (‘ECBC’) in the upcoming projects. 
Some of the steps undertaken by your Bank towards conservation 
of energy are as under:
•	
Smart building systems including use of Energy-efficient 
glass facades to reduce energy consumption and increase 
sustainability to achieve the highest level of efficiency;
•	
At banking outlets, the focus is on insulation on walls and 
roof, optimum window wall ratio, premises shape and 
orientation, and re-engineering and retrofit of equipment;
•	
Tracking of energy consumptions at all levels and comparing 
with the best international benchmarks;
•	
Incorporation of smart meters for energy use monitoring 
and engagement with key stakeholders, at regular intervals, 
to drive energy conservation in the organisation culture;
•	
Inclusion of the latest technologies in air-conditioning 
and inductive equipment in terms of variable drives and 
improved IKW (Consumption per Ton) in HVAC;
•	
Lighting: Incorporation of 100 per cent. LED for lighting, 
daylight harvesting, timed illumination of signage through 
central monitoring system. Natural daylight utilisation is 
encouraged in your Bank premises;
•	
Daily operations and usage: Conservation through basic 
hygiene practices on energy usage through occupancy 
sensors, zoning of electrical circuits and master switches 
for premises. In the recent past, your Bank has put up three 
mega Currency Chests with five star energy ratings;
•	
Water Conservation: Ground water recharge facilities 
through rain water harvesting in upcoming projects, 
volume flow controls at each sink point, water recycling 
through STPs.
The details on the Information Technology used by your Bank in its 
operations have been provided under the section on ‘Information 
Technology at the Bank’ in this Report.
The foreign exchange loss of your Bank was ₹33.06 crore 
{including the net gains/ losses arising in all exchanges/ derivatives 
transactions} whereas the foreign exchange outgo was ₹9.20 crore 
during the Financial Year 2024.
Human Resource Management
Your Bank acknowledges the vital importance of human capital and 
aligns its practices with industry best standards. The combination 
of young and experienced employees fosters innovation and 
stability. Regular HR policy reviews ensure continued relevance 
in a constantly evolving environment. Additionally, transitioning 
processes to digital platforms have enhanced user experience, 
streamlined operations, and boosted employee productivity.
Your Bank’s network has expanded by 4.9 per cent., now totalling 
6,297 banking outlets. This growth signifies increased accessibility 
and outreach to customers. The establishment of 42 retail asset 
centres reflects a strategic focus on retail banking, addressing 
consumer loans, mortgages, and other retail financial services.
To support this expansion, your Bank has quadrupled its workforce 
since inception, underscoring its commitment to superior service 
delivery and operational excellence.
Your Bank has achieved several significant milestones in creating a 
workplace that prioritises a human-centric approach:
•	
Contributing to a positive work environment and long-term 
organisational success, your Bank has promoted 8,709 
employees through a competency-based grade promotion 
process.
•	
In alignment with your Bank’s Succession Planning Policy, 
most leadership positions arising from your Bank’s growth 
and expansion were filled through internal role elevations.
•	
Digitisation has been a core strategy for your Bank, with 
digital solutions integrated into major HR processes, 
including an Employee Productivity Dashboard and goal-
setting during onboarding.
•	
Your Bank is committed to fostering a transparent work 
culture, establishing goals and Key Result Areas (KRAs) 
during onboarding. This approach provides employees 
with clear metrics and performance indices, ensuring they 
understand how to positively impact both the Bank and their 
own development journey. By integrating the Performance 
Appraisal process into the HRMS, your Bank aims to provide 
all employees with clear insights into their performance, 
assessments, and competencies.
•	
To promote employee well-being and work-life balance, your 
Bank has increased the total leave balance by 20 per cent. 
and introduced Paternity Leave. Numerous sessions with 
eminent doctors were organised to guide employees towards 
a healthy lifestyle. A Medical Extension Plan has also been 
introduced to address outpatient treatment for employees.
•	
Your Bank undertakes campus recruitment to contribute 
to the growth and development of young professionals 
entering the workforce and creating a talent pipeline for the 
upcoming years. It visited 95 premier institutes and selected 
680 young talents.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
71
These initiatives highlight your Bank’s commitment to fostering a 
supportive and progressive workplace environment.
Employees’ Learning and Development (‘L&D’):
For the FY 2024, your Bank has taken a leap in building the Learning 
and Development proposition for the employees, aligning with its 
strategy for growth across new business, skilling and reskilling of 
existing employees to support continuous expansion and growth. 
Your Bank has developed programmes to equip employees with 
the necessary skillset, mindset and knowledge to enable them to 
meet the challenges of a rapidly changing banking industry.
This year, your Bank has focused on building employee 
competencies and on the key strategic imperatives by creating 
engaging learning initiatives. Thematic programmes to improve 
Employee Productivity, strengthening risk & compliance culture, 
and Digital Skill building were done in this FY.
Key L&D Metrics to drive learning & development initiatives in 
your Bank during the FY under review are enumerated below:
•	
1.13 million learning hours achieved during this FY, a growth 
of 84 per cent. from the last FY
•	
Per employee learning hours grew by 66 per cent. to 50.9 
hours of training per employee in this FY
•	
During FY 2024, 99 per cent. employees participated in at 
least one training programme
•	
Digital learning penetration among employees doubled in 
FY 2024. Logins on the Learning Management System 
(Bandhan Edge) reached to 8,40,310 by March 2024, a 
whopping 277 per cent. increase from previous FY.
Special Initiatives were taken during the FY 2024 to augment 
the regular training strategies aimed at skill development for 
the employees:
•	
Productivity improvement programmes were launched for 
new businesses like Affluent channel, government business, 
Current Account and other business units
•	
Multi-faceted training interventions covering Classroom 
trainings, E-Learning courses, Quizzes, Contests, etc., were 
offered for building operational excellence across business 
functions. Programs on customer service, First Time Right 
for Account Opening process and Credit Management were 
done for the employees
•	
Management Development Programs to upskill role-
elevated employees and Leadership Development Programs 
for senior management were conducted to hone managerial 
and leadership skills as per the L&D strategy of your Bank
•	
“Grow with Bandhan” - a new initiative was launched for 
all employees to self-nominate themselves for continuous 
learning. These were specially curated byte-sized trainings to 
enhance skill, behaviour, attitude, and mindset for personal 
and professional growth
•	
“RISE” - A culture building programme was launched as a part 
of organisational development strategy emphasising areas of 
Professionalism, Collaboration, Transparency and Speed
•	
Multiple learning measures were implemented to improve 
the compliance culture in the Bank. Mandatory training 
modules on POSH, Information Security, KYC-AML/ CFT were 
used to train majority of the employees.
Risk Management
Your Bank has an independent and robust risk management 
framework which effectively addresses both financial and 
non-financial risks. Risk Management at your Bank includes 
risk identification, risk assessment, risk measurement and risk 
mitigation which stands at its core to create maximum value for 
shareholders, clients, employees, and communities. Your Bank 
has policies and procedures to systematically measure, assess, 
monitor, and manage risks across all its portfolios.
Your Bank is committed to creating an environment of risk 
awareness at all levels. Your Bank’s view on risk is dynamic and 
it aims at constantly upgrading controls and security measures, 
including cyber security measures, to avoid or mitigate various 
risks. The ability to manage risk is strongly supported by a strong 
risk conduct and risk awareness culture.
Your Bank has an independent Risk Governance Structure, 
which is in line with international best practices, that has been 
put in place to separate duties and ensure the independence 
of Risk Measurement, Monitoring and Control functions. This 
framework visualises the empowerment of Business Units at the 
operating level, with technology being the key driver, enabling the 
identification and management of risk at the place of origination.
Risk Appetite
To address the various risks that your Bank faces in its business, it 
has established a risk appetite framework which defines the levels 
and types of risk that are acceptable, within risk capacity, in order 
to achieve strategic objectives and business plans. Furthermore, 
risk-specific policies, limits and triggers are implemented to 
operationalise the appetites for individual risk types.
The risk appetite framework is approved on an annual basis and 
is a pre-cursor to the strategy of your Bank. A comprehensive 
dashboard that shows all the risks that your Bank carries at any 
given time is provided by the Risk Profile, which is a component 
of the Risk Appetite Framework. It links goals and priorities to 
risk management in a way that empowers employees to serve 
customers well and meet financial targets. Your Bank has an 
annual risk appetite and a long-term risk appetite which is in line 
with it’s near and the long-term goals.
Risk Culture
Risk culture is a set of norms, and behaviours related to awareness, 
management, and controls of risks. In your Bank, risk culture is 
at the centre of both the risk management framework and risk 
management practice. The desired risk culture behaviours are 
aligned to your Bank’s core values thus forming an effective basis 
for risk culture since these are used for performance management, 
recruitment, and development.
72
Bandhan Bank Limited
The Board and Senior Management sets the “tone at the top” 
and has a trickle-down effect on all employees. Thus, it supports 
a strong culture, which is defined by your Bank’s expectations, 
thereby guiding how employees conduct themselves, work with 
colleagues, and make decisions. Your Bank has a well-defined 
Whistle Blower Policy in place.
As part of its awareness campaigns, your Bank circulates and 
promotes information security awareness contents and materials 
through several mediums (SMS, Email, Screensaver, Circular, etc.) 
to cover the Board members, employees, customers, and vendors 
of the Bank. Your Bank educates staff on risk management through 
periodic newsletters, circulars, floor-level awareness seminars, 
workshops, and innovative desktop screensavers.
Stress Testing
Your Bank recognises the importance of stress testing as an 
integral risk management tool. Your Bank’s Stress testing includes 
Scenario testing, which examines the impact of a hypothetical 
future state to define changes in risk factors as also Sensitivity 
testing, which examines the impact of an incremental change to 
one or more risk factors. In addition to standard stress scenarios, 
your Bank conducts stress testing based on various themes driven 
by climate, macroeconomic, etc. Your Bank carries out reverse 
stress testing, in order to identify circumstances that may lead to 
specific, defined outcomes.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (‘ICAAP’)
Your Bank conducts a comprehensive Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (‘ICAAP’) exercise on a yearly basis with 
respect to the adequacy of Capital under normal and stressed 
conditions. The examination of capital requirements under normal 
economic and adverse market conditions enables your Bank to 
determine whether its projected business performance meets 
internal and regulatory capital requirements. The assessment is 
to identify, assess, and manage all risks that could potentially have 
a significant negative impact on its business, financial position, or 
capital adequacy.
The ICAAP comprises of a point-in-time assessment of 
exposures and risks at the end of the financial year, along with 
a forward-looking stress capital assessment. Your Bank also 
conducts back-testing assessments as part of ICAAP process to 
assess its stress scenarios.
Risk Management Framework
Your Bank’s Risk Management Framework sets forth the core 
principles on how it seeks to manage and govern the risk. Your 
Bank’s comprehensive risk management is overseen by its Board 
of Directors who has the overall responsibility for your Bank‘s Risk 
Management, including culture and governance framework. The 
Risk Management Committee of the Board (‘RMCB’) assists the 
Board in discharging these responsibilities effectively. The RMCB 
annually reviews and approves the risk management framework. 
The RMCB plays a crucial role in guiding the development of 
policies, procedures, and systems, and continuously evaluates 
their suitability and relevance to the evolving business landscape. 
The RMCB also oversees the Risk Management Department 
(‘RMD’) and the Chief Risk Officer (‘CRO’) reports functionally 
to the RMCB. The CRO has one-on-one meetings with the RMCB 
Committee members during the RMCB meeting in the absence of 
the Whole-time Directors including MD&CEO.
Major Risks
Your Bank’s risk management approach is to ensure that major 
risks and emerging risks, as they evolve, are identified, managed, 
and incorporated into its existing risk management assessment, 
measurement, monitoring and escalation processes. By adhering 
to these protocols, management can be sure that they will 
be planning as they grow the business and fulfil their ongoing 
responsibilities for risk supervision. The Board and senior 
management discuss top and emerging risks on a regular basis.
Asset/ Liability Management (ALM)
Asset/ Liability Management involves evaluating, monitoring, and 
managing interest rate risk, market risk, liquidity, and funding. 
Your Bank has a well-defined Asset Liability Management policy 
that outlines the framework for liquidity and interest rate 
risk management. As a part of assurance towards sound Risk 
Management practices, your Bank regularly reviews its Internal 
Policies to adapt to changes in market conditions.
Your Bank’s Asset Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) 
monitors and manages Liquidity and Interest Rate risks. Your Bank 
actively assesses ALM Risk, which involves evaluating, monitoring, 
and managing interest rate risk, market risk, liquidity, and funding, 
which potentially can have a significant earnings impact. Your 
Bank has implemented a robust mechanism to monitor critical 
ratios and has always maintained healthy Liquidity ratios; Liquidity 
Coverage Ratio (‘LCR’), much above the regulatory minimum 
LCR requirement by having significant High Quality Liquid Assets 
(‘HQLA’) as also the Net Stable Funding Ratio (‘NSFR’), which is 
measured as the proportion of long-term assets that are funded 
by stable sources.
Climate-related Financial Risks
Your Bank has incorporated climate risk in its risk management 
framework. Your Bank has incorporated provision in its Credit 
Policy to support green financing and considering proposals 
from such segments to encourage green financing. As part of the 
stress testing policy, scenarios related to climate risk have been 
incorporated.
Credit Risk
Your Bank defines credit risk as the risk of loss associated with a 
borrower or counterparty default (failure to meet obligations 
with agreed upon terms). Your Bank has established robust 
credit appraisal and risk management frameworks for identifying, 
measuring, monitoring, and controlling the risks in credit exposures.
Your Bank balances the risk and return by setting certain 
objectives, e.g., ensuring credit quality is not compromised for 
growth; mitigating credit risk in transactions, relationships and 
portfolios; using its credit risk rating and scoring systems or other 
approved credit risk assessment or rating methodologies, policies 
and tools; appropriate pricing based on credit risk taken; systems 
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
73
and controls for detecting and preventing inappropriate credit risk; 
applying consistent credit risk exposure measurements; ongoing 
credit risk monitoring and administration; and avoiding activities 
that are inconsistent with its values, code of conduct or policies. 
Your Bank undertakes studies to identify trends in the movement 
of NPAs, etc., to keep track of the asset quality.
Information Security and Cyber Risks
Cyber security in banks has gained paramount importance as banks 
have IT platforms in the name of digitisation, competition from 
peers, customer experience, reduction of transaction cost, etc. 
Across banks in India, large amounts of confidential data reside in 
bank’s Data Centres and flows through bank’s servers and various 
networks and devices. To protect the IT systems, confidential data 
of your Bank as well as customers, either in rest or in motion, 
and to ensure continuity of business, your Bank has policies and 
frameworks in place for Information security and Cyber risks.
Banks are exposed and susceptible to various types of cybercrime. 
Cyber-attacks have become more sophisticated and organised and 
they are continuously carrying attacks in volume, frequency, and 
severity. Malware perpetrators are inventing and inflicting various 
types of malware attacks. Distributed Denial of Service (‘DDOS’) 
activity is ever-increasing and evolving as they are using Internet 
of Things (‘IOT’) devices as platform to conduct such attacks. Your 
Bank has not experienced any material loss relating to these or 
other types of cyber-attacks.
Cybersecurity risk is a priority for your Bank, and it continues 
to develop and enhance its controls, processes, and systems 
in order to protect its networks, computers, software, and data 
from attack, damage, or unauthorised access. Your Bank has its 
own independent 24x7 C-SOC (Cyber Security Operations Centre) 
for a state-of-art centralised and consolidated cybersecurity 
incident prevention, security event monitoring, detection, and 
response which is backed by data and tools for sound analytics. 
Your Bank is also ISO 27001:2013 certified, for its information 
security management. Your Bank is also proactively involved in 
industry cybersecurity efforts and working with other parties, 
including its third-party service providers and governmental 
agencies, to continue to enhance defences and improve resiliency 
to cybersecurity threats.
Operational Risk
Your Bank actively manages the Operational risk, which is the 
risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, 
people and systems, or external events. Your Bank has a Board 
approved Operational Risk Management Policy, which outlines 
the governance structure and processes for managing operational 
risk. Your Bank has also put in place robust Fraud Risk, Outsourcing 
Risk and Legal Risk Frameworks within its Operational Risk 
Management.
Business Resilience
Your Bank is committed to provide uninterrupted service 
to customers. As such, it is essential to protect the critical 
infrastructure in your Bank from natural and manmade disasters/ 
events and ensure business continuity of the various operational 
units. Your Bank has a Business Continuity Management policy in 
place with the objective to recover critical activities and systems 
within defined timelines; safety of people and its assets; to 
communicate with stakeholders during emergency; to manage 
reputation risk, etc. Business continuity risks are reviewed 
and regular updates are given Operational Risk Management 
Committee (‘ORMC’) and RMCB.
Outsourcing Risk
Outsourcing risk refers to potential losses from relying on third-
party service providers for delivering banking operations for 
your Bank, which would be undertaken by it in future, with risk 
factors including service failures, data breaches, regulatory non-
compliance, and lack of control. Your Bank identifies these risks 
by evaluating outsourced functions and vendor reliability at the 
time of empanelment by assessing risk through due diligence 
and compliance reviews, and monitoring performance via regular 
reviews and audits. Your Bank has implemented a well-defined Risk 
evaluation and management framework that comprehensively 
deals with the processes and responsibilities for identification, 
measurement, mitigation, management, and reporting of risks 
associated with Outsourcing.
Market Risk
Your Bank’s market risk management consists of identifying and 
measuring risks, control measures, monitoring, and reporting 
systems. Your Bank actively manages Market risk, which is the risk 
of possible economic loss from adverse changes in market risk 
factors, such as, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange 
rates, equity and commodity prices, and the risk of possible loss 
due to counterparty exposure. This applies to implied volatility 
risk, basis risk, and market liquidity risk. Value at Risk (VaR) is a 
tool for monitoring risk in your Bank’s trading portfolio and is used 
for estimating the potential loss from adverse movements in the 
financial markets.
Regulatory Risk
Your Bank recognises the utmost importance of regulatory risk. It 
closely monitors changes in the regulatory landscape and assesses 
how new regulations might affect its business and strategy. In 
order to take proactive steps to spot new sectors, your Bank 
regularly examines the regulatory environment.
Reputational Risk
Your Bank’s reputation is rooted in the perception of its stakeholders, 
and the trust and loyalty they place in it is core to its purpose as a 
financial services organisation. Any adverse stakeholder and public 
perception about your Bank may negatively impact its ability to 
attract and retain customers and may expose it to litigation and 
regulatory actions. In today’s world where communication is a key, 
your Bank maintains regular communication with its stakeholders 
through appropriate engagement mechanisms to address their 
expectations and address any concerns they may have.
The Reputational Risk Management Framework of your Bank 
is made up of interconnected characteristics that could have an 
impact on different stakeholders. Your Bank is also measuring and 
tracking the idiosyncratic risks related to stock price movement, 
74
Bandhan Bank Limited
as also social as well as traditional media sentiments, complaints, 
regulatory action, etc., on a periodic basis.
Strategic & Business Risk
Your Bank is monitoring the Strategic Risk by tracking its 
competitive environment as well as any emerging risks, which may 
derail the overall Strategic pursuit so that suitable risk mitigation 
measures are timely taken. As part of strategic risk assessments, 
your Bank conducts mid-year assessment to review the Business 
strategy on A/E (Actual vs. Estimated) basis and assessments 
are presented to RMCB. Your Bank has a robust Business Risk 
Management Framework in place, which involves monitoring 
actionable metrics, including various financial indicators, as well 
as your Bank’s competitive position in the industry.
Information Technology at the Bank
The growth trajectory of your Bank has been significantly shaped by 
the influence of Information Technology. Recognising its paramount 
importance, your Bank has embarked on a transformative journey 
aimed at leveraging cutting-edge technology as a key differentiator 
in the rapidly evolving competitive financial services sector. 
Notable initiatives undertaken during the financial year 2024 
include the implementation of robust cybersecurity measures 
and the adoption of innovative digital banking solutions, thereby 
enhancing both customer experience and operational efficiency. 
Your Bank has also completely migrated from vendor managed 
infrastructure to self-managed infrastructure with better control 
and oversight. Few accomplishments during the FY 2024 are 
mentioned below:
•	
IT 
transformation 
completed 
successfully, 
led 
by 
implementation of Oracle FlexCube as new Core Banking 
System (‘CBS’) and completely new Digital Banking platforms. 
Following critical enterprise applications successfully 
implemented under the purview of the transformation 
journey:
	
i.	
Core Banking System (CBS)
	
ii.	
Treasury
	
iii.	
Loan Origination System (LOS)
	
iv.	
Retail Internet Banking (RIB) and Mobile Banking (MB)
	
v.	
Corporate Internet Banking (CIB)
	
vi.	
Debit Card Management System (DCMS)
	
vii.	
Third Party Products (TPP)
	
viii.	 Document Management System (DMS)
	
ix.	
Cash Management Services (CMS)
	
x.	
Enterprise Data Lake (EDL) to cater to various MIS and 
Regulatory reports
	
xi.	
eGL ERP
	
xii.	
Digital Account Opening (Self-assisted)
•	
Below are the key projects completed post migration during 
FY 2024:
	
i.	
Credit Card implementation for Bank (currently in CUG)
	
ii.	
Digital solution of loan process for entire Personal Loan 
and Small Enterprise Loan (Digi-PL & Digi-SEL)
	
iii.	
Bharat QR (BQR) Acquiring
Your Bank has taken the following initiatives on IT Infrastructure as 
a part of the transformation journey:
•	
Your Bank has completely migrated its IT infrastructure from 
hosting model to Bank owned on-prem IT hardware.
•	
IT Infrastructure capacity has been reviewed and enhanced 
to address the business growth.
•	
Your Bank has deployed on-prem Intrusion Prevention 
System (IPS) to enhance perimeter security.
•	
Your Bank has upgraded the Network Core and Middletier 
Firewall for enhanced security and faster expansion of 
business.
•	
Credit Card Infrastructure is set up on Hybrid Model 
(Cloud & On-prem).
Material Changes and Commitment Affecting 
Financial Position of the Bank
There were no material changes and commitments, affecting the 
financial position of your Bank, which have occurred between 
the end of the Financial Year of the Bank, i.e., March 31, 2024, 
to which the financial statement relate, and the date of this 
Board’s Report.
Change in the nature of business
During the financial year 2024, there has been no change in the 
nature of business of your Bank.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 134(3)(c) read with Section 
134(5) of the Companies Act, the Board of Directors hereby 
confirms that:
i.	
In the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable 
accounting standards have been followed along with proper 
explanation relating to material departures, if any;
ii.	
We have selected such accounting policies and applied them 
consistently and made judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of 
the Bank’s state of affairs as on March 31, 2024, and of its 
profit for the FY ended on that date;
iii.	
We have taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act for safeguarding the assets 
of the Bank and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
75
iv.	
We have prepared the annual accounts on a going concern 
basis;
v.	
We have laid down internal financial controls to be followed 
by the Bank and that such internal financial controls are 
adequate and are operating effectively; and
vi.	
We have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with 
the provisions of all applicable laws and that such systems 
are adequate and operating effectively.
Acknowledgements and Appreciations
The Board of Directors of your Bank extends its gratitude for 
the invaluable support and guidance received from the Reserve 
Bank of India, other government and regulatory authorities, and 
financial institutions. The Board also thanks the correspondent 
banks for their cooperation and help. The Board acknowledges the 
support of its shareholders, and also places on record its sincere 
thanks to its valued clients and customers for their patronage.
The Board also expresses its deep sense of appreciation to all the 
employees for displaying their strong work ethics, excellence at 
work, professionalism, teamwork, commitment and initiative, 
which has led to the Bank making good progress. Your Board will 
continue to strive for improvements as your Bank continues on its 
journey towards achieving its objectives.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Bandhan Bank Limited
Anup Kumar Sinha
Place: Kolkata
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Date: July 26, 2024
(DIN: 08249893)
76
Bandhan Bank Limited
1.	
A Brief Outline on CSR Policy:
	
Approach – Bandhan Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’) has framed its Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) Policy in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Companies Act’), read with the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. The CSR Policy of the Bank has a strong commitment to contribute to social and environmental 
growth and prosperity and is pivotal to its business sustainability.
	
Purpose – The purpose of the Bank’s CSR philosophy is to develop the community in which the Bank operates and make a sustainable 
improvement in the lives of economically, physically and socially challenged people living at the lower end of society and initiate 
or support programmes that are aimed at creating conditions for better livelihoods in these communities. The Bank shall also 
support measures that are aimed at preserving and enhancing the environment and natural resources. The CSR policy shall act as a 
mechanism for regulating the CSR activities of the Bank and adhere to laws and regulations in force and adopt best practices.
	
Vision – Aligned with the vision of the Bank, the CSR initiatives of the Bank shall continue to enhance value creation, improve 
the quality of life and inclusion of those who are not adequately and effectively serviced by the formal financial sector into the 
mainstream of the society and draw them into the cycle of growth by providing products and services and forming partnerships and 
alliances for the fulfilment of its role in the society as a responsible corporate.
	
CSR Programmes – The focus area of the CSR programmes of the Bank shall be the local areas served by the Bank and based on 
the prioritised needs of the local communities. The Bank may undertake any or all of the activities in the subject or the areas as 
mentioned in Schedule VII to the Companies Act, including the following:
	
a.	
Healthcare: Preventive Health, Nutrition and Food Security, Sanitation and Safe Drinking Water
	
b.	
Education: Financial and Digital Literacy, Skill Development and Sustainable Livelihoods for underprivileged children, women, 
youths and persons with disabilities
	
c.	
Reducing Inequalities and Promoting Gender Equality: Women empowerment, empowering persons with disabilities and 
such measures that reduce inequalities faced by socially and economically backward groups
	
d.	
Environment Protection: Natural Resource Management and conservation, and Climate Change mitigation and adaptations
	
e.	
Rural Area and Slum Area Development: Improving infrastructure and living conditions, and sustainable agriculture.
	
f.	
Disaster Management and Relief Operations
2.	
Composition of Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee of the Board (CSR&SCB):
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation/ Nature of Directorship
Number of 
meetings of the 
CSR&SCB held 
during the year
Number of 
meetings of 
CSR&SCB attended 
during the year
1
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
Chairman, Independent Director 
4
3
2
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
Member, former Managing Director & CEO 
4
4
3
Dr. Aparajita Mitra*
Member, Independent Director
4
4
4
Mr. Vijay N Bhatt
Member, Independent Director  
4
4
*Appointed as a member of the CSR&SCB, effective May 17, 2023
3.	
Web link where the Composition of the CSR&SCB, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the Board are 
disclosed on the website of the Bank:
Sl. 
No.
Details of CSR
Web-link
1
Composition of CSR&SCB 
https://www.bandhanbank.com/corporate-governance#rctabone  
2
CSR Policy
https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2023-01/CSR-Policy-210123.pdf 
3
CSR Projects
https://www.bandhanbank.com/beyond-banking   
Annex - 1
Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) activities 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
77
4.	
Executive Summary along with web-link of the Impact Assessment of CSR projects carried out in 
pursuance of sub-rule (3) of Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, 
if applicable:
	
The executive summary of the CSR programme Impact Assessment is provided in the Board’s Report. The detailed Impact Assessment 
Report is available at the Bank’s website https://www.bandhanbank.com/beyond-banking.
5.	
CSR Obligation of the Bank for the financial year 2023-24 as per Section 135(5) of the Companies Act:
Sl. No.
Particulars
Amount (in ₹)
A
Average net profit of the Bank as per sub-section (5) of Section 135
19,90,08,73,959
B
Two per cent of the average net profit of the Bank as per sub-section (5) of Section 135
39,80,17,479
C
Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial 
years
24,88,798
D
Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any
0
E
Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(B)+(C)-(D)]
40,05,06,277
6.	
Total amount spent on CSR projects for the financial year 2023-24
Sl. No.
Particulars
Amount (in ₹)
A
Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Projects and other than Ongoing Projects)
40,05,06,277
B
Amount spent on Administrative Overheads
0
C
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable
0
D
Total amount spent for the financial year [(A)+(B)+(C)]
40,05,06,277
	
E.	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year 2023-24
Total Amount 
Spent for the 
Financial Year 
(in ₹)
Amount Unspent (in ₹)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per Section 135(6)
The amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per the second proviso to Section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
40,05,06,277
NIL
NA
NA
NIL
NA
	
F.	
Excess amount for set-off, if any:
Sl. No.
Particulars
Amount (in ₹)
1
Two per cent of the  average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135
39,80,17,479
2
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
40,05,06,277
3
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(2)-(1)]
24,88,798
4
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial 
years, if any
24,88,798
5
The amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(3)-(4)]
0
7.	
Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years:
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year(s)
The amount 
transferred to 
the Unspent 
CSR Account 
under 
subsection (6) 
of section 135 
(in ₹)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
subsection (6) 
of section 135 
in FY 2023-24 
(in ₹)
Amount 
Spent 
in the 
Financial 
Year  
2023-24
(in ₹)
The amount transferred 
to a Fund as specified 
under Schedule VII as per 
the second proviso to 
subsection (5) of section 
135, if any
The amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial 
Years (in ₹)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount 
(in ₹)
Date of 
Transfer
1
FY 2022-23
0
0
0
0
NA
0
0
2
FY 2021-22
19,91,613
0
0
0
NA
0
0
3
FY 2020-21
10,27,62,598
0
0
0
NA
0
0
78
Bandhan Bank Limited
8.	
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility 
amount spent in the Financial Year 2023-24:
	
	
Yes	 	
	
No
	
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/ acquired: Not applicable
	
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year 2023-24: Not applicable
9.	
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per 
subsection (5) of Section 135: Not applicable
Ratan Kumar Kesh
Subrata Dutta Gupta
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Chairman
(DIN: 10082714)
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
(DIN: 08767943)
Anup Kumar Sinha
Place: Kolkata
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Date: July 26, 2024
(DIN: 08249893)
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
79
1.	
Ratio of remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Bank for the 
financial year 2023-24:
Name 
Designation
Ratio
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
18:1
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
145:1
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar1
Executive Director & Chief Business Officer 
123:1
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh
Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer
100:1
Dr. A. S. Ramasastri
Independent Director
19:1
Dr. Aparajita Mitra
Independent Director
15:1
Ms. Divya Krishnan
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee of BFHL)
18:1
Dr. Holger Dirk Michaelis2 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee of Caladium)
9:1
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar
Independent Director
17:1
Mr. Pankaj Sood2
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee of Caladium)
3:1
Mr. Philip Mathew
Independent Director
15:1
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
Independent Director
26:1
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta 
Independent Director
25:1
Mr. Suhail Chander 
Independent Director
25:1
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
Independent Director
17:1
1 Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar has been appointed as a Whole-time Director of the Bank, designated as ED&CBO, effective from March 08, 2024.
2 Mr. Pankaj Sood was appointed as a Non-Executive Non-Independent Director [Nominee of Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd. (‘Caladium’)], effective 
February 12, 2024, upon completion of tenure of Mr. Holger Dirk Michaelis, Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee of Caladium) on 
February 11, 2024.
	
Note:
	
a)	
Fixed pay has been considered for the computation of the ratio. Fixed pay includes basic, allowances, and employer contributions 
to the Provident Fund.
	
b)	
The above includes all employees of the Bank excluding advisors.
	
c)	
In the case of Non-Executive Chairman, a fixed remuneration of ₹24 lakh per annum as approved by RBI and sitting fees paid 
for attending Board and Independent Directors’ meetings during FY 2023-24 has been considered.
	
d) 	
In accordance with the RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021, the Non-Executive Directors, including Independent Directors (other 
than the Part-time Non-Executive Chairman), were each paid fixed remuneration of up to ₹12 lakh per annum, as approved by 
the Shareholders at their Annual General Meeting held on August 10, 2022, and sitting fees for attending the meetings of the 
Board and its Committee, and the meetings of Independent Directors, during FY 2023-24.
2.	
Percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, CFO, CEO, CS or Manager, if any, in the financial 
year 2023-24:
Designation
Percentage Increase
Chairman
Nil
Managing Director & CEO
24
Executive Director & CBO*
NA
Executive Director & COO
12
Non-Executive Director
NA
CFO*
NA
CS
14
	
*Appointed during the FY 2023-24
Annex - 2
Disclosure on remuneration for FY 2023-24
[As per Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
80
Bandhan Bank Limited
	
Non-Executive/ Independent Directors:
	
During FY 2023-24, the Non-Executive Directors, including Independent Directors, of the Bank were paid sitting fees of ₹90,000 
per meeting for attending the Board meetings, ₹75,000 per meeting for attending meetings of the Audit Committee and the Risk 
Management Committee, and ₹60,000 per meeting for attending meetings of other Committees of the Board and the meetings of 
the Independent Directors.
	
Further, in accordance with the RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021 and Shareholders approval at 8th AGM held on August 10, 2022, 
Non-Executive Directors, other than the Part-time Non-Executive Chairman of the Bank, are paid compensation in the form of fixed 
remuneration of up to ₹12 lakh per annum each, with effect from April 01, 2022, for a period of three years.
	
The Non-Executive Chairman of the Bank is paid fixed remuneration of ₹24 lakh per annum.
	
Neither there has been any change in the said fixed remuneration of the Chairman and Non-Execuitve Directors nor there has been 
any change in the said siting fees for Non-Executive Directors for attending meetings during FY 2023-24.
3.	
Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year 2023-24:
	
Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year 2023-24 was 8.99 per cent.
4.	
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Bank:
	
As on March 31, 2024, the number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Bank was 75,748.
5.	
Average percentage increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial 
personnel in the last financial year and its comparison with the percentage increase in the managerial 
remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for 
increase in the managerial remuneration:
	
The average percentage increase for Managerial personnel (Whole-time Directors): 18 per cent.
	
The average percentage increase for employees other than managerial personnel: 7 per cent.
6.	
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Bank: 
	
Yes
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Bandhan Bank Limited
Anup Kumar Sinha
Place: Kolkata 
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Date: July 26, 2024 
(DIN: 08249893)
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
81
To
The Members
Bandhan Bank Limited
DN-32, Sector-V, Salt Lake
Kolkata – 700091
1.	
I, CS Hansraj Jaria, have conducted the Secretarial Audit of 
the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the 
adherence to good corporate practices by Bandhan Bank 
Limited having CIN: L67190WB2014PLC204622 (hereinafter 
referred as ‘the Bank’) during the financial year ended 
March 31, 2024 (hereinafter referred as ‘review period’). 
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided 
me a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/
statutory compliances and expressing my opinion thereon.
2.	
Based on my verification of the Bank’s books, papers, minute 
books, forms and returns filed, and other records maintained 
by the Bank and also the information provided by the Bank, 
its officers, agents, and authorised representatives during 
the conduct of secretarial audit, I hereby report that in my 
opinion, the Bank has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended on March 31, 2024, complied with the 
statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Bank 
has proper Board processes and compliance mechanism 
in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the 
reporting made hereinafter:
3.	
(I) 	
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the Bank for the review period, according to the 
provisions of the following laws, rules and regulations, 
to the extent applicable on the Bank during the review 
period:
	
	
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the 
rules made thereunder;
	
	
ii.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;
	
	
iii.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations 
and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
	
	
iv.	
The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 
and the rules and regulations made thereunder to 
the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas 
Direct Investment and External Commercial 
Borrowings;
Annex - 3
Secretarial Audit Report
For the financial year ended March 31, 2024
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 24A(1)  
of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended]
	
	
v.	
The 
following 
Regulations 
and 
Guidelines 
prescribed under the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’), as amended 
from time to time:
	
	
	
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, as amended;
	
	
	
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015, as amended;
	
	
	
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2018, 
as 
amended;
	
	
	
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015, 
as 
amended;
	
	
	
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021;
	
	
	
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible 
Securities) Regulations, 2021, as amended; 
- Not Applicable for review period
	
	
	
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Bankers to an Issue) Regulations, 1994, as 
amended;
	
	
	
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the Act 
and dealing with client;
	
	
	
i.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 
2021;  - Not Applicable for review period
	
	
	
j.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buy-Back of Securities) Regulations, 2018; 
 - Not Applicable for review period
82
Bandhan Bank Limited
	
(II) 	 I have also examined the compliance system prevailing 
in the Bank and the compliance of the books, papers, 
minute books, forms, and returns filed and other 
records maintained by the Bank for the review period, 
according to the provisions of the following laws, rules 
and regulations specifically applicable to the Bank and 
as per information and representation provided by the 
officers, agents, and authorised representatives of the 
Bank;
	
	
a.	
The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934;
	
	
b.	
The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (‘BR Act’), and 
notifications and circulars issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India (‘RBI’) from time to time;
	
	
c.	
The Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial 
Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 
2002;
	
	
d.	
The Recovery of Debts and Bankruptcy Act, 1993;
	
	
e.	
The Credit Information Companies (Regulation) 
Act, 2005;
	
	
f.	
The Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002;
	
	
g.	
The Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India (Registration of Corporate 
Agents) Regulations, 2015.
4.	
I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India under Section 118 of the Act.
5.	
That on the basis of the audit as referred above, to the best 
of my knowledge, understanding and belief, I am of the view 
that during the review period the Bank has complied with 
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc., as mentioned above in Paragraphs 3(I), 3(II) 
and 4 of this report.
6.	
I further report that,
	
a.	
The Board of Directors of the Bank is duly constituted 
with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-
Executive Directors and Independent Directors, 
including Woman Directors. The changes in the 
composition of the Board of Directors that took 
place during the review period were carried out in 
compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act.
	
b.	
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings. Agenda and detailed notes on agenda 
were sent at least seven days in advance, and a system 
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting 
and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
	
c.	
Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting 
members’ views, if any, are captured and recorded as 
part of the minutes.
7.	
I further report that, there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Bank commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Bank to monitor and ensure compliance 
with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
8.	
I further report that during the review period:
	
a.	
The Bank has allotted 1,33,268 equity shares of 
face value of ₹10/- each, pursuant to exercise of 
stock options by the eligible employees of the Bank 
under the Bandhan Bank Employee Stock Option Plan 
- Series 1;
	
b.	
The RBI, vide its order dated March 04, 2024, had 
imposed a monetary penalty of ₹29.55 lakh on the 
Bank for non-compliance with certain directions 
contained in the ‘Reserve Bank of India (Interest Rate 
on Deposits) Directions, 2016’, in exercise of its powers 
conferred under section 47A(1)(c) read with section 
46(4)(i) of the BR Act.
9.	
This Report is to be read with my letter of even date which is 
annexed as Annexure – A and forms an integral part of this 
Report.
Hansraj Jaria
(Practicing Company Secretary)
Membership No.: FCS 7703
CP No.: 19394
Place: Kolkata 	
 Peer Review Certificate No.: 1060/2021
Date: July 26, 2024	
UDIN: F007703F000832450
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
83
To
The Members
Bandhan Bank Limited
DN-32, Sector V, Salt Lake
Kolkata -700091
My Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Bank. My responsibility is limited to expressing an 
opinion on existence of adequate board process and compliance management system, commensurate to the size of the Bank, based 
on the secretarial records as shown to me during the said audit and also based on the information furnished to me by the officers, 
agents, and authorised representatives of the Bank during the said audit.
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate, to the best of my understanding, to obtain reasonable 
assurance about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to check as to 
whether correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. I believe that the processes and practices, I followed, provide a reasonable 
basis for my opinion.
3.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and books of accounts of the Bank.
4.	
Wherever required, I have obtained the management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and 
happening of events, etc., and I have relied on such representation, in forming my opinion.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
management. My examination was limited to the verification of compliance procedures on test basis. I would not be liable for any 
business decision or any consequences arising thereof, made on the basis of my report.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficacy or effectiveness or 
accuracy with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
Hansraj Jaria
(Practicing Company Secretary)
Membership No.: FCS 7703
CP No.: 19394
Place: Kolkata 
Peer Review Certificate No.: 1060/2021
Date: July 26, 2024 
UDIN: F007703F000832450
Annexure A
(To the Secretarial Audit Report of Bandhan Bank Limited for the financial year ended March 31, 2024)
84
Bandhan Bank Limited
Bank’s Philosophy on Corporate Governance
Your Bank believes in adopting and adhering to the best standards 
of corporate governance. It unswervingly benchmarks itself of such 
practices. The Bank understands and respects its fiduciary role and 
responsibilities towards its stakeholders and strives hard to meet 
their expectations. The Bank’s philosophy on corporate governance 
enshrines the goal of achieving the highest levels of transparency, 
accountability and equity in all spheres of its operations and in all 
its engagements with its stakeholders. It acknowledges that the 
best Board practices, transparent disclosures and shareholder 
empowerment are necessary for creating stakeholders’ value. The 
philosophy on corporate governance is an important tool for the 
protection of interests of stakeholders and maximisation of their 
long-term values.
Your Bank is in compliance with the extant corporate governance 
requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to 
(i) and (t) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the SEBI LODR.
Board of Directors
Your Bank entrusts its Board of Directors (the ‘Board’) with the 
ultimate responsibility of the management, affairs, directions and 
performance of the Bank and accordingly, has vested the Board 
with the requisite powers, authorities and duties. The Corporate 
Governance philosophy of your Bank establishes that the Board’s 
independence is essential to bring objectivity and transparency in 
the management and the dealings of the Bank.
The composition of the Board of your Bank is governed by the 
provisions of the Companies Act and rules made thereunder, the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (the ‘BR Act’) and the guidelines/ 
circulars/ directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) 
in this regard, the provisions of the SEBI LODR, its Articles of 
Association (‘AOA’), other applicable laws and the best corporate 
governance practices.
Composition of the Board and Tenure on the Board
As on March 31, 2024, the Board of your Bank comprised of 
fourteen Directors, of whom nine were Independent Directors 
including Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman and one Woman 
Independent Director; two Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Directors, i.e., Nominees of Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd. 
(‘Caladium’) and Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited, Promoter of 
the Bank and Non-Operative Financial Holding Company (‘BFHL’ 
or ‘NOFHC’); and the Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer 
(‘MD&CEO’) and two Executive Directors.
Annex - 4
Report on Corporate Governance
[Report on Corporate Governance pursuant to the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (the ‘SEBI LODR’) and the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Companies Act’), for the financial year ended March 31, 2024, forming part 
of the Board’s Report]
 Independent    Executive    Non-Executive Non-Independent
Board Composition
64% (9)
21% (3)
14% (2)
Appointments:
(a)	
In terms of Regulation 17(1C) of the SEBI LODR, approval of 
Shareholders for appointment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 
10082714), who was appointed by the Board as Executive 
Director from March 31, 2023, was required to be sought 
at the next general meeting or within a time period of 
three months from the date of appointment, whichever is 
earlier. Accordingly, Shareholders of the Bank on June 22, 
2023, accorded their approval, via the Postal Ballot process, 
for the appointment of Mr. Kesh as a Whole-time Director, 
designated as Executive Director and Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank, for a period of three consecutive 
years, from March 31, 2023 upto March 30, 2026, liable to 
retire by rotation.
(b)	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 10A(2A)(i) of the BR 
Act read with applicable RBI Circular, total tenure of a 
Non-Executive Director, continuously or otherwise, on the 
board of a bank, shall not exceed eight years. Accordingly, 
tenure of Dr. Holger Dirk Michaelis (DIN: 07205838), Non-
Executive Non-Independent Director [Nominee of Caladium] 
was expiring on the close of business hours on February 11, 
2024. Consequently, the Board of Directors of the Bank, at 
its meeting held on February 09, 2024, on the basis of the 
recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee of the Bank (‘NRC’), approved the appointment 
of Mr. Pankaj Sood (DIN: 05185378) as Additional Non-
Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee of Caladium), 
on the Board of the Bank, with effect from February 12, 2024, 
subject to Shareholders’ approval. Subsequently, in terms 
of the provisions of Regulation 17(1C) of the SEBI LODR, 
Shareholders of the Bank on April 21, 2024, accorded their 
approval, via the Postal Ballot process, for the appointment 
of Mr. Sood as the Non-Executive Non-Independent Director 
(Nominee of Caladium), with effect from February 12, 2024, 
liable to retire by rotation.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
85
(c)	
The Board of Directors of the Bank, at its meeting held on 
March 07, 2024, on the basis of the recommendation of the 
NRC and approval of the RBI, had approved the appointment 
of Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar (DIN: 10540386) as the Whole-
time Director [Category: Additional Director], designated as 
Executive Director & Chief Business Officer (‘ED & CBO’), and 
Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank, for a period of three 
years, liable to retire by rotation, with effect from March 
08, 2024, subject to Shareholders’ approval. Accordingly, in 
terms of the provisions of Regulation 17(1C) of the SEBI LODR, 
Shareholders of the Bank on April 21, 2024, accorded their 
approval, via the Postal Ballot process, for the appointment 
of Mr. Babbar as the Whole-time Director, designated as ED 
& CBO, and Key Managerial Personnel, for a period of three 
consecutive years, from March 08, 2024 up to March 07, 
2027, liable to retire by rotation.
(d)	
Reserve Bank of India vide its letter dated June 24, 2024, 
in exercise of powers conferred under Section 36AB of the 
BR Act, appointed Mr. Arun Kumar Singh (DIN: 09498086), 
Chief General Manager (retired), Reserve Bank of India, as an 
Additional Director on the Board of Bandhan Bank Limited, 
for a period of one year from June 24, 2024 to June 23, 2025 
or till further orders, whichever is earlier.
(e)	
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, MD&CEO of the Bank, vide 
letter dated April 05, 2024, informed the Board of Directors 
that he would retire from the services of the Bank as the 
MD&CEO upon completion of his current tenure on July 09, 
2024, which was noted by the Board at its meeting held on 
April 05, 2024. Accordingly, pursuant to the approval of the 
RBI and on the basis of the recommendation of the NRC, the 
Board, at its meeting held on July 06, 2024, has approved 
the appointment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714), 
Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer, as Interim 
MD&CEO of the Bank, with effect from July 10, 2024, for a 
period of three months or till new MD&CEO takes charge, 
whichever is earlier, subject to approval of Shareholders at 
the ensuing Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) of the Bank.
Re-appointments:
(a)	
The Board, based on the recommendations of the NRC, 
approved and recommended the re-appointment of 
Mr. Suhail Chander (DIN: 06941577) and Mr. Subrata Dutta 
Gupta (DIN: 08767943) as Independent Directors of the 
Bank, not liable to retire by rotation, for their second term 
of five years, from March 19, 2024 up to March 18, 2029. 
Subsequently, the Members of the Bank, at their 9th AGM 
held on August 18, 2023, approved the re-appointments of 
Mr. Chander and Mr. Dutta Gupta.
(b)	
In addition to above appointments/ re-appointments, the 
Members at the 9th AGM held on August 18, 2023 approved 
the re-appointment of Ms. Divya Krishnan (DIN: 09276201) 
as a Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Bank 
(Nominee of BFHL), who being longest in office and liable 
to retire by rotation, retired at the 9th AGM of the Bank, and 
being eligible, had offered herself for re-appointment.
The profiles of the Directors are available on the website of the 
Bank, at https://www.bandhanbank.com/corporate-governance.
The composition of the Board of the Bank represents various 
skill sets, special knowledge, practical experience, qualification, 
professionalism and diversity, as required for the banking business, 
as required under applicable laws and prescribed under the Bank’s 
‘Policy on Appointment and Fit & Proper Criteria for Directors’. The 
Board reviews its strength and composition, from time to time, 
to ensure that it remains aligned with the requirements under 
the statutory provisions, aforesaid Policy as well as the business 
requirements of the Bank.
The average tenure of the Board Members in years as on March 31, 2024 is as follows:
Name of the Director(s)
Original Date of 
Appointment
Completed Tenure as 
on March 31, 2024
Retirement Date/ Existing 
Term Ending Date
Average Tenure 
– category-wise 
Executive Directors
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
July 10, 2015
8 years 9 months
July 09, 2024
3 years 4 months
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh
March 31, 2023
1 Year 1 day
March 30, 2026
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar
March 08, 2024
1 month
March 07, 2027
Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors 
Ms. Divya Krishnan
May 11, 2022
1 year 11 months
Retire by rotation
1 year
Mr. Pankaj Sood
February 12, 2024
2 months
Retire by rotation
Independent Directors
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha#
January 07, 2019
5 years 3 months
July 04, 2026
3 years 9 months
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri
August 08, 2018
5 years 8 months
August 07, 2026
Dr. Aparajita Mitra
July 13, 2022
1 year 9 months
July 12, 2025
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar
May 08, 2020
3 years 11 months
May 07, 2028
Mr. Philip Mathew
June 15, 2022
1 year 10 months
June 14, 2025
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
January 07, 2019
5 years 3 months
January 06, 2027
86
Bandhan Bank Limited
Name of the Director(s)
Original Date of 
Appointment
Completed Tenure as 
on March 31, 2024
Retirement Date/ Existing 
Term Ending Date
Average Tenure 
– category-wise 
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta*
March 19, 2021
3 years
March 18, 2029
Mr. Suhail Chander*
March 19, 2021
3 years
March 18, 2029
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
May 08, 2020
3 years 11 months
May 07, 2028
# Re-appointed as an Independent Director and as Non-Executive Chairman effective January 07, 2022 up to July 04, 2026, however the RBI approved tenure 
as Non-Executive Chairman is for a period of three years effective January 07, 2022.
* Re-appointed as Independent Director for a period of five years effective March 19, 2024
Separation of office of the Chairman and the MD & CEO
In terms of the provisions of the BR Act, the Companies Act and 
the SEBI LODR, your Bank has separate offices for the Chairman 
and the Managing Director & CEO. Your Bank has a Non-Executive 
(Independent) Chairman and a Managing Director & CEO, the 
appointments of both were approved by the RBI pursuant to the 
provisions of the BR Act. The Chairman provides overall direction 
and guidance to the Board whereas the Managing Director & CEO 
of the Bank is responsible for the overall management of the Bank.
The operational and functional heads of the Bank along with the 
Executive Directors assist the Managing Director & CEO in the 
operation, execution and functioning of the Bank.
Responsibilities of the Board
The responsibilities of the Board, inter-alia, include overseeing the 
functioning of the Bank, monitoring legal & statutory compliance, 
reviewing the efficacy of internal control systems and processes, 
and management of risks associated with the business of the 
Bank, based on the information provided to it. The Board is 
also responsible for approving the strategic direction, plans and 
priorities for the Bank, monitoring corporate performance against 
strategic business plans, reviewing and approving the Bank’s 
financial and operating results periodically, overseeing the Bank’s 
Corporate Governance framework and supervising the succession 
planning process for its Directors and Senior Management.
Accordingly, the Board deliberates on matters, such as, business 
strategy, risks, financial results, succession planning, compliance, 
customer service, financial inclusion, information technology and 
human resources in line with the seven critical themes prescribed 
by the RBI and such other matters as may be deemed appropriate. 
The Board spends considerable time perusing the information 
shared with them, which facilitates informed decision-making 
and effective participation at its meetings, leading to board 
effectiveness. The Board oversees the actions and results of the 
management to ensure that the long-term objectives of enhancing 
the shareholders’ value is achieved. The Board also has the 
discretion to engage the services of external expert(s)/ advisor(s), 
as may be deemed appropriate, from time to time.
The Members of the Board have complete freedom to express 
their opinions and arrive at decisions after detailed deliberations.
Board Meetings and Flow of Information
The Board plays an important role in ensuring sound Corporate 
Governance 
practices, 
providing 
strategic 
direction 
and 
functioning of the Bank. Notice and agenda papers are circulated 
to the Directors, in advance, before each meeting of the Board 
and Committees to facilitate meaningful and focused discussions 
at the meetings. All information, as applicable and specified in 
Regulation 17(7) of the SEBI LODR, read with Part A of Schedule 
II thereto, are regularly placed before the Board. The Board also 
periodically reviews the compliance reports with regard to the laws 
applicable to the Bank. In case of exigency(ies) or urgency(ies), in 
compliance with Section 175 of the Companies Act, proposals are 
approved by passing resolutions through circulation, which are 
placed in the next meeting of the Board/ Committee, as the case 
may be, for noting and forms part of the minutes of such meeting. 
The Board ensures that any direction given by it during the course 
of its meetings form part of the Action Taken Report (‘ATR’) for its 
reveiw and discussion at its subsequent meetings.
The Board meets at least once a quarter and at least four times a 
year to review and approve the quarterly/ annual financial results 
and matters relating to the business operations of the Bank. Apart 
from the above, Board meetings are also convened, as and when 
required, by giving due notice to the Directors. Further, in order to 
facilitate Directors travelling/ residing abroad or at other locations 
to participate in the meetings, video-conferencing (‘VC’) facilities 
are also provided in terms of the provisions of Rule 3 of the 
Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014. The 
intervening period between any two consecutive Board meetings 
was well within the maximum gap of 120 days as specified in 
Regulation 17(2) of the SEBI LODR and Section 173(1) of the 
Companies Act.
The Board met eighteen times during the FY under review i.e., 
on May 17, 2023; May 19, 2023; May 26, 2023; June 04, 2023; 
July 12, 2023; July 14, 2023; September 09, 2023; October 16, 
2023; October 18, 2023; November 24, 2023; February 07, 2024; 
February 09, 2024; February 22, 2024; February 23, 2024; March 
07, 2024; March 19, 2024, March 20, 2024 and March 30, 2024.
Board Attendance and Directorships
The names and categories of the Directors on the Board, their 
attendance at the Board Meetings and the last AGM held during 
the financial year under review, directorship in other companies 
including names of listed entities and Chairmanship/ Membership 
of the committees of such public limited companies, at the end of 
March 31, 2024, are given herein below:
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
87
Note:
1.	
Other directorships do not include directorships of foreign 
companies.
2.	
None of the Directors is a member of more than ten 
committees or chairperson of more than five committees 
across all the public companies in which he/ she is a Director.
3.	
For the purpose of determination of limit of the Board 
Committees, chairpersonship and membership of the Audit 
Committee of the Board and Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee of the Board have been considered as per 
Regulation 26(1)(b) of the SEBI LODR. Necessary disclosures 
regarding Committee positions in other public companies, as 
on March 31, 2024, have been made by the Directors.
None of the Directors are related to each other. Neither the 
Directors on the Board hold directorships in more than twenty 
companies or ten public companies nor any of the Independent 
Directors serve as an independent director in more than seven 
listed entities. All Directors of the Bank hold directorship in 
compliance with Regulation 17A of the SEBI LODR and Section 165 
of the Companies Act. All Directors of the Bank have submitted 
forms/ declarations/ undertakings/ consent as required under 
the extant laws. Pursuant to review of the said submission by the 
directors of the Bank, the NRC and the Board have confirmed that 
all the Directors are in compliance with the applicable statutory 
and regulatory norms and, are fit and proper to continue as 
directors of the Bank.
Sl. 
No.
Name and DIN  
of the Directors
Category
Attendance during FY 2023-24
Number of 
Directorship in 
other companies
Number of Committee 
positions held in other 
public companies
No. of Board Meetings
AGM held 
on August 
18, 2023
Public
Private
Chairperson
Member*
During 
Tenure
Attended 
%
1.
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha 
(Chairman)
[DIN: 08249893]
Independent 
18
18
100
Yes
-
-
-
-
2.
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh 
(Managing Director & CEO)
[DIN: 00342477]
Executive
18
17
94.44
Yes
-
-
-
-
3.
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar
[DIN: 10540386]
Executive
3
3
100
NA
-
-
-
-
4.
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh  
[DIN: 10082714]
Executive
18
18
100
Yes
-
-
-
-
5.
Dr. A. S. Ramasastri
[DIN: 06916673]
Independent
18
18
100
Yes
1
-
-
-
6.
Dr. Aparajita Mitra
[DIN: 09484337]
Independent
18
18
100
Yes
-
1
-
-
7.
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo 
Prabhutendulkar
[DIN: 00869913] 
Independent
18
18
100
Yes
11
2
1
1
8.
Mr. Philip Mathew
[DIN: 09638394]
Independent
18
17
94.44
Yes
-
-
-
-
9.
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
[DIN: 07716452]
Independent
18
18
100
Yes
62
1
3
7
10.
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta  
[DIN: 08767943] 
Independent
18
17
94.44
Yes
-
1
-
-
11.
Mr. Suhail Chander  
[DIN: 06941577] 
Independent
18
18
100
Yes
1
-
-
1
12.
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
[DIN: 00751001] 
Independent
18
16
88.89
Yes
23
1
1
3
13.
Ms. Divya Krishnan
[DIN: 09276201]
Nominee  
(Non-Executive)
18
18
100
Yes
1
-
-
1
14.
Mr. Pankaj Sood
[DIN: 05185378]
Nominee  
(Non-Executive)
6
6
100
NA
44
3
-
1
*Membership includes Chairpersonship.
1.	
Mr. NVP Tendulkar is holding directorship as Independent Director in one other listed entity, viz. Global Vectra Helicorp Limited.
2.	
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee is holding directorships, as Independent Director, in five other listed entities, viz., Suven Life Sciences Limited; Sumedha Fiscal 
Services Limited; Rainbow Children’s Medicare Limited; Aurobindo Pharma Limited and NACL Industries Limited.
3.	
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt is holding directorship as Independent Director in one other listed entity, viz. FDC Limited.
4.	
Mr. Pankaj Sood is holding directorships, as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director in two other listed entities, viz., Mphasis Limited and Aditya Birla 
Fashion and Retail Limited.
Dr. Holger Dirk Michaelis (DIN: 07205838), Nominee of Caladium, ceased to be a director of the Bank, effective February 12, 2024. He attended 11 Board 
Meetings out of 12 Board Meetings held during his tenure during the FY 2024. He also attended the 9th AGM of the Bank held on August 18, 2023.
88
Bandhan Bank Limited
Skills/ Expertise/ Competence of Board of Directors
Being a banking company, your Bank is regulated by the provisions 
of the BR Act, besides the Companies Act and the SEBI LODR. In 
terms of Section 10A(2)(a) of the BR Act and the Bank’s ‘Policy 
on Appointment and Fit & Proper Criteria for Directors’, the 
members of the Board of Directors shall consist of persons, who 
shall have special knowledge or practical experience in respect 
of one or more of the following matters, namely; accountancy, 
agriculture and rural economy, banking, co-operation, economics, 
finance, law, small-scale industry, information technology, cyber 
security, payment and settlement systems, human resources, risk 
management, business management, marketing, fin-tech or any 
other matter the special knowledge of, and practical experience, 
which would, in the opinion of the RBI, be useful to the banking 
company and as may be deemed appropriate for the business 
requirements of the Bank. The Board of Directors of the Bank is 
guided by the above, as and when any new Directors are appointed 
on the Board. The brief profiles of all the members of the Board 
are available on the website of the Bank at https://bandhanbank.
com/corporate-governance.
The details of the core skills/ expertise/ competence possessed 
by the Directors of the Bank are given hereunder, along with their 
shareholding in the Bank as at the end of March 31, 2024. None 
of the Directors is holding shares of the Bank as a beneficial owner 
for any other persons.
Name of the 
Director(s)
Date of Appointment (A)/ 
Re-appointment (R)
Expertise/ Special Knowledge/ Experience
Number of 
equity shares@
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha
January 07, 2019 (A)
January 07, 2022 (R)
Economics | Agriculture
-
Mr. Chandra Shekhar 
Ghosh
July 10, 2015 (A)
July 10, 2018 (R)
July 10, 2021 (R)
Financial Services (Micro Finance Sector) | Medium & Small-
Scale Industry | Banking | Finance | Business Management
16,74,436
Mr. Rajinder Kumar 
Babbar
March 08, 2024 (A)
Banking | Small-scale industry | Law | Agriculture |  
Rural Economy
1,7001
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh
March 31, 2023 (A)
Banking | Information Technology | Payment & Settlement 
systems
300
Dr. A.S. Ramasastri
August 08, 2018 (A)
August 08, 2021 (R)
Information Technology | Payment & Settlement Systems | 
Finance
-
Dr. Aparajita Mitra
July 13, 2022 (A)
Agriculture and Rural Economy
-
Ms. Divya Krishnan
May 11, 2022 (A)
Finance | Investment Banking
-
Mr. NVP Tendulkar
May 08, 2020 (A)
May 08, 2023 (R)
Accountancy | Finance | Information Technology | Law
-
Mr. Pankaj Sood
February 12, 2024 (A)
Finance | Business Management I Private Equity
-
Mr. Philip Mathew
June 15, 2022 (A)
Human Resource | Banking
-
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
January 07, 2019 (A)
January 07, 2022 (R)
Banking | Treasury Operations | Risk Management | Finance
-
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta March 19, 2021 (A)
March 19, 2024 (R)
Mortgage finance | Housing | Economics
-
Mr. Suhail Chander
March 19, 2021 (A)
March 19, 2024 (R)
Banking | Risk Management | Finance | Accountancy | 
Business Management
-
Mr. Vijay N Bhatt
May 08, 2020 (A)
May 08, 2023 (R)
Audit | Accountancy | Assurance | Finance | Law
-
A stands for Appointment and R stands for Re-appointment
@ The Bank has not issued any convertible instruments.
1 Held jointly with spouse
Independent Directors
At the end of March 31, 2024, the Board consisted of the following nine Independent Directors, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, the BR Act and the SEBI LODR:
Sl. No.
Name of the Directors
Date of Appointment (A)/ Re-appointment (R)
1.
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee 
January 07, 2022 (R)
2.
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha
January 07, 2022 (R)
3.
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri
August 08, 2021 (R)
4.
Dr. Aparajita Mitra
July 13, 2022 (A)
5.
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar
May 08, 2023 (R)
6.
Mr. Philip Mathew
June 15, 2022 (A)
7.
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta 
March 19, 2024 (R)
8.
Mr. Suhail Chander 
March 19, 2024 (R)
9.
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
May 08, 2023 (R)
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
89
Meeting of Independent Directors
During the financial year under review, the Independent Directors 
met twice without the presence of management, i.e., on May 11, 
2023 for performance evaluation of the Board, Chairman and Non-
Independent Directors, and on November 22, 2023 to assess the 
quality, quantity and timeliness of the flow of information between 
the management and the Board, and other governance related 
matters. Further, in accordance with Regulation 25(4) of the SEBI 
LODR and Clause VII of Schedule IV to the Companies Act, the 
Independent Directors met exclusively on May 13, 2024, without 
the presence of the Managing Director & CEO, Executive Director, 
Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors or management, to 
review the performance of Non-Independent Directors and the 
Board as a whole for the Financial Year 2023-24. The Independent 
Directors also reviewed the performance of the Non-Executive 
Chairman of the Bank.
Independence of Directors
All Independent Directors have given necessary declarations of 
independence under Section 149(7) of the Companies Act and 
Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI LODR and have also confirmed that they 
are not aware of any circumstance or situation that exists or may 
be reasonably anticipated that could impair or impact their ability 
to discharge their duties. Based on the declarations received from 
the Independent Directors, the Board of Directors has confirmed 
that they meet the criteria of independence as prescribed 
under Section 149(6) of the Companies Act and Regulation 
16(1)(b) of the SEBI LODR and that they are independent of the 
management. A formal letter of appointment has been addressed 
to the Independent Directors at the time of their appointment(s)/ 
re-appointment(s). The terms and conditions of appointment of 
Independent Directors are available on the website of the Bank 
at 
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../sites/
default/files/2024-07/Terms-and-Conditions-of-Appointment-of-
Independent-Director.pdf
Independent Director Databank Registration
In terms of Rule 6(3) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Qualifications of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended, Independent 
Directors of the Bank have confirmed that they have registered 
themselves with the databank maintained by the Indian Institute 
of Corporate Affairs (‘Institute’) as well as renewed the registration 
wherever required. Further, the Independent Directors, who 
were required to pass an online proficiency self-assessment 
test conducted by the Institute, have appeared for and passed 
such test.
Familiarisation Programme
The ‘Policy on Appointment and Fit & Proper Criteria for Directors’ 
sets out the familiarisation programme for the Non-Executive 
Directors (‘NEDs’) of the Bank. In order to familiarise the Bank’s 
NEDs, including Independent Directors, with the functioning 
of the Bank and their roles, responsibilities, etc., the newly 
appointed Directors are provided with a comprehensive Induction 
Kit, including the business, operations and financials of the Bank, 
history of the Bank, organisational structure, composition and 
roles of the Board and Committees, core management team of 
the Bank, rights, responsibilities and liabilities as an Independent 
Director, copies of the applicable Policies and Codes of the Bank, 
along with the Memorandum of Association (‘MOA’) & Articles 
of Association (‘AOA’). The Bank also nominates the Directors to 
attend relevant external programmes at reputed forums and/ or 
internally provide deep-dives/ presentations on subjects relevant 
from the Bank’s perspective, as may be necessary from time to 
time. The details of the familiarisation programmes conducted 
for the Independent Directors of the Bank are available on the 
website of the Bank at https://bandhanbank.com/familiarisation-
programmes.
Performance Evaluation Criteria for Independent 
Directors
The performance evaluation of Independent Directors is conducted 
in terms of the provisions of ‘Performance Evaluation Policy for the 
Board, Committees, Non-independent/ Whole-time Directors and 
Independent Directors’ (the ‘Board PE Policy’) as recommended 
by the NRC and approved by the Board, pursuant to the relevant 
provisions of the Companies Act, the SEBI LODR and SEBI Guidance 
Note on Board Evaluation. In terms of the Board PE Policy, an 
indicative list of factors on which evaluation of the Independent 
Directors was carried out includes commitment, contribution, 
competency, attendance, initiative, teamwork, communication, 
adherence to code of conduct, corporate governance, fulfilment 
of the independence criteria and their independence from the 
Management. Further details of the evaluation on Independent 
Directors are provided in the Board’s Report.
Policy on Appointment of Directors
Your Bank has in place a ‘Policy on Appointment and Fit & Proper 
Criteria for Directors’. This Policy lays down the criteria for 
identification of persons who are qualified and ‘fit and proper’ to 
become Directors on the Board, such as, academic qualifications, 
special knowledge or practical experience, competence, track 
record, integrity, etc., which shall be considered by the NRC while 
recommending appointment/ re-appointment of a Director. The 
Policy is available on the website of the Bank at https://bandhanbank.
com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../sites/default/files/2023-12/
Policy-on-Appointment-and-Fit%20-Proper-Criteria-for-Directors-
website-131223.pdf. This Policy is guided by the provisions of the 
BR Act and the rules framed thereunder, the Companies Act and 
the SEBI LODR and the circulars or guidelines issued by the RBI, 
from time to time, in this regard. While appointing a Director on its 
Board, your Bank follows the direction(s) of the RBI with regard to 
‘fit and proper’ criteria, as applicable to private sector banks, and 
obtains the ‘Declaration and Undertaking’ from the candidate and 
executes Deed of Covenants, which includes the requirement for 
Directors to discharge their duties and responsibilities to the best 
of their abilities, individually and collectively. The NRC ascertains 
the fit and proper status of the candidate for the office of director, 
fulfilment of criteria of independence as prescribed under 
the Companies Act and the SEBI LODR in case of independent 
directors, and thereafter, recommends their appointment/ re-
appointment to the Board for approval. The Board also ensures 
that the Directors have the requisite skill sets, practical experience, 
special knowledge required for the banking business and as 
prescribed under Section 10A(2)(a) of the BR Act. The Board is duly 
constituted including gender diversity. The appointments of the 
90
Bandhan Bank Limited
Chairman, the Managing Director and Executive Director(s) on the 
Board are made with the prior approval of the RBI. The Board also 
takes into account the outcome of performance evaluation while 
considering the re-appointment/ continuation of appointment of 
Independent Directors.
The NRC evaluates whether the members of the Board, excluding 
NRC members, adhere to the ‘fit and proper’ criteria as prescribed 
by the RBI and the adherence to the ‘fit and proper’ criteria by 
the members of the NRC is evaluated by the Board of Directors 
annually, in addition to evaluation of fit and proper status at the 
time of appointment/ re-appointment of Directors.
Remuneration Policy
Your Bank has formulated and adopted a Compensation Policy for 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Employees of the Bank, in 
terms of Section 178 of the Companies Act, read with the relevant 
Rules made thereunder, Regulation 19 of the SEBI LODR and the 
Guidelines or Circulars or Directions issued by the RBI, in this regard, 
from time to time. Your Bank’s Compensation Policy is aligned to 
its business strategy, market dynamics, internal characteristics 
and complexities within the Bank. Your Bank‘s remuneration 
framework aims to attract, motivate and retain people with the 
requisite skill, experience and ability to deliver its strategy; create 
an alignment and balance between the rewards and risk exposure 
of shareholders and interests of employees; promote responsible 
growth and create long term sustainable shareholders’ value 
consistent with strategic goals and appropriate risk management; 
reinforce behaviour consistent with the Bank‘s values, principles 
and objectives, and support appropriate conduct and meritocratic 
culture through differentiated performance rewards. The 
Compensation Policy of your Bank is reviewed by the NRC and the 
Board on an annual basis to align the provisions with regulatory 
changes as well as to meet the organisational requirements. The 
Compensation Policy of your Bank was reviewed by the Board 
during the year and one addition was made relating to deferred 
variable cash pay. The updated Policy is available on the website of 
the Bank at https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../
sites/default/files/2024-07/Compensation-Policy-20072024.pdf
RBI, 
vide 
its 
circular 
no. 
RBI/2019-20/89 
DOR.Appt.
BC.No.23/29.67.001/2019-20 dated November 04, 2019, has 
issued ‘Guidelines on Compensation of Whole-time Directors/
Chief Executive Officers/Material Risk takers and Control function 
staff’ for implementation by private sector banks and foreign 
banks from April 01, 2020. The Bank’s Compensation Policy is in 
line with this RBI circular. In terms of the Compensation Policy, the 
total compensation shall be a prudent mix of fixed pay (including 
basic salary, fixed allowances, retirals and perquisites) and 
performance-based variable pay (comprising cash component and 
share-linked instruments, which includes employee stock options 
and cash linked stock appreciation rights) whereas variable pay 
shall not exceed three times the annual fixed pay for Managing 
Director & CEO/ Whole-time Director(s). Annual increments 
for the senior management are recommended by the NRC and 
approved by the Board. The annual increments for the Managing 
Director & CEO/ Whole-time Director(s) are recommended by the 
NRC and the Board for the approval of RBI and the Members. The 
Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the NRC and on 
the basis of the evaluation process considering the criteria, such 
as, the performance of the Bank as well as that of the Managing 
Director & CEO/ Whole-time Director(s), recommends to the 
RBI for approval of the variable pay payable to the Managing 
Director & CEO/ Whole-time Director(s) for the financial year. 
The remunerations of the Managing Director & CEO/ Whole-time 
Director(s) are subject to prior approval of RBI and the approval 
of Members.
Non-Executive 
Directors’ 
Compensation 
and 
Disclosures
In terms of the provisions of the Companies Act, the SEBI LODR and 
the Compensation Policy of the Bank, the Non-Executive Directors 
(‘NED’), including Independent Directors, of your Bank are paid 
sitting fees of ₹90,000 per meeting for attending the meetings 
of the Board, ₹75,000 per meeting for attending meetings of 
the Audit Committee of the Board and the Risk Management 
Committee of the Board, and ₹60,000 per meeting for attending 
meetings of other Committees of the Board as well as meetings 
of Independent Directors, subject to applicable taxes, and 
reimbursement of expenses for participation in such meetings. 
Additionally, pursuant to the RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021, 
the Compensation Policy of your Bank provides for payment of 
compensation in the form of a fixed remuneration commensurate 
with an individual director’s responsibilities and demands on time 
and which are considered sufficient to attract qualified competent 
individuals, provided such fixed remuneration for a NED, other 
than the Chairperson of the Board, shall not exceed ₹20 lakh per 
annum. RBI has, vide circular dated February 09, 2024, revised 
the aforementioned ceiling to ₹30 lakh per annum. Accordingly, 
pursuant to approval of Members of the Bank, the NEDs excluding 
Non‑Executive Chairman, are paid fixed remuneration of ₹12 lakh 
per annum per NEDs. In addition to sitting fees, the Non‑Executive 
Chairman of the Bank is also paid fixed remuneration with prior 
approval of the RBI pursuant to the provisions of the BR Act and 
approval of the Members of the Bank. Details of sitting fees paid 
to the NEDs and the remuneration to Non-Executive Chairman are 
given hereinafter. During the financial year under review, there 
was no increase in the fixed remuneration of the Non-Executive 
Chairman of the Bank. The Compensation Policy of the Bank 
is available on its website and the link for the same has been 
provided above. No stock options were/ are granted to any of the 
NEDs of the Bank.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
91
Remuneration to Directors
Details of the total remuneration paid to all the Directors of your Bank for the financial year ended March 31, 2024 are as follows:
a.	
Non-Executive Directors
(Amt. in ₹)
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Directors
Salary
Sitting fees
Total
1.
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha*
24,00,000
17,40,000 
41,40,000
2.
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri
12,00,000
32,25,000
44,25,000
3.
Dr. Aparajita Mitra
12,00,000
22,20,000
34,20,000
4.
Ms. Divya Krishnan
12,00,000
30,15,000
42,15,000
5.
Dr. Holger Dirk Michaelis (retired on February 11, 2024)
10,37,931
9,90,000
20,27,931
6.
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar
12,00,000
27,60,000
39,60,000
7.
Mr. Pankaj Sood (appointed w.e.f. February 12, 2024)
1,62,069
5,40,000
7,02,069
8.
Mr. Philip Mathew
12,00,000
23,70,000
35,70,000
9.
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
12,00,000
48,75,000
60,75,000
10.
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
12,00,000
46,35,000
58,35,000
11.
Mr. Suhail Chander
12,00,000
45,90,000
57,90,000
12.
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
12,00,000
28,35,000
40,35,000
*In addition to the sitting fees for attending meetings of the Board and Committees, the Non-Executive Chairman is also paid fixed (consolidated) 
remuneration of ₹24 lakh per annum and travelling and official expenses for performing his duty, as approved by the RBI and the Shareholders.
The Shareholders of the Bank, at 8th AGM held on August 10, 2022, have accorded their approval for payment of compensation to each Non-Executive 
Director of the Bank, other than the Part-time Non-Executive Chairperson, in the form of fixed remuneration of up to ₹12 lakh per annum, with effect from 
April 01, 2022 for a period of three years, in addition to payment of sitting fees and reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses for attending the Board and 
Committee meetings.
During the financial year under review, apart from the aforesaid, 
there was no pecuniary relationship or significant/ material 
transactions of the Non-Executive Directors vis-à-vis the Bank 
(except banking transactions in the ordinary course of business 
and at an arm’s length basis).
b.	
Managing Director & CEO
Particulars 
(Amt. in ₹)
Basic
1,95,00,000
House Rent Allowance
70,62,500
Retirals (Gratuity)
9,37,500
Other allowance and Perquisites
70,00,000
Total Fixed Pay and Perquisites
3,45,00,000
Variable Pay (including deferred from 
previous year)
73,57,267
*Perquisites include Medical Allowance, Child Education Allowance, 
Conveyance Allowance, Car fuel and driver allowances, Club Membership, 
Insurance Valuation (Group Term Life, Group Mediclaim & Accidental 
Disability) & Health Check-up, mobile handset & usage, broadband 
charges, residential telephone connection & usage, expenses relating 
to personal travel with family in India or abroad and perquisite value of 
exercise of ESOPs. All hospitalisation and medical expenses for self, spouse, 
and dependents (max self+4) shall be reimbursed on actuals.
a.	
As approved by the RBI and the Shareholders at 7th AGM, 
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh had been re-appointed as the 
MD & CEO, for a period of three years, from July 10, 2021.
b.	
On the basis of the recommendations of the NRC and the 
Board, and approval of the RBI for fixed pay, Shareholders, at 
the 9th AGM of the Bank, had approved the total remuneration 
(including variable pay comprising non-cash component 
only) of the MD & CEO for the FY 2022-23, subject to prior-
approval of the RBI for the variable pay. Subsequently, the 
approval of the RBI was also received for the variable pay 
of the MD & CEO for FY 2022-23. Furthermore, on the 
basis of the recommendations of the NRC and the Board, 
proposal for remuneration of the MD & CEO from April 01, 
2023 till July 09, 2024 is being placed for the approval of 
Shareholders at the ensuing AGM of the Bank. Approval of 
RBI has been received for the fixed pay of the MD & CEO 
for FY 2023-24, whereas approval for the variable pay for 
FY 2023-24 is subject to RBI approval. No sitting fees were 
paid to Mr. Ghosh for attending meetings of the Board and 
Board Committees. The notice period applicable to 
Mr. Ghosh is three months. Mr. Ghosh was not eligible for 
any severance fee.
c.	
In terms of the approval of the RBI, Mr. Ghosh was granted 
2,71,753 stock options during FY 2023-24 in terms of the 
provision of the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 and ESOP Scheme of the 
Bank. These options would vest not earlier than one year and 
not later than four years from the date of grant as decided 
by the NRC and shall be equally vested over four years with a 
gap of one year between each vesting. The said stock options 
were not issued at any discount. Mr. Ghosh had exercised 
50,000 stock options during FY 2023-24. Further, as per the 
ESOP Scheme of the Bank, upon retirement of Mr. Ghosh 
as MD&CEO of the Bank on July 09, 2024, all the unvested 
92
Bandhan Bank Limited
options of a grant, shall get vested on the first vesting date 
relating to the said grant, immediately following the date 
of superannuation/ retirement. The exercise period for the 
options which get vested at one go after the retirement date, 
will be five years from the date of vesting.
d.	
For the overall performance assessment of the MD & CEO, a 
Balanced Score Card (‘BSC’) is used. The BSC is a performance 
evaluation technique that takes into consideration a number 
of financial and non-financial performance indicators 
aligned to the long-term strategy of the organisation. 
The performance goals are organised to address four 
perspectives, viz., financial, customer, internal process and 
people, the latter three being drivers of future performance. 
In the BSC, the Bank has considered financial performance 
measures, asset quality, the cost to income ratio, adherence 
a.	
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh has been appointed as the Executive 
Director & Chief Operating Officer (‘ED&COO’) of the Bank 
and Key Managerial Personnel, for a period of three years, 
from March 31, 2023, pursuant to RBI approval, which was 
subsequently approved by the Shareholders of the Bank via 
Postal Ballot process on June 22, 2023. On the basis of the 
recommendations of the NRC and the Board, the proposal 
for remuneration of the ED&COO for FY 2023-24 is being 
placed for the approval of Shareholders at the ensuing AGM 
of the Bank. Approval of RBI has been received for the fixed 
pay of the ED&COO for FY 2023-24, whereas variable pay for 
FY 2023-24 is subject to RBI approval.
b.	
In terms of the approval of the RBI and Shareholders, Mr. Kesh 
was granted 4,00,000 stock options within one month of his 
joining the Bank i.e. on April 26, 2023 whereas the second 
tranche of 1,25,000 Options was granted on November 20, 
2023, i.e. upon completion of six months with the Bank, as 
Joining ESOPs. These options would vest not earlier than one 
year and not later than four years from the date of grant and 
shall be equally vested over four years with a gap of one year 
between each vesting. Vesting of Options will be subject to 
achievement of a minimum performance rating of ‘4’ in the 
year of vesting, failing which, the Options to be vested in that 
to anchor wise risk appetite, compliance management and 
other strategic initiatives with longer horizons. As per the 
RBI guidelines dated November 04, 2019, the performance 
based variable pay is subject to in year adjustment, malus or 
clawback. Further, the deferred composition of the variable 
pay would be subject to malus and clawback arrangements 
in the event of subdued or negative financial performance of 
the Bank and/ or the relevant line of business in any year.
e.	
Further details regarding the compensation of the MD & 
CEO as well as other disclosures as required to be made 
pursuant to the RBI Guidelines on compensation of the 
WTD/ CEO/ Material Risk Takers and Control Function Staff 
dated November 04, 2019 are made available as notes to the 
Financial Statement forming part of this Annual Report.
year of vesting will be cancelled. The said stock options were 
not issued at any discount.
c.	
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar has been appointed as the 
Executive Director & Chief Business Officer (‘ED&CBO’) of 
the Bank and Key Managerial Personnel, for a period of three 
years, from March 08, 2024, pursuant to RBI approval, which 
was subsequently approved by the Shareholders of the Bank 
via Postal Ballot process on April 21, 2024. The remuneration 
of the ED&CBO effective March 08, 2024, was also approved 
by the RBI and the Shareholders of the Bank.
d.	
In terms of the approval of the RBI and Shareholders, 
Mr. Babbar was granted 10,12,373 stock options within one 
month of his joining the Bank i.e. on March 13, 2024. Stock 
Options for Black Scholes value worth ₹ 3 crore would be 
granted in the second tranche upon completion of six months 
of Mr. Babbar with the Bank. These options would vest not 
earlier than one year and not later than four years from the 
date of grant and shall be equally vested over four years with 
a gap of one year between each vesting. Vesting of Options 
will be subject to achievement of a minimum performance 
rating of ‘4’ in the year of vesting, failing which, the Options 
to be vested in that year of vesting will be cancelled. The said 
stock options were not issued at any discount.
c. 	
Executive Directors (EDs)	
(Amt. in ₹)
Particulars 
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, ED&COO
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar, 
ED & CBO (w.e.f. March 08, 2024)
Basic
87,50,000
4,61,287
House Rent Allowance
43,75,000
2,30,644
Retirals (Provident Fund & Gratuity)
14,70,875
55,354
Other allowance and Perquisites*
1,34,04,125
11,50,602
Total Fixed Pay and Perquisites
2,80,00,000
18,97,887
Variable Pay
Variable pay for FY 2024 will be paid 
in FY 2025, subject to RBI approval
Not applicable since 
joined in March 2024
*includes Special Allowance, Medical Allowance, Leave Travel Allowance, Child Education Allowance, Conveyance Allowance, Car Fuel and Driver Allowance, 
Club Membership, Insurance Valuation (Group Term Life, Group Mediclaim & Accidental Disability) & Health Check-up, Payment/ reimbursement of the 
charges towards mobile connection and Broadband/ Landline charges on actual basis, etc. Additionally, company provided car and staff housing loan at 
concessional rate have been availed by Mr. Kesh, hence the same has been included in his perquisites with annual monitised aggregate value of ₹30 lakh and 
is not paid to him in cash. All hospitalisation and medical expenses for self, spouse, and dependents (max 1+4) shall be reimbursed on actuals.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
93
e.	
No sitting fees are paid to EDs for attending meetings of the 
Board. The notice period applicable for EDs is three months. 
EDs are not eligible for any severance fees.
f.	
For the overall performance assessment of the EDs, a 
Balanced Score Card (‘BSC’) is used. The BSC is a performance 
evaluation technique that takes into consideration a number 
of financial and non-financial performance indicators 
aligned to the long-term strategy of the organisation. The 
performance goals are organised to address four perspectives, 
viz., financial, customer, internal process and people, the 
latter three being drivers of future performance. As per the 
RBI guidelines dated November 04, 2019, the performance 
based variable pay is subject to in year adjustment, malus or 
clawback. Further, the deferred composition of the variable 
pay would be subject to malus and clawback arrangements 
in the event of subdued or negative financial performance 
of the Bank and/ or the relevant line of business in any year. 
Furthermore, the representative set of situations provided 
in the Bank’s Compensation Policy for invocation of malus 
and clawback clauses shall be applicable on the entire 
variable pay.
g.	
Further details regarding the compensation of the EDs as well 
as other disclosures as required to be made pursuant to the 
RBI Guidelines on compensation of the WTD/ CEO/ Material 
Risk Takers and Control Function Staff dated November 04, 
2019 are made available as notes to the Financial Statement 
forming part of this Annual Report.
Senior Management
Particulars of senior management of the Bank is provided under 
the section ‘Corporate Overview’. There were certain changes 
in Senior Management of the Bank during FY 2023-24. Mr. Sunil 
Samdani ceased as Chief Financial Officer (‘CFO’) of the Bank 
effective October 19, 2023. Consequently, Mr. Abhijit Ghosh 
was appointed as Interim CFO of the Bank effective October 
20, 2023 and relinquished the said office on February 22, 2024 
upon appointment of Mr. Rajeev Manti as CFO of the Bank. 
Mr. Amitava Goswami was appointed as the Chief Compliance 
Officer (‘CCO’) of the Bank effective November 29, 2023 upon 
relinquishment of office of the CCO by Mr. Sudheer Reddy Govula 
at the close of business hours on November 28, 2023. Mr. Pinaki 
Halder was appointed as Chief Information Officer (‘CIO’) of 
the Bank effective December 26, 2023 and Mr. Ronti Kar, CIO, 
was assigned a new strategic role as Head - Innovation Hub and 
Fintech Partnership. Mr. Gopalkrishnan Santosh was appointed 
as Head - Consumer Lending & Mortgages on February 01, 2024. 
Mr. Shantanu Sengupta, Head- Retail Banking, ceased to be 
associated with the Bank from the close of business hours on 
March 30, 2024.
Board Committees
The Board has also been conducting its businesses through 
various Committees constituted to deal with specific matters 
as may be delegated by the Board and as mandated under the 
relevant provisions of the Companies Act, the SEBI LODR, the BR 
Act, Guidelines and Circulars issued by the RBI, in this regard, from 
time to time, and the AOA of the Bank.
The Agenda for the meetings of the Committees is finalised in 
consultation with the respective Chairperson of the concerned 
Committees. The Committees ensure that any direction given 
by them during the course of the meetings forms part of the 
Action Taken Report (‘ATR’) for their review and discussion at the 
subsequent meetings. The Chairperson of the Committees brief 
the Board on the key decisions taken at respective meetings. In 
case of business exigency(ies) or urgency(ies) of matters, proposals 
are approved through circulation by the Committees in the form 
of ‘Resolution(s) by Circulation’, which are subsequently submitted 
in the forthcoming meeting for its noting as required under the 
Companies Act.
All the recommendations made by the Committees of the Board 
which are mandatorily required, were accepted by the Board.
The Board has constituted the following Committees to oversee 
specific areas:
1.	
Audit Committee
2.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
3.	
Risk Management Committee
4.	
IT Strategy Committee
5.	
Customer Service Committee
6.	
Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee
7.	
Special Committee for Monitoring High Value Frauds
8.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
9.	
Committee of Directors
Audit Committee
Qualified and Independent Audit Committee
Your Bank has a qualified and independent Audit Committee of the 
Board (‘ACB’), with the powers and roles that are in accordance 
with Section 177 of the Companies Act and rules made thereunder, 
Regulation 18 of the SEBI LODR, circulars/ guidelines issued by the 
RBI in this regard, from time to time, which acts as a link between 
the Management, the Statutory Auditors, Internal Auditors and the 
Board of Directors and oversees the financial reporting process, 
internal control and compliance matters of the Bank.
The ACB provides direction to the audit function and monitors 
the quality of internal and statutory audits. Its responsibilities, 
inter-alia, include examining the financial statement and auditors’ 
reports and overseeing the financial reporting process to ensure 
fairness, sufficiency and credibility of financial statements, 
recommending appointment of auditors and terms of such 
appointment, and reviewing and monitoring the internal audit of 
the Bank.
Meetings of the ACB
As on March 31, 2024, the ACB comprised of five Directors 
including four Independent Directors and one Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director, and chaired by Mr. Vijay Nautamlal 
Bhatt, an Independent Director, who is a Chartered Accountant. 
During FY 2023-24, the Committee met fourteen times on 
94
Bandhan Bank Limited
May 10, 2023, May 18, 2023, May 25, 2023, July 13, 2023, August 
10, 2023, September 09, 2023, October 18, 2023, November 23, 
2023, December 04, 2023, February 01, 2024, February 08, 2024, 
February 22, 2024, March 07, 2024 and March 30, 2024, and the 
gap between any two consecutive meetings did not exceed one 
hundred and twenty days.
In terms of the SEBI LODR, Mr. Indranil Banerjee, the Company 
Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Bank, acts as the 
Terms of reference
Terms of reference of the ACB is given below:
1.	
Oversight of the Bank’s financial reporting process, 
examination of the financial statement and the auditors’ 
report thereon and the disclosure of its financial information 
to ensure that its financial statement are correct, sufficient 
and credible;
Secretary to the ACB. He also acts as the Compliance Officer to 
ensure compliance and effective implementation of the Bank’s 
Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading (‘PIT Code’) and 
submitting the reports on the matter relating to the PIT Code to 
the ACB/ Board at regular intervals.
Further, Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt, Chairman of the ACB, attended 
the last AGM of the Bank, held on August 18, 2023.
2.	
Recommendation for appointment, re-appointment and 
replacement, remuneration and terms of appointment of 
auditors of the Bank;
3.	
Approval of payment of statutory auditors for any other 
services rendered by the statutory auditors;
4.	
Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial 
statement and auditor’s report thereon before submission 
to the Board for approval, with particular reference to:
	
a.	
Matters required to be included in the Director’s 
Responsibility Statement to be included in the Board’s 
report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section 3 of Section 
134 of the Companies Act, 2013 as amended;
	
b.	
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices 
and reasons for the same;
	
c.	
Major accounting entries involving estimates based on 
the exercise of judgment by management;
	
d.	
Significant adjustments made in the financial statement 
arising out of audit findings;
	
e.	
Compliance with listing and other legal requirements 
relating to financial statement;
	
f.	
Disclosure of any related party transactions; and
	
g.	
Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report.
Composition (as on March 31, 2024) and attendance - ACB
Name of Member
Category 
Number of Meetings during the 
FY 2023-24 (Fourteen meetings)
% of 
Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(Amt. in ₹)
During Tenure 
Attended
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt, 
Chairman
Independent 
14
13
92.86
9,75,000
Ms. Divya Krishnan
Non-Executive Non-Independent
14
13
92.86
9,75,000
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
Independent 
14
14
100
10,50,000
Mr. Suhail Chander
Independent
14
14
100
10,50,000
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta1
Independent
13
12
92.31
9,00,000
1 Appointed as a member of the ACB effective May 17, 2023
Note: As on July 26, 2024, the ACB comprised, Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt (Chairman), Independent Director, Mr. Arun Kumar Singh, RBI 
(Nominee) Additional Director, Ms. Divya Krishnan, Non-Executive Non-Independent, Mr. NVP Tendulkar, Independent Director and Mr. 
Subrata Dutta Gupta, Independent Director. RBI vide its letter dated June 24, 2024, appointed Mr. Arun Kumar Singh as Additional Director 
for a period of one year, on the Board and the ACB of the Bank under the provisions of Section 36AB of the BR Act.
 Independent     Non-Executive Non-Independent  
 RBI Nominee Director (As per Section 36AB of the BR Act, for the 
purpose of reckoning any proportion of the total number of Directors 
of the banking company, any additional Director appointed under this 
section shall not be taken into account. Accordingly, though Mr. Singh  
has been appointed as a member of the ACB, he has not been considered  
in determining the constitution of the ACB).
ACB Composition - (as on date)
20% (1)
20% (1)
60% (3)
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
95
5.	
Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly, half-yearly 
and annual financial statement before submission to the 
Board of Directors for approval;
6.	
Reviewing, with the management, the statement of uses/
application of funds raised through an issue (public issue, 
rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the statement of funds 
utilised for purposes other than those stated in the offer 
document/ prospectus/ notice and the report submitted 
by the monitoring agency monitoring the utilisation of 
proceeds of a public or rights issue, and making appropriate 
recommendations to the Board to take up steps in this matter;
7.	
Reviewing 
and 
monitoring 
the 
statutory 
auditor’s 
independence and performance, and effectiveness of audit 
process;
8.	
Approval or any subsequent modifications of transactions 
of the Bank with related parties (Provided that only those 
members of the audit committee, who are independent 
directors, shall approve related party transactions);
9.	
Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
10.	 Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Bank, wherever it 
is necessary;
11.	 Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management 
systems;
12.	 Monitoring the end use of funds raised through public offers 
and related matters;
13.	 Reviewing with the management, the performance of 
statutory and internal auditors, and adequacy of the internal 
control systems;
14.	 Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, including 
the structure of the internal audit department, staffing and 
seniority of the official heading the department, reporting 
structure coverage and frequency of internal audit;
15.	 Discussion with the internal auditors on any significant 
findings and follow up thereon;
16.	 To review the effectiveness of Concurrent Audit system;
17.	 Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the 
internal auditors into matters where there is suspected fraud 
or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a 
material nature and reporting the matter to the Board;
18.	 Discussion with the statutory auditors before the audit 
commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well as 
post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern;
19.	 To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the 
payment to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders 
(in case of non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors;
20.	 To review the functioning of the whistle blower mechanism;
21.	 To review the compliance with the Code of Conduct for 
Prevention of Insider Trading and shall verify that the 
systems for internal control are adequate and are operating 
effectively, as required under the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015;
22.	 Approving the appointment of the chief financial officer or 
any other person heading the finance function or discharging 
that function after assessing the qualifications, experience 
and background, etc. of the candidate;
23.	 To review the appointment, transfer or removal of the Chief 
Compliance Officer (‘CCO’) in compliance with the regulatory 
guidelines and to review the performance appraisal of CCO;
24.	 To conduct one-to-one meeting(s) with the Head of Internal 
Audit and CCO on a quarterly basis, without the presence of 
the senior management including MD & CEO;
25.	 To review the Compliance Function of the Bank on a quarterly 
basis to manage compliance risk and ensure that compliance 
issues are resolved effectively and expeditiously by top/
senior management with the assistance of compliance staff;
26.	 To conduct a detailed annual review of the Compliance 
Function (including organisational structure, activities and 
qualifications of Compliance staff) and recommend changes, 
if any, to the Compliance Policy of the Bank.
27.	 To monitor and review reporting requirements by the 
Compliance Function including reporting of Compliance 
Testing results, compliance breaches/ failures, Compliance 
Risk Assessment, change in the compliance risk profile, etc;
28.	 To review instances of all material compliance failures which 
may attract significant risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, 
financial loss or loss of reputation promptly;
29.	 To ensure timely and sustainable compliance to all 
observations of Risk Assessment Report (RAR)/ Risk 
Mitigation Plan (RMP) and the regulatory and supervisory 
guidelines/ directions in letter and spirit;
30.	 Carrying out any other terms of reference as may be decided 
by the Board or specified/ provided under the Companies 
Act, 2013 or the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 or by any other regulatory 
authority;
31.	 Reviewing of (1) management discussion and analysis of 
financial condition and results of operations; (2) the status 
of long-term (more than one year) or recurring Related Party 
Transactions, on an annual basis; (3) management letters/
letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the statutory 
auditors; (4) internal audit reports relating to internal control 
weaknesses; (5) the appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the chief internal auditor shall be subject 
96
Bandhan Bank Limited
to review by the Audit Committee; and (6) statement of 
deviations including (a) quarterly statement of deviation(s) 
including report of monitoring agency, if applicable, 
submitted to stock exchange(s) in terms of Regulation 
32(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, as amended; (b) annual statement of funds utilised 
for purposes other than those stated in the offer document/
prospectus/ notice in terms of Regulation 32(7) of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015; and
32.	 Consider and comment on the rationale, cost-benefits 
and impact of schemes involving merger, demerger, 
amalgamation etc., on the Bank and its shareholders.
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Your Bank has a Nomination & Remuneration Committee of the 
Board (‘NRC’) with the powers and the roles that are in accordance 
with Section 178 of the Companies Act and rules made thereunder, 
Regulation 19 of SEBI LODR and the circulars/ guidelines issued by 
the RBI in this regard, from time to time, which, inter-alia, deals 
with the matters relating to appointments on the Board and Senior 
Management, performance appraisal and compensation related 
matters of the Bank.
The NRC evaluates fit and proper criteria of persons who are 
qualified to become directors in accordance with the criteria 
laid down, recommends to the Board for their appointment and 
removal, and specifies the manner for effective evaluation of the 
performance of the Board, its Committees and individual directors. 
The NRC formulates the criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of a director and 
recommends to the Board, a policy relating to the Compensation 
for the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Employees of 
the Bank. Criteria for performance evaluation for Independent 
Directors are provided in the Board’s Report.
Meetings of the NRC
As on March 31, 2024, the NRC comprised of three Directors, 
all three being Independent Directors, and chaired by Mr. Suhail 
Chander, an Independent Director. During FY 2023-24, the NRC 
met seven times, i.e., on May 16, 2023, May 24, 2023, September 
09, 2023, November 20, 2023, February 08, 2024, March 06, 2024 
and March 13, 2024.
Mr. Suhail Chander, Chairman of the NRC, attended the last AGM 
of the Bank, held on August 18, 2023.
Succession Planning for the Board of directors and key 
officials of the Bank
The NRC and the Board periodically review succession planning 
and transitions at the Board and Senior Management levels. The 
NRC considers the composition of the Board and the profile, skill 
set, experience, expertise, functional capabilities, disqualifications, 
adherence to the regulator’s fit and proper norms and other 
relevant information of the Directors before making appropriate 
recommendations to the Board with regard to their appointment/ 
re-appointment. This is designed to provide the Board with 
members who have diverse knowledge, practical experience and 
requisite set of skills to serve the business interests of the Bank 
and enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board. Wherever 
necessary, the NRC engages the services of an external consultant/ 
expert, to identify and assess the suitability of candidates for 
the post of director of your Bank. Succession planning at Senior 
Management levels, including business and assurance functions, 
is reviewed to ensure continuity and depth of leadership.
Composition (as on March 31, 2024) and attendance – NRC
Name of Member
Category 
Number of Meetings during the 
FY 2023-24 (Seven meetings)
% of 
Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(Amt. in ₹)
During Tenure 
Attended
Mr. Suhail Chander, Chairman
Independent
7
7
100
4,20,000
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri
Independent
7
7
100
4,20,000
Mr. Philip Mathew
Independent
7
7
100
4,20,000
Note: As on July 26, 2024, the NRC comprised of Mr. Suhail Chander (Chairman), Independent Director, Dr. Allamraju Subramanya 
Ramasastri, Independent Director, Mr. Philip Mathew, Independent Director and Mr. Pankaj Sood, Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Director.
 Independent     Non-Executive Non-Independent 
NRC Composition - (as on date)
25% (1)
75% (3)
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
97
Terms of reference
Terms of reference of the NRC is given below:
1.	
Formulating the criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of a Director and 
recommending to the Board of Directors a policy, relating to 
the remuneration of the Directors, key managerial personnel 
and other employees;
2.	
Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
on the Board and on the basis of such evaluation, prepare 
a description of the role and capabilities required of an 
Independent Director. The person recommended to the 
Board for appointment as an Independent Director shall have 
the capabilities identified in such description. For the purpose 
of identifying appropriate candidates, the Committee may:
	
a.	
consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, 
having due regard to diversity;
	
b.	
consider the time commitments of the candidates; and
	
c.	
use the services of an external agencies, if required;
3.	
Formulating of criteria for evaluation of the performance of 
the Independent Directors and the Board of Directors;
4.	
Devising a policy on Board of Directors’ diversity;
5.	
Identifying persons who qualify to become Directors and 
who may be appointed in senior management in accordance 
with the criteria laid down, recommending to the Board of 
Directors their appointment and removal, and specifying the 
manner for effective evaluation of performance of Board, 
its committees and individual directors to be carried out 
either by the Board, by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee or by an independent external agency and review 
its implementation and compliance;
6.	
Determining whether to extend or continue the term of 
appointment of an Independent Director, on the basis of the 
report of performance evaluation of Independent Directors;
7.	
Analysing, monitoring and reviewing various human resource 
and compensation matters;
8.	
Determining the Bank’s policy on remuneration and any 
compensation payment, for the Chief Executive Officer, the 
Executive Directors, key managerial personnel including 
pension rights and determination of remuneration packages 
of such personnel;
9.	
Determining compensation levels payable to senior 
management personnel and other staff (as deemed 
necessary), which shall be market-related, usually consisting 
of a fixed and variable component and in accordance with 
the remuneration policy approved by the Board of Directors;
10.	 Reviewing and approving compensation strategy from time 
to time in the context of the prevailing Indian market in 
accordance with applicable laws;
11.	 To report on the systems and on the amount of the annual 
remuneration of Directors and senior management;
12.	 Framing suitable policies and systems to ensure that there is 
no violation by an employee of any applicable laws in India or 
overseas, including:
	
(i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
(ii)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to the 
Securities Market) Regulations, 2003;
13.	 Performing such other activities as may be delegated by 
the Board of Directors and/ or specified/ provided under 
the Companies Act, 2013, together with the rules framed 
thereunder, as amended and to the extent notified, or the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as 
amended, or by any other regulatory authority;
14.	 To formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of a Director and 
decide their ‘fit & proper’ status;
15.	 To oversee the framing, review and implementation of 
compensation policy of the Bank and recommend to the 
Board the overall remuneration philosophy and policy 
including the level and structure of fixed pay, variable pay, 
perquisites, bonus pool, stock-based remuneration to 
employees;
16.	 To review the HR strategy and policy including the conduct 
and ethics of the employees and Directors of the Bank 
and review any fundamental change in the organisational 
structure, which could have wide ranging and high risk 
implications;
17.	 To review and recommend to the Board, the succession 
policy at the level of Managing Director & CEO, other 
Whole-time Directors, senior management one level below 
the Board and key roles; and
18.	 Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever 
form, payable to Senior Management.
Risk Management Committee
Your Bank has a Risk Management Committee of the Board 
(‘RMCB’) with the power and roles that are in accordance with 
the circulars/ guidelines of the RBI on Risk Management Systems 
and Regulation 21 of the SEBI LODR. The functions of the RMCB, 
inter-alia, are to review the Bank’s risk management framework 
and policies pertaining to credit, market, liquidity, operational and 
cybersecurity risks.
The Bank has laid down a procedure to inform the RMCB and the 
Board, on a periodic basis, about the identified risks and the steps 
taken to mitigate and minimise the same. The Bank has already 
98
Bandhan Bank Limited
identified and assessed the major elements of risks, which may 
adversely affect the various divisions of the Bank. The RMCB 
reviews the identified risks, including assessment of the said risks 
and procedures, which are being implemented for monitoring, 
mitigating and minimising the said risks.
Terms of reference
Terms of reference of the RMCB is given below:
1.	
To oversee risk management function and obtain assurance 
from the respective committees and Risk Department 
that the risk faced by the Bank including cyber security 
related risks have been properly identified and are being 
appropriately managed;
2.	
To define the risk appetite of the Bank within overall 
parameters set by the Board in terms of business strategy 
and growth;
3.	
To ensure effectiveness in the conduct of the overall risk 
governance;
4.	
To approve risk limits at the Bank-wide level for various 
portfolios such as product, industry, geography, risk types, 
etc.;
Meetings of the RMCB
As on March 31, 2024, the RMCB comprised of five Directors 
including three Independent Directors and chaired by Mr. Santanu 
Mukherjee, an Independent Director. During FY 2023-24, RMCB 
met seven times, i.e., on June 13, 2023, September 12, 2023, 
September 26, 2023, November 21, 2023, February 15, 2024, 
March 08, 2024 and March 20, 2024. The RMCB meets on a 
quarterly basis.
5.	
To approve risk management and measurement policy/
policies, framework, guidelines and procedures before 
submission to the Board which shall include:
	
•	
A framework for identification of internal and external 
risks specifically faced by the Bank, in particular 
including financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability 
(particularly, ESG related risks), information, cyber 
security risks or any other risk as may be determined 
by the Committee;
	
•	
Measures for risk mitigation including systems and 
processes for internal control of identified risks;
	
•	
Business continuity plan;
	
•	
Appropriate methodology, processes and systems are 
in place to monitor and evaluate risks associated with 
the business of the Bank;
	
•	
Monitor and overseeing implementation of the risk 
management policy/ policies, including evaluating the 
adequacy of risk management systems;
	
•	
Reviewing the risk management policy/ policies, at 
least once in two years, including by considering the 
changing industry dynamics and evolving complexity.
6.	
To ensure effectiveness and performance of risk rating 
system and associated processes and controls through pre-
approval validation, periodical review or as a part of annual 
validation exercise;
7.	
To oversee allocation and maintenance of sufficient resources 
(including IT support) for risk identification, measurement, 
monitoring and reporting;
8.	
To approve risk capital computation and place it to the Board 
for approval;
Composition (as on March 31, 2024) and attendance – RMCB
Name of Member
Category 
Number of Meetings during the 
FY 2023-24 (Seven meetings)
% of 
Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(Amt. in ₹)
During Tenure 
Attended
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee, Chairman
Independent
7
7
100
5,25,000
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri
Independent
7
7
100
5,25,000
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
Executive
7
5
71.43
N.A.
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
Independent
7
7
100
5,25,000
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh1
Executive
7
7
100
N.A.
1Appointed as a member of the RMCB, effective May 17, 2023.
Note: As on July 26, 2024, the RMCB comprised Mr. Santanu Mukherjee (Chairman), Independent Director, Dr. Allamraju Subramanya 
Ramasastri, Independent Director, Dr. Aparajita Mitra, Independent Director, Mr. Pankaj Sood, Non-Executive Non-Independent Director, 
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, MD&CEO and Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar, ED&CBO.
 Independent     Executive     Non-Executive Non-Independent
RMCB Composition - (as on date)
17% (1)
33% (2)
50% (3)
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
99
Composition (as on March 31, 2024) and attendance – CSR&SCB
Name of Member
Category 
Number of Meetings during the 
FY 2023-24 (Four meetings)
% of 
Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(Amt. in ₹)
During Tenure 
Attended
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta, Chairman
Independent
4
3
75
1,80,000
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
Executive
4
4
100
N.A.
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
Dr. Aparajita Mitra1
Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
1 Appointed as a member of the CSR&SCB, effective May 17, 2023
Note: As on July 26, 2024, the CSR&SCB comprised Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta (Chairman), Independent Director, Dr Aparajita Mitra, 
Independent Director, Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, MD&CEO and Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar, ED&CBO.
9.	
To reinforce the culture and awareness of risk management 
throughout the organisation;
10.	 To keep the board of directors informed about the nature 
and content of its discussions, recommendations and actions 
to be taken; and
11.	 The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the 
Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall be subject to review by the 
Risk Management Committee.
Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability 
Committee
Your Bank has a CSR and Sustainability Committee of the Board 
(‘CSR&SCB’) with the powers and roles that are in accordance with 
Section 135 of the Companies Act and rules made thereunder. 
The function of the CSR&SCB includes a review of CSR initiatives, 
undertaken by the Bank for inclusive growth, formulation and 
recommendation to the Board of a CSR Policy, indicating the 
activities to be undertaken by the Bank, and the amount of 
expenditure to be incurred on such activities. It also makes 
recommendations to the Board with respect to the CSR initiatives, 
annual action plan, policies and practices of the Bank, monitor CSR 
activities, implementation and compliance with the CSR Policy, 
and reviews and implements, if required, any other matter relating 
to CSR initiatives as recommended/ suggested by any statutory 
or regulatory body. Further, the CSR&SCB is also vested with the 
responsibility of overseeing the implementation and reporting 
requirements of the Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Reporting (‘BRSR’) Policies of the Bank and reviewing the BRSR 
of the Bank.
The CSR Policy of the Bank, duly aligned with the provisions of 
Section 135 of the Companies Act and the Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, is available on the Bank’s 
website at https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2023-01/
CSR-Policy-210123.pdf.
The Report on CSR activities, including the details of the CSR 
programme and activities carried out by the Bank during 
FY 2023‑24, is enclosed as Annex – 1 to the Board’s Report and is 
forming part of this Annual Report.
Meetings of the CSR&SCB
As on March 31, 2024, the CSR&SCB comprised four Directors, 
including three Independent Directors and chaired by Mr. Subrata 
Dutta Gupta, an Independent Director. During FY 2023-24, the 
CSR&SCB met four times, i.e., on May 24, 2023, August 09, 2023, 
December 05, 2023 and March 06, 2024.
Terms of reference
Terms of reference of the CSR&SCB is given below:
1.	
To formulate and recommend to the Board, a CSR policy 
which shall indicate the activities to be undertaken by the 
Bank as per the Companies Act, 2013;
2.	
Identifying corporate social responsibility policy partners and 
corporate social responsibility policy programmes;
3.	
Identifying and appointing the corporate social responsibility 
team of the Bank including corporate social responsibility 
manager, wherever required;
4.	
Delegating 
responsibilities 
to 
the 
corporate 
social 
responsibility team and supervise proper execution of all 
delegated responsibilities;
5.	
To review and recommend to the Board, the CSR Annual 
Action Plan, indicating the amount of expenditure to be 
 Independent     Executive
CSR&SCB Composition - (as on date)
50% (2)
50% (2)
100
Bandhan Bank Limited
incurred on the activities to be undertaken by the Bank 
and the distribution of the same to various corporate social 
responsibility programmes undertaken by the Bank;
6.	
To monitor the CSR policy and Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (‘BRSR’) related policies of the Bank 
from time to time;
7.	
To oversee the implementation of the BRSR related initiatives 
of the Bank;
8.	
To review and recommend to the Board, the Annual Report 
on CSR, BRSR Report and Integrated Report; and
9.	
Any other matter as the CSR Committee may deem 
appropriate after approval of the Board of Directors or as 
may be directed by the Board of Directors from time to time.
Information Technology (IT) Strategy Committee
Your Bank has an IT Strategy Committee of the Board (‘ITSCB’) 
with the power and roles that are in accordance with the circulars/
guidelines issued by the RBI. It deals with the information 
technology, information security, cybersecurity, etc., aspects of 
the Bank. It reviews and recommends the strategy and policy 
for IT related-matters to the Board, ensures that the IT strategy 
is aligned with the business strategy, reviews IT risks, ensures 
proper balance of IT investments for sustaining the Bank’s growth, 
oversees the aggregate funding of IT at the Bank-level, ascertains 
if the management has adequate resources to ensure proper 
administration of IT risks and reviews the contribution of IT. During 
the year under review, the terms of reference of the ITSCB has 
been aligned with ‘Master Direction on Information Technology 
Governance, Risk, Controls and Assurance Practices’ dated 
November 07, 2023 issued by RBI.
Meetings of the ITSCB
As on March 31, 2024, the ITSCB comprised four Directors, 
including 
two 
Independent 
Directors 
and 
chaired 
by 
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri, Independent Director. During 
FY 2023‑24, the ITSCB met nine times, i.e., on April 25, 2023, 
May 16, 2023, June 14, 2023, July 13, 2023, August 11, 2023, 
September 26, 2023, November 22, 2023, February 08, 2024 and 
March 07, 2024. ITSCB meets on a quarterly basis.
Terms of reference
Terms of reference of the ITSCB is given below:
1.	
To recommend IT Strategy and Policy documents to the 
Board;
2.	
To ensure that the Bank has put an effective IT strategic 
planning process in place;
3.	
To guide in preparation of IT Strategy and ensure that the IT 
Strategy aligns with the overall strategy of the Bank towards 
accomplishment of its business objectives;
4.	
To satisfy itself that the IT Governance and Information 
Security Governance structure fosters accountability, is 
effective and efficient, has adequate skilled resources, well 
defined objectives and unambiguous responsibilities for 
each level in the Bank;
5.	
To ensure that the Bank has put in place, processes for 
assessing and managing IT and cybersecurity risks;
Composition (as on March 31, 2024) and attendance –  ITSCB
Name of Member
Category 
Number of Meetings during the 
FY 2023-24 (Nine meetings)
% of 
Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(Amt. in ₹)
During Tenure 
Attended
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri, Chairman
Independent
9
9
100
5,40,000
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
Executive
9
8
88.89
N.A.
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar
Independent
9
9
100
5,40,000
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh1
Executive
7
7
100
N.A.
1 Appointed as a member of the ITSCB, effective May 17, 2023.
Note: As on July 26, 2024, the ITSCB comprised Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri (Chairman), Independent Director, Mr. Ratan 
Kumar Kesh, MD&CEO, Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar, ED&CBO, Mr. Santanu Mukherjee, Independent Director and Mr. Suhail Chander, 
Independent Director.
 Independent     Executive 
ITSCB Composition - (as on date)
40% (2)
60% (3)
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
101
Composition (as on March 31, 2024) and attendance –  CSCB
Name of Member
Category 
Number of Meetings during the 
FY 2023-24 (Four meetings)
% of 
Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(Amt. in ₹)
During Tenure 
Attended
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo 
Prabhutendulkar, Chairman
Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh Executive
4
4
100
N.A.
Ms. Divya Krishnan1
Non-Executive Non-Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh1
Executive
4
4
100
N.A.
1 Appointed as members of the CSCB, effective May 17, 2023
Note: As on July 26, 2024, the CSCB comprised Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar (Chairman), Independent Director, Mr. Philip 
Mathew, Independent Director, Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, MD&CEO, Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar, ED&CBO and Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt, 
Independent Director.
6.	
To ensure that the budgetary allocations for the IT function 
(including for IT security), cyber security are commensurate 
with the Bank’s IT maturity, digital depth, threat environment 
and industry standards and are utilised in a manner intended 
for meeting the stated objectives;
7.	
To review, at least on annual basis, the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Business Continuity Planning and 
Disaster Recovery Management of the Bank1;
8.	
To approve the minimal Recovery Time Objective (‘RTO’);
9.	
To review the assessment of IT capacity requirements and 
measures taken to address the issues;
10.	 To approve documented standards and procedures for 
administering need-based access to information system/
assets;
11.	 To provide consultation to the Risk Management Committee 
of the Board for periodical review and update in IT related 
risks, including the Cyber Security related risks, in the risk 
management policy of the Bank;
12.	 To oversee the constitution and functioning of Information 
Secutiy Committee of the Bank;
13.	 To review the cyber security risks/  arrangements/
preparedness of the Bank, as placed by the Chief Information 
Security Officer, at least on a quarterly basis;
14.	 The progress of achievement of digital transactions would 
be subsequently monitored by the IT Strategy Committee in 
all its meetings, i.e. it would be a permanent agenda for IT 
Strategy Committee; and
15.	 To review & monitor the mechanism of the digital 
transactions as follows:
	
a.	
Progress on implementation of new Digital Products;
	
b.	
Number of Digital Transactions on existing digital 
channels;
	
c.	
Increasing the number of Digital Transactions in existing 
digital channels.
1 The reference to Business Continuity/ Disaster Recovery Management in 
this Master Direction is limited to operational resilience focusing on People, 
Processes and Systems associated with the IT, IS, information/ cyber 
security controls and operations.
Customer Service Committee
Your Bank has a Customer Service Committee of the Board (‘CSCB’) 
with the power and roles that are in accordance with the Master 
Circular on Customer Service in Banks issued by the RBI. The 
functions of CSCB, inter-alia, include reviewing customer service 
initiatives, overseeing the functioning of grievance redressal 
mechanisms for customers, evolving innovative measures for 
enhancing the quality of customer service and improving the 
overall satisfaction level of customers of the Bank.
Enhanced disclosures on complaints received by the Bank from 
customers and from the Offices of Banking Ombudsman (‘OBOs’) 
and grievance redress as prescribed under Circular dated January 
27, 2021 on Strengthening of Grievance Redress Mechanism in 
Banks issued by the RBI, are made available as part of Notes to the 
Financial Statement forming part of this Annual Report.
Meetings of the CSCB 
As on March 31, 2024, the CSCB comprised five Directors, including 
two Independent Directors, two Executive Directors and one 
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, and chaired by 
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar, Independent Director. 
During FY 2023-24, the CSCB met four times, i.e., on June 12, 
2023, September 26, 2023, December 11, 2023 and March 06, 
2024. CSCB meets on a quarterly basis.
102
Bandhan Bank Limited
9.	
To address issues of systemic deficiencies, if any, brought out 
by the awards;
10.	 To monitor awards remaining unimplemented for more than 
three months with the reasons (for a report to the Board) for 
such delays in implementation and for initiating necessary 
remedial action;
11.	 To review customer service/ customer care aspects in the 
Bank and submit a detailed memorandum in this regard to 
the Board of Directors, once every six months and initiate 
prompt corrective action wherever service quality/ skill gaps 
have been noticed;
12.	 To oversee and review/ modify the initiatives taken by 
Customer Service Committee of the branches and other 
departments; and
13.	 To address any other issues having a bearing on the quality of 
customer service rendered, such as examining reports on no. 
and nature of complaints received and status of resolution 
thereof, etc.
Special Committee for Monitoring High Value Frauds
Your Bank has a Special Committee for Monitoring High Value 
Frauds (‘SCMHVF’) which was constituted as per Master Directions 
on Frauds issued by the RBI for commercial banks. The Committee 
is required to meet and review as and when a fraud involving an 
amount of ₹1 crore and above comes to light.
Meetings of the SCMHVF
As on March 31, 2024, the SCMHVF comprised five Directors, 
including four Independent Directors and the Managing Director 
& CEO, and chaired by Mr. Suhail Chander, Independent Director. 
Two of the members of the Committee are also members of the 
Audit Committee of the Board. During FY 2023-24, the SCMHVF 
met once on August 09, 2023.
Terms of reference
Terms of reference of the CSCB is given below:
1.	
To formulate a comprehensive deposit policy;
2.	
To monitor product approval process with a view to suitability 
and appropriateness;
3.	
To conduct annual survey of depositor satisfaction;
4.	
To conduct triennial audit of such services;
5.	
To review Regulatory guidelines issued from time to time and 
formulate policy for their implementation;
6.	
To set up a grievance redressal mechanism for the Bank to 
handle customer complaints;
7.	
To monitor and follow up complaints/ grievances escalated 
to be resolved by Banking Ombudsmen of the various States;
8.	
To implement awards under the Banking Ombudsman 
Scheme;
Composition (as on March 31, 2024) and attendance –  SCMHVF
Name of Member
Category 
Number of Meetings during the 
FY 2023-24 (One meeting)
% of 
Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(Amt. in ₹)
During Tenure 
Attended
Mr. Suhail Chander, Chairman
Independent
1
1
100
60,000
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
Executive
1
1
100
N.A.
Mr. Philip Mathew
Independent
1
1
100
60,000
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
Independent
1
1
100
60,000
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
Independent
1
1
100
60,000
Note: As on July 26, 2024, the SCMHVF comprised of Mr. Suhail Chander (Chairman), Independent Director, Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, 
MD&CEO, Mr. Santanu Mukherjee, Independent Director, Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta, Independent Director and Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt, 
Independent Director.
 Independent     Executive 
CSCB Composition - (as on date)
40% (2)
60% (3)
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
103
Terms of reference
Terms of reference of the SCMHVF is given below:
1.	
To identify the systematic lacunae if any that facilitated 
perpetration of the fraud and put in place measures to plug 
the same;
2.	
To identify the reasons for delay in detection, and/ or 
reporting to top management of the Bank and RBI, if any;
3.	
To monitor progress of investigation by law enforcing 
agencies and recovery position;
4.	
To ensure that staff accountability is examined at all levels 
in all the cases of frauds and staff side action, if required, is 
completed quickly without loss of time;
Composition (as on March 31, 2024) and attendance –  SRCB
Name of Member
Category 
Number of Meetings during the 
FY 2023-24 (Four meetings)
% of 
Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(Amt. in ₹)
During Tenure 
Attended
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo 
Prabhutendulkar, Chairman
Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
Ms. Divya Krishnan
Non-Executive Non-Independent
4
3
75
1,80,000
Mr. Philip Mathew
Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
Dr. Aparajita Mitra1
Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
1 Appointed as a member of the SRCB effective May 17, 2023
Note: As on July 26, 2024, the SRCB comprised Ms. Divya Krishnan (Chairperson), Non-Executive Non-Independent Director, Dr. Anup 
Kumar Sinha, Independent Director and Dr. Aparajita Mitra, Independent Director. 
5.	
To review the efficacy of the remedial action taken to prevent 
recurrence of frauds, such as strengthening of internal 
controls; and
6.	
To put in place other measures as may be considered relevant 
to strengthen preventive measures against frauds.
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
Your Bank has a Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of the Board 
(‘SRCB’) with the power and roles that are in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 178(5) of the Companies Act and Regulation 
20 of the SEBI LODR, to specifically look into various matters 
relating to Shareholders, including the transfer and transmission of 
shares, issue of share certificates (including the issue of renewed 
or duplicate share certificates/ Letter of Confirmation), claims 
of unclaimed dividend and shares lying in the suspense account 
as well as with the IEPF Authority, non-receipt of Annual Report 
and so on. Additionally, the Committee also looks into other 
issues, such as, the status of dematerialisation of shares as well 
as systems and procedures followed to track investors’ complaints 
and suggests measures for improvement, from time to time, and 
the matters related to unsecured debentures issued by the Bank.
Meetings of the SRCB
As on March 31, 2024, the SRCB comprised four Directors, including 
three Independent Directors and chaired by Mr. Narayan Vasudeo 
Prabhutendulkar, Independent Director. During FY 2023-24, the 
SRCB met four times, i.e., on June 13, 2023, September 26, 2023, 
December 11, 2023 and March 08, 2024. The SRCB meets on a 
quarterly basis. Mr. Indranil Banerjee is the Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer of the Bank in terms of the SEBI LODR.
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar, Chairman of the SRCB, 
attended the last AGM of the Bank held on August 18, 2023.
 Independent     Executive 
SCMHVF Composition - (as on date)
20% (1)
80% (4)
104
Bandhan Bank Limited
Terms of reference
Terms of reference of the SRCB is given below:
1.	
Review the mechanism adopted for redressing the grievance 
of shareholders, debenture holders and deposit holders and 
other security holders and the status of such redressal;
2.	
Considering and resolving the grievances of the security 
holders of the Bank including complaints related to transfer/
transmission of shares, non-receipt of the annual report, 
non-receipt of declared dividends, general meetings, etc.;
3.	
Investigating complaints relating to allotment of shares, 
approval of transfer or transmission of shares, debentures or 
any other securities;
4.	
Issuing duplicate certificates and new certificates on split/
consolidation/renewal;
5.	
Dematerialisation/ rematerialisation of shares;
6.	
Transfer/ transmission of shares and their redressal;
7.	
Monitoring and supervision of the Registrar and Transfer 
Agent (RTA) and review of adherence to the service standards 
adopted by the Bank in respect of various services being 
rendered by the RTA;
8.	
Review of the activities of the services provided to the 
security holders relating to the various services rendered by 
the Secretarial Department, Investor Services Department, 
various initiatives taken to inter-alia to reduce quantum of 
unclaimed dividends, status of claims received, ensuring 
timely receipt of dividend warrants/ annual reports/ 
statutory notices by the shareholders of the Bank and 
process for unclaimed shares, uploading of data relating to 
unclaimed dividends on the website of Investor Education & 
Protection Fund and the Bank;
9.	
Review 
the 
Action 
Taken 
Report 
in 
respect 
of 
recommendations made by the Committee;
10.	 Review the status of the litigation(s) filed by/ against the 
security holders of the Bank;
11.	 Review the mechanism adopted to review, monitor and 
report transactions relating to securities which may be 
suspicious from a money-laundering perspective;
12.	 The Committee shall perform such other functions as may 
be required under the relevant provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013, the Rules made thereunder and the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
relating to Corporate Governance, as amended from time to 
time; and
13.	 Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting 
rights by shareholders.
Status of Shareholders’ Complaints as on March 31, 2024
Particulars
Total
Number of Shareholders' complaints pending at 
the beginning of the year 
3
Number of Shareholders' complaints received 
during the year
201
Number of Shareholders' complaints disposed of 
during the year
201
Number of Shareholders' complaints unresolved 
at the end of the year
3*
*closed on April 01, 2024
Above three investor complaints pending as of March 31, 2024, 
on SCORES, were duly resolved on April 01, 2024. There was 
no complaint pending against the Bank on the online dispute 
resolution (ODR) portal as on March 31, 2024.
Pursuant to the authorisation by the Board and/ or the SRCB, 
the Company Secretary is authorised to approve Transmission/ 
Subdivision/ Consolidation/ Renewal/ Issue of Duplicate Share 
Certificate(s)/ Deletion of Name(s) and Dematerialisation of 
shares of the Bank. A summary of transfer/ transmission, etc., of 
securities of the Bank so approved by the Company Secretary along 
with details of issuance of Letter of Confirmation/ Entitlement 
Letter issued, are placed at the SRCB meeting. A certificate from 
a Practicing Company Secretary is obtained on an annual basis, as 
per the provisions of sub-regulations (9) & (10) of Regulation 40 
of the SEBI LODR, certifying that all certificates have been issued 
within prescribed timelines of the date of lodgement for transfer, 
sub-division, consolidation, renewal, exchange or endorsement 
of calls/ allotment monies and the same is also filed with the 
Stock Exchanges.
 Independent     Non-Executive Non-Independent
SRCB Composition - (as on date)
33% (1)
67% (2)
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
105
As an ongoing measure to enhance the ease of dealing in the 
securities market by investors, the SEBI has issued various circulars 
in recent times. One such circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_
RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022, has mandated 
the listed entities to issue securities in dematerialised form only 
while processing specified service requests made by the physical 
security holders. The circular specifies the manner in which such 
requests are required to be entertained by the listed entities and 
the manner in which the dematerialisation of securities is to be 
completed. The Bank encourages the shareholders to hold the 
shares in dematerialised mode and necessary details about this 
are provided on the website of the Bank.
Further, in compliance with Regulation 7(2) & 7(3) of the SEBI 
LODR, a Compliance Certificate is filed with the Stock Exchanges 
where the shares of the Bank are listed. The said certificate is duly 
signed by both the Company Secretary & Compliance Officer of 
the Bank and the authorised representative of the Share Transfer 
Agent, on an annual basis, certifying that all activities relating 
to share transfer facility of the Bank are maintained by KFin 
Technologies Limited, Registrars and Share Transfer Agent (‘RTA’) 
of the Bank.
Committee of Directors
The Committee of Directors (‘COD’) is a Board constituted 
committee that considers and sanctions loan proposals exceeding 
₹175 crore and upto ₹900 crore for single borrower (20% of tier I 
capital for group borrower) for all Business Segments, and handles 
any other matter of importance as may be decided by the Board of 
Directors, from time to time, including borrowing of funds for the 
Bank, issue of securities related matters, review of deposits and 
liquidity position of the Bank.
Meetings of the Committee of Directors
As on March 31, 2024, the COD comprised four Directors, including 
three Independent Directors and chaired by the Managing Director 
& CEO. During FY 2023-24, the COD met twenty-two times, i.e., 
on April 21, 2023, May 11, 2023, June 12, 2023, June 26, 2023, 
July 15, 2023, August 11, 2023, August 25, 2023, September 11, 
2023, September 21, 2023, September 27, 2023, October 10, 
2023, November 22, 2023, December 07, 2023, December 18, 
2023, December 22, 2023, December 27, 2023, January 17, 2024, 
February 12, 2024, February 15, 2024, February 29, 2024, March 
21, 2024 and March 25, 2024.
Composition (as on March 31, 2024) and attendance –  COD
Name of Member
Category 
Number of Meetings during the  
FY 2023-24 (Twenty two meetings)
% of 
Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(Amt. in ₹)
During Tenure 
Attended
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, Chairman
Executive
22
22
100
NA
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
Independent
22
22
100
13,20,000
Mr. Suhail Chander
Independent
22
22
100
13,20,000
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
Independent
22
22
100
13,20,000
Note: As on July 26, 2024, the COD comprised Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (Chairman), MD&CEO, Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha, Independent Director, 
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar, ED&CBO and Mr. Suhail Chander, Independent Director.
COD Composition - (as on date)
 Independent      Executive
50% (2)
50% (2)
106
Bandhan Bank Limited
Annual General Meetings
Details of Annual General Meetings for the previous three (3) financial years are as under:
Sl.
No.
Particulars of meeting
Location
Date & Time
Special Resolutions
passed, if any
1.
9th Annual General 
Meeting
14th Floor, Adventz Infinity@5, BN-5, Sector V,  
Salt Lake City, Kolkata – 700091 (through VC)
August 18, 2023 at 
11:00 A.M. (IST)
Two Special Resolutions 
were passed
2.
8th Annual General 
Meeting
14th Floor, Adventz Infinity@5, BN-5, Sector V,  
Salt Lake City, Kolkata – 700091 (through VC)
August 10, 2022 at 
11:00 A.M. (IST)
Four Special Resolutions 
were passed
3.
7th Annual General 
Meeting
14th Floor, Adventz Infinity@5, BN-5, Sector V,  
Salt Lake City, Kolkata – 700091 (through VC)
August 06, 2021 at 
11:00 A.M. (IST)
Three Special 
Resolutions were passed
Postal Ballot
During the financial year under review, the Bank had sought approval of its Members, for the following resolutions, vide Postal Ballot, 
through electronic voting (‘remote e-voting’):
Sr. 
No.
Date of 
Postal Ballot 
Notice
Item of Business 
Type of 
Resolution
% of the total 
number of 
valid votes 
cast, in favour
% of total 
number of 
valid votes 
cast, against
Result
1
May 19, 
2023
Appointment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh  
(DIN: 10082714) as a Director of the Bank
Ordinary 
Resolution
99.974
0.026 Passed with 
requisite 
majority on  
June 22, 2023, 
i.e., the last date 
of e-voting
2
Appointment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh 
(DIN: 10082714) as a Whole-time Director, 
designated as Executive Director and Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Bank, including 
remuneration
Ordinary 
Resolution
99.346
0.654
3
March 19, 
2024
Appointment of Mr. Pankaj Sood  
(DIN: 05185378) as a Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director (Nominee of 
Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd.)
Ordinary 
Resolution
99.515
0.485
Passed with 
requisite 
majority on  
April 21, 2024, 
i.e., the last date 
of e-voting
4
Appointment of Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar 
(DIN: 10540386) as a Director of the Bank
Ordinary 
Resolution
99.553
0.447
5
Appointment of Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar 
(DIN: 10540386) as a Whole-time Director, 
designated as Executive Director and Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Bank, including 
remuneration
Ordinary 
Resolution
99.032
0.968
Procedure for Postal ballot:
In compliance with the provisions of Section 110 and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, read with Rule 
22 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 
2014, Regulation 44 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
SEBI LODR, the Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (‘SS-2’) 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, guidelines 
prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (the ‘MCA’) for 
holding general meetings/ conducting postal ballot process 
through electronic voting only vide various General Circulars, 
including General Circular Nos. 11/2022 dated December 28, 
2022 and 09/2023 dated September 25, 2023, as applicable (the 
‘MCA Circulars’) and any other applicable laws and regulations, 
the Bank had sent the Postal Ballot Notices, as aforesaid, along 
with the Explanatory Statements thereto, to the Members of the 
Bank, whose names appeared in the Register of Members/ list of 
Beneficial Owners as received from the Depositories as on Cut-
off Date(s), and whose e-mail IDs were registered with the Bank/ 
the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (‘RTA’) [in respect of 
shares held in physical form] or with the Depositories/ Depository 
Participants [in respect of shares held in dematerialised form], for 
obtaining the consent of the Members to the aforesaid item of 
businesses, via Ordinary Resolution(s), by electronic means only. 
The Cut-off date for the notice dated May 19, 2023 was Friday, 
May 19, 2023 and for the notice dated March 19, 2024, the Cut-off 
date was Friday, March 15, 2024.
The Bank had engaged the services of KFin Technologies Limited 
(‘KFin’), the RTA of the Bank, as the agency for facilitating remote 
e-voting. For Postal Ballot conducted vide notice dated May 19, 
2023, the Board had appointed M/s Anjan Kumar Roy & Co, 
Practicing Company Secretary (FCS No.: 5684/ CP No.: 4557) 
failing them, CS Sandip Paul, Practicing Company Secretary (ACS 
No.: 60607/ CP No.: 22688) as the Scrutiniser to ensure that the 
Postal Ballot (via remote e-voting) process is conducted in a fair 
and transparent manner. The remote e-voting period commenced 
on Wednesday, May 24, 2023 at 9:00 A.M. (IST) and ended on 
Thursday, June 22, 2023 at 5:00 P.M. (IST).
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
107
For Postal Ballot conducted vide notice dated March 19, 2024, 
the Board had appointed CS Hansraj Jaria, Practicing Company 
Secretary (FCS No.: 7703/ CP No.: 19394) failing him, CS Rakesh 
Agrawal, Practicing Company Secretary (FCS No.: 8792/ CP No.: 
9014) as the Scrutiniser to ensure that the Postal Ballot (via 
remote e-voting) process is conducted in a fair and transparent 
manner. The remote e-voting period commenced on Saturday, 
March 23, 2024 at 9.00 A.M. (IST) and ended on Sunday, April 21, 
2024 at 5.00 P.M. (IST).
Upon completion of the scrutiny of votes cast by Postal Ballot (via 
remote e-voting), the Scrutinizers submitted their Reports to the 
Chairman who countersigned the same and declared the Results 
of the Postal Ballots. The Results of the Postal Ballots, along with 
the Scrutinizers’ Report, were made available on the website of 
the Bank and KFin, the remote e-voting service provider, and were 
also displayed on the Notice Boards of the Bank at its Registered 
Office and Head Office. The Results of the Postal Ballots were 
simultaneously communicated to all the Stock Exchanges where 
the equity shares of the Bank are listed.
None of the businesses proposed to be transacted at the 
ensuing AGM of the Bank require passing a resolution through 
Postal Ballot.
Other Disclosures
Management Discussion & Analysis Report
The Management Discussion & Analysis Report, giving an overview 
of the industry, the Bank’s business and its financials, is provided 
separately as Annex - 5 to the Board’s Report and forms part of 
this Annual Report.
Disclosure on Material Subsidiary
The Bank does not have a subsidiary, at present. Therefore, the 
requirement to formulate a policy for determining ‘material’ 
subsidiary does not apply to the Bank.
Commodity Price Risk, Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging 
Activities
Your Bank has not traded in any commodity. The Bank has limited 
foreign currency liability with regard to its FCNR(B) portfolio, 
however, the Bank does not have foreign currency bonds, bilateral 
or syndicated loans liability. Your Bank has a Board approved Market 
Risk Policy which defines a risk control framework for undertaking 
any foreign exchange transaction. The Board approved Market 
Risk Policy of your Bank has defined an overall Net Overnight Open 
Position (NOOP) Limit, Stop Loss Limit, Aggregate Gap Limit (AGL), 
Value at Risk (VaR) Limit to control the foreign exchange risk within 
its risk control framework.
Accounting Treatment
The Financial Statement has been prepared under the historical 
cost convention and on the accrual basis of accounting, unless 
otherwise stated and in compliance with the requirements 
prescribed under the Third Schedule (Form A and Form B) of 
the BR Act. The accounting and reporting policies of your Bank 
used in the preparation of the Financial Statement conform to 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (‘Indian GAAP’), 
the guidelines issued by RBI, from time to time, the accounting 
standards notified under Section 133 and other relevant provisions 
of the Companies Act, read together with the Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, as amended from time to 
time, to the extent applicable, and practices generally prevalent in 
the banking industry in India.
Indian Accounting Standard (IND AS) implementation
RBI had issued a circular in February 2016 requiring banks to 
implement the Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) and prepare 
Ind AS financial statement with effect from April 01, 2018.
Further, as advised by the RBI, the Bank has also been submitting 
Proforma IndAS Financial Statements, every half year, to the RBI.
However, RBI in its press release issued on March 22, 2019 has 
deferred the applicability of Ind AS till further notice for Scheduled 
Commercial Banks.
Your Bank has made a diagnostic study to identify the gaps, 
process and system changes required to implement Ind AS and is 
in the process of implementing necessary changes in its IT system 
and other processes. The Bank is regularly holding workshops and 
training for its staff.
Related Party Transactions
During the year under review, there were no materially significant 
transactions with related parties, which could lead to a potential 
conflict of interest between the Bank and these parties. Related 
Party Transactions that were entered into during the financial 
year 2023-24 were on an arm’s length basis and were in the 
ordinary course of the Bank’s business. Approval of Members of 
the Bank has been obtained at 9th AGM held on August 18, 2023, 
for material related party transactions with promoter/ promoter 
group entities of the Bank, in terms of Regulation 23 of the SEBI 
LODR. Further details are provided in the Board’s Report. Weblink 
for your Bank’s Policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions 
is 
https://www.bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../
sites/default/files/2022-09/Policy-on-Dealing-with-Related-Party-
Transactions.pdf.
Penalties and Strictures for last three financial years
With regard to the matters related to the capital market, there 
was no non-compliance neither penalties nor strictures imposed 
on your Bank by the Stock Exchanges and/ or the SEBI and/ or any 
other statutory authorities during the last three financial years.
Whistle Blower Policy & Vigilance Policy
The Bank had adopted the Board approved Vigilance Policy and 
Whistle Blower Policy, as required under Section 177 of the Companies 
Act, Regulation 22 of the SEBI LODR and applicable circulars issued 
by RBI, in this regard. The said Policies are available on the Bank’s 
website at https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../
sites/default/files/2023-12/Whistle-Blower-Policy-141223.pdf 
and https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../sites/
default/files/2023-12/Vigilance-Policy-141223.pdf. Further details 
on the Whistle Blower Mechanism are provided in the Board’s 
Report.
108
Bandhan Bank Limited
Code of Conduct
Your Bank has in place a Code of Conduct for Directors and also a 
Code of Conduct for its Senior Management, which are approved 
by the Board. The Code of Conduct for Senior Management 
attempts to set forth the guiding principles on which your Bank 
shall operate and, conduct its daily business with its multitudinous 
stakeholders, viz., shareholders, customers, employees, and 
regulators. This Code is available on the Bank’s website at https://
bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2020-12/Code-Conduct-for-
Senior-Management.pdf. The Code of Conduct for Directors also 
contains a reference to the duties of the Independent Directors 
as laid down in Schedule IV of the Companies Act. This Code is 
also available on the Bank’s website at https://bandhanbank.com/
sites/default/files/2020-12/Code-Conduct-for-Directors.pdf. 
As 
required under Regulation 26(3) of the SEBI LODR, all Directors 
and Senior Management personnel have affirmed compliance 
with the Code of Conduct, as approved and adopted by the Board, 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2024.
Declaration, as required under Para D of Schedule V to the 
SEBI LODR, with respect to the financial year ended March 31, 
2024, duly signed by the Managing Director & CEO, is annexed to 
this Report.
Policy on the Preservation of Documents
In accordance with Regulation 9 of the SEBI LODR, your Bank has 
in place a Policy on the Preservation of Documents, which has 
been approved by the Board of Directors of the Bank. This Policy 
is intended to guide your Bank and its officers on the maintenance 
of documents, their preservation and disposal. The Policy has 
been reviewed by the Board without any changes, during the 
financial year under review, as part of annual review process. 
The said policy can be accessed on the Bank’s website at https://
www.bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2024-06/Policy-on-
Preservation-of-Documents-FY-23-24.pdf.
Policy for Determination of Material Event/ Information 
and Archival Policy
In accordance with Regulation 30 of the SEBI LODR, your Bank has 
in place a Policy for Determination of Material Events/ Information, 
which provides guidance to the Board, management and staff on 
the assessment of the materiality of events/ information, which 
will have bearing on the performance/ operations of your Bank. 
The Policy has been reviewed and amended by the Board, during 
the financial year under review, primarily, to align it with the 
amendments to the SEBI LODR. The Policy is available on the Bank’s 
website at https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../
sites/default/files/2023-12/Materiality-Policy-13122023.pdf. 
Further, your Bank has a Board approved Archival Policy in 
line with the requirements of the SEBI LODR to ensure that 
information relating to your Bank is adequately disclosed on its 
website as required by law. The Policy has been reviewed by the 
Board, during the financial year under review, as part of annual 
review process and certain changes made to bring more clarity 
in certain clauses. The Policy is available on the Bank’s website 
at 
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../sites/
default/files/2023-12/Archival-Policy-141223.pdf.
Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading
Your Bank has in place a Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider 
Trading in the securities (‘PIT Code’), adopted in line with the 
provisions of the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015 (‘PIT Regulations’). The PIT Code, inter-alia, prohibits trading 
in the securities of your Bank or any securities forming part of grey 
list securities by insiders, while in possession of any Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information (‘UPSI’) in relation to such securities/
entities. Your Bank has also adopted a Board approved Code of 
Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of UPSI, which is 
available on the website of the Bank at https://bandhanbank.
com/sites/default/files/2022-12/Final-Fair-disclosure-CCIT_1.pdf. 
The Board reviews the PIT Code on an annual basis and whenever 
required. The PIT Code has been reviewed by the ACB and the 
Board, as part of annual review process, during the financial year 
under review and certain changes are made therein in order to 
provide more clarity in certain clauses. The Company Secretary of 
your Bank acts as the ‘Compliance Officer’ in terms of the PIT Code 
and PIT Regulations, and is responsible for implementation and 
overseeing compliance with the PIT Code across the Bank. Cases 
of violations observed during the financial year were submitted 
to the Disciplinary Committee of the Bank and accordingly, the 
intimation, with regard to the action taken by your Bank, along 
with the details of the penalty amount remitted to the Investor 
Protection and Education Fund maintained by the SEBI, were 
submitted to the Stock Exchanges from time to time. Your Bank 
has also undertaken various initiatives during the financial year 
to spread awareness amongst the employees of your Bank about 
the provisions of the PIT Code and PIT Regulations. Your Bank 
has automated the process for submission of declarations and 
disclosures by designated persons electronically through software. 
Further, your Bank has maintained the Structured Digital Database 
(‘SDD’) internally with adequate internal controls, in compliance 
with the provisions of Regulation 3(5) of the PIT Regulations. The 
report on the compliance with the PIT Code is also submitted to 
the ACB/ Board periodically.
Dividend Distribution Policy
In accordance with Regulation 43A of the SEBI LODR, your Bank 
has adopted the Dividend Distribution Policy, which outlines 
various parameters based on which the Board may recommend or 
declare Dividend, in accordance with the provisions of applicable 
laws. The details of the same are provided in the Board’s Report.
Directors and Officers Insurance (D & O Policy)
Your Bank has in place a Directors and Officers Liability Policy (D&O 
Policy) for all its Directors, with the quantum and risks determined 
by its Board of Directors. The Policy covers management liability, 
company securities, investigation cost, Non-Executive Directors’ 
protection, investigation, extradition, outside directorship, bodily 
injury and property damage defence costs, assets and liberty, etc.
Complaints pertaining to Sexual Harassment
The details of complaints filed and disposed of during the financial 
year as well as pending cases pertaining to sexual harassment are 
provided in the Board’s Report.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
109
Details of utilisation of funds raised through preferential 
allotment or qualified institutions placement as specified 
under Regulation 32(7A) of the SEBI LODR
During the financial year under review, your Bank has not raised 
any fund through Preferential Allotment or Qualified Institutions 
Placement as specified under Regulation 32(7A) of the SEBI LODR.
Compliance with Mandatory Requirements
Your Bank has complied with all the applicable mandatory 
requirements of Corporate Governance as prescribed under the 
SEBI LODR.
Tentative calendar of Board Meetings for the financial 
year ending March 31, 2025
The tentative calendar of the meetings of the Board of Directors 
for the consideration of quarterly/ annual financial results for the 
financial year ending on March 31, 2025 are as follows:
Quarter/Year
Tentative calendar of Board 
Meetings
First quarter ending on  
June 30, 2024
Within 45 days from the end of 
quarter
Second quarter ending on 
September 30, 2024
Within 45 days from the end of 
quarter
Third quarter ending on 
December 31, 2024
Within 45 days from the end of 
quarter
Fourth quarter and year 
ending on March 31, 2025
Within 60 days from the end of 
quarter/ year
Compliance with Non-Mandatory Requirements
a)	
The Board
	
The expenses pertaining to the office of the Non-Executive 
Chairman is maintained by the Bank, along with the 
reimbursement of all the expenses incurred by the Non-
Executive Chairman while performing his duties.
b)	
Shareholder Rights
	
Your Bank publishes its financial results every quarter on its 
website at www.bandhanbank.com, which is accessible to 
the public at large. The same is also available on the websites 
of the Stock Exchanges, i.e., BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited. Along with the quarterly results, 
detailed earnings updates are also hosted on the website of 
the Bank. Further, a quarterly investors’/  analysts’ conference 
call is made to discuss the financial results and performance 
of the Bank, the audio recording and transcripts of which are 
hosted on the website of the Bank as well as stock exchanges. 
The Bank’s results for each quarter are published in English 
newspaper having nationwide circulation and in Bengali 
newspaper (viz., Financial Express and Bartaman), whereas 
the financial highlights are also published in English as well 
as Bengali newspaper (viz., The Economic Times, Mint, 
Business Standard, The Hindu Business Line, The Hindu, 
Ananda Bazar Patrika, Ei Samay, Aajkaal, Dainik Statesman, 
Arthik Lipi, etc.). The quarterly results of the Bank are sent to 
the shareholders through email.
c)	
Modified Opinion(s) in Audit Report
	
The Independent Audit Report issued by the Joint Statutory 
Auditors of your Bank on the financial statement for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2024, is with unmodified 
audit opinion. The Bank continues to adopt the best practices 
to ensure a regime of financial statement with unmodified 
audit opinion.
d)	
Separate posts of Chairperson and the Managing Director 
or the Chief Executive Officer
	
Your Bank has separate offices for the Non-Executive 
Chairman and the Managing Director & CEO. The Non-
Executive Chairman of your Bank is not related to any 
directors of your Bank including the MD & CEO.
e)	
Reporting of Internal Auditor
	
The Reporting of the Chief Audit Executive of the Bank is as 
per the extant RBI Circular.
Means of Communication
The Board of your Bank has been approving the quarterly financial 
results well within the stipulated time of 45 days from the end 
of respective quarters and the audited annual financial results 
for the quarter and year ending on March 31 within 60 days from 
the end of the financial year. The financial results are promptly 
submitted to the stock exchanges and are published in English and 
Bengali (regional language) newspapers (viz., Financial Express 
and Bartaman), within 48 hours of the conclusion of the respective 
Board meetings at which such financial results are approved. The 
financial results, as well as press release, are simultaneously hosted 
on the Bank’s website accessible at https://bandhanbank.com/
quarterly-report. Earnings calls with analysts and their transcripts 
are also published on the website at https://bandhanbank.com/
corporate-governance#rctabtwofour. The Bank also shares the 
highlights of quarterly financial results with all shareholders 
whose email IDs are registered with the Bank. The Bank’s website 
also displays all disclosures made to stock exchanges by your 
Bank, along with the earnings updates and presentations made to 
investors and analysts.
110
Bandhan Bank Limited
Corporate Policies
Sl.
No.
Name of the Policy
Brief Description
Web link
1
Policy on Appointment 
and
Fit & Proper Criteria for 
Directors
Your Bank has adopted the policy for appointment of 
Directors on the Board considering their fit and proper 
criteria, including special knowledge or practical 
experience required for banking business.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/files/2023-12/Policy-on-
Appointment-and-Fit%20-Proper-Criteria-for-
Directors-website-131223.pdf 
2
Vigilance Policy
Your Bank has adopted Vigilance Policy for monitoring 
of concerns about unethical behavior, actual or 
suspected fraud.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/files/2023-12/Vigilance-
Policy-141223.pdf
3
Whistle
Blower Policy
Your Bank has adopted whistle blower mechanism for 
Directors and employees to report concerns about 
unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/files/2023-12/Whistle-
Blower-Policy-141223.pdf
4
Policy on dealing 
with Related Party 
Transactions
This Policy regulates all transactions between the 
Bank and its related parties.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/files/2022-09/Policy-on-
Dealing-with-Related-Party-Transactions.pdf 
5
Policy for Determination 
of Material Event/
Information
This Policy applies to the determination and disclosure 
of material information/ events for your Bank.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/files/2023-12/Materiality-
Policy-13122023.pdf 
6
Dividend Distribution 
Policy
Your Bank has adopted the Dividend Distribution 
Policy to determine the distribution of dividends in 
accordance with the provisions of circulars issued by 
RBI, from time to time, and applicable laws.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/files/2022-09/Dividend-
Distribution-Policy.pdf 
7
CSR Policy
This Policy outlines your Bank’s strategy to bring about 
a positive impact on society through programmes 
relating to skill development, poverty alleviation, 
education, healthcare, sanitation, water conservation, 
afforestation, etc.
https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/
files/2023-01/CSR-Policy-210123.pdf 
8
Compensation Policy
This Policy formulates the criteria for determining the 
remuneration of the Directors, KMP and Employees of 
the Bank.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../sites/default/files/2024-07/
Compensation-Policy-20072024.pdf
9
Policy on Preservation 
of Documents
This Policy formulates categories of documents to be 
preserved as per regulatory requirements.
https://www.bandhanbank.com/sites/default/
files/2024-06/Policy-on-Preservation-of-
Documents-FY-23-24.pdf 
10
Archival Policy
This Policy deals with the disclosure and archival of 
disclosure of material events/ information on the 
website of your Bank.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/files/2023-12/Archival-
Policy-141223.pdf   
11
Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability 
Reporting Policies
The BRSR Policy has been framed by your Bank based 
on the National Guidelines for Responsible Business  
Conduct  (NGRBC),  which  aims  to  establish  links  
between  the  financial  results  of  a business with its 
ESG performance.
https://www.bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../sites/default/files/2023-01/
Business-Responsibility-and-Sustainability-
Reporting-policy-210123.pdf  
The Board has been reviewing the above policies on an annual basis and whenever required to align with the regulatory and/or business 
requirements.
General Shareholder Information:
1.
Corporate Identity 
Number (‘CIN’)
L67190WB2014PLC204622
Address for 
Correspondence
Registered Office: DN-32, Sector  - V, Salt Lake, Kolkata  - 700 091
Head Office: Floors 12th to 14th, Adventz Infinity@5, BN 5, Sector V, Salt Lake City,  Kolkata  - 700 091
Contact: Mr. Indranil Banerjee, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer  
                 (Nodal Officer for IEPF related matters)
Phone Number: 033 6609 0909
E-mail ID: investors@bandhanbank.com
Website: www.bandhanbank.com
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
111
2.
Date, Time and Venue 
of the Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’)
10th AGM of the Bank will be held on Tuesday, August 20, 2024, at 11:00 A.M.
Since the AGM will be conducted through VC/ OAVM pursuant to the MCA General Circular No. 
20/2020 dated May 05, 2020, read with General Circular No. 09/2023 dated September 25, 2023, as 
such, there is no requirement to arrange a venue for the 10th AGM of the Bank. For details, please refer 
to the Notice of the 10th AGM.
3.
AGM Webcast link
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/
4.
Financial Year
April 01, 2023 to March 31, 2024
5.
Date of Book Closure
Wednesday, August 14, 2024 to Tuesday, August 20, 2024 (both days inclusive)
6.
Dividend Payment Date
Dividend, if declared by the Members, will be paid within 30 days of the AGM
7.
Listing on Stock 
Exchanges
i)	
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (‘NSE’)
	
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400051
ii)	 BSE Limited (‘BSE’)
	
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai – 400001
The Bank has duly paid the Annual Listing Fees to NSE & BSE for the financial year 2024-25. During the 
financial year under review, the equity shares of the Bank were not suspended from trading on the said 
Stock Exchanges, where the shares of the Bank are listed or by any Regulatory Body /Statutory Authority.
8.
Stock Code
NSE Symbol – BANDHANBNK
BSE Scrip Code – 541153
9.
Registrars & Share 
Transfer Agent (both 
Physical & Demat 
Segments) (Equity & 
Debentures)
KFin Technologies Limited
Selenium Building, Tower B, Plot Nos. 31 & 32,
Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally, Hyderabad, Rangareddi,
Telangana, India – 500032
Toll Free Number: 1800 309 4001
E-mail: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website: www.kfintech.com
Name of the Contact Person: Mr. Bhaskar Roy, Vice President
Web-based Query Redressal System:
Pursuant to the provisions of the SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/72 
dated June 08, 2023, rescinded vide SEBI Master Circular dated May 07, 2024, the Bank’s 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (RTA), KFin Technologies Limited have launched a website 
which can be accessed at https://kprism.kfintech.com/signup. Members are requested to 
register/ signup, using the Name, PAN, Mobile and email ID. Post registration, user can login 
via OTP and execute activities like, raising Service Request, Query, Complaints, check for status, 
KYC details, Dividend, e-Meeting and e-Voting details.
10.
Share Transfer System
The Bank's shares which are in dematerialised (demat) mode are transferable through the depository 
system.
With regard to shares held in physical mode, SEBI vide amendment to Regulation 40(1) of the SEBI 
LODR, with effect from April 01, 2019, mandated that except in case of transmission or transposition of 
securities, requests for effecting transfer of securities shall not be processed unless the securities are 
held in the dematerialised form with a depository. Further, vide amendment dated January 24, 2022 to 
Regulation 40(1) of the SEBI LODR, SEBI has mandated that transmission or transposition of securities 
held in physical or dematerialised form shall be effected only in dematerialised form. Moreover, SEBI 
vide Circular dated January 25, 2022, has mandated that the listed companies shall henceforth issue 
the securities in dematerialised form only while processing certain service requests as explained in 
subsequent section of this Report.
In view of the above, Shareholders holding shares in physical form are requested to consider converting 
their holdings to dematerialised form. Transfers of equity shares in electronic mode are effected through 
the depositories with no involvement of the Bank. Further, the Bank has also sent individual letters to the 
Shareholders holding shares in physical form to update their KYC, bank details and nomination details 
with the RTA/ the Bank. The Bank has also implemented the process to issue ‘letter of confirmation’ 
pursuant to receipt of duly filled in form ISR-4 by the Shareholders holding shares in physical mode.
Therefore, Shareholders, holding shares in physical mode, are requested to get in touch with any 
Depository Participant registered with SEBI to open a Demat Account or may also visit website of 
depositories, viz., National Securities Depository Limited (‘NSDL’), viz., https://nsdl.co.in/services/demat.
php or Central Depository Services (India) Limited (‘CDSL’), viz., https://www.cdslindia.com/investors/
open-demat.html, for further understanding of the dematerialisation procedure.
112
Bandhan Bank Limited
11.
Dematerialisation of 
Shares and Liquidity
The shares of your Bank are available for trading in the dematerialised form only under both the 
Depositories in India, viz., NSDL and CDSL. The annual custodian fees for the financial year 2024-25 have 
been paid to NSDL and CDSL.
As on March 31, 2024, 1,60,97,98,634 Shares representing 99.93 per cent. of the total Share Capital of 
the Bank were held in dematerialised form. The International Securities Identification Number (‘ISIN’) of 
the equity shares of the Bank is INE545U01014.
Modes of Shares Held
 Demat (NSDL)
 Physical
 Demat (CDSL)
91.84%
(1,47,95,40,208)
0.07%
(11,71,114)
8.09%
(13,02,58,426)
12.
Outstanding GDRs/
ADRs/ Warrants 
or any Convertible 
Instruments, Conversion 
Date and Likely Impact 
on Equity
Not applicable
13.
Reconciliation of Share 
Capital Audit
Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit in terms of Regulation 76 of the SEBI (Depositories and Participants) 
Regulations, 2018, read with SEBI Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/CIR/-16/2002 dated December 31, 2002, 
as amended, has been carried out by Company Secretary in Practice on quarterly basis, who reports 
on the reconciliation of total issued and listed capital with that of total share capital admitted/ held in 
dematerialised form with NSDL and CDSL and those held in physical form. The audit report confirms that 
the total issued/ paid-up/ listed capital is in agreement with the total number of shares in physical form 
and the total number of dematerialised shares held through NSDL and CDSL.
The quarterly reports in this regard have been submitted to Stock Exchanges, viz., BSE and NSE, and 
were placed before the Board of Directors of the Bank for its review.
Shareholders holding 1% and above as on March 31, 2024
Sl. No.
Name of the Shareholder
No. of Shares held
% of Total Holdings
1
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
64,41,15,857
39.98
2
Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd.
12,54,44,201
7.79
3
Life Insurance Corporation of India
5,94,55,863
3.69
4
Tata Large and Mid-Cap Fund
1,76,15,532
1.09
5
MFS Emerging Markets Equity Fund
1,70,88,408
1.06
6
Aditya Birla Sun Life Trustee Private Limited A/C
1,68,99,385
1.05
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
113
Distribution Schedule as on March 31, 2024
Category (Paid up value of shares held)
No. of 
Shareholders*
% of 
Shareholders
No. of Shares
% of Total 
Holdings
1- 5,000
7,38,691
99.20
14,72,33,261
 9.15 
5,001 – 10,000
3,158
0.42
2,26,76,963
 1.41
10,001 – 20,000
1,338
0.18
1,90,39,093
 1.18 
20,001 – 30,000
404
0.05
1,00,22,760
0.62 
30,001 – 40,000
199
0.03
69,51,971
 0.43 
40,001 – 50,000
145
0.02
65,79,475
 0.41 
50,001 – 1,00,000
255
0.03
1,87,61,929 	
 1.16 
1,00,001 and above
495
0.07
1,37,97,04,296
 85.64 
Total
7,44,685
100.00
1,61,09,69,748
100.00
*Number of Shareholders on the basis of folios
Top ten Shareholders as on March 31, 2024
Sl. No.
Name of the Holder
No. of Shares held
% of Total Holdings
1
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
64,41,15,857
39.98
2
Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd.
12,54,44,201
7.79
3
Life Insurance Corporation of India
5,94,55,863
3.69
4
Tata Large and Mid-Cap Fund
1,76,15,532
1.09
5
MFS Emerging Markets Equity Fund
1,70,88,408
1.06
6
Aditya Birla Sun Life Trustee Private Limited A/C
1,68,99,385
1.05
7
Kotak Equity Arbitrage Fund
1,57,36,724
0.98
8
Matthews Emerging Markets Small Companies Fund
1,55,76,517
0.97
9
HDFC Large and Mid Cap Fund
1,30,62,540
0.81
10
Marshall Wace Investment Strategies - Eureka Fund
1,19,36,040
0.74
*Shareholding is consolidated based on Permanent Account Number of the shareholder.
Categories of Shareholders as on March 31, 2024
Sl. No.
Category of Shareholder
No. of Shares held
% of Total Holdings
(A)
Promoter and Promoter Group
(a)
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited (Promoter)1
64,41,15,857
39.98
(b)
Bandhan Financial Services Limited (Promoter)
0
0.00
(c)
Financial Inclusion Trust (Promoter)
0
0.00
(d)
North East Financial Inclusion Trust (Promoter)
0
0.00
(e)
Bandhan Konnagar (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(f)
Bandhan AMC Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(g)
Bandhan Mutual Fund Trustee Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(h)
Bandhan Investment Managers (Mauritius) Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(i)
Quadra Medical Services Private Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(j)
Quadra Hospital And Medical Services Private Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(k)
Gamma Spect - Imaging & Diagnostic Centre Private Limited (Promoter 
Group)
0
0.00
(l)
Quadramedical Research & Foundation Private Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(m)
Aegon Life Insurance Company Limited (Promoter Group)*
0
0.00
Sub-Total
64,41,15,857
39.98
(B)
Public Shareholding
(1)
Institutions
(a)
Mutual Funds
12,98,81,335
8.06
(b)
Alternative Investment Fund
6,60,078
0.04
114
Bandhan Bank Limited
Sl. No.
Category of Shareholder
No. of Shares held
% of Total Holdings
(c)
Banks
18,658
0.00
(d)
Insurance Companies
6,95,59,108
4.32
(e)
Provident Funds/ Pension Funds
33,275
0.00
(f)
NBFCs registered with RBI
16,508
0.00
(g)
Foreign Direct Investment
6,51,86,116
4.05
(h)
Foreign Portfolio Investors (Category I)
41,70,28,345
25.89
(i)
Foreign Portfolio Investors (Category II)
2,02,34,887
1.26
(2)
Central Government/ State Government(s)/ President of India
(a)
Shareholding by Companies or Bodies Corporate where Central State 
Government is a promoter
11,42,660
0.07
(3)
Non-Institutions
(a)
Directors and their relatives (excluding independent directors and 
nominee directors)
16,81,353
0.10
(b)
Key Managerial Personnel
3,600
0.00
(c)
Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF)
12,13,286
0.08
(d)
Resident Individuals holding nominal share capital up to ₹ 2 lakh
17,33,32,408
10.76
(e)
Resident Individuals holding nominal share capital in excess of ₹ 2 lakh
5,03,07,549
3.12
(f)
Non Resident Indians (NRI)
82,28,842
0.51
(g)
Foreign Nationals
378
0.00
(h)
Bodies Corporate
1,21,43,370
0.75
(i)
Clearing Members
63,395
0.00
(j)
H U F
57,68,688
0.36
(k)
Trusts
1,03,50,052
0.64
Sub-Total
96,68,53,891
60.02
GRAND TOTAL (A+B)
1,61,09,69,748
100.00
* Name of Aegon Life Insurance Company Limited has changed to Bandhan Life Insurance Limited.
1 Equity Shares held by the Promoter are neither under pledge nor under lock-in.
Category-wise Shareholding
 Promoter and Promoter Group
 Central/ State Government
 Institutions
 Non-Institutions
39.98%
(64,41,15,857)
43.62%
(70,26,18,310)
0.07%
(11,42,660)
16.33%
(26,30,92,921)
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
115
Market Price Data: High and Low during each month of the financial year 2023-24
Month
NSE
BSE
High (₹)
Low (₹)
Volume
High (₹)
Low (₹)
Volume
Apr-23
230.60
196.75
13,95,84,833
230.55 
196.75 
55,58,805 
May-23
269.30
228.85
17,58,49,602
269.25 
228.80 
60,42,226 
Jun-23
272.00
232.30
13,91,60,230
272.00 
232.40 
49,09,056 
Jul-23
246.00
210.00
34,73,39,728
245.60 
210.00 
3,10,39,214 
Aug-23
240.70
221.10
20,18,33,696
240.70 
221.15 
1,03,22,719 
Sep-23
259.25
228.95
23,11,02,907
259.25 
229.00 
91,78,599 
Oct-23
255.95
211.20
16,26,97,288
256.65 
211.25 
61,64,942 
Nov-23
230.40
211.40
14,54,64,698
230.50 
211.40 
2,08,23,323 
Dec-23
256.10
225.55
22,65,72,294
256.00 
225.55 
1,86,53,161 
Jan-24
263.10
219.15
33,28,98,608
263.15 
219.25 
3,98,15,095 
Feb-24
232.65
192.80
28,40,42,324
232.50 
193.00 
2,12,06,601 
Mar-24
201.70
173.15
21,45,60,348
204.90 
173.45 
1,45,76,175 
Performance of the Bank’s Equity Shares as compared with NSE Nifty Index during the FY 2023-24
Performance of the Bank’s Equity Shares as compared with S&P BSE SENSEX during the FY 2023-24
BSE SENSEX V/S BANDHAN BANK LIMITED
BSE Sensex
300.00
250.00
200.00
150.00
100.00
50.00
-
80,000.00
60,000.00
40,000.00
20,000.00
-
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
Bandhan Bank Limited
NIFTY 50 V/S BANDHAN BANK LIMITED
Nifty 50
300.00
250.00
200.00
150.00
100.00
50.00
-
 25,000.00
 20,000.00
 15,000.00
 10,000.00
5,000.00
-
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
Bandhan Bank Limited
Nifty 50
Bandhan Bank
BSE Sensex
Bandhan Bank
116
Bandhan Bank Limited
Performance of the Bank’s Equity Shares as compared with Nifty Bank Index during the FY 2023-24
Debenture Trustee
The SEBI LODR requires companies, which have listed their debt 
securities, to disclose the names of their debenture trustees with 
contact details in their Annual Report. Your Bank did not have 
any listed debt securities during the financial year 2023-24. 
However, the details of the Debenture Trustee for unlisted NCDs 
are as under:
IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited
Universal Insurance Building, Ground Floor, Sir P.M. Road, Fort, 
Mumbai  - 400001, India
Contact: 022-40807005, 022-40807000, +91 8097474605
Email ID: gauri@idbitrustee.com
Website: https://idbitrustee.com
Plant Locations
Being in the banking business, your Bank does not have any plant. 
However, your Bank had 4,597 Banking Units and 1,700 Branches 
as on March 31, 2024. The total number of ATMs as on March 31, 
2024 was 438. The locations of the banking outlets are displayed 
on your Bank’s website.
Rating of Various Debt Instruments (As on March 31, 
2024)
Details of rating of various debt instruments of your Bank for the 
financial year 2023-24 have been provided in the Board’s Report 
forming part of this Annual Report.
CEO and CFO Certification
The Managing Director & CEO and the CFO of the Bank give 
annual certification on financial reporting and internal controls 
to the ACB/ Board in terms of Regulation 17(8) of the SEBI LODR. 
The quarterly/ annual certificate(s) for all the quarters/ year on 
financial results were also placed before the ACB/ Board in terms 
of Regulation 33(2) of the SEBI LODR.
Secretarial Audit Report
The Bank has obtained a Secretarial Audit Report for the financial 
year 2023-24, in Form MR-3, in terms of Section 204 of the 
Companies Act and Regulation 24A(1) of the SEBI LODR, from 
CS Hansraj Jaria, Practicing Company Secretary (FCS No.: 7703/ 
CP No.: 19394). The details of the same have been provided in the 
Board’s Report, which forms part of this Annual Report.
Annual Secretarial Compliance Report
The Bank has obtained an Annual Secretarial Compliance Report 
for the financial year 2023-24, in the format prescribed by the 
SEBI, in terms of Regulation 24A(2) of the SEBI LODR, read with 
chapter VI of the SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/
CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023, from CS Hansraj Jaria, 
Practicing Company Secretary (FCS No.: 7703/ CP No.: 19394). 
The said Report has been duly filed with the Stock Exchanges 
and has been uploaded to the website of the Bank at 
https://bandhanbank.com/corporate-governance/secretarial-
compliance-report.
Compliance Certificate
A Certificate from CS Anjan Kumar Roy, Practicing Company 
Secretary (FCS No.: 5684/CP No.: 4557), regarding compliance 
with the conditions of Corporate Governance, as stipulated in 
the SEBI LODR, is annexed to this Report and forms part of the 
Annual Report.
Certificate on Directors’ Status
None of the Directors of the Bank has been debarred or disqualified 
from being appointed or continuing as directors of companies by 
the SEBI or the MCA or any such statutory authority. A Certificate to 
this effect from CS Anjan Kumar Roy, Practicing Company Secretary 
(FCS No.: 5684/ CP No.: 4557) is annexed to this Report forming 
part of the Annual Report.
Directors E-KYC
The MCA, vide the Companies (Appointment and Qualifications 
of Directors) Rules, 2014, has mandated KYC of all the Directors 
through the e-form DIR-3 KYC/ web-form DIR-3 KYC-WEB. 
All Directors of the Bank have complied with the aforesaid 
requirement.
NIFTY BANK V/S BANDHAN BANK LIMITED
Nifty Bank
300.00
250.00
200.00
150.00
100.00
50.00
-
50,000.00
48,000.00
46,000.00
 44,000.00
42,000.00
40,000.00
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
Bandhan Bank Limited
Nifty Bank
Bandhan Bank
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
117
Other Useful Information for Shareholders
1)	
Unpaid/ Unclaimed Dividends
	
Pursuant to provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of the 
Companies Act, read with the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and 
Refund) Rules, 2016 (‘IEPF Rules’), any dividend declared by 
the Bank, which remains unclaimed or unpaid for a period of 
seven years from the date of transfer to the respective Unpaid 
Dividend Account of the Bank, is liable to be transferred to 
the Investor Education and Protection Fund (‘IEPF’).
	
Further, all the shares in respect of which dividend has not 
been paid or claimed for seven consecutive years or more 
shall also be transferred to the IEPF Authority. However, 
the said requirement does not apply to shares in respect 
of which there is a specific order of Court, Tribunal or 
Statutory Authority, restraining any transfer of such shares 
or where such shares are pledged or hypothecated under 
the provisions of the Depositories Act, 1996.
	
Your Bank was incorporated on December 23, 2014. Since 
inception, your Bank has declared dividend in its 4th, 5th, 7th 
and 9th AGMs held in 2018, 2019, 2021 and 2023, respectively. 
Hence at present, your Bank is not required to transfer any 
unclaimed dividend amount to the IEPF Authority. However, 
GRUH Finance Limited (‘GRUH’) amalgamated into and with 
your Bank with effect from October 17, 2019, and in light 
of the aforesaid provisions, the equity shares issued by your 
Bank as against the equity shares held by the shareholders of 
erstwhile GRUH and unclaimed dividend pertaining to such 
equity shares not claimed for seven consecutive years were 
required to be transferred to the IEPF during the FY 2023-
24. Accordingly, the dividends that remained unclaimed for 
seven years, have been transferred to the IEPF during the 
FY 2023-24. Further, such equity shares, in respect of which 
dividend has not been claimed for seven consecutive years or 
more from the date of transfer to unpaid dividend account, 
have also been transferred to the demat account of the IEPF 
Authority.
	
The details of unclaimed dividends and shares transferred to 
IEPF Authority during FY 2023-24 are as follows:
Relevant 
Financial Year
Amount of unclaimed 
dividend transferred 
(Amount in ₹)
Number 
of shares 
transferred
2015-16
30,72,032
24,276
	
The concerned shareholder/ claimant who has a legitimate 
claim on the transferred dividends/ shares may claim the 
same from the IEPF Authority by following the below-
mentioned process:
	
1.	
By making a request to the Bank/  RTA along with physical 
copy of the requisite documents as enumerated in the 
web based Form IEPF – 5 and IEPF Rules, duly signed, in 
original, for issuance of ‘Entitlement Letter’, addressed 
to Nodal Officer, at the Head Office of the Bank or the 
address of RTA’.
	
	
(In terms of IEPF Circulars, the Bank is required to verify all the 
documents before issuing Entitlement Letter. Accordingly, you 
are requested to submit the original documents complete in all 
respects pertaining to the claim to the Bank or its RTA)
	
2.	
After due verification of documents by RTA/ the Bank, 
an Entitlement Letter would be issued to the eligible 
claimant. On receipt of the Entitlement Letter, make 
an application in web based Form IEPF-5 available at 
https://www.iepf.gov.in/content/iepf/global/master/
Home/Home.html along with Entitlement Letter; and
	
3.	
Thereafter, send the self-certified copy of Form 
IEPF-5 along with acknowledgement generated 
on filing of Form IEPF-5, and a signed copy of the 
Indemnity Bond, to the Bank/ RTA. Additionally, the 
shareholders/ claimants may scan the whole set of 
documents and send the same to the Bank by e-mail 
at companysecretary@bandhanbank.com to enable 
quick processing, followed by original physical copy.
	
Further, in terms of the provisions of the IEPF Rules, the Bank 
is required to submit the e-verification report to the IEPF 
Authority within 30 days from the date of filing of web-based 
e-form IEPF-5. In case the original documents complete in 
all respect are not received by the Bank well within 30 days 
from the date of filing of web-based e-form IEPF-5, the Bank 
would be bound to file e-verification report for rejection of 
such claims. Upon submission of e-verification report by 
the Bank, the IEPF Authority shall verify the documents as 
submitted by such shareholder and may approve/ reject 
such claim.
	
In the interest of the shareholders, your Bank has sent 
reminders to the shareholders to claim their dividends/
equity shares, three months before the due date for transfer 
to IEPF Authority. Notices in this regard were also published 
in the newspapers and the details of unclaimed dividends 
and shareholders whose shares were liable to be transferred 
to the IEPF Authority are available on the Bank’s website 
under the investor relations section https://bandhanbank.
com/unclaimed-dividend.
	
The following tables give information relating to unclaimed 
dividends and the dates by which they can be claimed by 
the Shareholders from the Bank. The unclaimed dividends 
thereafter, shall be transferred to the IEPF as stated above.
a.	
For Shareholders of the Bank:
Financial 
Year
Date of Declaration 
of Dividend
Last date for 
claiming Dividend
2017-18
July 19, 2018
August 19, 2025
2018-19
June 28, 2019
July 29, 2026
2019-20
No dividend declared
Not Applicable 
2020-21
August 06, 2021
September 06, 2028
2021-22
No dividend declared
Not Applicable 
2022-23
August 18, 2023
September 17, 2030
118
Bandhan Bank Limited
b.	
For Shareholders of erstwhile GRUH which has merged 
with the Bank:
Financial 
Year
Date of Declaration 
of Dividend
Last date for 
claiming Dividend
2016-2017
June 15, 2017
July 13, 2024
2017-2018
May 30, 2018
June 27, 2025
2018-2019
July 19, 2019
August 20, 2026
2)	
Payment of Dividend through Electronic mode
	
In terms of Regulation 12 of the SEBI LODR, read with Schedule 
I thereto, every listed entity is required to mandatorily make 
all payments to shareholders, including Dividend, through 
any RBI approved electronic mode of payments, viz., 
Direct Credit, Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS), National 
Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT), Electronic Clearing Service 
(ECS), National Automated Clearing House (NACH), etc. 
Your Bank is entitled to use the bank account details of the 
shareholders available with the Bank/ Depository Participant 
to facilitate payment through electronic mode.
	
Therefore, all Shareholders of the Bank are requested 
to update details relating to their bank account number, 
including nine digit MICR code and 11-digit IFSC code, email 
address and mobile numbers with their respective Depository 
Participants (in case shares are held in dematerialised mode) 
or with the Bank’s RTA (in case shares are held in physical 
mode), by submission of form ISR-1 to RTA, along with 
relevant supporting documents.
3)	
Information for Physical Shareholders
	
Compulsory Furnishing of Documents/ Details:
	
As an on-going measure to enhance the ease of doing 
business for investors in the securities market, the SEBI 
had issued various circulars from time to time, which were 
rescinded vide its Master Circular for Registrars to an Issue 
and Share Transfer Agents (RTAs) dated May 07, 2024 (‘SEBI 
Master Circular’). The SEBI Master Circular has mandated 
furnishing of PAN, Choice of Nomination, Contact details 
(Postal Address with PIN and Mobile Number), Bank Account 
details and Specimen Signature for corresponding folio by all 
holders of physical securities.
	
The SEBI Master Circular, read with SEBI Circular dated 
June 10, 2024, further mandated that the security holder(s) 
whose folio(s) do not have PAN, KYC details including Contact 
Details, Bank Account Details and Specimen Signature 
updated, shall be eligible:
	
•	
to lodge grievance or avail any service request from the 
RTA, only after furnishing PAN and KYC details.
	
•	
for any payment including dividend, interest or 
redemption payment in respect of such folios, only 
through electronic mode with effect from April 01, 
2024, only after furnishing PAN and KYC details.
Actionable: 
Subject Matter
Action to be taken by Physical Shareholders
Compulsory furnishing of 
the following:
In case any of below-mentioned information/ documents are not provided earlier, the holders of physical 
shares of the Bank are required to furnish the same to the Bank’s RTA, KFin Technologies Limited, in the 
manner as provided herein below:
Details to be provided
Documents required
Form for  
furnishing details
•	
PAN
Valid PAN
Self-certified copy of PAN duly linked with 
AADHAAR
Form No. ISR - 1
•	
Contact details 
(Postal address with 
PIN, Mobile number, 
E-mail address)
Contact Details:
(i)	 Postal Address with PIN;
(ii)	 Mobile Number;
(iii)	E-mail Address
In case of change in address, self-certified copy 
of the Postal address proof as per point no. C (3) 
of Form ISR -1. It is compulsory to provide Mobile 
number and E-mail ID.
•	
Demat account details Demat Account details,  
if available
Client Master List (‘CML’) of your Demat Account, 
duly signed by the Depository Participant with 
stamp.
•	
Bank account details 
(bank name and 
branch, bank account 
number, IFS code); 
and
Bank Account Details:
(i)	 Name of Bank & Branch;
(ii)	 Account Number;
(iii)	IFS Code
•	
Self-certified copy of Bank passbook; or
•	
Bank Statement attested by Bank, in original; 	
or
•	
Original cancelled cheque leaf, bearing the 
name of the shareholder printed on it
•	
Specimen signature
Specimen Signature
(for shareholder whose specimen 
signature is not available with the 
RTA or who wish to update their 
existing signature in the records of 
the RTA)
Banker’s attestation of the signature of the 
holder(s); along with:
•	
Original cancelled cheque, bearing the name 
of the shareholder printed on it; or
•	
Self-certified copy of Bank Passbook/ Bank 
Statement;
Form No. ISR-1
Form No. ISR - 2
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
119
Subject Matter
Action to be taken by Physical Shareholders
•	
Nomination
Nomination details
(for shareholders who have not 
registered any nominee)
Original copy of Nomination Form as provided in 
the Rule 19(1) of the Companies (Share Capital 
and Debentures) Rules, 2014
Form No. SH-13
Change in Nomination
(for shareholders who have 
registered nominee(s), but, they 
wish to change/ alter the same)
Original copy of Variation of Nomination Form as 
provided in Rule 19(9) of the Companies (Share 
Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014
Form No. SH-14
Declaration to opt-out 
nomination
(for shareholders who have not 
registered any nominee and who do 
not wish to have any nominee)
In case the holder does not wish to nominate any 
person, then the ‘Declaration to Opt-out’, shall be 
furnished in original
Form No. ISR - 3
Cancellation of nomination
(for shareholders who have 
registered nominee(s), but, who no 
longer wish to have any nominee)
•	
Original copy of Cancellation of Nomination 
Form as provided in Rule 19(9) of the 
Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) 
Rules, 2014; and
•	
Form for ‘Declaration to Opt out’ is also 
required to be submitted
•	
Form No. SH-14
•	
Form No. ISR - 3
Issue of Securities in DEMAT Form Only:
As an ongoing measure to enhance the ease of dealing in securities 
market by the investors, the SEBI, vide its Master Circular dated 
May 07, 2024, has mandated that the listed companies shall 
henceforth issue the securities in dematerialised form only while 
processing the following service request:
Nature/ Details of Request
Required Form
Issue of duplicate securities certificate
ISR – 4
(along with relevant 
documents)
Claim from Unclaimed Suspense Account
Renewal/ Exchange of securities 
certificate
Endorsement
Sub-division/ Splitting of securities 
certificate
Consolidation of securities certificates/
folios
Transposition
Transmission
ISR – 4
& ISR – 5
(along with relevant 
documents)
Note:
•	
The SEBI has mandated that request for effecting transfer 
of securities shall not be processed unless the securities are 
held in dematerialised form with a depository;
•	
Similarly, transmission or transposition of securities held in 
physical or dematerialised form and other service requests, 
as aforesaid, shall be effected only in dematerialised form.
4)	
Total fees for all services paid by your Bank to the 
statutory auditor and all entities in the network 
firm/ network entity of which the statutory auditor 
is a part
	
Your Bank did not have any subsidiary as on March 31, 
2024. The details of the fees paid to M M Nissim & Co LLP, 
Chartered Accountants, and M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered 
Accountants, Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank, for 
FY 2023-24, are as under:
 Nature of Services
Amount in ₹ crore
Audit Fees
1.50
Certification and Other Fees to 
Auditors
0.86
Tax Audit Fees
0.09
Others
0.39
TOTAL
2.84
	
At the 9th AGM of the Bank, the Shareholders have approved 
for increase in the remuneration of the Joint Statutory 
Auditors from ₹1.17 crore to ₹1.50 crore for FY 2023-24 and 
onwards for their remaining tenure, as may be allocated by 
the Bank between the Joint Statutory Auditors and as may be 
mutually agreed by them, depending upon their respective 
scope of work. It also approved that additionally, the Joint 
Statutory Auditors would be paid Certification Fees, out-of-
pocket expenses, outlays and taxes as applicable. The Board/
ACB shall have the power to alter and vary the terms and 
conditions of remuneration, including allocation of overall 
audit fees between the Joint Statutory Auditors depending 
upon their respective scope of work and/ or by reason of 
necessity, on account of conditions as may be stipulated by 
the RBI and/ or any other authority, in such manner and to 
such extent as may be mutually agreed between the Bank 
and the said Joint Statutory Auditors. Further, it was also 
mentioned that the remuneration paid to the Joint Statutory 
Auditors will be disclosed in the Report on Corporate 
Governance as well as the Annual Financial Statement of 
the Bank.
	
Accordingly, the fees paid to the Joint Statutory Auditors 
approved by the ACB and the Board under the power given 
by the Shareholders are disclosed hereinabove as well as in 
the notes to the Annual Financial Statement forming part of 
this Annual Report.
120
Bandhan Bank Limited
5)	
Equity Shares in the Unclaimed Suspense Account
	
In terms of Regulation 39(4) of the SEBI LODR, read with 
Schedule VI thereto, the details of Equity shares lying in 
the Unclaimed Suspense Account are given below, which 
include the equity shares issued by the Bank pursuant to 
the amalgamation of GRUH into and with the Bank against 
shares lying in the suspense account of erstwhile GRUH:
Particulars
No. of 
cases
No. of 
shares
Aggregate number of Shareholders 
and the outstanding shares as on 
April 01, 2023
118 1,72,484
Shareholders who approached the 
Bank for transfer of shares during the 
financial year
3
2,669
Shareholders to whom shares were 
transferred during the financial year
3
2,669
Shareholders whose shares were 
transferred to the demat account of 
the IEPF Authority as per Section 124 
of the Companies Act 
-
-
Shareholders whose shares got 
transferred to the Unclaimed 
Suspense Account during the 
financial year 2023-24
-
-
Aggregate number of Shareholders 
and the outstanding shares as on 
March 31, 2024
115 1,69,815
The voting rights on the equity shares lying in the suspense 
account as on March 31, 2024 shall remain frozen until the 
rightful owner claims such shares.
6)	
Equity Shares in the Suspense Escrow Demat Account
As per the requirements of various circulars issued by SEBI 
from time to time, which were consolidated vide its Master 
Circular for Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents 
(RTAs) dated  May 07, 2024 (‘SEBI Master Circular’), in case 
the securities holder/ claimant fails to submit the demat 
request within 120 days of issue of Letter of Confirmation, 
the Bank is required to credit the said securities to a Suspense 
Escrow Demat Account, held purely on behalf of the securities 
holders who are entitled to the securities and such securities 
shall not be transferred in any manner whatsoever except 
for the purpose of moving the securities from Suspense 
Escrow Demat Account to the security holder’s/ claimant’s 
demat account as and when the security holder/ claimant 
approaches the Bank. Further, corporate benefits in terms of 
securities, viz. bonus, split, etc., accruing on such securities 
shall be credited to the Suspense Escrow Demat Account. 
Accordingly, the Bank had opened a Suspense Escrow Demat 
Account of the Bank. The details of Equity shares lying in the 
Unclaimed Escrow Demat Account is given below:
Particulars
No. of 
cases
No. of 
shares
Aggregate number of Shareholders 
and the outstanding shares as on 
April 01, 2023
-
-
Shareholders whose shares were 
transferred due to non-submission 
of demat request within specified 
timeline of 120 days
1
7,384
Shareholders to whom shares were 
transferred during the financial year
-
-
Shareholders whose shares were 
transferred to the demat account of 
the IEPF Authority as per Section 124 
of the Companies Act, if any
-
-
Aggregate number of Shareholders 
and the outstanding shares as on 
March 31, 2024
1
7,384
7)	
Green Initiative in Corporate Governance
In furtherance of the ‘Green Initiative in Corporate 
Governance’ initiated by the MCA, the Bank once 
again requests all the shareholders, holding shares in 
dematerialised form and who have not yet registered their 
e-mail address, to register their e-mail address with their 
concerned Depository Participants for receiving notice/
documents including Annual Report in electronic mode. 
Shareholders who hold shares in physical form and who 
have not yet registered their e-mail address are requested 
to register their e-mail address by submitting details in form 
ISR - 1 as explained above, with KFin Technologies Limited, 
RTA of the Bank.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Bandhan Bank Limited
Anup Kumar Sinha
Place: Kolkata 
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Date: July 26, 2024	
(DIN: 08249893)
Declaration as prescribed under Para D of Schedule V to the  
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
I confirm that for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024, the members of the Board of Directors and the Senior Management Personnel 
of the Bank have affirmed compliance with the provisions of the Bank’s Code of Conduct for Board of Directors and the Code of Conduct 
for Senior Management, respectively. 
Ratan Kumar Kesh
Place: Kolkata 
 Managing Director & CEO
Date: July 26, 2024 
(DIN: 10082714)
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
121
CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
[Pursuant to Para E of Schedule V to the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To
The Members
Bandhan Bank Limited
DN-32, Sector-V, Salt Lake
Kolkata – 700091
A.	
We have conducted an audit of compliance of corporate governance norms and procedures by Bandhan Bank Limited (CIN: 
L67190WB2014PLC204622), having it’s registered office at DN-32, Sector-V, Salt Lake, Kolkata – 700091 and Head Office at 12th to 
14th Floor, Adventz Infinity @5, BN-5, Sector V, Salt Lake City, Kolkata-700091 (hereinafter referred as ‘the Bank’), during the financial 
year ended March 31, 2024, pursuant to the applicable provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulation, 2015 (‘SEBI LODR’) and also read with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, during the aforesaid period.
B.	
That our audit is an independent audit of compliance of corporate governance norms and procedures as maintained by the Bank 
in accordance with the applicable provisions and requirements of the SEBI LODR. That compliance of corporate governance norms 
and procedures is the responsibility of the Bank. That our audit and certificate is neither an opinion on financial statements of the 
Bank nor on future viability of the Bank or on efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of 
the Bank.
C.	
In our opinion and to the best of our understanding, based on the records, documents, books and other information examined by 
us, during the aforesaid audit, as furnished by the Bank and its officers, we confirm that the Bank has complied with the corporate 
governance norms and procedures as per the provisions and requirements of the SEBI LODR, to the extent applicable to the Bank, 
during the aforesaid period under scrutiny.
For, Anjan Kumar Roy & Co. 
Company Secretaries
Anjan Kumar Roy
Proprietor
FCS No. 5684
CP. No. 4557
C.O.P. Unique Code: 12002WB282300

 UDIN: F005684F000795913
Place: Kolkata	
Peer Review Certificate No.: 869/2020
Date: July 26, 2024 	
Firm Unique Code: S2002WB051400
122
Bandhan Bank Limited
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and clause (10)(i) of Para C of Schedule V of the
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To, 
The Members,
Bandhan Bank Limited
DN-32, Sector-V
Salt Lake
Kolkata - 700091
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Bandhan Bank Limited 
having CIN: L67190WB2014PLC204622 and having registered office at DN-32, Sector-V, Salt Lake, Kolkata – 700091 and Head Office at 
12th to 14th Floor, Adventz Infinity @5, BN-5, Sector V, Salt Lake City, Kolkata-700091 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Bank’), produced 
before us by the Bank for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V, Para-C, sub-
clause 10(i) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications [including Directors Identification Number (‘DIN’) 
status at the portal, www.mca.gov.in] as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Bank & its officers, we hereby 
certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Bank as stated below for the Financial Year ended on March 31, 2024, have been 
debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of the Bank by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority:
Sl. No.
Name of Director
DIN
Date of appointment in the Bank
1.
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha
08249893
January 07, 2019
2.
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
00342477
December 23, 2014
3.
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar
10540386
March 08, 2024
4.
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh
10082714
March 31, 2023
5.
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri
06916673
August 08, 2018
6.
Dr. Aparajita Mitra 
09484337
July 13, 2022
7.
Ms. Divya Krishnan
09276201
May 11, 2022
8.
Dr. Holger Dirk Michaelis*
07205838
February 12, 2016
9.
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar
00869913
May 08, 2020
10.
Mr. Pankaj Sood
05185378
February 12, 2024
11.
Mr. Philip Mathew
09638394
June 15, 2022
12.
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
07716452
January 07, 2019
13.
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
08767943
March 19, 2021
14.
Mr. Suhail Chander
06941577
March 19, 2021
15.
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
00751001
May 08, 2020
*Ceased to be Director of the Bank with effect from February 12, 2024
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/ continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Bank. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future 
viability of the Bank nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
For, Anjan Kumar Roy & Co. 
Company Secretaries
Anjan Kumar Roy 
Proprietor
FCS No. 5684
CP. No. 4557
C.O.P. Unique Code: 12002WB282300

 UDIN: F005684F000795968
Place: Kolkata	
Peer Review Certificate No.: 869/2020
Date: July 26, 2024 	
Firm Unique Code: S2002WB051400
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
123
Management Discussion & Analysis Report
A. 	 Global and Indian Economic Scenario
	
Global economy – fared better than expected
	
Global economy had a better than expected year in 2023 as 
inflation peaked out for most of the economies while growth 
remained steady. Factors, such as, government and private 
spending, along with real disposable income gains, drove the 
upswing. Consumption was supported despite tight labour 
markets, as households continue to tap into pandemic-era 
savings along with robust gains in wages. Euro area, however, 
continued to witness soft growth on the back of weak 
consumer sentiment. Global growth, is projected to remain 
steady at 3.2 per cent. in both 2024 and 20251.
	
Monetary policy remained restrictive for most central banks 
primarily in order to combat higher inflation. Global headline 
inflation is expected to fall from an estimated 6.8 per cent. 
in 2023 (annual average) to 5.9 per cent. in 2024 and 4.5 per 
cent. in 20252.
	
With disinflation and steady growth, the likelihood of a 
recession is more or less ruled out and interest rates are 
expected to get lowered in the second half of 2024. Having 
said that, growth forecast for 2024 for most economies 
remains below the historical average as multi-year high 
interest rates are expected to slightly dampen growth 
prospects. Policymakers’ near-term challenge will be to 
intricately manage the final descent of inflationary forces 
while being cognizant of the fact that growth might need 
support in the latter half of the year. Potential risks to macro-
stability like commodity price upswing, geopolitical tensions 
and looming debt burden would need close monitoring.
	
Inflation easing faster than expected
	
Inflation rates have been declining at a faster pace than 
anticipated, as readings have approached the pre-pandemic 
average for both headline and core inflation, highlighting 
significant progress. This healthy progress on inflation can 
be attributed to higher interest rates induced demand 
moderation along with easing commodity prices. Resolution 
of pandemic-era supply chain issues has also helped 
in improving supply side bottlenecks and have aided in 
reducing cost pressures. Near-term inflation expectations 
have decreased across major economies, while long-term 
expectations have remained stable, indicating a level of 
anchored confidence in price stability.
	
Interest rates expected to come down in the second half of 
2024
	
Major central banks raised policy interest rates to restrictive 
levels in 2023. However, the policy decisions have been quite 
varied across various developing and developed economies. 
Annex - 5
United States Fed had raised rates 11 times between 
March 2022 to July 2023 and is now expected to ease 
rates in second half of 2024. On the other hand, countries 
such as Brazil and Chile, have seen declining inflation and 
subsequently reduced interest rates since the second half 
of 2023 in order to support faltering growth. Conversely, 
Japan have responded to persistent inflation by shifting to a 
more restrictive monetary policy stance for the first time 
since late 1990s.
	
But with easing of prices and steady growth levels, 
expectations of future policy rate reductions are very much 
in the horizon. However, the pace and direction of rate 
action would be varied across economies depending on the 
price-growth dynamics of the individual country.
	
Factors critical to future policy decisions
	
a)	
Geopolitical tensions:
	
	
The Ukraine war and renewed Middle East tensions, 
including Houthi attacks in the Red Sea, underscore the 
critical role of geopolitics in shaping the 2024 global 
economy. Beyond potential oil disruptions, the Red Sea 
attacks threaten to elevate freight insurance, lengthen 
trade routes, and exacerbate supply chain disruptions, 
potentially 
fuelling 
inflation 
and 
consequently 
disrupting livelihoods. Geopolitics continues to take 
a centre-stage in determining global policy stances 
around security, macro-economy and trade.
	
b)	
Climate disruptions:
	
	
Climate change threatens the stability of the global 
economy by disrupting key resources, causing extreme 
weather events, and creating uncertainty. Record-
breaking heat in 2023 and climate shocks like droughts 
and floods continue to threaten livelihood and food 
security. On the other hand, severe episodes of 
drought-induced depletion of water levels has reduced 
the count of transiting ships through the Panama Canal. 
These two examples indicate how climate change is 
quickly transitioning from a medium-term hazard to a 
near-term risk. Policy makers are increasingly baking 
in climate disruptions into their assumptions while 
devising policies.
	
c)	
China’s economic conundrum:
	
	
The world’s second largest economy is witnessing 
it’s one of the softest growth periods as a debt crisis 
in the property sector added to geopolitical tensions 
and weakening global demand. International Monetary 
Fund (‘IMF’) has projected Chinese growth to slow 
down to 3.5 per cent. by 2028 and also stated that 
1World Economic Outlook, April 2024l
2World Economic Outlook, April 2024
124
Bandhan Bank Limited
uncertainty surrounding the outlook is very high. 
Protracted slowdown in Chinese economy could pose 
contagion risks to the rest of the world through various 
economic and financial channels.
	
d)	
Rise in global debt:
	
	
Global debt has increased massively to hit a record of 
$307 trillion in 20233. Both advanced and developing 
economies are facing the pressure, with more than 
80 per cent. of the incremental debt build up in 2023 
coming from developed economies. This rise in global 
debt significantly reduces fiscal space for governments 
to incur targeted expenditures while creating 
considerable uncertainty regarding macro-financial 
stability.
	
Some other key themes, both short-term and long-term, 
that remain crucial to policymaking going forward are 
discussed below:
	
1)	
Upcoming elections critical to future policy course:
	
	
The continuation of existing policies, alongside 
necessary reforms and implementation of new 
initiatives, will be a critical factor in determining the 
trajectory of the global economic, social and political 
landscape.
	
2)	
Emergence of Artificial Intelligence (‘AI’):
	
	
AI has moved leaps and bounds in recent years and is 
poised to impact employment generation, job quality, 
and overall productivity of the global economy. In 
a latest study by IMF, almost 40 per cent. of global 
employment is exposed to AI and could potentially 
have significant impact on livelihood and income 
distribution4. Balanced and swift policies regarding AI 
remain crucial as rapid growth in this sector seems 
imminent in the next few years. This could unlock 
greater investment, enhanced productivity and 
accelerate convergence to higher income levels.
	
3)	
Divergence in demographics across nations:
	
	
Large economies like Japan and China are on the verge 
of a structural shift in terms of demographic mix as 
they transition to an ageing economy. United Nations 
(‘UN’) projections indicate an increase in number of 
countries experiencing annual population decline, from 
41 countries in 2022 to 88 countries in 2050. Since 
demographic trends are also relatively predictable, key 
stakeholders have a fairly wide window of opportunity 
to enact policies and encourage behaviours that shape 
future demographics and cushion potential adverse 
impacts of the demographic changes that do occur. 
However, this also provides opportunity for nations like 
India, who are endowed with large young labour force, 
to capitalise on global efforts to diversify supply chains 
and propel higher growth.
	
4)	
Inequality is still on the rise:
	
	
While extreme poverty in middle-income countries 
has decreased, poverty in the poorest countries and 
countries affected by conflicts still remains on the rise. 
The persistence of poverty in these countries makes 
key global development goals much harder to achieve5. 
In India, divergence of income growth between the 
super-rich and poor has also continued to widen - 
between 1961 and 2023, the top 1 per cent. wealth 
share increased threefold, from 13 per cent. to 39 per 
cent.6 This warrants timely and targeted policies to 
alleviate the deprived sections of the society in order 
to foster equitable and significant income growth.
Indian Economy – continues to shine
The Indian economic growth story in FY 2023-24 continued 
to maintain its momentum with growth prints exceeding 
expectations. The World Bank has highlighted that India will be a 
major contributor to Asia’s growth story and it is expected to see 
GDP growth of around 7 per cent. in FY 2024-25. Anticipations of 
a renewed wave of capital expenditure by the corporate sector 
are poised to be the leading driver of the forthcoming phase of 
economic expansion in FY 2024-25. On the other hand, inflation 
has started to ease from the peaks observed in November 2023 
and December 2023, while core inflation has reached its lowest 
level in several years. Moderation in inflation means that bulk 
of the policy rate hike is behind for India and RBI is very much 
expected to lower rates in the second half of FY 2024-25.
India has long held the promise of a young, aspirational population, 
backed by robust democratic and business frameworks. Following 
a prolific period of reform, increasing global influence, and rapid 
digitisation, investors are now directing their attention towards 
the impending inception of ‘India’s decade’. In 2023, India also 
hosted one of the most successful G20 summits and has shown its 
ability to generate consensus among a diverse group of countries. 
This pivotal juncture coincides with India’s status as the fastest-
growing major economy, amidst a polarised global landscape 
characterised by elevated debt levels, decelerating growth, and 
heightened uncertainty.
Economic indicators point to a robust domestic economy, aided by 
pro-active and growth positive policies. Below we discuss some of 
the macro-economic parameters indicating the Indian economic 
juggernaut.
•	
Government capex induced investment propelled domestic 
growth in FY 2023-24; private capex revival underway-
	
Capex growth, averaging 8.5 per cent. since June 2022, 
reached double digits at 10.6 per cent. in the December 
2023 quarter, compared to the pre-pandemic average of 7.3 
per cent. (2017-2019)7. Government-led capital spending 
has driven the recovery in capital expenditure since Covid. 
In FY 2024-25 interim budget, the Government has allotted 
3 World Economic Forum - What is ‘global debt’ -  
and how high is it now? (Dec’23)
4 IMF Blogs, January 2024
5  World Bank
6 Income and Wealth Inequality in India, 1922-2023: 
The Rise of the Billionaire Raj, World Inequality Lab
7 MOSPI
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
125
₹2.78 lakh crore for the road ministry, up about 2.8 per cent. 
compared to last year, while another ₹ 2.55 lakh crore will be 
given to the Indian Railways. This is the fourth consecutive 
increase in capital investment by the Government and this 
is expected to stimulate private capital expenditure, drive 
economic growth and propel higher consumption. Disparity 
in capital expenditure among states has come down, 
resulting in inclusive expansion of capital across the nation in 
the last few years. That bodes well for the long-term growth 
of India.
	
Private capital expenditure, which has been subdued over 
the past decade, is expected to turn a corner during the 
next few years primarily due to favourable interest rates 
and Government’s focus on infrastructure development, 
enhancing 
the 
investment 
climate 
and 
attracting 
private funds.
•	
Overall demand continues to be stable; recovery in rural 
demand ongoing-
	
Private Final Consumption Expenditure (‘PFCE’) growth 
remained stable at 4 per cent. during the quarter ended 
March 31, 2024 as compared to the quarter ended March 
31, 20238. Rural consumption remained a bit muted, 
primarily due to uneven monsoon. On the other hand, urban 
consumption has remained relatively strong. Consumption 
growth is expected to recover durably in FY 2024-25, led 
by the revival in rural consumption. Consumer sentiment 
has remained steady while demand indicators like non-
oil imports and two wheelers sales reflect consumption is 
gaining strength. Going forward, continued emphasis on 
capex, lower inflation, and improved monsoon forecasts are 
expected to alleviate rural demand distress.
•	
Sustained optimism in manufacturing and service sectors-
	
Propelled by new orders, upturn in inventories and higher 
job creation, India’s manufacturing activity hit a 16-year 
high of 59.1 in March 2024 as indicated by Purchasing 
Managers Index (‘PMI’). The latest PMI numbers showed 
that manufacturing output rose for the 33rd month running in 
March 2024, and to the greatest extent since October 2020.
	
Service sector continues to deliver robust growth as 
witnessed during FY 2022-23 despite global headwinds. 
Latest PMI print of service sector indicates that the sector 
has continued to be expansionary since August 20219.
	
There are structural tailwinds at play for the Indian economy, 
indicating that the Indian growth story could be a multi-
decadal phenomenon. The Indian story in the next few 
decades is likely to be driven by the broad themes of: - a) 
rapid digitisation, b) demographic dividend, c) increased and 
improved credit access, d) sustainability, and e) effective and 
transformative policy making.
	
a)	
Digital infrastructure development remains rampant:
	
	
•	
Digitalisation in India has been progressing 
steadily, first covering large urban areas, followed 
by smaller urban areas and rural areas.
	
	
•	
Digital growth in India is getting a further 
fillip now and would become a major factor 
in sustaining India’s long-term growth story. 
According to the State of India’s Digital Economy 
Report, 2024, by Indian Council for Research 
on International Economic Relations (‘ICRIER’), 
the state of digitalisation in India is better than 
some developed countries including the United 
Kingdom, Germany and Japan, compared by their 
aggregate level of digitalisation.
	
	
•	
The foundation of India’s digital transformation 
lies in building a democratic and efficient digital 
infrastructure to ensure ease of living. The Digital 
India initiative has been instrumental in achieving 
this goal, and it has been extended with a 
total budget of ₹14,903 crore from FY 2021-22 to 
FY 2025-2610.
	
	
•	
India’s foundational Digital Public Infrastructure 
(‘DPI’), called India Stack, has been harnessed 
to foster innovation and competition, expand 
markets, close gaps in financial inclusion, boost 
government revenue collection and improve 
public expenditure efficiency.
	
	
•	
Emerging technologies have played a key role 
in fuelling the growth of the Indian economy. 
Technologies like cloud computing and artificial 
intelligence have helped businesses in India 
become more efficient and productive.
	
b)	
Demographic dividend is expected to stimulate multi-
decadal domestic growth:
	
	
•	
As per the United Nations Population Fund’s 
(‘UNFPA’) State of World Population Report 
2023, India now is the most populous country 
in the world, with 68 per cent. of the population 
belonging to the working age category, i.e. 15-64 
age group.
	
	
•	
Government’s continued focus on building social 
infrastructure, 
including 
education, 
skilling, 
public health and nutrition, and drinking water 
and sanitation, will lead to a more productive 
and proficient workforce. This is crucial for the 
success story of India’s growth.
8  MOSPI
9  HSBC Indian Purchasing Managers’ Index
10 Invest India
126
Bandhan Bank Limited
	
	
•	
Mismatch in skillsets availability and industry-
specific 
needs, 
along 
with 
low 
human 
development parameters are some of the 
challenges that holds the potential to derail 
India’s demographics driven growth momentum. 
Policy makers need to closely monitor these 
concerns and act accordingly to make the most 
use of this dividend.
	
c)	
Increased access to credit is crucial for long-term 
growth:
	
	
•	
India has witnessed a significant surge in credit 
penetration, which could be a very significant 
instance in the nation’s economic and social 
landscape. The latest data reveal a notable 
increase in the number of individuals and 
businesses accessing credit, a trend that is largely 
influenced by the concerted efforts towards 
financial inclusion.
	
	
•	
Financial inclusion has played a pivotal role in 
fostering the growth of credit penetration in 
India. Initiatives such as the Pradhan Mantri Jan 
Dhan Yojana (‘PMJDY’) have been instrumental 
in bringing a vast segment of the population into 
the formal banking system.
	
	
•	
In terms of the numbers for the quarter ended 
March 31, 2024, credit growth expanded by 
16 per cent. year-on-year (excluding HDFC 
merger impact), which is well-above last year’s 
print of 15 per cent.11 Personal loans continued 
to drive credit demand while bank credit 
growth outpaced deposit growth significantly in 
FY 2023-2412. The medium-term prospects look 
promising with sustained growth in personal 
loans along with the anticipated increase in capex 
spending, especially in the private sector.
	
	
•	
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (‘MSMEs’) 
credit drive: Credit supply to MSMEs grew by 
14 per cent. year-on-year during FY 2023-24, 
indicating robust lender confidence 13. Commercial 
credit lending still continues to maintain its 
overall growth post initial boost provided by 
ECLGS scheme (launched by Government of India 
to support credit to MSME sector).
	
	
•	
Improved credit access to women: Women 
borrowers in India have increased at a Compound 
Annual Growth Rate (‘CAGR’) of 15 per cent. over 
the last five years compared to a CAGR growth 
of 11 per cent. for male borrowers. The share 
of women borrowers has increased from 25 per 
cent. in 2017 to 28 per cent. in 202214.
	
	
•	
India’s credit growth is expected to remain 
buoyant over the next several years, driven by 
economic growth, pro-active policy making and a 
surge in retail lending through digital channels.
	
d)	
Sustainability driven inclusive growth is the way 
forward:
	
	
•	
Embracing renewable energy resources will 
play a crucial part in the development of India’s 
sustainable strategy. India currently stands as 
the world’s third-largest producer of renewable 
energy, with 42 per cent. of its installed capacity 
sourced from clean and sustainable options. 
India’s goal of producing 500 GW of renewable 
energy capacity by 2030 will unlock 80 per cent. 
of power capacity additions from renewable 
sources15.
	
	
•	
As of February 2024, renewable energy sources, 
including large hydropower, have a combined 
installed capacity of 183.49 GW. India will witness 
more than 83 per cent. increase in investments 
in renewable energy projects to around $6.5 
billion in 2024 as the country focuses on energy 
transition to reduce carbon emissions16.
	
	
•	
The National Green Hydrogen Mission is aimed at 
making India a global hub for manufacturing this 
clean source of energy and is expected to lead to 
the development of 5 million metric tonnes per 
annum of green hydrogen production capacity by 
2030. The Union Cabinet approved the National 
Green Hydrogen Mission with a total initial outlay 
of ₹19,744 crore17.
B.	 Indian Banking Sector: Key Developments
	
Indian Banking Sector: Robust and healthy
	
During FY 2023-24, credit offtake grew at a robust 20.2 per 
cent. year-on-year (including HDFC merger) and 16.3 per 
cent. year-on-year (excluding HDFC merger)18, outpacing 
deposit growth which grew by 13.5 per cent. (including 
HDFC merger) and 12.9 per cent. (excluding HDFC merger)18. 
As a result, the credit-to-deposit (‘CD’) ratio has increased to 
around 80.3 per cent. for all Scheduled Commercial Banks 
(‘SCBs’), with a significantly higher ratio for private sector 
banks as compared to public sector banks19.
11 Weekly Statistical Supplement
12 Sectoral Deployment of Credit, March 2024
13 Sectoral Deployment of Credit, March 2024
14 TransUnion CIBIL Insights, Mar’23
15 Invest India
16 Power Ministry Sources- https://www.business-standard.com/industry/
news/renewable-energy-investments-to-increase-83-to-16-5-billion-
in-2024-123122600251_1.html
17 Invest India
18 Weekly Statistical Supplement
19 Reserve Bank of India – Ratios and Rates
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
127
	
The growth of credit has been broad-based across segments:
	
a.	
Personal Loans and credit to services have been the key credit growth drivers for FY 2023-2420
	
	
o	
Credit growth to services sector accelerated to 20.2 per cent. year-on-year (excluding HDFC merger) in March 2024 from 
19.6 per cent. a year ago, due to the improved credit offtake to real estate, tourism and aviation. Including HDFC merger, 
growth in services credit came in at 22.9 per cent. year-on-year.
	
	
o	
Personal loans registered a robust growth of 17.7 per cent. (excluding HDFC merger impact) in March 2024 as compared 
with 21 per cent. a year ago, mainly driven by housing loans. Including HDFC merger, growth in personal loans came in at 
27.6 per cent. year-on-year.
	
b.	
Credit to agriculture and allied activities came in strong21 
	
c.	
Industry credit growth recovered in FY 2023-2422. In terms of scale-distribution, credit growth to micro, small and large-scale 
industries accelerated while credit growth was observed to be steady in medium-scale industries:
(Figures in ` crore)
Sector
 For the FY ended
March 2024
March 2023
April 2022
Agriculture & allied activities
20.1%
15.4%
10.6%
Industries
9.0%
5.7%
7.9%
(8.5%)
12.3%
29.8%
I. Micro and Small
14.9%
19.6%
53.7%
II. Medium
13.2%
3.0%
1.3%
III. Large
7.0%
19.8%
11.2%
Services
22.9%
(20.2%)
	
	
Numbers in parentheses indicate year-on-year growth rate excluding HDFC merger impact
	
d.	
Non-Performing Assets (‘NPAs’) continue to recover 
post pandemic jitters.
	
e.	
As per the Financial Stability Report23  (‘FSR’) by 
the RBI, Gross Non-Performing Asset (‘GNPA’) ratio 
of SCBs fell to an twelve-year low of 2.8 per cent. in 
March 2024 whereas the Net Non-Performing Assets 
(‘NNPA’) improved to a record low of 0.6 per cent. in 
March 2024.
	
f.	
The FSR also highlights that the Indian banking sector 
would be able to withstand severe stress conditions 
in credit, as per extensive macro stress tests. This 
underscores India’s banking sector strength with 
respect to any significant spill-overs from a possible 
banking crisis in the developed economies.
	
g.	
Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) has continued to 
emphasise that sustained focus must be on a customer-
centric approach to strengthen the confidence of 
people in the banking system. The apex body has also 
exhorted banks to further strengthen governance and 
assurance functions, which is crucial for the economic 
and financial stability of India.
	
h.	
According to a latest report by PwC and Association of 
Microfinance Institutions of India, global Microfinance 
Institutions (‘MFI’) industry is expected to grow at 
a compound annual growth rate of 11.6 per cent.24 
MFIs, which have acted as a financial support system to 
low-income households by offering credit access, will 
continue to play a leading role in the growth process 
of India. Following data indicates the continued growth 
and widening scale of MFI in India25 :
	
	
•	
As per the latest data from Microfinance 
Institutions Network (‘MFIN’), total Gross Loan 
Portfolio (‘GLP’) of microfinance stood at ₹4.33 
lakh crore, with Non-Banking Finance Companies 
– Microfinance Institutions (‘NBFC-MFIs’) share 
at 40 per cent. followed by banks at 33 per cent., 
Small Finance Banks (‘SFB’) at 17 per cent. and 
NBFCs at 9 per cent. 
	
	
•	
The portfolio growth has been pronounced for 
SFBs (28 per cent. year-on-year) and NBFCs 
(38 per cent. year-on-year). Portfolio for banks 
rose by 21 per cent. while for NBFC-MFIs the 
growth came in at 24 per cent.
20  https://rbi.org.in/Scripts/BS_PressReleaseDisplay.aspx?prid=57589
21  RBI Sectoral Deployment of Bank Credit – April 2024 
22  RBI Sectoral Deployment of Bank Credit – April 2024
23  December 2023
24 Report by PwC and Association of Microfinance Institutions 2022-23
25  MFIN-Micrometer Synopsis March 2024
128
Bandhan Bank Limited
	
	
•	
The industry currently serves 7.8 crore unique 
borrowers through 14.9 crore loan accounts. 
	
	
•	
The top 10 states (based on universe data) 
constitute 84.4 per cent. in terms of GLP. Bihar 
continues to be the largest state in terms of 
portfolio outstanding followed by Tamil Nadu and 
Uttar Pradesh.
	
	
With strong and ever-improving public and financial 
institutions in place, India stands at an opportune 
moment to ride the next cycle of growth in the coming 
decades.
	
Potential threats
	
•	
The impediment to the Indian growth story mainly 
stems from the external sector:– significant slowdown 
in overseas demand and persisting global inflation may 
temper growth outlook for India.
	
•	
Another risk to growth could be from worsening 
supply-chain 
bottlenecks 
(due 
to 
increased 
geopolitical tensions). This may result in lower trade 
volumes, uncertainty in policy making and pick-up of 
inflation primarily due to volatile commodity prices, 
resulting in tempering of overall growth expectations.
	
•	
Rapid technological disruption may require traditional 
enterprises to rejig their business model quicker 
than expected. This could also result in a skill-jobs 
mismatch resulting in below-expected employment 
growth, which would significantly hinder the optimal 
use of India’s favourable demographics. Policy makers, 
businesses and employees would need to be prepared 
and act accordingly. 
	
•	
Corporations and policymakers would continue to 
remain cognizant of risks from adverse climatic 
changes. One such risk could be food supply shock 
due to unfavourable monsoon conditions in 2024. This 
could entail risks to domestic food security along with 
aiding the resurgence of inflationary pressures.
C.	 Strategy 
	
Your Bank has clearly laid out its vision to be a financial 
institution that caters to all and provide simple and cost-
effective financial solutions in a courteous and responsible 
manner. It intends to create value for all stakeholders 
through a committed and efficient team, robust practices, 
superior systems and technology while continuing to deepen 
its customer reach. 
	
Your Bank has been diligently working towards strengthening 
the foundations over the last few years to create the bedrock 
for the future growth story. This year, your Bank, has gone 
the extra mile and managed to instil key foundational 
blocks in critical parameters of success like tech, people and 
distribution. This will undoubtedly ‘springboard’ your Bank 
to its next phase of development. 
	
Your Bank remains focused on scaling up the business by 
strengthening its loan book and bringing in quality deposits. 
Your Bank will continue to spread its presence across the 
country, while also upgrading its core businesses in existing 
geographies. Your Bank will continue to focus on reinforcing 
the culture of adhering to the highest standards of risk and 
compliance protocols at every stage of its functioning. By 
leveraging the vast network of branches and banking units, 
your Bank will continue to emphasise on providing improved 
financial solutions through innovative products. Through 
strict adherence to risk management framework, greater 
investment in data analytics and technology, your Bank’s 
objective is to establish a robust foundation at each stage of 
its journey.
	
In line with the Indian growth story, your Bank has been 
able to deliver a robust performance in terms of extending 
business horizons and remain in course to deliver on its goals. 
Your Bank has been able to tread the industry growth path and 
even outperform in certain parameters as detailed below:
	
•	
Your Bank has demonstrated exceptional growth over 
the years with advances growing at a CAGR of 26 per 
cent. from ₹15,593 crore in FY 2015-16 to ₹1,24,721 
crore in FY 2023-24. Your Bank has achieved this 
growth in advances while simultaneously diversifying 
the portfolio through increased allocations to housing, 
retail, and commercial banking loans. 
	
•	
This growth story also underscores the trust that the 
customers have placed in your Bank, as evident by 
the increase in the deposit’s portfolio from ₹12,089 
crore in FY 2015-16 to ₹1,35,202 crore in FY 2023-24, 
translating to a CAGR of 31 per cent. Your Bank aims to 
achieve greater heights while focusing on its mission to 
provide accessible and cost-effective financial solutions 
to its customers.
	
•	
Your Bank continues to invest in future with great 
emphasis on digitisation for productivity and efficiency 
gains, along with enhanced customer experience. 
This year, your Bank, has made giant strides in the tech 
domain:
	
	
o	
Your Bank has achieved a significant milestone 
towards accomplishing this goal through the 
successful migration of its Core Banking Solution 
(‘CBS’) and subsequent revamping of its digital 
banking solution mBandhan application. This 
will ensure that your Bank is future-ready and 
equipped with the capability to meet the evolving 
requirements, as well as the dynamic shifts in 
customer’s banking demands. 
	
	
o	
Your Bank will also continue its pursuit to drive 
operational excellence on every count and 
provide digital-first solutions, ensuring that the 
customer experience remains the focal point of 
every initiative.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
129
	
•	
Your Bank has maintained its pace of growth in terms 
of employees and remains a favoured choice for 
employees: During the Financial Year under review, 
manpower has increased by 9 per cent. from 69,702 
as on March 31, 2023 to 75,748 as on March 31, 2024. 
Your Bank has additionally enhanced its geographical 
network with 1,700 retail branches and 4,597 banking 
units as on March 31, 2024.
	
Your Bank is confident in advancing towards its vision 
by leveraging its strategic pillars focusing on People, 
Process and Technology:
	
•	
Talent – Your Bank recognises the importance of its 
most important resource i.e. its talent pool. Your 
Bank will work towards talent development through 
integrated learning and devolvement plan, and develop 
comprehensive capabilities across functions through 
relevant training. There is a continued assessment of 
productivity and efficiency metrics as a part of your 
Bank’s pursuit to operate at an optimal level. Your 
Bank is actively implementing attrition management 
measures across focus areas using advanced analytics.
	
•	
Systems and Processes - Your Bank prioritises 
continuous process improvement, recognising the vital 
role of aligning processes with organisational objectives. 
This commitment ensures operational efficiency and 
effectiveness, which is key to the achievement of 
strategic goals. Your Bank is investing in its systems and 
processes to enhance customer experience. Your Bank 
prioritises customer experience and transparency at 
every stage of designing processes.
	
•	
Technological Progress - Over the years, your Bank 
has worked diligently towards widespread usage and 
adoption of IT applications and analytical tools within 
the Bank and will continue to invest further in its IT and 
Analytics capabilities. These upgrades have enabled 
your Bank to enhance its abilities around exchange 
of data, strategic insights and timely reporting of key 
events resulting in improved coordination among 
different departments. Your Bank will continue to 
prioritise data security and integrity at every stage of 
its functioning.
	
Keeping in line with its long-term goals, your Bank’s 
long-term vision lays down the following objectives:
	
•	
Be a banker for the new Indian, through every step of 
their aspirational journey. 
	
•	
Serve the needs of emerging India through innovative 
products and dedicated service.
	
•	
Enable entrepreneurs with timely resources in order to 
scale-up their businesses.
	
•	
Be a value-based ‘employer of choice’ – to attract 
high-quality and motivated talent.
	
As part of its strategy, your Bank has been a part of various 
social development programmes on enhancing education, 
health, poverty alleviation, livelihood promotion, market 
linkages, enterprise development, employment generation 
and financial literacy. Going forward, your Bank will 
continue to engage with the community through strategic 
interventions aimed at contributing to society.
	
India’s growth story presents a perfect operating context to 
leverage the capabilities your Bank has built over the years. 
Your Bank remains committed to executing its strategy plan 
in a systematic manner to deliver on both of its short-term 
and long-term goals.
D.	 Financial Performance of the Bank
	
The financial highlights for the financial year under review are presented below:
	
Summary of Financial Performance (₹ in crore)
Particulars
For the financial year ended
 March 31, 2024
 March 31, 2023
Deposits:
1,35,201.99
1,08,064.69
Advances (Net):
1,21,136.78
1,04,756.77
Total Assets/Liabilities
1,77,841.66
1,56,037.09
Net Interest Income
10,325.61
9,259.62
Non-Interest Income
2,164.65
2,468.55
Less: Operating Expenses (excluding depreciation)
5,613.20
4,494.17
Profit before Depreciation, Provisions and Tax
6,877.06
7,234.00
Less: Depreciation
237.58
142.65
Less: Provisions
3,696.57
4,198.37
Profit Before Tax (PBT)
2,942.91
2,892.98
Less: Provision for Tax
713.35
698.34
Profit After Tax (PAT)
2,229.56
2,194.64
Balance in Profit & Loss Account brought forward from previous year
7,453.78
6,009.94
Less: Appropriations
1,004.21
750.80
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet
8,679.13
7,453.78
EPS (Basic) (in ₹)
13.84
13.62
EPS (Diluted) (in ₹)
13.84
13.62
130
Bandhan Bank Limited
	
The financial performance of your Bank during the financial 
year ended March 31, 2024, remained healthy with the Total 
Net Revenue (Net Interest Income Plus Other Income) rising 
by 6.5 per cent. to ₹12,490.26 crore from ₹11,728.17 crore 
during the previous financial year. Net Interest Income grew 
by 11.5 per cent. to ₹10,325.61 crore. The net interest margin 
(‘NIM’) was 7.3 per cent. during FY 2023-24 against 7.2 per 
cent. during the FY 2022-23.
	
Operating (Non-Interest) Expenses increased to ₹5,850.78 
crore from ₹4,636.82 crore during FY 2023-24. During the 
FY under review, your Bank has set up 289 new branches 
and 9 new Banking Units. Employee strength increased to 
75,748 during FY 2023-24 from 69,702 as on March 31, 
2023. Staff expenses also went up due to annual wage 
revisions and there was a 8.67 per cent. increase in staff 
strength. Consequently, the cost to income ratio increased 
to 46.8 per cent. for FY 2023-24 from 39.5 per cent. for 
FY 2022-23.
	
The Profit After Tax (‘PAT’) for FY 2023-24 stood at ₹2,229.56 
crore, an increase of 1.6 per cent. over the previous financial 
year. The Total Provisions and Contingencies (including tax 
provisions) was ₹4,409.92 crore as compared to ₹4,896.71 
crore in FY2022-23. Consequently, the Return on Average 
Net Worth (‘ROANW’) was 10.7 per cent. for FY 2023-24 
against 11.8 per cent. for FY 2022-23. Return on Average 
Asset (‘ROAA’) was 1.4 per cent. for FY 2023-24 against 
1.6 per cent. for FY 2022-23. Your Bank’s basic as well as 
diluted Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) increased from ₹13.62 for 
FY 2022-23 to ₹13.84 for FY 2023-24.
	
However, reflecting on steady growth in the balance sheet, 
Total Liabilities (including capital and reserves) increased by 
13.97 per cent. from ₹1,56,037.09 crore as on March 31, 
2023 to ₹1,77,841.66 crore as on March 31, 2024 whereas 
Total Advances (Net) stood at ₹1,21,136.78 crore, a growth 
of 15.6 per cent. over FY 2022-23. Total Business of your Bank 
increased to ₹2,59,923 crore (Gross Advances: ₹1,24,721 
crore and Deposits: ₹1,35,202 crore as on March 31, 2024) 
from previous year of ₹2,17,191 crore (Gross Advances: 
₹1,09,122 crore and Deposits: ₹1,08,069 crore) as on 
March 31, 2023.
	
Priority Sector Lending and Investment
	
RBI has mandated Priority Sector Lending (‘PSL’) of 40 per 
cent. of advances for all the banks. Your Bank continues to 
focus on financial inclusion by providing various financial 
services to the underserved. During FY 2023-24, your 
Bank’s PSL was ₹60,123 crore as on March 31, 2024 as 
compared to ₹54,176 crore as on March 31, 2023. At the end 
of FY 2023-24, PSL as a proportion of the gross advances of 
₹1,24,574.05 crore was 48 per cent.
	
Key Ratios
 March 31, 2024  March 31, 2023
Fee to total income@
10.29%
13.44%
Cost to income#
46.84%
39.54%
Earnings per share
₹13.84
₹13.62
Book value per share
₹126.42
₹114.24
Return on average assets
1.44%
1.56%
Return on average net 
worth
10.65%
11.77%
Operating Profit to 
Average Total Assets
4.29%
5.03%
Net Interest Margin
7.35%
7.21%
	
@lower fee to total income for the current financial year due to one 
time income received in FY 2022-23 due to sale of portfolio to ARC	
#increased cost to income ratio due to increase in operational costs
E.	
Business Segment Wise Performance
	
Emerging Entrepreneurs Business (EEB)
	
Consistent with its longstanding commitment to financial 
inclusion and fostering economic opportunity within 
disadvantaged communities, your Bank has prioritised 
serving borrowers at the base of the economic pyramid. Your 
Bank’s EEB strategy offers affordable and accessible loans, 
designed to empower individuals to establish and grow their 
businesses, ultimately transforming their lives.
	
Your Bank strategically expanded its network by establishing 
4,597 Business Units (‘BUs’) across India. This growth 
prioritises financial inclusion while simultaneously enhancing 
portfolio quality by ensuring a focus on personalised service 
through a reduced client-to-BU ratio.
	
This year also witnessed a robust loan portfolio, with Group 
Loans amounting to ₹40,745.31 crore, Small Business and 
Agri Loans (‘SBAL’) at ₹21,501.74 crore, and Small Enterprise 
Loans (‘SEL’) reaching ₹5,671.83  crore. These figures 
highlight your Bank's commitment to both financial inclusion 
and implementing robust credit control measures to ensure 
portfolio health.
	
Your Bank now has several loan products under its Group 
Loans, SBAL and SEL categories, which are provided from 
BUs and branches to cater better to the varied demands and 
needs of its customers:
	
Group loans
	
1.	
Srishti Loan: Timely funds to start a new business or 
grow an existing one. Loan size is from ₹15,000 to 
₹1,50,000.
	
2.	
Subriddhi Loan: Loan amount is up to 50 per cent. of 
the disbursement amount of running primary loan. 
Sanctioned to help customers fulfil their extra business 
requirement during their ongoing loan.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
131
	
3.	
Suraksha Loan: Loan size is up to ₹15,000 and is 
sanctioned to help existing customers meet their 
emergency expenses, e.g. - medical, drinking water and 
sanitation.
	
4.	
Sushiksha Loan: Loan size is up to ₹10,000 and is 
sanctioned to help customers meet expenses towards 
the education of their children.
	
5.	
Baazar Loan: With a loan size from ₹26,000 to 
₹1,50,000, this product is for small entrepreneurs, 
who have an existing super-saver account with your 
Bank. This loan provides financial support to deposit 
customers for their working capital needs.
	
Small Business and Agri Loans
	
1.	
Sahayata Loan: Loan to fund growing business needs 
of individuals involved in an array of income generation 
activities. Loan amount is from ₹50,001 to ₹5,00,000.
	
2.	
Suyog Loan: Loan amount is up to 50 per cent. of 
the disbursement amount of running Sahayata loan. 
Sanctioned to help customers fulfil their additional 
short-term 
business 
requirement 
during 
their 
ongoing loan.
	
Small Enterprise Loan (‘SEL’)
	
In the current economic scenario, India is a country burgeoning 
with small businesses which are regularly in need of short to 
medium-term funding to maintain and grow their businesses. 
The SEL vertical empowers these businesses to expand by 
extending them business loans tailored to suit their needs. 
As on March 31, 2024, the SEL book stood at ₹ 5,671.83 crore, 
with over 1.22 lakh customers.
	
The following products are presently offered under SEL:
	
• 	
SEL Term Loans (₹1.01 lakh to ₹10 lakh)
	
	
These are term loans with a tenure of one to three 
years, and they are aimed towards financing working 
capital or asset creation needs of small businesses or 
other short-term business requirements. 
	
• 	
SEL Max Loans (₹10.01 lakh to ₹25 lakh)
	
	
This is similar to SEL Term Loans, but it is targeted 
towards slightly larger enterprises in terms of revenue, 
which might need loans of value higher than ₹10 lakh. 
	
• 	
SEL Cash Credit (₹5 lakh to ₹25 lakh)
	
	
This is a revolving credit facility, whereby a limit will 
be set up in the customer’s loan account and the 
customer can avail of whatever amount is required and 
pay interest only on the utilised amount. The limit is 
subject to renewal on a yearly basis. 
	
• 	
SEL Secured Overdraft Loans (₹10.01 lakh to ₹25 lakh)
	
	
This overdraft product has been added to your Bank’s 
SEL product bouquet during FY 2023 with a vision 
to cater to the MSME borrowers who need working 
capital in the form of an overdraft and are willing to 
pledge security for the loan. The range for this product 
is from ₹10.01 lakh to ₹25 lakh and the overdraft limits 
are subject to renewal on a yearly basis.
	
	
During the FY under review, your Bank has taken 
various initiatives:
	
	
•	
to strengthen the credit assessment process for 
Group Loan and SBAL, and SEL in order to have a 
better portfolio. Your Bank has further deployed 
a separate Loan Sanctioning Team to manage the 
loan sanctioning process for Group Loans.
	
	
•	
Deployed a separate independent Recovery Team 
to improve recovery collections from delinquent 
customers. Business team will focus on collections 
from standard accounts to restrict slippages while 
the recovery team will have a focused approach 
for collection from NPA accounts.
	
	
•	
Deployed several analytics-driven models to 
improve both, sourcing and recovery. Some of 
the key initiatives in this regard are: identification 
of good borrowers for a higher ticket loan based 
on a data-driven renewal base; identification of 
potential borrowers for graduating to individual 
loan, categorisation of delinquent borrowers 
based on their propensity to repay; and 
prioritising collections accordingly, etc.
	
	
•	
Training customers under EEB vertical, to 
make them aware about the benefits of digital 
payments and various other aspects, such as 
seeding bank accounts with mobile number and 
Aadhaar. Your Bank has also taken initiative by 
informing the customers to pay through online 
transactions.
	
	
Your Bank has always placed strong emphasis on 
training and development, via online and classroom 
training sessions, which would upskill and reskill staff 
to ensure that they stay relevant to the fast-changing 
world across levels and locations. 
	
Branch Banking
	
Your Bank offers a diversified suite of retail liability products, 
meticulously designed to address the varied banking needs 
of its clientele across all customer segments. Your Bank 
prioritises customer satisfaction by fostering a culture of 
continuous innovation, ensuring that its convenient and 
effective banking solutions consistently meet the evolving 
needs of its valued customers.
	
During FY 2023-24, your Bank’s deposit portfolio witnessed 
a robust growth of 25 per cent. with a total deposit base 
of ₹1,35,202 crore as on March 31, 2024. The growth in 
deposits was primarily driven by the varied liability products 
132
Bandhan Bank Limited
of term, savings and current account deposits with the total 
retail deposit (CASA + Retail Term Deposit) book growing by 
22 per cent.
	
Your Bank's commitment to a comprehensive and customer-
centric product offering is exemplified by its focus on distinct 
customer segments. The ‘Affluent’ segment, featuring 
premium products like Elite & Premium Savings Accounts, has 
significantly strengthened your Bank's savings proposition. 
Recognising the specific needs of senior citizens, your Bank 
launched the ‘Inspire’ programme, offering specialised 
services tailored to this demography. Building upon this 
success, your Bank plans to further expand its segment-
specific offerings to cater to the diverse needs of its growing 
customer base.
	
Furthermore, your Bank prioritises effective communication 
by developing product-focused campaigns. These initiatives 
aim to educate customers about features, rates, and the 
integration of technology-driven services. This year saw the 
introduction of the RuPay Platinum Debit Card, reiterating 
your Bank's commitment to providing customers with 
enhanced value propositions, features, and a wide range of 
debit card choices. This comprehensive debit card portfolio 
generated a total card fee income of more than ₹70 crore 
as on March 31, 2024, encompassing issuance fees, annual 
fees, and reissue fees.
	
Your Bank's Current Account segment exhibited robust 
performance during FY 2023-24, characterised by consistent 
customer balances and a commitment to sound financial 
management practices. Strategic initiatives including 
enhanced EDC penetration, CAM Channel development, 
re-engagement with ETB customers via NEEV project, 
and intensified focus on new branches have effectively 
met customer demands, demonstrating resilience in a 
competitive market landscape. The overall Current Account 
Book has sustained a commendable growth rate of 51 per 
cent. as on March 31, 2024.
	
Your Bank's extensive branch network has been a 
fundamental driver of its success. FY 2023-24 witnessed 
a significant expansion with the inauguration of 289 new 
branches across the nation. This strategic growth initiative 
has bolstered your Bank's overall presence, bringing the 
total number of branches to 1,700 strategically located 
to serve diverse communities throughout India. To fortify 
its relationship with customers, your Bank is engaging in 
communication through marketing campaigns, social media 
outreach, and branch-level initiatives. Your Bank has also 
seamlessly transitioned to the latest Core Banking System - 
Flexcube and rolled out a new Internet Banking platform and 
mBandhan app, boasting upgraded features.
	
Your Bank will continue to harness technology to provide 
innovative 
digital 
solutions 
that 
prioritise 
security, 
convenience, and user-friendliness. Your Bank is dedicated 
to delivering top-notch banking solutions to the customers 
and eagerly anticipates serving them with unwavering zeal 
and commitment in the years ahead.
	
Merchant Acquiring Business (MAB)
	
Merchant Acquiring Business is an integral part of the digital 
ecosystem, providing necessary infrastructure to acquire 
merchants and facilitating them to accept payments through 
different modes of digital transactions. MAB of your Bank is 
built on the philosophy of customer-centricity, with a keen 
focus on people, processes and technology. MAB plays a 
pivotal role in attracting current account relationships.
	
IoT (Internet of Things) is one aspect that has fundamentally 
changed the nature of banking, and MAB is aggressively 
on boarding PoS/ EDC devices with incremental month-
on-month numbers and providing PG (Payment Gateway) 
services to all categories of merchants. With the number 
of on-boarded PoS, your Bank is creating a positive impact 
on the digitisation ecosystem. Your Bank has launched a 
number of value-added services to cater to its existing and 
potential merchants and are planning to launch a range of 
new products in the next financial year.
	
Your Bank offers Merchant Acquiring Services through 
its large branch network of more than 1,665 branches at 
attractive rates to its existing as well as new customers. 
This business has grown at a rate of 326 per cent. on the 
acquisition front and 52 per cent. growth in throughput 
compared to the previous year, leading to the build-up of 
balances in linked accounts.
	
Wholesale Banking
	
Financial Institution Group (FIG)
	
Your Bank continuously strives to meet the diverse credit 
needs across sectors, with a dedicated focus on Institutional 
Lending catering to NBFCs, Housing Finance Companies 
(‘HFCs’) and public financial institutions. Your Bank also has 
credit exposure through Direct Assignments and Investment 
exposure through Pass Through Certificates (‘PTCs’) and Non-
Convertible Debentures (‘NCDs’). In the NBFCs segment, 
your Bank’s primary focus is secured financing through 
housing loan, loan against property, gold loan, business 
purpose loan, commercial & vehicle financing, etc. While in 
the NBFC-MFI (Microfinance institutions) segment, the focus 
is to cater primarily to the priority segment funding. FIG 
segment has a diverse portfolio with geographical presence 
across the country. The FIG portfolio stood at ₹12,814.89 
crore as on March 31, 2024 as compared to ₹10,386.72 crore 
as on March 31, 2023, representing a growth of 23 per cent. 
over previous financial year. 
	
Mid-Market Group (MMG)
	
MMG offers loan products to majorly Small & Medium 
Enterprises (‘SMEs’) and large corporate borrowers for 
meeting their working capital and capital expenditure 
requirements, including non-fund based facilities. These are 
generally secured loans extended to businesses involved in 
manufacturing, trading, services, etc., with acceptable credit 
ratings. This segment offers both fund-based and non-fund 
based facilities including term loan, cash credit, overdraft, 
loan against property, construction/ project finance, lease 
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
133
rental discounting, Letter of Credit (‘LoC’), Bank Guarantee 
(‘BG’), etc. MMG book stood at ₹6,700.68 crore as on 
March 31, 2024 as compared to ₹3,605 crore as on 
March 31, 2023, representing a growth of 86 per cent. over 
previous financial year.
	
Commercial – LAP
	
This segment caters primarily to proprietorships, partnerships 
and private limited companies for Loans Against Property 
(‘LAP’). This is in line with your Bank’s overall objective of 
increasing the secured lending portfolio. The segment will 
leverage your Bank’s branches besides sourcing from the 
open market, along with a higher level of engagement to 
meet additional financial requirements of customers. This 
segment offers a bouquet of income-linked programs to 
cater to most of the sectors in the market. The book-size 
stood at ₹515.50 crore as on March 31, 2024 as compared 
to ₹53.14 crore as on March 31, 2023, representing a 
significant growth of 870 per cent. over previous financial 
year. As we move along, your Bank will use technology for 
better turnaround time which is essential for scaling up the 
business volume in this space.
	
Business Banking Group (BBG)
	
BBG offers loan products to Micro, Small and Medium 
Enterprises (‘MSMEs’) to meet their working capital or 
capital expenditure requirements. These are secured 
loans generally between ₹5 lakh to ₹15 crore extended to 
businesses involved in manufacturing, trading and services. 
The loans are extended in the form of secured credit facilities 
including term loan, cash credit, overdraft or lease rental 
discounting or as non-fund-based facilities like letter of credit 
or bank guarantee. Some of the schematic loan products 
offered by the segment are as follows:
	
•	
SME Business Connect: These loans help entrepreneurs 
in financing their working capital and capital 
expenditure requirements against primary security of 
current or fixed assets and collateral security including 
residential or commercial property or liquid securities. 
These loans, ranging from ₹10 lakh to ₹5 crore, are 
provided as fund-based facilities like overdraft, cash 
credit, or term loan and non-fund-based facilities like 
letter of credit or bank guarantees.
	
•	
SME GST Connect: These loans for financing 
entrepreneurs’ working capital needs are provided 
as overdraft or fund-based facilities. These loans are 
offered against collateral security, which can be in the 
form of current assets, property or liquid securities. 
The loan quantum ranges from ₹25 lakh to ₹3 crore.
	
•	
Bandhan CGTMSE Loan: These loans are offered to 
finance the working capital and capital expenditure 
of Micro and Small Enterprises (‘MSEs’) and provided 
as fund-based and non-fund-based facilities, without 
any collateral security or third-party guarantee. The 
loan quantum ranges from ₹5 lakh to ₹5 crore, with 
credit guarantee of CGTMSE up to a maximum limit 
of ₹5 crore per borrower. Collateral security for the 
remaining uncovered portion of the credit facility can 
be obtained under “Hybrid/ Partial Collateral Security” 
product, introduced by CGTMSE.
	
	
The BBG fund based Book stood at ₹1,009.65 crore 
as on March 31, 2024 as against ₹535 crore as on 
March 31, 2023, registering a growth of about 89 per 
cent. during FY 2023-24.
	
Agri-business Loans
	
Your Bank recognises the importance of this sector and 
offers a wide range of credit facilities to provide financial 
support to all participants in the Agri value-chain system. 
Currently, the segment provides Kisan Cash Credit (‘KCC’) 
loans to borrowers engaged in farming activities, including 
animal husbandry, horticulture, pisciculture, etc., with 
competitive interest rates and minimal documentation. This 
segment is expanding its reach by offering both fund-based 
and non-fund-based credit facilities to entities involved in 
agri-ancillary products and services, such as food and agri 
processors, agri input dealers, etc.; credit facilities to support 
development of agricultural infrastructure; financing to 
Corporate Agri customers, with a key focus to on-board 
quality customers; and commodity finance.
	
The book-size of this segment stood at ₹267.78 crore as 
on March 31, 2024 as compared to ₹126.52 crore as on 
March 31, 2023, a growth of 112 per cent. during FY 2023-24.
	
Housing Finance
	
Your Bank has continued its focus on the long-term strategy 
for Housing Finance. This business has seen a robust growth 
during FY  2023-24 in spite of the challenging macro-
economic environment. In addition to the existing business 
channels, your Bank has introduced a Prime lending channel, 
which has impacted positively with a higher disbursement 
and portfolio growth along with a lowered delinquency risk. 
Your Bank has expanded its home loan network to over 
450 branches offering housing loans and 320 Business units 
offering micro-home loans spread across 18 states and 2 
union territories.
	
With a focus on acquiring quality business and reducing 
delinquency over the last financial year, your Bank has 
disbursed ₹7,270 crore during the financial year, a growth 
of 14 per cent. and has been able to reduce its GNPA to 
1.6 per cent. from 3.9 per cent. during the financial year 
while growing the portfolio to ₹29,915.65 crore, at around a 
growth of 11 per cent. over previous financial year.
	
The introduction of Direct Sales Agent (‘DSA’) in the 
previous financial year has continued to gain traction, and 
has been contributing to overall disbursement. The newly 
introduced Prime channel has also seen a steady traction 
since its introduction during the FY 2023-24 and continues 
to contribute significantly to the overall business. 
134
Bandhan Bank Limited
	
Your Bank’s focus has still remained on affordable housing 
business, which is its primary strength. This is indicative by 
its sanctioning average ticket size of sub ₹20 lakh. During the 
FY, your Bank continued the special campaign “Junoon Rahe 
Barkaraar (JBR)” for higher ticket loans offering attractive 
and competitive rates of interest to customers with good 
credit history and high credit scores. 
	
Retail Assets
	
To expand its reach and cater to a wider range of customer 
demography, the Bank has implemented a strategic approach 
to its Retail Asset portfolio throughout FY 2023 -24. This 
approach balances risk mitigation with product offerings. 
Customers now benefit from a comprehensive suite of loan 
options, including Gold Loans, Personal Loans, Two-Wheeler 
Loans, Car Loans, and Commercial Vehicle & Construction 
Equipment (CVCE) Loans.
	
Gold Loan: Your Bank's Gold Loan product is meticulously 
crafted to cater to customers' immediate financial needs 
with expediency. This loan option is distinguished by a 
streamlined documentation process, ensuring swift loan 
processing. Furthermore, your Bank's extensive branch 
network guarantees exceptional accessibility. The loan 
amounts ranging from ₹10,000 to ₹40,00,000 and flexible 
tenure options up to 3 years at competitive interest rates.
	
Personal Loan: During FY 2023-24, your Bank implemented 
a strategic review of the personal loan approach and 
optimised its customer acquisition approach ensuring 
continued alignment with the market dynamics. Throughout 
FY 2023-24, your Bank has been systematically expanding 
this sector across all distribution channels, encompassing 
key market segments. Personal loans are available within the 
range of ₹50,000 to ₹25,00,000 at competitive interest rates, 
with a maximum tenure of 5 years.
	
Two-Wheeler Loan: Your Bank has achieved remarkable and 
consistent growth, exceeding a customer base of 1,00,000 
satisfied customers with over 90 per cent. of these new 
customers being previously unbanked. Leveraging its digital 
expertise, your Bank has streamlined the loan approval 
process, achieving an impressive average approval time 
of just 5 minutes for more than 90 per cent. of applicants. 
This revamped loan service is designed to cater to a broad 
spectrum of customer needs, offering financing of up to 
₹5,00,000. Your Bank has aligned the product with industry 
best practices by introducing a dealer/  channel-based 
distribution model, which has significantly expanded your 
Bank's reach across diverse geographical locations.
	
Car Loan: The Car Loan product has been meticulously crafted 
to simplify vehicle ownership and enhance accessibility 
for all customers, offered at competitive interest rates and 
adaptable repayment options, it extends financial support 
for the acquisition of both new and pre-owned vehicles. By 
harnessing its digital capabilities, your Bank has streamlined 
the application process, ensuring a seamless experience 
with swift approval times, thus enabling customers to 
realise their dream of owning a car sooner. Your Bank has 
developed a range of product schemes catering to a diverse 
array of customer profiles, including salaried individuals, 
self-employed individuals and non-individual entities, with 
loan amounts spanning from ₹1 lakh to ₹1 crore. 
	
CVCE Loan: Road transport is crucial for moving goods and 
people as it offers complete connectivity and adaptability. 
Your Bank’s CVCE loan is designed for self-employed 
individuals and businesses needing loans from ₹1 lakh to ₹15 
crore. Your Bank is dedicated to providing exceptional value 
to its customers, using its wide branch network, partnerships 
with manufacturers and dealer connections to offer the best 
deals possible.
	
Third Party Products
	
Your Bank currently distributes mutual funds, life insurance 
and general insurance, including health insurance and 3 in 
1 online trading products to its customers. FY 2023-24 has 
been a year of transformation and integration. Your Bank 
continues to demonstrate a continued focus on offering a 
value led, robust and comprehensive product proposition to 
its customers. Your Bank has also been working tirelessly to 
build a strong distribution ecosystem augmented by analytics 
and technology to offer the best in class insurance solutions 
to its customer base. 
	
In the General Insurance business, your Bank continued to 
serve its customers in their quest towards healthy living, by 
offering them a wide variety of health insurance solution-
based product propositions. In mutual funds distribution, 
your Bank continues to focus on a research-driven 
distribution strategy with a vision of providing its customers 
ease and flexibility while planning for investments. This year 
your Bank has launched the distribution of Mutual Funds 
through its Mobile Banking (mBandhan) platform, which 
along with the existing distribution available through the 
Retail Internet Banking (‘RIB’) platform demonstrated your 
Bank’s continuous efforts towards offering customers further 
convenience and benefits.
	
The total mutual fund AUM managed under your Bank’s 
code during FY under review was ₹1,024.84 crore, earning 
an income of ₹6.31 crore. A total of ₹131.55 crore and 
₹519.85 crore of general and retail life insurance business, 
respectively, were garnered through the retail network 
during FY 2023-24, earning a fee income of ₹15.16 crore 
and ₹214.80 crore, respectively. During FY under review, the 
life insurance business through all asset verticals amounted 
to ₹279.59 crore, earning an income of ₹47.10 crore. Your 
Bank has also earned ₹0.15 crore as commission for the 
distribution of Atal Pension Yojana, NPS Lite Swavalamban 
schemes of PFRDA and others during the FY 2023-24.
	
Digitising Bandhan 2.0
	
Bandhan Bank is committed to enhancing its digital offerings 
with a focus on risk management, customer-centricity and 
digital analytics. 
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
135
	
Your Bank has successfully launched a new Internet Banking 
platform and the mBandhan mobile app, featuring over 175 
functionalities, delivering a modern banking experience. 
Regular improvement in delivery, underscores your Bank's 
successful efforts in promoting digital banking channels and 
enhancing customer awareness of digital banking products.
	
Your Bank aspires to become a digitally enabled bank by 
focusing on the following key areas:
	
•	
User Experience: Improving design principles and 
conducting user research to ensure customer-centric 
digital experiences.
	
•	
Developing a number of digital product stacks – E.g.: 
Savings Account Stack Development which is aimed at 
tailoring savings account products to various customer 
profiles.
	
•	
Platform Optimisation: Ensuring continuous platform 
performance improvement and optimised processes 
for both retail and corporate clients.
	
•	
Digital 
Payment 
Innovation: 
Introducing 
new 
functionalities and innovative products in line with our 
customer’s expectations
	
•	
Mobile Security: Continuously enhancing safety 
measures and adhering to regulatory controls for 
digital payment security.
	
Your Bank remains dedicated to innovation, enhancing 
customer 
experience 
and 
leveraging 
technological 
advancements to simplify and improve banking services.
	
Data Science and Analytics 
	
The Data Science and Analytics function is one of the most 
critical functions for your Bank. The Analytics Team was set 
up during FY 2022-23 and by the end of FY 2023-24, Analytics 
Team strength has grown significantly. The objective of this 
team is to provide accurate and timely information using 
internal and external data, provide early warnings about 
emerging risks, and bring operational efficiency.
	
This Team supports all the business verticals at every stage of 
the customers’ lifecycle journey. It helps your Bank to grow 
profitably, manage risk, ensure better customer experience 
and improve operation efficiency and accuracy. The analytics 
function develops statistical models (including AI-ML) for 
onboarding new customers, managing existing customers 
and retaining profitable customers. It provides prospect 
leads for retaining good customers, new product penetration 
to existing customers, and pre-approved offers. It also 
helps your Bank to identify emerging areas of risk, process 
improvement, and prioritise and optimise collection efforts.
F.	
Internal Financial Control 
	
Your Bank engages external firms to carry out independent 
reviews of internal controls, processes, reporting, etc., 
and recommendations, if any, are made by them to the 
Bank/ ACB for improvement. 
	
Considering the internal financial controls of the Bank, and 
the work performed by the auditors, including the audit of 
internal financial controls over financial reporting by the 
auditors and the reviews performed by management under 
the supervision of the ACB, the Board of Directors is of the 
opinion that the internal financial controls established and 
maintained by the Bank are adequate.
G.	 Risk and Concerns
	
Your Bank is exposed to various risks by the very nature of 
its business. Your Bank has put in place a comprehensive 
Enterprise-wide Integrated Risk Management Framework 
supported by detailed policies and processes for the 
management of Credit Risk, Market Risk, Liquidity Risk, 
Operational Risk and various other risks. Please refer to the 
section ‘Risk Management’ of the Board’s Report for details.
H.	 Development in Human Resources
	
Human Capital
	
Your Bank’s greatest asset is its people. Maintaining relevant 
and competitive HR policies and practices is an ongoing 
endeavor. Since its inception, your Bank has balanced 
experienced staff with new talent, providing opportunities for 
career progression. During FY 2023-24, your Bank continued 
transitioning processes from traditional to digital platforms, 
enhancing user experience, streamlining operations, and 
boosting productivity. Your Bank’s efforts also focused on 
improving performance, enhancing employee wellness, 
aligning learning modules with in-demand skills, and 
fostering a robust forum for feedback. Emphasis was placed 
on building strong, collaborative and empathetic leadership. 
Additionally, your Bank continued expanding branches and 
channels to increase market penetration and solidify its 
position as a Bank for all. Through continuous enhancement 
of HR practices, your Bank strives to remain a dynamic, 
inclusive and innovative workplace.
	
Building Capabilities and Capacities
	
Your Bank’s key talent acquisition processes remained 
on track during FY 2023-24; manpower increased by 
8.83 per cent. from 69,702 in FY 2022-23 to 75,748 as on 
March 31, 2024. Your Bank has enhanced its geographical 
network to 1,700 Branches and 4,597 Banking Units during 
FY 2023-24. Your Bank has introduced several verticals, such 
as Bank Control Unit, Customer Experience, Process Quality 
and Transformation & Recovery in FY 2023-24 for improved 
internal controls, risk management, process optimisation, 
quality assurance and enhanced customer satisfaction and 
relationship management.
	
Talent Acquisition
	
To support the Bank’s expansion journey and fulfil its 
commitment to superior service delivery and operational 
excellence, the Bank has quadrupled its workforce since 
inception. The total workforce of your Bank stood at an 
impressive 75,748 as against 69,702 in the previous year. The 
new employees were recruited from a variety of functions 
and skill sets, the ones that your Bank is focussing on for 
136
Bandhan Bank Limited
the next phase of growth and those that will assist the 
Bank to achieve its near-term and long-term strategic goals. 
Campus recruitment drives were organised to contribute 
to the growth and development of young professionals 
entering the workforce and creating a talent pipeline for the 
upcoming years. Your Bank visited 95 top ranked institutes 
and handpicked 680 young talents for various roles and 
locations across India.
	
Employee Engagement
	
Your Bank’s growth story has been fuelled by its committed 
and motivated employees who make the Bank an exceptional 
place of work. In an endeavour to motivate them and build 
a happy and satisfied workforce, employee engagement 
programmes have been a regular feature on your Bank’s 
annual calendar. In the year under review, your Bank 
organised multiple town-halls with the top management. 
Cricket tournament, Women’s Day celebration, festival 
celebrations and other local level engagement programmes 
were also organised to boost employee morale. Aiming to 
enhance employee wellness, various health awareness 
initiatives were planned by your Bank. These included online 
health awareness programmes, regular communication 
to employees on topics such as potential health risk at 
workforce and road safety, and a session on ‘Prevention of 
Diabetes’ on  World Diabetes Day. Additionally, a webinar on 
‘Common Gynaecological Problem for Working Women’ was 
also conducted on the International Women’s Day. Service 
Awards were further distributed to recognise and appreciate 
employees’ long-term association with your Bank.
	
Learning, Development & Talent Management
	
During FY 2023-24, your Bank accelerated its efforts towards 
building a strong Learning and Development (‘L&D’) 
proposition for its employees, in alignment with its strategy 
for growth across new businesses. The L&D programmes 
aimed at equipping the employees with the necessary 
skillset, mindset and knowledge to meet the challenges 
of the rapidly changing banking landscape in the country. 
Focused on key strategic initiatives, your Bank formulated 
and implemented engaging learning initiatives to build and 
enhance employee competencies. Thematic programmes to 
improve employee productivity, ensure strict compliance to 
risk culture and regulations, increase employee engagement, 
foster employee wellness and develop digital skill building 
were also organised.
	
Performance Management
	
A 
structured 
succession 
planning 
and 
leadership 
development process enables your Bank to identify and 
groom leaders for next level roles. Your Bank closely tracks 
the leadership bench for senior management positions and 
has created a strong pipeline for critical leadership roles. 
Contributing to a positive work environment and long-term 
organisational success, your Bank has promoted 8,709 
employees through a competency-based grade promotion 
process. In alignment with its Succession Planning Policy, 
most leadership positions arising from your Bank’s growth 
and expansion were filled through internal role elevations. 
This policy was also extended to mid-level positions in 
retail lending. 
I.	
Culture of Ethics
	
The Code of Conduct and Ethics (‘Code’) articulates your 
Bank’s commitment to conduct business in accordance 
with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with 
all applicable laws, rules and regulations. At Bandhan Bank, 
ethical behaviour is doing “what is right when no one is 
watching?”. Making it inseparable from honesty, integrity 
and good judgment, all employees follow the Code with a 
high degree of professional and ethical standards. In the 
journey of over eight years, your Bank has strengthened its 
workforce by 4x resulting in an exciting blend of energetic 
new and experienced old workforce focussed towards a 
culture of professionalism, value driven growth and ethical 
governance. Human Resources has strategically focussed on 
a supportive and collaborative work environment, remaining 
customer-centric, performance driven and future ready.
J.	
Disclosure of Accounting Treatment
	
The Financial Statement have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention and on the accrual basis of 
accounting, unless otherwise stated and in compliance 
with the requirements prescribed under the Third Schedule 
(Form A and Form B) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 
The accounting and reporting policies of your Bank used 
in the preparation of the Financial Statement conform to 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India (Indian 
GAAP), the guidelines issued by the RBI from time to time, 
the accounting standards notified under Section 133 and 
other relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
read together with the Companies (Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2021, as amended, from time to time, to the extent 
applicable and practices generally prevalent in the banking 
industry in India.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Bandhan Bank Limited
Anup Kumar Sinha
Place: Kolkata 	
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Date: July 26, 2024	
(DIN: 08249893)
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
137
Message from the MD&CEO on Sustainability
Dear Shareholders,
It gives me immense pleasure to present the Business Sustainability and Responsibility Report (‘BRSR’) of your Bank for the Financial 
Year 2023-24. Since its inception, your Bank has carved a unique position in serving society through its inclusive banking as envisioned 
in its mission and vision statements. The statement ‘Apka Bhala, sabki bhalai’ sums up your Bank’s purpose. With 75.30 per cent. of 36.6 
million customers belonging to Emerging Entrepreneurs Business and 70 per cent. of its 6,735 banking outlets, being in semi-urban and 
rural areas, is evident enough to demonstrate your Bank’s commitment to serving the unbanked and the underbanked section of society.
The trust of the consumers, is key to exceptional growth both in terms of deposits and advances, exceeding the 1 lakh crore mark. 
The total deposits stood at `1.35 lakh crore, with over 25 per cent. YoY growth whereas, advances (Net) reached 1.21 lakh crore, with 
over 15.6 per cent. YoY growth.
Your Bank has relentlessly demonstrated strong governance since its inception with a majority of independent directors, including the 
Chairman and the position of the Chairman, has separate offices for the non-executive chairman and MD&CEO, ensuring the highest 
governance standards. Under the leadership of your Bank’s core management team, 75,748 employees are committed to bringing the 
best practices in providing banking services to all its stakeholders with the highest integrity, compliance, accountability and ensuring a 
‘High-tech and High-touch’ model of customer services.
Your Bank’s Corporate Social Responsibility programmes are testaments to inclusive growth and empowering communities. Your Bank 
through its CSR initiatives reached out to more than 24.47 lakh families and has helped them improve their lives through programmes like 
Targeting Hard-core Poor, health, education, skill development, financial literacy, business incubation and Climate Action Programme that 
are aligned to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Your Bank is committed to the protection of the environment and has undertaken the plantation of more than 4.17 lakh samplings and 
has contracted 50 water harvesting structures for water conservation. These initiatives have led to the sequestration of CO2 and rainwater 
harvesting that partially offsets the carbon footprint and water consumption of your Bank.
Finally, I would like to conclude by assuring you that the banking system of your Bank remains a people-oriented business and will 
continue to be so. I want to thank all stakeholders for their continued confidence in your Bank. With your sustained support, the Bank will 
continue on its purpose of serving the aspirations of New India and delivering consistent value for all.
Warm regards,
Ratan Kumar Kesh
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
(DIN: 10082714)
Annex - 6
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
FY 2023-24
138
Bandhan Bank Limited
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. 
Details of the listed entity
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L67190WB2014PLC204622
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
Bandhan Bank Limited
3.
Year of Incorporation
2014
4.
Registered office address
DN-32, Sector – V, Salt Lake, Kolkata – 700 091, West Bengal
5.
Corporate address
Floors 12-14, Adventz Infinity@5, BN-5, Sector V, Salt Lake City, 
Kolkata - 700 091, West Bengal
6.
E-mail
investors@bandhanbank.com
7.
Telephone
+91 33 6609 0909
8.
Website
www.bandhanbank.com
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
April 1, 2023 – March 31, 2024
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
•	
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (‘NSE’)
•	
BSE Limited (‘BSE’)
11.
Paid-up Capital
₹16,10,96,97,480
12.
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the 
person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the 
BRSR Report
Siddhartha Sanyal, Executive Vice President
Telephone: 033-66090909/ 033-40456456
Email: info@bandhanbank.com
13.
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report 
made on a standalone basis (i.e., only for the entity) or on 
a consolidated basis (i.e., for the entity and all the entities 
which form a part of its consolidated financial statements, 
taken together)
Since the Bank does not have any subsidiary or associate 
companies, this report is made on a standalone basis.
14.
Name of assurance provider
Not Applicable
15.
Type of assurance obtained
Not Applicable
II.	
Products/ services
16. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
Sl. 
No.
Description of Main 
Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover 
of the Entity
1.
Banking Products &
Services
The banking products and services include treasury, retail banking, microfinance, 
corporate/ wholesale banking and other third-party product distribution.
100%
17. Products/ Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover):
Sl. 
No.
Product/ Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover 
Contributed
1.
Banking products & services of commercial banks and savings banks
64191
100%
III. Operations
18. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
Not applicable
6,735*
6,735*
International
0
0
	
*Includes 4,597 banking units; 1,700 Branches and, 438 ATMs
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
139
19. Markets served by the entity:
a.
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States &UTs)
Presence in all 28 states and 7 Union 
Territories (except Lakshadweep)
International (No. of Countries)
Not applicable
b.
What is the contribution of exports as a 
percentage of total turnover of the entity?
The Bank provides Banking services, including deposits and lending services 
within India. Therefore given the nature of banking services exports of any 
nature do not apply to banking companies.
c.
A brief on types of customers
The Bank has 33.6 million customers, of which more than 75% (25.3 million) 
customers are Emerging Entrepreneurs Business (‘EEB’) customers. These 
customers belong to the following banking services:
Retail Banking: The retail banking services cater to individuals, salaried 
professionals, self-employed professionals, farmers, students, micro and small 
businesses, trusts, women groups, entrepreneurs etc., in metropolitan, urban, 
semi-urban and rural areas. The services entails loans, deposits and other 
products and services.
Wholesale/ Commercial Banking: The wholesale banking services cater to 
corporates, government, financial institutions, education institutions, MSMEs 
public sector units etc. The services entails commercial and transactional 
banking services.
IV.	 Employees
20.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year – 2023-24
 
a. 
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Sl.  
No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
75,748
67,308
88.86%
8,440
11.14%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
-
-
-
-
-
3.
Total employees (D + E)
75,748
67,308
88.86%
8,440
11.14%
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
Not Applicable
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
6.
Total workers (F + G)
	
Note:
	
1.	
All the employees of the Bank are on-rolls and there are no employees that are not on the rolls of the Bank. Accordingly, KPIs related to other 
than permanent are nil in any of the tables of the prescribed BRSR format.
	
2.	
The Bank does not employ any workers. Accordingly, KPIs related to workers are nil in any of the tables of the prescribed BRSR format.
 
b. 
Differently abled employees and workers
Sl. 
No
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
6*
6*
100%
0
0%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
3.
Total differently abled employees (D+E)
6*
6*
100%
0
0%
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
Not Applicable
5.
Other than permanent (G)
6.
Total differently-abled workers (F+G)
	
*Based on voluntary disclosure by the employees.
140
Bandhan Bank Limited
21. Participation/ inclusion/ representation of women
Total (A)
No. and the percentage of females
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
14
2
14.29%
Key Management Personnel *
5
-
-
	
*includes the MD&CEO and two Whole-time Directors, the CFO and the Company Secretary
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
21.45%
27.27%
22.14%
31.60%
43.43%
32.78%
23.25%
33.00%
24.19%
Permanent Workers
Not applicable
V. 
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint venture)
23. a. 
Name of the holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ joint ventures
Sl.
No.
Name of the  
holding/ subsidiary/  
associate companies/  
joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether holding/ 
Subsidiary/ Associate/ 
Joint Venture (B)
% of shares 
held by the 
listed entity (C)
Does the entity indicated in column A, 
participate in the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed entity? (Yes/ No) (D)
The Bank does not have any holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ joint ventures.
VI.	 CSR details
24. i. 
Whether CSR is applicable as per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (Yes/No): 
	
	
Yes
	
ii.	
Turnover:
	
	
₹2,10,34,27,17,205 (FY 2023-24)
	
iii.	
Net worth:
	
	
₹2,03,65,50,03,262 (FY 2023-24)
VII.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25. Complaints/ Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct (NGRBC)
Stakeholder 
group
from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanisms 
in Place (Yes/
No) (If yes, 
then provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redressal 
policy)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
filed during
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
the close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at the close 
of the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
https://
bandhanbank.
com/
pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../
sites/default/
files/2023-01/
Business-
Responsibility-
and-
Sustainability-
Reporting-
policy-210123.
pdf
0
1
The case filed by 
the pro-Bengali 
advocacy 
organisation 
has since been 
closed.
 1
 1
A case was 
filed by the 
pro-Bengali 
advocacy 
organisation 
Bangla Pokkho 
entailing 
all banking 
documents 
published 
by the Bank 
should be in 
English, Hindi 
and Bengali.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
141
Stakeholder 
group
from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanisms 
in Place (Yes/
No) (If yes, 
then provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redressal 
policy)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
filed during
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
the close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at the close 
of the year
Remarks
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Not Applicable
0
0
Not Applicable
0
0
-
Shareholders
Yes
https://
bandhanbank.
com/
pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../
sites/default/
files/2023-01/
Business-
Responsibility-
and-
Sustainability-
Reporting-
policy-210123.
pdf 
201
3
The pending 
3 complaints 
have since been 
closed.
The 
communications 
from 
shareholders 
pertain to 
dividends-
related queries, 
transfer/ 
transition of 
shares, Annual 
Reports etc.
169
3
Pending 
complaints 
have been 
resolved 
during FY 
2023-24
Employees
Yes
https://
bandhanbank.
com/
pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../
sites/default/
files/2023-01/
Business-
Responsibility-
and-
Sustainability-
Reporting-
policy-210123.
pdf
Whistleblower 
– 40
POSH - 21
Court Cases 
by ex-
employees 
-35
Whistleblower 
- 7
POSH - 04
court cases by 
ex-employees 
– 61
All pending 
cases of 
whistleblowers 
and POSH have 
since been 
closed.
Out of 70 court 
cases 61 are 
pending as of 
March 31, 2024.
The nature of 
employees’ 
complaints 
varies from 
breach of code 
of conduct, 
POSH, breach 
of ethical 
behaviour 
and practices 
and other 
behavioural 
issues.
514
62
Includes 41 
carry-forward 
court cases 
and 6 new 
cases out of 
which 12 have 
been disposed 
off.
The balance 
of 15 pending 
complaints 
from the 
employees, 
including 
POSH and 
whistle-
blowers was 
resolved 
during FY 
2023-24
142
Bandhan Bank Limited
Stakeholder 
group
from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanisms 
in Place (Yes/
No) (If yes, 
then provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redressal 
policy)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
filed during
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
the close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at the close 
of the year
Remarks
Customers
Yes
https://
bandhanbank.
com/sites/
default/
files/2024-02/
Customer-
Policy-010224.
pdf
60,672
1,774
Out of 1,150 
pending 
complaints, 
1,110 have since 
been closed.
Out of 60,672 
complains, 342 
are court cases 
that have been 
filed in the 
FY 2023-24. 
As of March 
31, 2024, 624 
court cases were 
pending which 
includes cases 
from previous 
years
37,951
1,734
Out of 1,734 
cases, 314 are 
court cases, of 
which 13 
have been 
closed during 
FY 2023-24.
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes
https://
bandhanbank.
com/
pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../
sites/default/
files/2023-01/
Business-
Responsibility-
and-
Sustainability-
Reporting-
policy-210123.
pdf
0
0
No complaints 
has been 
received from 
value chain 
partners
0
0
-
Others (please 
specify)
-
-
26. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues:
 
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters 
that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk, 
along with its financial implications, as per the following format:
	
Materiality assessment is the process of determining topics (issues) that can impact economic, environmental, social and governance 
attributes in banking operations. It has the potential to influence the decisions of stakeholders, who are willing to partner like 
customers, shareholders, lenders and investors. The preliminary step in materiality assessment is to identify and consult with the 
right set of stakeholders (or representatives) who can provide useful insights. The materiality assessment process includes –
a) 
Identification of sector-specific material topics: The process involves identifying relevant peer companies across the banking sector 
and mapping standards like the Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’), United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (‘UN SDGs’), 
International Integrated Reporting Council (‘IIRC’) requirements, to understand the appropriate material topics.
b) 
Identification of external stakeholders: The Bank assesses the impact of its banking operations on its investors, customers, 
employees, community, regulatory bodies, value chain partners, media, civil and societies to evaluate ways to further improve 
stakeholder value creation.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
143
c) 
External stakeholder consultation: The Bank liaisons with external stakeholders and seeks their perception and comments on the 
identified material topics. Such material topics are further prioritised basis of the importance they hold to each stakeholder group 
and their feedback.
d) 
Prioritisation of material topics relevant to the Bank: External stakeholder responses are first assessed and collated. The collated 
material topics are categorised into low, medium and high categories and finally, the materiality map is finalised post consultation 
with the decision-making committee and senior leadership team.
	
The Bank remains committed to implementing relevant policies to ensure responsible banking conduct and undertake required 
sustainability initiatives. Based on the prioritised material topics, the Bank has identified relevant risks and opportunities that are 
mentioned below. This report includes information, which is material to all stakeholders of the Bank, and it presents an overview of 
the Bank’s businesses and associated activities. The Bank discloses matters that substantially impact or affect the Bank’s ability to 
create value. To ensure effective mitigation of identified risks, the Bank carries out a materiality analysis, to identify topics material to 
the Bank and its stakeholders. The sensitivity of an issue to stakeholders and the Bank, in terms of importance, forms the basis of the 
materiality analysis, which in turn guides the processes for identifying, managing, and devising specific action plans for addressing 
these material aspects. Every material topic is taken into account, and the Bank has policies and procedures in place to address these 
topics in order to create sustainable growth and long-term value.
Sl.  
No.
Material issue
Identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for identifying  
the risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt  
or mitigate
Financial implications of 
the risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive or negative 
implications)
1.
Climate Change-
Related Risks
Risk
•	
Climate-related risks refer to the 
potential risks that may arise from 
climate change or from efforts to 
mitigate climate change, its impact 
and the economic and financial 
consequences.
•	
It can impact the financial sector 
through two broad channels - physical 
risks and transition risks.
•	
Physical Risk: The physical impacts 
from climate change will feed through 
to an economy in various ways, 
including damages to physical assets 
through extreme weather, reduced 
agricultural productivity, heat-related 
health and medical issues, and loss of 
biodiversity.
•	
Transition Risk: It refers to the 
risks arising from the process of 
adjustment towards a low-carbon 
economy. 
A 
range 
of 
factors 
influences this adjustment, including 
changes in climate-related policies 
and regulations, the emergence 
of 
newer 
technologies, 
shifting 
sentiments 
and 
behaviour 
of 
customers. The process of transition, 
i.e., reducing carbon emissions may 
have a significant impact on the 
economy.
•	
The uncertainty about the timing 
and severity of climate-related risks 
like physical risk and transition risk 
threatens the safety, soundness and 
resilience of regulated entities (REs) 
and in turn, it affects the overall 
stability of the financial system.
•	
Financial, reputational, regulatory 
and market risk implications are 
becoming increasingly prominent 
with increased threats of climate 
change such as but not limited to 
floods, droughts, erratic rainfall, 
supply chain disruptions, change in 
market perception and shift towards 
more 
environmentally 
friendly 
products and services.
•	
The Bank has a robust governance 
structure to develop climate-related risk 
mitigation strategies, ensure effective 
implementation of the identified levers 
and monitor performance against such 
risks at regular intervals.
•	
The Bank ensures that climate-related 
risks like floods, cyclones and external 
rating impact on industries with CO2 
emissions are properly reflected in 
the Bank's short-term and long-term 
capital planning under the Internal 
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process 
(ICAAP)* through stress testing and 
impact analysis.
	
*(ICAAP under BASEL accord – a 
mechanism to ensure the institution's 
strategic focus, business plan and 
internal 
procedures 
for 
ensuring 
adequate possession of long-term 
capital resources to cover all material 
risks.)
•	
The Bank is deliberating to embark on 
a journey of advocating sustainability 
in its value chain, such as assessment 
of the GHG emission footprint of its 
lending portfolio, lender’s customer 
targets and commitments on ESG 
resource optimisation, evaluating the 
quantum of collateral positioned in 
high-risk flood/drought-prone areas, 
checking green building certifications of 
real estate portfolios, social inclusivity 
of corporates, SME & MSME customers.
•	
Within its operation, the Bank is 
considering greening the branches 
and data centres, eliminating the 
use of paper in the operations, 
introducing the option of e-receipts 
on registered mobile numbers at 
their ATMs, evaluating options of 
switching over to renewable energy for 
sourcing power gradually and future-
proofing operations against regulatory 
requirements.
Negative financial implications:
•	
Financial/Credit risk: Rising 
frequency and severity of 
extreme weather events 
can impair the value of 
assets held by the Banks’ 
customers, or impact supply 
chains affecting customers’ 
operations and profitability 
and leading to higher loan 
defaults and NPAs.
•	
Market 
risk: 
Increased 
volatility 
in 
investments 
because of shifts in investor 
preferences 
or 
climate-
induced 
adverse 
effects 
might lead to a decline in 
lending portfolio valuation.
•	
Reputational 
risk: 
Failure 
to 
address 
the 
challenging climate change 
vulnerabilities 
will 
affect 
stakeholders’ trust resulting 
in loss of customer base.
144
Bandhan Bank Limited
Sl.  
No.
Material issue
Identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for identifying  
the risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt  
or mitigate
Financial implications of 
the risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive or negative 
implications)
2.
Employee 
Engagement
Opportunity
•	
People transformation is one of 
the agenda for the Bank’s Vision 
2025. People are at the forefront of 
customer interactions and also the 
strongest brand ambassadors on the 
ground.
•	
The Bank’s Human Resources (HR) 
policies and practices are designed to 
empower people and provide them 
with an environment where they can 
deliver their best every day.
•	
Building 
an 
innovative 
work 
environment to foster employee 
well-being, enhance relationships 
and sustain long-term productivity 
by 
providing 
work-life 
balance, 
better career progression, healthy 
& safe working environment and 
aim towards becoming an appealing 
employer.
Approach to adapt or mitigate is provided in 
case of risk only. Hence, not applicable.
Positive financial implication:
Employee 
welfare 
initiatives 
might lead to higher talent 
retention improve the Bank’s 
brand image and impact the 
performance of the employees.
Our 
human 
resources 
management strategy is centered 
on 
creating 
a 
supportive, 
interesting, 
and 
collaborative 
workplace while continuing to be 
customer-centric,
Performance-driven, and future-
ready. The Bank has received the 
‘Gallup Exceptional Workplace 
Award’ in recognition of its 
efforts in the area of employee 
engagement.
The Bank ranks among the most 
prestigious companies that are 
genuinely altering how people 
perceive work and life as award 
winners.
3.
Customer Value
Opportunity
•	
Ensuring 
customer 
satisfaction 
and maintaining transparency are 
essential for business growth, as they 
help to maintain customer trust and 
make them feel valued.
•	
Our fast-paced growth momentum 
and agility open up the scope for 
tapping the changing needs of 
customers and addressing their 
emerging preferences.
Approach to adapt or mitigate is provided in 
case of risk only. Hence, not applicable.
Positive financial implication:
Improved customer satisfaction 
through customised customer 
experiences will ensure improved 
business 
through 
customer 
retention and factor in existing 
customer recommendations for 
tapping new customers.
The Bank scored 46 on Nielsen’s 
Net Promoter Score (‘NPS’), 
which was higher than the 
industry benchmark.
4.
Community 
Engagement and 
Development
Opportunity
•	
Facilitating 
socio-economic 
development of the disadvantaged 
communities through programmes 
on health, education, livelihood and 
environment.
The Bank has a holistic model of 
development under its Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
(CSR) 
initiatives, 
which 
targets the underprovided section of the 
society. The Bank CSR initiatives are aligned 
with the Bank’s operational areas. The CSR 
programme includes:
•	
Targeting the Hard-core Poor – A 
programme 
uniquely 
crafted 
for 
ultra-poor women-headed families to 
move them out of the vicious cycle of 
extreme poverty and ensure a life with 
dignity and stable income.
•	
Education Programme – Provides 
supplementary and pre-primary quality 
learning to underprivileged children.
•	
Health Programme – Targets at 
reducing maternal and infant mortality, 
and preventing malnutrition amongst 
under the age of five children and 
adolescent girls.
•	
Employing the Unemployed – The 
programme provides skills and gainful 
employment to underprivileged youths.
•	
Financial 
Literacy 
– 
Imparts 
financial 
management 
knowledge 
to 
underprivileged 
women 
and 
mainstream them with digital banking 
services.
Positive financial implication:
The Bank can acquire the benefits 
of promoting social equality and 
reap significant rewards in terms 
of value creation.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
145
Sl.  
No.
Material issue
Identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for identifying  
the risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt  
or mitigate
Financial implications of 
the risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive or negative 
implications)
•	
Climate Action Programme – Helps 
carbon 
sequestration 
through 
afforestation and mitigates climate-
related risks through climate-resilient 
agriculture.
•	
Water conservation – Promotes water 
harvesting structures for providing 
critical irrigation in moisture-stressed 
areas.
5.
Human Rights
Opportunity
•	
The Bank plays a vital role in building 
the economy, as it has substantial 
leverage over a range of sectors and 
business activities.
•	
The Bank advocates for safeguarding 
the fundamental human rights of its 
people and works towards developing 
a diverse workforce.
Approach to adapt or mitigate is provided in 
case of risk only. Hence, not applicable.
Positive financial implication:
Protecting human rights across 
the value chain is an affirmative 
action, it creates a competitive 
advantage and enhances brand 
reputation.
6.
Regulatory 
& Statutory 
Compliance
Risk
•	
Financial 
institutions 
face 
expanding regulatory and reporting 
requirements to ensure transparency 
in their operations for building 
stakeholder 
confidence 
and 
benchmarking themselves against 
the best practices in Corporate 
Governance.
•	
With growing footprint, there is a risk 
of unintended slippages resulting in 
non-compliance.
•	
The Bank has a robust due diligence 
mechanism 
for 
monitoring 
transactions, 
performing 
customer 
background checks and evaluating all 
lending decisions for tackling litigation 
matters timely.
•	
Similarly, the Bank’s processes, policies, 
procedures, systems and tools ensure 
that if in case any regulatory non-
compliances arises in its operations 
are mitigated promptly and promote a 
healthy compliance culture.
•	
The Bank also obliges with all statutory 
reporting requirements.
Negative financial implication:
Failure to comply with regulatory 
laws may result in substantial 
fines, 
penalties 
and 
cause 
damage to the Bank’s reputation.
7.
Business Ethics & 
Governance
Risk
Corporate conduct and ethical practices 
are central to safeguard the reputation and 
business success of financial institutions.
•	
By adopting a strong ethical culture, 
the Bank maintains its reputation as a 
trusted financial institution.
•	
Effective governance practices help 
in minimising its exposure to business 
and ethics-related risks like fund 
embezzlement, insider trading and 
money laundering. The Bank has robust 
compliance mechanisms and controls, 
to monitor its performance diligently 
and periodically.
Negative financial implication:
•	
The Bank may incur legal 
expense 
resulting 
from 
breach 
of 
maintaining 
ethical 
and 
governance 
standards.
•	
Customer 
preference 
might be influenced if they 
perceive that the Bank is not 
governed effectively, leading 
to reduced business scope.
•	
Failure to conduct proper 
customer 
due 
diligence 
may result in higher fraud 
funding and greater loan 
defaults.
8.
Risk & Crisis 
Management
Risk
Integration of ESG risks in banking 
operations is a must for building resilient 
organisations. These risks are increasingly 
becoming uncertain and volatile.
•	
Physical risk is assessed considering 
scenarios like ‘Impact Study of Cyclones 
Leading to Business Disruption in Micro 
Banking in Coastal Areas’, ‘Impact 
study of River Floods leading to 
Business Disruption in Micro Banking’, 
‘Impact study of rating downgrade 
of companies falling under industries 
with High CO2 emission for commercial 
banking portfolio’ and impact study 
of unfavourable climate condition on 
agricultural districts.
•	
Transition risk is also assessed by 
way of an impact study on business 
disruption in agricultural districts for 
the EEB segment, and incorporation 
of the Pollution Index (PI) score in 
Credit Proposal Vetting and Industry 
Outlook framework for the commercial 
banking segment.
Negative financial implication:
The absence of proactive crisis 
management 
practices 
might 
lead to unanticipated losses on 
account of market disruptions, 
policy changes, and data service 
disruptions.
146
Bandhan Bank Limited
Sl.  
No.
Material issue
Identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for identifying  
the risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt  
or mitigate
Financial implications of 
the risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive or negative 
implications)
9.
Data Privacy & 
Digitalisation
Risk
Owing to regulatory requirements, the 
Bank must comply with data protection 
and 
privacy 
regulations 
to 
ensure 
that customer data is kept secure and 
confidential to avoid any penal measures 
such as fines, and penalties.
•	
The Bank ensures implementation of 
robust cybersecurity measures and 
data protection policies and procedures 
to prevent data breaches, cybercrimes 
and provides guaranteed confidentiality 
of customer information.
•	
The Bank ensures that customers’ data 
is treated sensitively & sensibly across 
the entire value chain of its business. 
The Bank ensures that the customer 
data used for various assessment 
processes 
follow 
the 
required 
regulatory guidelines.
Negative financial implication:
Failure to ensure the protection 
of customer data, and prevention 
of cyber-attacks can result in 
reputational damage, regulatory 
action, loss of business and incur 
legal liability.
10.
Financial Inclusion
Opportunity
•	
Financial 
inclusion 
and 
serving 
the underserved is a hallmark of 
the Bank. In terms of its banking 
operations and customer base, the 
Bank is highly invested in addressing 
financial inclusion.
•	
The Bank’s unique high-tech and 
high-touch approach enables much 
deeper last-mile doorstep delivery of 
banking services.
•	
 The Bank recognises the initiatives 
taken by the government to fulfil 
the financial inclusion drive and has 
allied itself with various government 
schemes to achieve the goals of 
financial inclusion.
•	
The Bank has customised several 
products and services catering to 
underserved sections across all income 
groups, including a wide range of micro 
and retail loans and deposit products 
that are flexible and delivered at the 
doorstep even to customers that are in 
rural and remote areas.
•	
The Bank has immense potential to 
expand its banking operation across the 
country and has been diversifying its 
operations to non-east states.
•	
More than 75 per cent. (25.3 million) of 
the customers are EEB customers and 
the Bank has more than 70 per cent. 
Banking outlets are in rural in semi-
urban areas, which is in alignment with 
the Bank’s vision of catering for the 
underbanked.
•	
Affordable housing is another hallmark 
that 
provides 
micro-home 
loan 
solutions to underbanked customers.
•	
The Bank has promoted various 
government schemes related to the 
agri sector, social security schemes etc.
•	
The Bank actively supports Small 
businesses, artists, farmers, women 
groups and underprivileged sections 
for holistic development and helps 
create employment and livelihood 
opportunities.
Positive financial implication:
Providing 
innovative 
financial 
products 
to 
individuals 
and 
businesses to those who are 
currently excluded from the 
traditional 
banking 
system 
will 
provide 
deeper 
market 
penetration and will unleash the 
Bank’s true growth potential.
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the NGRBC 
Principles and Core Elements.
The National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (‘NGRBC’) as prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs advocates nine 
principles referred to as P1-P9 as given below:
P1
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is ethical, transparent and accountable
P2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
P4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all its stakeholders
P5
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6
Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
P7
Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and 
transparent
P8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
147
Disclosure Questions
P 1
P 2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1.	 a.	 Whether your entity’s policy/ policies cover each 
principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Y/N)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
b.	 Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Y/N)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
c.	 Web link of the policies, if available
https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2023-01/Business-
Responsibility-and-Sustainability-Reporting-policy-210123.pdf
2.	 Whether the entity has translated the policy into 
procedures. (Y/N)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3.	 Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain 
partners? (Y/N)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
4.	 Name of the national and international codes/ 
certifications/ labels/ standards (e.g., Forest Stewardship 
Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards 
(e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity 
and mapped to each principle.
•  National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct, 2019, 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India
•  P – 6 : IGBC Gold rated green building
5.	 Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the 
entity with defined timelines, if any.
Nil
6.	 Performance of the entity against the specific 
commitments, goals, and targets along-with reasons in 
case the same are not met.
Not applicable
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	 Statement by director responsible for the business 
responsibility report, highlighting ESG-related 
challenges, targets, and achievements
The statement by the MD & CEO on the BRSR is mentioned at the 
beginning of this report.
8.	 Details of the highest authority responsible for 
implementation and oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy(ies).
Board of Directors
9.	 Does the entity have a specified Committee of the 
Board/Director responsible for decision-making on 
sustainability-related issues? (Yes/ No). If yes, provide 
details
Yes. The Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability Committee of 
the Board (‘CSR&SCB’) is responsible for the oversight of sustainability-
related matters. The Committee is Chaired by a non-executive 
independent director and meets at least once in every quarter.
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken  
by Director/ Committee of the Board/  
Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/  
Any other – please specify)
Performance 
against above 
policies and follow-
up action
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9









Annually
The CSR&SCB reviewed the Compendium of the BRSR 
policies that are based on the 9 principles of the 
NGRBC guidelines and based on the recommendation 
of the CSR&SCB, the Board of the Bank approved 
the same. The BRSR disclosures are reviewed by the 
CSR&SCB and approved by the Board.
Compliance 
with statutory 
requirements of 
relevance to the 
principles, and 
rectification of any 
non-compliances
The Bank operates in compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations. All statutory requirements 
are complied with across all banking operations. 
The compliance department and the Internal Audit 
department independently monitor the compliance 
of all statutory requirements at the management 
level. The Audit Committee of the Board and the 
Board review the compliances.
Quarterly
148
Bandhan Bank Limited
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken  
by Director/ Committee of the Board/  
Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/  
Any other – please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
-
11.
Has the entity 
carried out an 
independent 
assessment/
evaluation of 
the working of 
its policies by an 
external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, 
provide the name 
of the agency..









Yes. The policies, their processes and their compliances are evaluated by the compliance department, internal 
audit department, external auditors appointed for management audit, concurrent auditors appointed for 
auditing branch operations, statutory auditors, and risk management, as applicable.
The Bank is subjected to various audits including internal, compliance, internal audits and regulatory. As part 
of the audit process, the assessment/evaluation of the working of its policies is included.
The policies are annually reviewed/evaluated by various department heads and Board Committees and 
approved by the Board.
12. If the answer to question (1) above is ‘No’ i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its business (Yes/No)
Not applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate and implement 
the policies on specified principles (Yes/ No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical resources 
available for the task (Yes/ No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/ No)
Any other reason (please specify)
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, 
Transparent and Accountable
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year.
Segment
Total number of training and 
awareness programmes held
Topics/ principles covered under
the training and its impact
% of persons in respective category 
covered by the awareness programmes
Board of 
Directors
3
Principle – 1:
•	
Anti-Money Laundering/ 
Countering Financing of Terrorism
Principle – 9:
•	
IT & Cyber Security
•	
Artificial Intelligence & Machine 
Learning
64.29%
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel 
(KMP)*
2
Principle – 1:
•	
Code of Conduct
•	
Zero Tolerance
•	
Risk Culture
Principle – 3:
•	
Health Bytes
Principle – 5:
•	
POSH
100%
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
149
Segment
Total number of training and 
awareness programmes held
Topics/ principles covered under
the training and its impact
% of persons in respective category 
covered by the awareness programmes
Employees 
other than 
the Board 
of Directors 
or KMPs
265
Principle – 1:
•	
Induction Training
•	
Business Ethics and Politics
•	
Code of Conduct
•	
Anti-Money Laundering/ 
Countering Financing of Terrorism
•	
Zero Tolerance
Principle – 2:
•	
Compliance in Banking
•	
KYC-AML & CFT
•	
Risk Culture
•	
Risk Management
Principle – 3:
•	
Employment Laws
•	
Women Empowerment
•	
Health Bytes
Principle – 5:
•	
Gender Sensitivity
•	
POSH
•	
Health and Safety
Principle – 9:
•	
Consumer Protection & Grievance 
Redressal
99%
Workers
NA
-
NA
	
*Other than Board members
2. 
Details of fines/ penalties/ punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the entity or by 
directors/ KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following format 
[Note: The entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website]:
Monetary
NGRBC
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ judicial 
institutions
Amount 
(₹)
Brief of the Case
Has an 
appeal been 
preferred? 
(Yes/ No)
Penalty/Fine
1
RBI
₹29.55 
lakh
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has, by an order 
dated March 04, 2024, imposed a monetary 
penalty of ₹29.55 lakh (Rupees Twenty Nine 
Lakh Fifty-five Thousand only) on the bank 
for non-compliance with certain directions 
on ‘Reserve Bank of India (Interest Rate on 
Deposits) Directions, 2016’. This penalty has 
been imposed in the exercise of powers vested 
in RBI conferred under the provisions of section 
47A(1)(c) read with section 46(4)(i) of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
No
Settlement
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Compounding Fee
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
150
Bandhan Bank Limited
Non-Monetary
NGRBC
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/judicial 
institutions
Brief of 
the case
Has an appeal been preferred? (Yes/No)
Imprisonment
NIL
Punishment
NIL
3. 
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-
monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
4. 
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web-link 
to the policy.
	
Yes.
	
Link: - https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2023-01/Business-Responsibility-and-Sustainability-Reporting-policy-210123.pdf
	
The Bank has an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy embedded in the Code of Conduct section of the HR Policy and is also 
available on the website as part of the Compendium of BRSR Policies. Every new joinee signed the hard copy and also digitally 
in the HRMS portal for the first time use. Subsequently, every year in the month of April all employees including KMP and senior 
management digitally undertake the annual code of conduct declaration, containing the anti-bribery and anti-corruption provisions 
of the Bank.
	
Additionally, the Bank has a Vigilance Policy and whistleblower Policy, which aim to effectively implement systems and procedures 
to prevent corruption, serving as a deterrent for any wrongdoing. The Bank has established a two-tier system, viz., (i) the Chief of 
Internal Vigilance (‘CIV’) and (ii) the Disciplinary Committee which bears the responsibility of (a) investigating any alleged or proven 
misconduct employees by an employee and (b) taking necessary punitive actions, respectively.
	
The Bank is extremely strict in taking measures against wrongdoings, misconduct and cases of bribery and corruption, adhering to 
its zero-tolerance practice. Furthermore, the CIV takes measures to prevent bribery by conducting periodic reviews and checks on 
high-value purchases made by the Bank, scrutinising assets held or declared by senior management and employees and probing 
into any reported cases of conflicts of interest involving employees. These measures ensure 100% compliance from all employees, 
as the Bank strives towards zero cases of non-compliance. The CIV apprises the MD&CEO about the monthly vigilance activities and 
submits the report to the Audit Committee of the Board.
5. 
Number of Directors/ KMPs/ employees/ workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency 
for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directors
NIL
NIL
KMPs
NIL
NIL
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NA
NA
6. 
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of conflict of interest of directors
NIL
NA
NIL
NA
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of conflict of interest of KMPs
NIL
NA
NIL
NA
7. 
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/ penalties/ action taken by regulators/ law 
enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
NIL.
	
The Bank’s internal robust mechanism, controls, checks and balances ensure that there have been no such cases of non-compliance 
and hence, no corrective actions were required.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
151
8. 
Number of days of accounts payables {(Accounts payable *365)/ Cost of goods/ services procured)} in the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of	days of accounts payables
14
19
9.	
Openness of business
	
Provide details of the concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along with loans 
and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Concentration of 
Purchases
a.	 Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
-
-
b.	 Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
-
-
c.	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases 
from trading houses
-
-
Concentration of 
Sales
a.	 Sales to dealers/ distributors as % of total sales
-
-
b.	 Number of dealers/distributors to whom sales are made
-
-
c.	 Sales to top 10 dealers/distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers/distributors
-
-
Share of RPTs in
a.	 Purchases	 (Purchases with related parties/ Total Purchases)
-
-
b.	 Sales (Sales to related parties/ Total Sales)
-
-
c.	 Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related parties/ 
Total loans & advances)
0.008%Note
0.003%Note
d.	 Investments (Investments in related parties/ Total Investments 
made)
-
-
	
Note:
	
1.	
In the absence of any definition in the prescribed BRSR format in the SEBI Circular, the Bank has interpreted, a trading house as an entity that 
acts as an intermediary that facilitates trade between countries, i.e., linking a home country’s buyers and sellers with other foreign country’s 
buyers and sellers. Therefore, given the nature of the Bank’s operation, there were no sales or purchases done that involved any trading house.
	
2.	
The Bank does not appoint any dealers or distributors to provide its products and services to customers. All the customers are direct customers 
of the Bank. Therefore, there was nil sales to any dealers or distributors.
	
3.	
The Bank is a service-oriented company and is not involved in any purchases or sales in its operations. Therefore, there are nil purchases from 
related parties. However, certain services including rent, accommodation/venue charges for the training of employees and interest paid are 
provided in the related party transaction schedule of the financial statement of the Bank.
	
4.	
There is nil investment in any related parties. The Bank has, as per its Policy, extended housing loans to KMPs, the percentage of which is 
derived on the closing balance of the outstanding loan at the end of the FY. Further details regarding related party transactions are provided 
in the schedule of the Financial Statement for FY 2024. 
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1. 
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year.
	
The Bank has undertaken various training and awareness programmes for value chain partners including call centre and direct sales 
agents partners that are related to principle 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6.
	
The Bank also undertakes awareness workshop customer relations, financial literacy, digital banking and prevention of online frauds, 
which is detailed in relevant section of Principle 9 of this report.
2. 
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/ No) If yes, 
provide details of the same.
	
Yes.
	
The Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors of the Bank is laid down with an aim to ensure transparency and high ethical 
standards in managing the affairs and operations. At the time of appointment and any time during tenure, the Board members have 
to disclose any actual/ potential conflict of interest, if any, whenever such situation arises. Non-disclosure of conflict of interest by 
any Board member would be treated as a non-compliance.
	
During the year under review, the Bank has not entered into any materially significant transactions with its Directors or Relatives 
of the Directors, which could lead to a potential conflict of interest between the Bank and these parties, other than transactions 
entered into in the ordinary course of its business.
	
All the members of the Board of Directors of the Bank have affirmed compliance with the said Codes as applicable to them.
	
Weblink: https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2020-12/Code-Conduct-for-Directors.pdf
152
Bandhan Bank Limited
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and 
social impacts of products and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D
NA
NA
-
Capex
NA
NA
The Bank is a service provider and a regulated entity and operates as per the Banking 
Regulations. Therefore, the scope of Capex to improve the environmental and social 
impacts of products and processes is not material to the Bank. However, the Bank has 
taken several environmental and social initiatives, as mentioned below.
Environmental – The Bank has transitioned effectively into a digital banking ecosystem. 
This has helped the Bank in reducing its usage of paper across its branches and operations. 
The Bank has also invested in various innovative technologies and IT transformations 
across all its branches.
The energy-efficient lighting system and water-saving technology have led to a reduction 
in power and water usage. The seamless transactions through mobile and net banking 
have led to a reduction in commuting time to the branches, thereby considerably reducing 
vehicular emissions and costs from commutation and energy consumption.
Social – The Bank has established EEB banking units catering to the underbanked rural 
and semi-urban areas leading to greater financial inclusion in the remote areas. The 
Bank has brought banking to the doorsteps of marginalised and economically backward 
communities through these Business Units. The Bank has taken several initiatives of 
financial literacy and financial empowerment amongst vulnerable groups such as rural 
housewives, and women entrepreneurs, ensuring inclusivity and ease of access for all 
sections of society, to banking services.
During the pandemic and post-pandemic restrictions, many of the customers of your 
Bank lost their livelihoods, which made them financially vulnerable. To strengthen the 
customers, your Bank came up with products specifically designed for these situations 
and ensured that the customers get the maximum financial assistance during the toughest 
time in their lives.
To overcome digital-based challenges, the Bank is providing training to enhance customer 
awareness of the benefits of digital payments and various other aspects, such as seeding 
bank accounts with mobile numbers and Aadhaar.
The Bank scaled up the first of its kind ‘Android PoS’, a testament to the commitment to 
providing innovative and customer-centric solutions to merchants and promoting digital 
payments in remote areas.
2. 
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/ No)
	
Owing to the nature of the banking products and services offered, sustainable sourcing may not be a significant material topic for 
the Bank. However, the Bank endeavours to integrate sustainability in the supply chain(s) for its products and services across its 
operations. Wherever feasible, the Bank tries to incorporate sustainable sourcing in its operations. For procurement of equipment, 
the Bank ensures that energy efficiency standards are considered during the purchase of electronic equipment such as computers, 
laptops, lighting devices, ACs amongst others.
	
The Bank’s supply chain includes outsourced agencies, third-party service providers, transporters, suppliers of materials and capital 
goods, franchisees, dealers and distributors. The Bank recognises the need to work closely with the suppliers to reduce waste, 
improve efficiency, reduce carbon footprint and continuously work towards ensuring greater integration of environmental factors in 
its procurement practices.
	
In line with the bank’s sustainability commitment, it has prioritised several key actions, as mentioned below:
	
Partnering for Good: The Bank actively seeks suppliers who demonstrate ethical labour practices, environmental responsibility, and 
high-quality standards. Transparency and minimising environmental impact are key factors in supplier selection.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
153
	
Sustainable Procurement Policies: Formalised procurement policies guide sourcing decisions, ensuring suppliers align with the 
bank’s values of environmental and social accountability.
	
Minimising Environmental Footprint: The Bank is mindful of the environmental impact of its procurement activities. We actively 
work to reduce waste, promote energy efficiency, and encourage the use of renewable resources throughout their operations and 
supply chain.
	
Social Impact: Beyond environmental considerations, the bank prioritises social impact. We choose suppliers who uphold human 
rights, provide safe working conditions, and contribute positively to their communities.
	
Continuous Improvement: The Bank remains dedicated to ongoing improvement in its sustainable sourcing practices. Regular 
reviews and updates to procurement policies ensure they incorporate emerging sustainability trends and best practices.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling, and disposing at the end of life, for:
	
(a) 
Plastics (including packaging),
 
(b) 
E-waste,
 
(c) 
Hazardous waste, and
 
(d) 
Other waste.
	
The Bank does not have a physical product offerings in its normal course of operations. Therefore, there is an insignificant footprint 
of waste generation for the reclamation for reusing and recycling of such wastes.
	
a)	
Plastics – The plastic usage in the products is minimal, hence, reclamation of plastics is not applicable. However, in its day-to-
day usage, there are plastic usage recycling bins for designated plastics like water bottles and other plastic containers. These 
are collected by a recycling service and processed according to local regulations.
	
b)	
E-waste - E-waste generated from the banking operations across all offices and branches is responsibly disposed of by third-
party service providers.
	
c)	
Hazardous Waste – Owing to the nature of the operations as a banking facility, there isn’t much scope for the generation of 
hazardous waste from the Bank’s branches and offices that are owned and controlled by third parties.
	
d)	
Other Waste – Paper waste is disposed of for recycling by third-party service providers.
4. 
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/ No). If yes, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, 
provide steps taken to address the same.
	
No. As the Bank does not have any physical product offering or has any major plastics usage in its products and services, the Bank 
does not qualify for any EPR obligation.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1. 
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or for its 
services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
NIC Code
Name of 
Product 
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the 
Life Cycle Perspective/ 
Assessment was conducted
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/ No)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes/ No) If 
yes, provide the web-link.
Not applicable
2. 
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your products/
services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same 
along with action taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product/ Service
Description of the risk/concern
Action Taken
Not applicable
154
Bandhan Bank Limited
3. 
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) or 
providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Not applicable
4. 
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at the end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled and safely 
disposed.
	
Bandhan Bank Limited is a service provider and the Bank’s services do not include any significant packaging material, except for the 
new account opening kits.
5. 
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as a percentage of products sold) for each product category
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as %  
of total products sold in the respective category
Not applicable
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value 
chains
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health  
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity
benefits
Paternity  
benefits
Day-care  
facilities
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
No. (E)
% (E/A)
No. (F)
% (F/A)
Permanent employees
Male
67,308
67,308
100%
67,308
100%
-
-
67,308
100%
-
-
Female
8,440
8,440
100%
8,440
100%
8,440
100%
-
-
Total
75,748
75,748
100%
75,748
100%
8,440
100%
67,308
100%
-
-
Other than Permanent employees
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
	
Note: From April 2023 onwards, 100% of male employees are eligible for paternity benefits.
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of workers covered by
Total (A)
Health  
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity
benefits
Paternity
benefits
Day Care  
facilities
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
No. (E)
% (E/A)
No. (F)
% (F/A)
Permanent workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
Other than Permanent workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
 
c. 
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than permanent) in 
the following format
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the company
0.47%
0.37%
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
155
2. 
Details of retirement benefits for the current and previous financial years:
Benefits
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the
Authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100%
NA
Y
100%
NA
Y
Gratuity
100%
NA
N.A.*
100%
NA
NA*
ESI
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Others – please Specify
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
*Gratuity is deposited with the Bandhan Bank Gratuity Fund Trust
3. 
Accessibility of workplaces: Are the premises/offices accessible to differently-abled employees and workers as per the requirements 
of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Yes, the Bank has developed a dedicated policy on Human Rights as part of the commitment to BRSR Principle 5 and ensures non-
discrimination and fair treatment for all its employees. The Bank’s branches and offices have appropriate systems and processes in 
place to ensure compliance with the policy and statutory provisions.
	
As per RBI circulars DBOD. No. Leg BC. 91 /09.07.005/2007-08 dated June 04, 2008; DBOD.No.Leg.BC.123/09.07.005/2008-09 dated 
April 13, 2009, DBOD.No.Leg.BC.38 /09.07.005/2012-13 dated September 05, 2012, DBOD.No.Leg.BC.113 09.07.005/ 2013-14 
dated May 21, 2014 and DBR.No.Leg.BC.96/09.07.005/2017-18 dated November 09, 2017 all banking services are being provided 
to persons with disabilities.
	
Bandhan Bank is committed to providing all our services to Differently Abled Customers without discrimination. The RBI guidelines 
have been upheld by the internal circular number - RB/PSNs/CIR/4153. These circulars uphold the bank’s commitment to offer all its 
banking services and products to Differently Abled Customers without discrimination.
	
The Bank’s websites, net banking and mobile banking are compliant with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG).
	
The Bank has accessible ATMs set up as per the ‘IBA Standards on Accessible ATM’. Details about talking ATM locations can be seen 
here.
	
In case of a differently abled customer facing any difficulty in receiving any services of the bank, please write to pno@bandhanbank.
com or call us at 033-66090909 for redressal. The details are available at the Bank’s website:
	
https://bandhanbank.com/services-for-differently-abled-customer
	
For the employees and the customers, the Bank has taken several measures to create an inclusive environment such as installing 
ramps, signage and elevators for ease of movement of people with locomotive disability. The Bank ensures that doorways and 
corridors are wide enough for wheelchair users. Additionally, we have made the restrooms, workstations, and common areas 
accessible and equipped with the necessary accommodations. The Bank is also committed to promoting digital accessibility where 
information and communication technology is accessible to all and/or compatible with assistive technology devices.
4. 
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a web-
link to the policy.
	
Yes, the Bank has an equal opportunity statement in its HR policy and the extract of the same is also available in the Compendium 
of BRSR policies under Principle 5.
	
Web-link:https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2023-01/Business-Responsibility-and-Sustainability-Reporting-
policy-210123.pdf
	
The Bank believes that promoting equal opportunity in the workplace based on merit and ability can create an environment 
conducive to higher engagement and productivity. The Bank has achieved this by communicating the coverage of the policy to 
all employees in an appropriate and meaningful manner. In line with the sustainable development ethos of non-discrimination, 
and inclusive growth, the hiring and performance evaluation, compensation, training and employee benefits, are devoid of any 
discrimination based on caste, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, race, colour, ancestry, marital status or affiliation with 
a political, religious or union organisation or majority/minority group.
156
Bandhan Bank Limited
5. 
Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees who took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate.
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
86.04%
N/A*
NA
NA
Female
62.5%
85.26%
NA
NA
Total
79.34%
85.26%
NA
NA
	
*parental leave for male employees was applicable with effect from April 01, 2023
6. 
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and workers? If yes, 
give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Not applicable
Other than Permanent 
Workers
Not applicable
Permanent Employees
Yes.
The HR policy of the Bank incorporates the Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) for 
addressing issues related to sexual harassment. An Internal Committee (IC) consisting of one Presiding 
Officer and three members is constituted at the head office to enquire into and provide redressal of 
Sexual Harassment complaints. The composition of the IC consists of at least one external member 
and one-half of the total member are women officials. In addition to POSH, the Bank has also built an 
in-house grievance redressal system which is available in the HRMS portal of the Bank. The grievance 
redressal mechanism lays down guidelines that need to be followed by the organisation, which 
include the following:
Conflict Resolution
An employee who feels that he or she is being subjected to harassment should first, where possible, 
make his/ her disapproval clearly known to the individual(s) concerned and ask that the behaviour be 
stopped. If there is no apparent change in the behaviour of the respondent, the employee concerned 
can make use of either an informal or formal resolution process for redressing their complaint.
Freedom from Retaliation
A person who in good faith brings a complaint of harassment against another person, shall not 
be subjected to any form of retaliation. The Bank prohibits retaliation against anyone who files a 
complaint in good faith, and retaliation in itself constitutes misconduct subject to disciplinary action. 
Discriminating against an employee who has made a complaint of harassment or deleteriously 
affecting the terms and conditions of employment or work environment of the employee will be 
construed as retaliation.
Confidentiality
All employees who are aware of a harassment complaint, or involved in its resolution, must recognise 
the seriousness of the situation and respect the sensitivity and confidentiality that must be accorded 
to the matter. The employees must refrain from discussing the complaint amongst themselves or 
with anyone who does not have a ‘need to know.’ Every effort will be made to preserve the dignity 
and self-respect of the parties to the complaint.
Action against false complaints
False or malicious complaints can seriously damage a person’s reputation, career, and relationships. 
If anyone makes a false or malicious complaint of harassment and it is so established after a thorough 
and proper investigation, the complainant will face disciplinary action, depending on the situation.
Other than Permanent 
Employees
Not applicable
7. 
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
	
The Bank promotes freedom of association; however, the employees are not part of any trade union and the Bank does not engage 
in any collective bargaining agreements. The Bank ensures that all employee grievances are reported anonymously and addressed 
by the management after conducting a detailed investigation.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
157
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees/
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (B)
% (B / A)
Total 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees/
workers in respective 
category, who are 
part of association(s) 
or Union (D)
% (D / C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
75,748
-
-
69,702
-
-
Male
67,308
-
-
62,526
-
-
Female
8,440
-
-
7,176
-
-
Total Permanent Workers
Not Applicable
Male
Female
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
safety measures*
On Skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health and 
safety measures*
On Skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No.(C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Male
67,308
67,308
100%
64,774
96%
62,526
62,526
100%
61,634
98%
Female
8,440
8,440
100%
7,774
92%
7,176
7,176
100%
6,950
98%
Total
75,748
75,748
100%
72,548
96%
69,702
69,702
100%
68,584
98%
Workers
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
*Includes induction, classroom training, fire drills, digital campaign, mailers and online learning platforms
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Male
67,308
55,819
83%
62,526
48,722
78%
Female
8,440
6,201
73%
7,176
4,781
67%
Total
75,748
62,020
82%
69,702
53,503
77%
Workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
	
*The performance management system is available to all employees and new joiners who have joined before September. The new joiners after 
September are considered for the next year’s performance management cycle.
	
The policy on performance management is provided in the HR Policy and is available in the HRMS portal of the Bank for all 
employees. The Bank has a dedicated learning and development wing that provides ample learning opportunities to all employees. 
The learning management system provides online training to all employees. The performance appraisal system of the Bank provides 
career development opportunities and feedback for continuous improvement. The performance appraisal process starts with 
the employee conducting self-appraisal followed by the assessment of the supervisor via appraisal feedback and discussion. The 
performance appraisal ratings are reviewed/ calibrated by a committee. Once the ratings are finalised, promotion and recognition 
announcements are initiated and key performance areas (KRA) for the next year are set.
158
Bandhan Bank Limited
10.	 Health and safety management system:
 
a. 
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, 
the coverage of such system?
	
	
Yes. The Bank is cognizant of the responsibility towards providing a healthy and safe work environment to the employees and 
has developed a dedicated policy as part of the commitment to BRSR Principle 3. The Bank is in the process of evaluating the 
scope of the occupational health and safety management system to outline safety standards for the employees and customers 
to ensure regulatory compliance and promotion of public health and safety. The Bank organises regular training, such as mock 
drills on its premises for its employees on matters of fire safety, emergency response, and basic first aid.
 
b. 
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the 
entity?
	
	
The Bank in collaboration with the building management team of the office premises organises and participates in mock 
fire drill sessions to create awareness amongst employees on how to evacuate in the event of fire or any other unforeseen 
contingency. Fire Marshalls and Fire Warden are nominated and trained to ensure adequate support if any such event occurs.
 
c. 
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks. 
(Yes/ No)
	
	
Not applicable as there are no workers associated with the Bank’s operations.
 
d. 
Do the employees/ workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/N o)
	
	
Yes. The Bank continuously reviews human resource development and evaluates the best practices offered in the banking 
sector, to gain competitive advantage within the industry. The Bank offers extended insurance coverage to the employees 
in the form of top-ups, flexibility to pay monthly premiums to spread the payment over a year and aim for higher cover and 
enhanced coverage of dependents to encompass parents-in-law. It also provides for digital medical services/tele medication 
by way of typing up with leaders like Practo in this field thereby not only catering to its employees but their dependent family 
members also. The Bank also has introduced a Medical Assistance rider to cater to Accident cases for its employees.
11.	 Details of safety-related incidents
Safety Incident/ Number
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person 
hours worked)
Employees
0.03
0.08
Workers
Not applicable
Not applicable
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
5
11
Workers
Not applicable
Not applicable
No. of fatalities (safety incident)
Employees
5
4
Workers
Not applicable
Not applicable
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding 
fatalities)
Employees
NIL
7
Workers
Not applicable
Not applicable
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	
The Bank has developed a dedicated policy on Workplace Health and Safety, as part of its commitment to BRSR Principle 3 and 
is committed to conducting its operations with due regard for the environment and ensuring a safe and healthy workplace for its 
employees. The good health and safety of employees are of great importance to the Bank. While the Bank has put in place internal 
systems and procedures for the creation and maintenance of a safe and healthy environment at the workplace, employees are 
required to follow safety guidelines and internal processes.
	
The Bank has formulated its Security Policy, Procedures and Guidelines in line with recommendations of the Indian Banks’ Association, 
directives issued by RBI, advisories issued by Govt. authorities and industry best practices. All the Banking outlets, ATMs and offices 
are equipped with the latest security & safety gadgets required to create a safe working environment for customers and employees 
of the Bank and protect the assets of the Bank by creating viable deterrence to miscreants. Some of the measures taken to ensure 
safety are as follows
	
•	
Installation of electronic surveillance system at all the ATMs. All Banking outlets and ATMs across the country have complied 
with adequate physical security measures as per the advisory issued by RBI.
	
•	
Implementation of all the Physical Security measures at Currency Chests of the Bank as per RBI guidelines.
	
•	
Full Compliance with all regulatory and statutory norms pertaining to the security & safety of the units.
	
•	
Conducting regular security & safety awareness training programmes to promote and sustain the security culture across 
the Bank.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
159
13.	 Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
NIL
NIL
-
NIL
NIL
-
Health and Safety
NIL
NIL
-
NIL
NIL
-
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and Safety practices 100%
Working Conditions
100%
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risks/
concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions.
	
Fire Audits and Electrical Audits of all the Branches and Offices are conducted annually. Fire extinguishers placed in every branch/
office are checked and refilled as per the required periodicity.
	
The Audit may be categorised as High risk, Medium risk and Low risk based on the condition of the Electrical system. High-risk 
Branches/ Offices are to be audited first. The timeline to carry out the remedial measures for the closure of the Audit Report is as 
prescribed in the risk categorisation matrix.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1. 
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of?
(Y/N)
Employees
Y
Workers
Not Applicable
2. 
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value 
chain partners.
	
The Bank conducts periodic review meetings with value chain partners such as vendors and service providers to assess their 
performance and adherence to statutory norms. The Bank inculcate in its agreement a sense of accountability and transparency 
in all operations across the supply chain partners. Invoices of value chain partners are cleared subject to the deduction of any 
applicable TDS. The Bank also takes confirmation of the GST deposited by the vendors on the payments made by the Bank.
3. 
Provide the number of employees/ workers having suffered high-consequence work-related injury/ ill-health/ fatalities 
(as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose 
family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/ workers
No. of employees/ workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members 
have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Employees
5
11
-
-
Workers
Not Applicable
4. 
Does the entity provide transition assistance programmes to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
Yes. The Bank offers transition assistance support to facilitate continued employability to people attaining retirement age. Requisite 
approvals are sought to evaluate the competency of the candidate based on the performance showcased during his/ her service 
tenure and requisite retention terms are reviewed before advancing an extended employment offer. Retired personnel may be 
rehired to act as consultants or strategic advisors to the Bank and are eligible for all employee benefits except Provident Fund 
contribution and gratuity.
160
Bandhan Bank Limited
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and Safety practices
None
Working Conditions
None
6. 
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from assessments of 
health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	
Not applicable
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
The Bank’s stakeholder identification approach takes into consideration the dependency, spontaneity, responsibility, vulnerability, 
and influence while identifying key stakeholder groups, taking into consideration all entities who have a direct and indirect influence 
on the business operations, such as:
	
•	
Shareholders and Investors
	
•	
Customers
	
•	
Regulatory bodies
	
•	
Suppliers
	
•	
Communities
	
•	
Employees
	
•	
Media
2. 
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group
Key 
Stakeholders
Whether identified 
as Vulnerable & 
Marginalised Group 
(Yes/ No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), Others
Frequency of 
engagement (Annually/
Half Yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Others – please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Shareholders 
and Investors
No
•	
Annual General Meeting
•	
Emails
•	
Investors meet
•	
Press releases
•	
Newspaper advertisements
•	
Website
•	
Yearly
•	
Quarterly
•	
Periodically
•	
Improved profitability 
and growth of the 
organisation
•	
corporate governance 
mechanisms
•	
Compliance
•	
Transparent and 
effective communication
•	
Investor servicing
Customers
No
•	
Surveys
•	
Print, digital and social 
media
•	
24X7 toll-free number
•	
Direct interaction with bank 
employees
•	
Doorstep banking centres 
and home visits
•	
Financial Literacy 
programme and customer 
meets
•	
Ongoing Activity
•	
Convenience and Ease 
of Transaction
•	
Quick response to issues 
raised through grievance 
redressal mechanisms
•	
Innovative technology
•	
Applications
•	
Transparent 
communication
•	
Product/ service 
availability
•	
On-time delivery of 
product/ service
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
161
Key 
Stakeholders
Whether identified 
as Vulnerable & 
Marginalised Group 
(Yes/ No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), Others
Frequency of 
engagement (Annually/
Half Yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Others – please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Employees
No
•	
Induction programmes/ 
trainings/ workshops
•	
Individual performance 
appraisal
•	
Periodic communication 
meetings anchored by 
leadership
•	
Employee engagement, 
wellness, team building and 
celebration events
•	
Need Basis
•	
Periodically
•	
Caring and empowering 
work environment
•	
Personal development 
and growth
•	
Health and safety
•	
Responsive grievance 
handling process
•	
Employee benefits 
and Competitive 
compensation
•	
Employee welfare and 
social security
•	
Employee alignment to 
common organisation 
goals
Local 
communities
Some members 
of the local 
communities belong 
to SHGs, low income 
groups.
•	
Collaboration with 
independent parties/  
civil society organisations
•	
Formation of village 
institutions and regular 
meetings thereon
•	
Need Basis
•	
Strengthening of 
livelihood opportunities
•	
Improvement of social 
infrastructure for a 
hygienic and healthy 
living environment
•	
Economic and social 
empowerment
•	
Financial literacy and 
improving access to 
financial services
Vendors and 
suppliers
Some of the vendors 
are identified as a 
part of vulnerable/ 
marginalised 
group (Women 
entrepreneur)
•	
Vendor meets
•	
Pre-agreement 
negotiations
•	
Procurement agreements
•	
Need Basis
•	
Regular communication 
and updates on business 
plans
•	
Inclusion of local 
medium and small-
scale enterprises in the 
vendor base
•	
Competency 
development of local 
vendors
•	
Stability/ tenure of 
relationship
•	
Ordering and payment 
routines
•	
Purchase prices
Central 
and State 
Government
No
•	
Government circulars
•	
Formal notifications
•	
Weekly
•	
Ongoing
•	
Need basis
•	
Annually
•	
New financial 
regulations
Regulatory 
bodies
No
•	
Periodic meetings/
interactions with  
regulatory bodies
•	
Mandatory filings with 
regulators including RBI, 
SEBI, Stock Exchanges,  
and MCA
•	
Participation in policy 
forums
•	
Ongoing
•	
Need basis
•	
Compliance with rules 
and regulations
•	
Know the customer
•	
Fair treatment of 
customers
•	
Role in the development 
of the financial system
•	
Banks act as the first 
line of defence against 
financial crimes
162
Bandhan Bank Limited
Key 
Stakeholders
Whether identified 
as Vulnerable & 
Marginalised Group 
(Yes/ No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), Others
Frequency of 
engagement (Annually/
Half Yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Others – please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Media
No
•	
One-on-one media 
interaction
•	
Press conferences/ 
press releases
•	
Advertisements/ 
promotions
•	
Interviews with senior 
management
•	
Dedicated corporate 
communication team
•	
Media section on the 
Bank’s website
•	
Dedicated email and 
contact for media
•	
Ongoing
•	
Need basis
•	
Disclosure to 
stakeholders
•	
Responsible corporate 
citizenship
•	
Corporate reputation
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1. 
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics or if 
consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
The Bank believes that an effective stakeholder engagement process is necessary for achieving its sustainability goal of inclusive 
growth. The Bank accordingly anchors its stakeholder engagement on the principles of the following features:
	
•	
Materiality - taking prioritised consideration of the economic, environmental and social impacts identified to be important to 
the organisation as well as its stakeholders.
	
•	
Completeness - understanding the stakeholders’ key concerns and expectations.
	
•	
Responsiveness - responding coherently and speedily to such issues and concerns.
	
The key stakeholder groups include the Central and State Governments, regulatory/ statutory agencies, media, shareholders, clients, 
employees, local communities, channel partners, and suppliers. Attributes including dependency, accountability, immediacy, and 
influence are used to identify stakeholders. The engagement strategy recognises the individuality and distinct set of priorities of 
each stakeholder group. Stakeholder engagement insights support the Bank’s performance and help to create fresh viewpoints.
2. 
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social topics 
(Yes/ No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated 
into policies and activities of the entity.
	
Yes. The management representatives of the Bank analyse the impact of the material topics and how it affects the day-to-day 
business and operations of the Bank. In view of the Bank’s sustainability objectives, business strategies, operational policies, and 
global market trends, the responses and feedback gathered during stakeholder engagement are reviewed by top management to 
understand stakeholders’ perspectives. The Board and senior management are informed of the feedback from a wide variety of 
stakeholders in order to get their advice and take appropriate action. Through its various committees, the Board is provided regular 
updates on feedback received from stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics - which serves as inputs for decision-
making by the Board. The inputs are provided but not limited to the following committees:
	
•	
Risk Management Committee
	
•	
Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee
	
•	
Stakeholder Relationship Committee
	
•	
Customer Service Committee
3. 
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalised 
stakeholder groups.
	
The Bank has an appropriate mechanism to engage with its stakeholders, especially marginal and weaker sections of the society 
and it is covered in the Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) policy of the Bank. The CSR initiatives undertaken by the Bank are 
firmly embedded in its vision and mission to improve the quality of life of the communities. Having understood the prevailing social 
needs within the communities, interventions and strategies are formulated by the CSR&SCB. The CSR&SCB has carefully reviewed 
and recommended CSR programmes targeting societal development by conducting studies on CSR intervention area identification. 
Based on these studies, the curated CSR programmes are run by the CSR Project Implementing Agency (‘PIA’).
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
163
	
Each programme of the PIA has been devised to bring about far-reaching effects in the fields of education, health, livelihood 
promotion, sustainable livelihood development, climate action, financial literacy, skill development and employment generation. 
The Bank’s CSR Programmes are in alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals and Schedule VII to the Companies Act, 2013, 
details of which are provided below:
	
•	
Targeting the hard-core poor programme
	
•	
Bandhan Health programme
	
•	
Bandhan Education programme
	
•	
Bandhan Employing the unemployed programme
	
•	
Bandhan Financial Literacy Programme
	
•	
Bandhan Sustainable Livelihoods Programme
	
•	
Bandhan Climate Action programme
Details of such programmes are also provided in the Annual Report on CSR Activities forming part of the Annual Report for FY 2023-24.
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (B)
% (B/ 
A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (D)
% (C/ D)
Employees
Permanent
75,748
75,748
100%
69,702
69,702
100%
Other than permanent
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
75,748
100%
100%
69,702
69,702
100%
Workers
Permanent
Not Applicable
Other than permanent
Total
	
Note: All employees are provided training on human rights, including POSH and other HR related policies including digitally acknowledging the code 
of conduct during joining and on an annual basis.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C) % (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F) % (F/D)
Employees
Permanent
Male
67,308
111
0.16%
67197
99.84%
62,526
96
0.20%
62,430
99.80%
Female
8,440
29
0.34%
8411
99.66%
7,176
20
0.30%
7,156
99.70%
Other than Permanent
Male
Not applicable
Female
Workers
Permanent
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Other than Permanent
Male
Not Applicable
Female
164
Bandhan Bank Limited
3. 
Details of remuneration/ salary/ wages:
a. 
Median remuneration/ wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category 
in ₹*
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category 
in ₹*
Board of Directors (BoD)
13
41,40,000
2
38,17,500
Key Managerial Personnel (other than BoD)
2
2,20,94,940
0
NA
Employees other than BoD and KMP
67,303
2,50,116
8,440
2,61,600
Workers
NA
NA
NA
NA
	
*Annual Remuneration
	
Note:
	
1.	
There is no difference in the sitting fee rates based on gender. However, the variance is on account of sitting fees paid to the 
members based on the number of Board meetings and Board Committee meetings attended by the members.
	
2.	
Dr. Holger Dirk Michaelis ceases to be a Director with effect from February 12, 2024
b. 
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
10.12%*
9.28%*
	
*The grass wages of 10.12 per cent. were paid off to 11.14 per cent. (8,440) of female employees.
4. 
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impact or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? (Yes/ No)
	
Yes. The HR team overlooks Human Rights issues as a whole, but the Bank ensures that all its employees are trained to uphold the 
dignity of all its stakeholders, especially, the vulnerable and marginalised groups and promotes awareness and realisation of human 
rights across its network. The Bank believes in the Principle of Natural Justice and treats all employees equally with dignity.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues
	
The Bank extends many avenues to its employees to raise any grievances including human rights. The integrated Human Resource 
Management System (HRMS) platform is available for employees to access the entire Employee Life Cycle Management on their 
own devices and at their own disposal which enables employees to get their grievances redressed. In a nutshell, with the grievance 
redressal mechanism incorporated into the HRMS, the employees have a one-stop solution for any queries or complaints.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed 
during 
the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of the year
Remarks
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of the year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
21
04
The 
pending 
cases have 
since been 
closed
13
03
The 
pending 
cases have 
since been 
closed
Discrimination at workplace
0
0
-
0
0
-
Child labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Forced labour/ Involuntary labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Wages
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other human rights-related issues
0
0
-
0
0
-
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
165
7. 
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, in the 
following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Complaints reported under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
21#
13*
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees/ workers
0.20%
0.13%
Complaints on POSH upheld
17
13
	
# 17 complaints were filed by female employees of the Bank and 04 complaints were filed by non-employees
	
*09 complaints were filed by female employees of the Bank and 04 complaints were filed by non-employees
8. 
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases
	
The Bank has a vigil mechanism which acts as a channel for the employees to report any act of unethical behaviour, actual or 
suspected fraud or violation of the Code of Conduct to the management. The terms of the vigil mechanism are laid down in the 
‘Whistle Blower Policy ‘ and ‘Vigilance Policy’, as required under Section 177 of the Companies Act, Regulation 22 of the SEBI LODR 
and applicable circulars issued by the RBI. The Bank safeguards employees from being victimised while assuring the confidentiality 
and protection of the whistleblower against any form of retaliation.
9. 
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/ No)
	
Yes. The Bank’s BRSR policy on Principle 5 has been incorporated, which aligns with the Bank’s processes and procedures to ensure 
that the value chain partners are compliant with all Human Rights requirements.
10.	 Assessments for the year:
% of offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
In addition to the Vigilance team, the Bank’s Internal Audit teams conduct 100% branch 
compliance audits. These audit procedures include a review of branches’ compliance 
with statutory laws.
Forced/ involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from the assessments 
at Question 10 above.
	
In cases where allegations are established, investigation findings are shared with the ‘Disciplinary and Ethics Management Team’ 
(D&EM) for further proceedings. Post completion of the investigation, the cases are presented to the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1. 
Details of a business process being modified/ introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/ complaints.
	
All operational units including branches have suggestion/ grievance redressal boxes. The HR team frequently monitors the nature of 
complaints received during the year and has an efficient system to resolve the same.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human Rights due diligence conducted.
	
NIL
3. 
Is the premise/ office of the entity accessible to differently-abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes, most of the Bank’s key establishments including offices, branches and banking unit premises are accessible to differently-abled 
visitors. The Bank has taken several measures to create an inclusive environment such as installing ramps, signage and elevators 
for ease of movement of employees as well as customers with locomotive disability. Similarly, the Bank ensures that doorways 
and corridors are wide enough for wheelchair users. Additionally, the Bank’s restrooms, workstations, and common areas are 
accessible and equipped with necessary retrofits that are easily accessible by persons with disability. The Bank remains committed 
to promoting digital accessibility where information and communication technology is accessible to all and/ or compatible with 
assistive technology devices.
166
Bandhan Bank Limited
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual harassment
The Bank has already incorporated policies to ensure responsible supply chain. During the year, 
no adverse complaints/ cases were reported.
The Bank follows and is compliant to all extant laws in terms of assessment of value chain 
partners.
Discrimination at workplace
Child labour
Forced labour/ Involuntary 
labour
Wages
Others – please specify
5. 
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from the assessments 
at Question 4 above.
	
Not applicable
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
TJ
TJ
From Renewable Sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
-
-
Total fuel consumption (B)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
-
-
Total energy consumption (A+B+C)
-
-
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
6.085*
6.51*
Total fuel consumption (E)
0.0060*
0.0064#
Energy	 consumption through other sources (F)
-
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
6.0907
6.5164
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
6.0907
6.5164
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumption/ per rupee of 
turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (‘PPP’) (Total energy consumed/ 
Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
-
-
Energy intensity in terms of physical output (Total Energy consumed/ 
full-time employee)
-
-
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
*Electricity consumption data is captured from the Head Office and Mega Project of the Bank. It does not cover any other sites or branches.
	
#Fuel consumption data is only from the Head Office of the Bank. It does not cover any other sites or branches.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency. (Y/ N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
	
No.
2. 
Does the entity have any sites/ facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and Trade 
(PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/ N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. 
In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
	
No. The Bank does not belong to an energy intensive sector, and is not notified to be part of the 13 sectors identified as designated 
consumers (DCs).
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
167
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i)	 Surface water
-
-
(ii)	 Groundwater
-
-
(iii)	Third-party water
78,266.46*
65,195*
(iv)	Seawater/ desalinated water
-
-
(v)	 Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
78,266.46*
65,195*
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
78,266.46*
65,195*
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed/ turnover)
-
-
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total water consumption/ Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
-
-
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
	
*The water consumption numbers are based on the usage at the Head Office and Mega Projects of the Bank and does not cover any of the branches.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, the 
name of the external agency.
	
No
	
While the Bank has implemented policies on Principle 6, however, the Bank already has a robust process in place to reduce its 
footprint. Water consumed in the Bank’s operation is primarily for domestic purposes like drinking and sanitation.
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) To Surface water
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(ii) To Groundwater
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iii) To Seawater
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iv) Sent to third-parties
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(v) Others
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
	
No
5. 
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation.
	
The majority of the Bank units are rented premises, the mechanism for zero liquid discharge is not material for the Bank’s operations. 
The primary water usage in offices and branches is for domestic consumption.
168
Bandhan Bank Limited
6. 
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
NOx
-
34.7*
34.7*
SOx
-
8.2*
8.2*
Particulate matter (PM)
-
192*
192*
Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP)
-
-
-
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)
-
-
-
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP)
-
-
-
Others – please specify
-
-
-
	
*Air Emissions (SOx, NOx, and PM) data is only covering Mega Projects of the Bank
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
	
No.
7. 
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Scope 1 emissions - Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
1.18*
0.47*
Total Scope 2 emissions - Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
1201.54*
1284.25*
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of turnover (Total Scope 1 and 
Scope 2 GHG emissions/ Revenue from operations)
-
-
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/ Revenue from operations adjusted  
for PPP)
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of physical output (Total 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/ total no. of employees)
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may 
be selected by the entity
-
-
	
*Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions cover only the Head Office and Mega Projects of the Bank. No other sites or branches are covered
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
	
No.
8. 
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emissions? If yes, then provide details.
	
The Bank has allocated considerable resources to enhance afforestation initiatives such as developing a ‘Bio-shield’ to save the 
mangroves in the Bharuch district of Gujarat. The key highlights of this project include the plantation of 67,540 saplings on 20 
hectares along a stretch of 1 kilometre of the coastline and also the plantation of other medical plant species and fodder species. 
Additionally, to date, more than 4.17 lakh saplings have been planted over a period of 4 years and 50 water harvesting structures 
have been constructed with a storage capacity of 1,33,500 kilolitres of water, which approximately resulted in sequestering over 
2,248 tonnes of CO2 equivalent annually to date.
	
The Bank has also initiated Climate Action Programme under its CSR initiatives that has carried out afforestation in rural areas and 
greening of urban spaces. Details of the climate action programme are available in the Annual Report of the Bank.
	
The Total amount of carbon sequestered through the plantation initiatives is estimated to be higher than the carbon footprint of 
the Bank.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
169
9. 
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25 (In MT)
FY 2022-23 (In MT)
Total waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
-
-
E-waste (B)
-
-
Bio-medical waste (C)
-
-
Construction and demolition waste (D)
-
-
Battery waste (E)
-
-
Radioactive waste (F)
-
-
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
-
-
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
(Break-up by composition i.e., by materials relevant to the sector)
-
-
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
-
-
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total waste generated/ Revenue from operations)
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total waste generated/ Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
Waste intensity in terms of physical output (Total waste generated/ no. of 
employees)
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be
selected by the entity
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, 
re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	 Recycle
-
-
(ii)	 Re-used
-
-
(iii)	Other recovery operations
-
-
Total
-
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal 
method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	 Incineration
-
-
(ii)	 Landfilling
-
-
(iii)	Other disposal operations
-
-
Total
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
	
No.
10. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to manage 
such wastes.
	
The services offered by the Bank to its customers do not entail the usage of hazardous or toxic chemicals. The Bank is working 
towards making waste management practices more efficient and has partnered with third-party service providers for shredding 
paper in the corporate office. The Bank’s processes and procedures are designed in a manner that optimisation of resource usage 
and waste generation is minimal. Similarly, battery and e-waste are responsibly recycled and disposed of through certified vendors 
across all operational units.
11. If the entity has operations/ offices in/ around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere 
reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals/ clearances are 
required, please specify details in the following format:
Sl. 
No.
Location of 
operations/ 
offices
Type of 
operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval/ clearance are being complied 
with? (Y/ N) If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
Not applicable
170
Bandhan Bank Limited
12. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year
Name and brief 
details of the project
EIA Notification 
No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/ No)
Results communicated 
in public domain  
(Yes/ No)
Relevant Web-link
Bandhan Bank Limited has undertaken Head Quarter Project named ‘Mega Project’. The current project is a construction project of 
‘Corporate Building’ which is comprised of 1 No. Business Building’ B1+B2+G+23 floors and a G+3 storied Service Utility Building. 
The construction activities of the project are near completion. Construction work started in April 2020. The Environmental impact 
assessment has been conducted by an independent external agency, however, the results are not communicated in the public 
domain.
Environmental Clearance from SEIAA - 905 / EN / T-II-1 /083/ 2018 dated, 08.07.2020 as per provisions of the EIA notification no. 
SO. 1533 (E) dated, 14th September, 2006 of MoEFCC, GOI.
13. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the Water (Prevention 
and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, and Environment Protection Act and Rules thereunder 
(Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances.
	
The Bank complies with all applicable laws. There have been no instances of non-compliance with respect to the abovementioned 
regulations
Sl. No.
Specify the law/ regulation/ 
guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details 
of the non-
compliance
Any fines/ penalties/ action taken 
by regulatory agencies such as 
pollution control boards or by courts
Corrective action 
taken, if any
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1. 
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
	
For each facility/ plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i)	
Name of the area
	
(ii)	
Nature of operations
	
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Surface water
NA
NA
(ii)	 Groundwater
NA
NA
(iii)	Third party water
NA
NA
(iv)	Seawater/ desalinated water
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
NA
NA
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed/ turnover)
NA
NA
Water	 intensity	
(optional)	 –	
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Into Surface water
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(ii)	 Into Groundwater
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iii)	Into Seawater
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
171
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
	
No
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4,
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
-
-
-
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
-
-
-
Total Scope 3 emissions intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
-
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, name 
of the external agency
	
No
	
The Bank has a shallow credit footprint in the coal sector with 0.006% outstanding loans, whereas, the Bank has increased its 
footprint portfolio in green financing, including renewable energy (solar) loan portfolio with a 3.44% outstanding loan.
3. 
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details of 
significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along with prevention and remediation activities.
	
Not applicable
4. 
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, or 
reduce impact due to emissions/ effluent discharge/ waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as the outcome 
of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sl. 
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative  
(Web-link, if any, may be provided along with summary)
Outcome of the 
Initiative
1.
The corporate office is 
located in GBC-GOLD 
rated Green Building-
certified property
AdventzInfinity@5 is a superlative green IT/ITes building with about 8.5 lac 
square feet of high energy work space situated at the heart of Salt Lake, Sector 
V, Kolkata. The entire infrastructure is designed to maximise daylight and a 
superior indoor airflow of humidity-controlled fresh air.
AdventzInfinity@5 is a certified IGBC-GOLD-rated green building and hence 
will use the latest innovations in energy and water efficiency, sustainable 
practices, resource recycling and green building practices.
https://www.infinityitpark.com/adventzinfinity
The building is 
advocating a low-
carbon economy.
2.
Water treatment 
facility in the 
Corporate Office
Plumbing- 100% waste water recycle plant (STP); use of water-efficient sanitary 
fixtures.
https://www.infinityitpark.com/adventzinfinity
Advocating a 
wastewater 
recycling
3.
All offices, branches 
and business units are 
equipped with energy-
efficient LED lighting 
systems
All offices, branches and business units are equipped with energy-efficient LED 
lighting systems.
Advocating a low-
carbon economy.
4.
All offices’ air 
conditioners are set 
at 24-25°C as per the 
latest standards of 
ASHRAE and BEE
https://www.mca.gov.in/Ministry/pdf/AcTempNotice_21082018.pdf
https://www.ashrae.org/technical-resources/bookstore/standards-62-1-
62-2#:~:text=ANSI%2FASHRAE%20Standards%2062.1%20and,adverse%20
health%20effects%20for%20occupants
Advocating a low-
carbon economy.
172
Bandhan Bank Limited
Sl. 
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative  
(Web-link, if any, may be provided along with summary)
Outcome of the 
Initiative
5.
CSR Initiatives on 
Climate Change 
adaptation
https://bandhanbank.com/beyond-banking
Carbon 
sequestration 
through 
afforestation and 
plantation activities
6.
CSR initiatives on 
water conservation
https://bandhanbank.com/beyond-banking
Created rainwater 
harvesting 
potential for 
irrigation purposes 
and saving the area 
from groundwater 
depletion
5. 
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan?
	
The Bank has put in place a Business Continuity and Management Framework to recover critical activities and systems within defined 
timelines, ensuring the safety of its people and assets, communicating with stakeholders during an emergency and managing 
reputational risk. The Business Continuity & Planning Management Committee (‘BCPMC’) has laid down procedures that need to 
be followed to address crisis management events like bank-wide disasters such as pandemics, terrorist attacks, ransomware attacks, 
fire, cyclones, earthquakes, city-level floods, cyber-attacks and data centre outages.
6. 
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard?
	
Not applicable
7. 
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts.
	
Not applicable
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 
a. 
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
	
The Bank is associated with 3 associations as listed in answer 1(b) of this section.
 
b. 
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such a body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
Sl. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/
associations (State/ National)
1
IBA (Indian Banks’ Association)
National
2
CII (Confederation of Indian Industries)
National
3
BCC&I (Bengal Chambers of Commerce & Industries)
State
2. 
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based on 
adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
There has not been any cases related to anti-competitive conduct of the Bank.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1. 
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
Sl.  
No.
Public policy 
advocated
Method 
resorted for 
such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/ No)
Frequency of Review by Board 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Others – please specify)
Web Link, if available
The Bank does not engage in public policy advocacy and has not partnered with any association for setting any benchmark.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
173
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 
Details of Social Impact Assessments (‘SIA’) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year.
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by 
independent external agency 
(Yes/ No)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes/ No)
Relevant 
Web link
No such projects have been undertaken by the Bank for which SIA needs to be carried out as per applicable laws.
However, the Bank conducts its CSR activities proactively and has performed an Impact Assessment of the same, details of which 
are furnished on the website of the Bank.
To evaluate the impact of the CSR initiatives and understand the perception of the beneficiaries and stakeholders, the Bank 
appointed EY and an external agency, to conduct an impact assessment study of 19 selected CSR projects belonging to the 
following programmes.
•	
Bandhan Health Programme
•	
Targeting the Hard-core Poor Programme
•	
Bandhan Education Programme
•	
Employing the Unemployed Programme
•	
Bandhan Financial Literacy Programme
•	
Bandhan Sustainable Livelihoods Programme
•	
Bandhan Climate Action Programme
2. 
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity.
Sl.  
No.
Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs covered 
by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs in 
the FY (In INR)
Not applicable
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
The Bank always makes an effort to establish a reliable relation with the local communities in the areas where it operates. The Bank 
provides facilities for improving education, healthcare, and social welfare while considering community voices, addressing their 
needs, and working to improve the standard of living in the area.
	
Any community and beneficiary who are involved supported by the Bank through the project implementing agency – Bandhan 
Konnagar, has the right to report and raise complaints directly or indirectly by mailing at e-mail ID: grievance@bandhan.org
4. 
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers.
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
Not Applicable
Sourced directly from within the district and neighbouring districts
5. 
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on a 
permanent or non-permanent/ on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost
Location
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Rural
22%
25%
Semi-urban
25%
25%
Urban
32%
32%
Metropolitan
21%
18%
(Place to be categorised as per RBI Classification System - rural/ semi-urban/ urban/ metropolitan)
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1. 
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments (Reference: 
Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
Not applicable
174
Bandhan Bank Limited
2. 
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified by 
government bodies:
Sl. 
No.
State
Aspirational 
District
Amount spent
1
Assam
Dhubri
 60,65,590.80
2
Goalpara
 37,35,319.42
3
Barpeta
31,01,705.85
4
Hailakandi
1,45,710.62
5
Bihar
Jamui
 13,66,401.63
6
Katihar
 12,11,938.84
7
Seikhpura
 2,73,215.60
8
Jharkhand
Bokaro
 65,17,715.83
9
Ramgarh
 71,80,086.43
10
Ranchi
 1,12,57,833.13
11
Sahebganj
 14,40,262.71
3. 
(a) 
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalised/ vulnerable groups? (Yes/ No)
	
	
No
 
(b) 
From which marginalised/ vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
	
Not Applicable
 
(c) 
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
	
Not Applicable
4. 
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year), based on traditional knowledge.
Sl. 
No.
Intellectual Property based on traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired 
(Yes/ No)
Benefit shared
(Yes/ No)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
Not Applicable
5. 
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property-related disputes wherein 
usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of Authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective Action Taken
Not Applicable
6. 
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects
Sl. 
No.
CSR Project
No. of persons 
benefited from CSR 
projects
% of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalised groups
1
Targeting Hard Core Poor Programme – 11
10,000
100%
2
Targeting Hard Core Poor Programme – 12
3,000
100%
3
Targeting Hard Core Poor Programme – 13
3,000
100%
4
Bandhan Education Programme – 1
25,290
100%
5
Bandhan Education Programme – 2
14,308
100%
6
Bandhan Education Programme – Academy
3,331
100%
7
Bandhan Health Programme -SMILE-VI
 84,719
100%
8
Bandhan Health Programme -SMILE-VII
 30,126
100%
9
Bandhan Health Programme - Safe Water
35,144
100%
10
Employing Unemployed Programme
2,350
100%
11
Bandhan Financial Literacy Programme
72,003
100%
12
Bandhan Climate Action Programme-1
09
100%
13
Bandhan Climate Action Programme-2
695
100%
14
Bandhan Sustainable Livelihood Programme
38
100%
Total
2,84,013
100%
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
175
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
As a service organisation, customer service and customer satisfaction are the prime concern of any bank. The Bank believes that 
providing prompt & efficient service is essential not only to attract new customers but also to retain existing ones. The Bank has 
a robust customer dispute resolution mechanism, which the Bank has implemented in the form of a CRM application named, 
‘TALISMA’.
	
The customer complaints received in the Bank branches through multiple channels are supervised by a dedicated centralised team 
for identifying product shortcomings, staff behavioural issues, service delivery issues, and the team also endeavours to resolve and 
close customer grievances within the shortest possible time.
	
It is ensured that all the officials of the Bank while dealing with customers, adhere to the laid down guidelines of the Bank in true 
letter and spirit. The Bank offers regular training programmes on the management of customer complaints to its employees and 
ensures that the customer grievances are redressed in a just, fair and efficient manner and governed by mandated regulations and 
the Bank’s guidelines on customer service.
2. 
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/ services that carry information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
Not applicable
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/ or safe disposal
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Data Privacy
-
-
-
-
-
-
Advertising
-
-
-
-
-
Cyber-Security
-
-
-
-
-
-
Delivery of Essential Services
-
-
-
-
-
-
Restrictive Trade Practices
-
-
-
-
-
-
Unfair Trade Practices
-
-
-
-
-
-
Others*
60,330
1,150
Out of 1,150 
pending 
complaints, 
1,110 has 
since been 
closed.
37,752
1,420
-
	
*Customer complaints related to service delivery, excludes court cases (if any)
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Not applicable as the Bank belongs to the service industry
Forced recalls
5. 
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/ No) If available, provide a 
web-link of the policy.
	
Yes.
	
Web-link: https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2024-02/Customer-Policy-010224.pdf
	
The Bank is highly committed to providing its utmost attention to the customers and providing them with superior services and 
the freedom of choice in the selection and usage of banking services. The Bank recognises that maintaining trust and regard of 
customers are important for the Bank’s success and longevity, in a fiercely competitive market. Through digital platforms and 
176
Bandhan Bank Limited
initiatives, the Bank will provide customers, the flexibility to access and consume banking services over any digital platform of their 
choice and recognises that product quality and service delivery are vital for business growth. The Bank seeks to achieve this by 
regularly reviewing service levels and capturing feedback from customers.
	
The Bank recognises that one of its fundamental responsibilities is to ensure that the Bank protects personal information entrusted 
to the Bank by its customers. The security of personal information is a priority and is ensured by maintaining physical, electronic, and 
procedural safeguards that meet applicable laws to protect customer information against loss, misuse, damage and unauthorised 
access, modifications or disclosures. Employees are trained for proper handling of personal information. The Bank continuously 
reviews and enhances its security policies and security measures to consistently maintain a high level of security.
6. 
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential services; 
cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty/ action taken by regulatory 
authorities on safety of products/ services.
	
One of the major areas applicable to the Bank related to corrective actions taken to resolve issues, is cybersecurity and data privacy 
of the customers. To combat such issues, the Bank has formed a committee equipped with tools specific to handling these kinds of 
threats, known as the IT Strategy Committee of the Board (‘ITSCB’). The ITSCB, constituted pursuant to guidelines/ circulars issued 
by RBI, deals with the information technology, information security, cybersecurity, etc., aspects of the Bank. The primary role of the 
committee includes:
	
•	
Formulation of IT strategy;
	
•	
Amend the IT policy to keep it aligned with current market trends;
	
•	
Update the Board on progress of IT levers and current global landscape of the IT in banking sector;
	
•	
Review periodically the Bank’s IT strategy and ensured its alignment with the current trends in the banking sector;
	
•	
Review IT risks;
	
•	
Ensure proper balance of IT investments for sustaining the Bank’s growth;
	
•	
Oversee the aggregate funding of IT at the Bank-level;
	
•	
Ascertain if the management has adequate resources to ensure proper administration of IT risks;
	
•	
Review the contribution of IT.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1. 
Channels/ platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web-link, if available).
	
Information relating to all the products and services provided by the Bank is available on its website. In addition, the Bank actively 
uses various social media and digital platforms to disseminate information on its loans and deposits. Additionally, the Bank also has 
a dedicated mobile app available known as ‘mBandhan’ which is an all-purpose app wherein customers can access their accounts 
and subscribe to online banking facilities. Advertisements and information related to products and offerings are also available on the 
Bank’s portal as mentioned below:
	
The Bank’s Website link - https://bandhanbank.com/
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
	
Activities undertaken for enhancement of customer awareness during the FY 2023-24:
	
a)	
Financial Literacy Camps are conducted periodically by the Bank to educate and create awareness amongst the customers, 
particularly among the marginalised, less tech-savvy and rural communities, regarding their rights and responsibilities. It 
may be noted that 4,988 Financial Literacy Camps were conducted by the Bank in FY 2023-24. Moreover, the Bank educates 
its customers periodically on the safe usage of its products and associated risks emanating from social engineering. Such 
communications are sent in English and other applicable vernacular languages.
	
b)	
The Bank, in collaboration with RBI officials, has conducted focused programs to raise public awareness on the types and 
characteristics of digital frauds, safe banking practices, customer rights and responsibilities and details of various schemes and 
services offered by the Bank. In FY 2023-24, eight such programs have been conducted at rural/ semi-urban/ urban centres.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
177
	
c)	
Further, the salient features of the Reserve Bank Integrated Ombudsman Scheme and the internal grievance redress mechanism 
of the Bank are displayed on the Bank’s website and in all the branches of the Bank. The displayed messages are drafted in 
regional languages like English, Hindi, and regional languages to enhance public awareness.
	
d)	
‘Dial 1930’ to report Cyber Crime, RBI prescribed booklet on Modus Operandi of Financial Fraudsters (Raju & the Forty Thieves), 
etc. are also displayed on the Bank’s website to increase awareness of the customers of the Bank and public in general.
3. 
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/ discontinuation of essential services.
	
In the Banking sector, one of the major security concerns that exist is related to cyber-attacks and digital banking frauds. The Bank 
has taken certain initiatives in order to inform and educate customers regarding the risks associated with digital banking frauds and 
methods to avoid being subjected to such attacks. Some of the steps taken by the Bank are the following:
	
a)	
Introduction of dynamic OTP based authentication in addition to login password as an additional security feature in Retail 
Internet Banking application.
	
b)	
Disallowing premature/ partial withdrawal of term deposits (‘TD’), held in joint names, through internet banking platform to 
prevent unauthorised withdrawals of TDs.
	
c)	
Incorporation of additional security features (the mandatory security features prescribed by RBI as per CTS-2010 standards), 
i.e., Micro lettering of ‘Bandhan Bank’ as well as ‘Customer Account Number’ in account number box and amount box on the 
cheque’s leaves issued to customers, to reduce chances of misuse of cheques by cloning, tampering, alterations, etc.
	
d)	
One of the key features of BCP framework of the Bank is - Crisis communication plan. The Bank proactively communicates its 
customers about any planned or unplanned disruption/ discontinuation of essential services through SMS and email.
4. 
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/ No/ Not 
Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to 
the major products/ services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/ No)
	
The banking industry is facing a rapidly changing market, technological disruption, economic uncertainties, increasing competition, 
and especially more demanding customers. The income and business growth of the Bank depends on loyal and satisfied customers. 
The Bank understands and continuously aims to evolve the way to handle personal and business finances. The Bank believes that 
great customer service comes with efficient, flawless operations including keeping pace with both live and digital options to ensure 
seamless and hassle-free service to customers. Amidst strong market competition, the Bank continuously strives to improve its 
relationship with customers by providing them with necessary product information and creating customer awareness.
	
The Bank conducts customer satisfaction surveys and workshops with senior citizens, women customers, low-income groups at the 
Bank branches to collect insight into parameters like –
	
•	
Reliability
	
•	
Responsiveness
	
•	
Empathy
	
•	
Assurance
	
Feedbacks from the customers are collated for generating scores to evaluate the performance and behaviour of employees handling 
customers across all the Bank branches and offices.
5. 
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact: NIL
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: NIL
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Bandhan Bank Limited
Anup Kumar Sinha
Place: Kolkata 
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Date: July 26, 2024
 (DIN: 08249893)
178
Bandhan Bank Limited
To the Members of Bandhan Bank Limited
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
1. 
We have audited the accompanying financial statements 
of Bandhan Bank Limited (the “Bank”) which comprise the 
Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024, the Profit and Loss 
Account, the Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, 
and notes to the Financial Statements including a summary 
of significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information (“the Financial Statements”). 
2. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to 
the explanations given to us, the aforesaid financial statements give 
the information required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as 
well as the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act") and the circulars and 
guidelines issued by Reserve Bank of India, in the manner so required 
for banking companies and are in conformity with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India including the accounting 
standards specified under Section 133 of the Act as applicable to 
banks and give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Bank 
as at March 31, 2024, and its profit and its cash flows for the year 
ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the 
Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit 
of Financial Statements” section of our report. We are 
independent of the Bank in accordance with the Code of 
Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (‘ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements that 
are relevant to our audit of the Financial Statements under 
the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we 
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters
4. 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Financial Statements of the current year. These matters 
were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial 
Statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, 
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 
We have determined the matters described below to be the 
key audit matters:
Independent Auditor’s Report
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
179
Identification and Provisioning of Non-performing Advances (NPA):
Total NPA as at March 31, 2024: `4,784.88 crore 
Provision for NPA as at March 31, 2024: `3,437.27 crore
(Refer Schedule 9, 18.6 & 18.7 to the Financial Statements)
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Identification of NPA and measurement of provision on account 
of NPA is made based on the assessment of various criteria 
stipulated in the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) guidelines on 
‘Prudential Norms on Income Recognition, Asset Classification 
and Provisioning pertaining to advances’ ('IRACP').
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to determine 
the identification and provision required against NPAs by applying 
quantitative as well as qualitative factors. The risk of identification 
of NPAs is affected by factors like stress and liquidity concerns in 
certain sectors.
The provision against advances is based on criteria such as past 
due status, out of order status etc. The provision in respect of 
such NPAs are made based on ageing and classification of NPAs, 
recovery estimates, value of security, nature of loan products and 
other qualitative factors and is subject to minimum provisioning 
levels prescribed by the RBI and approved policy of the bank in 
this regard. In addition to this, for restructured accounts, provision 
is made for erosion/ diminution in fair value of restructured loans, 
in accordance with the RBI guidelines. Further, NPA classification 
is made borrower wise whereby if one facility of the borrower 
becomes NPA then all facilities of such a borrower will be treated 
as NPA. 
We have identified 'Identification of NPA and Provisioning on 
Advances' as a key audit matter in view of the significant level 
of estimation involved, as well as the stringent compliances laid 
down by the RBI in this regard.
• 
Tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls 
(including application controls) over approval, recording, 
monitoring, and recovery of loans, monitoring overdue/
stressed accounts, identification of NPA, provision for NPA, 
and valuation of security including collateral. Testing of 
Application controls includes testing of automated controls, 
reports and system reconciliations.
• 
Evaluated the governance process and tested controls over 
calculations of provision on non-performing advances, basis 
of provisioning in accordance with the Board approved 
policy.
• 
Selected the borrowers based on quantitative and qualitative 
risk factors for their assessment of appropriate classification 
as NPA including computation of overdue ageing to assess its 
correct classification and provision amount as per the IRACP 
norms and Bank policy. 
Performed other substantive procedures including but not limited 
to the following:
 
Selected sample of performing loans and assessed them 
independently as to whether these should be classified as 
NPA;
 
For sample selected, examined the security valuation, 
financial statements and other qualitative information of the 
borrowers;
 
Considered the accounts reported by the Bank and other 
Banks as Special Mention Accounts (“SMA”) in RBI’s Central 
Repository of Information on Large Credits (CRILC) to identify 
stress;
 
Performed inquiries with the credit and risk departments to 
ascertain if there were indicators of stress or an occurrence 
of an event of default in a particular loan account or any 
product category which needs to be considered as NPA;
 
Assessed the appropriateness of asset classification and 
adequacy of related provisioning by performing procedures 
such as computation of overdue ageing, assessment of 
borrower level, NPA identification and verification of 
applicable provision rates as per IRACP norms and Bank's 
Policy on test check basis; and assessed the adequacy of 
disclosures against the relevant accounting standards and 
RBI requirements relating to NPAs.
180
Bandhan Bank Limited
Information Technology (“IT”) Systems and Controls impacting Financial Reporting
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank has a complex IT architecture to support its day-to-day 
business operations. High volume of transactions are processed 
and recorded on single or multiple applications. 
The reliability and security of IT systems plays a key role in the 
business operations of the Bank. Since large volume of transactions 
are processed daily, the IT controls are required to ensure that 
applications process data as expected and that changes are made 
in an appropriate manner. 
Appropriate IT general controls and application controls are 
required to ensure that such IT systems are able to process the 
data, as required, completely, accurately  and consistently for 
reliable financial reporting. 
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as key audit matter 
because of the high level automation, significant number of 
systems being used by the management and the complexity of the 
IT architecture and its impact on the financial reporting system.
Our procedures with respect to this matter included the following:
In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we 
involved our technology specialists to obtain an understanding of 
the IT environment, IT infrastructure and IT systems. We evaluated 
and tested relevant IT general controls over the “in-scope” IT 
systems and IT dependencies identified as relevant for our audit 
of the financial statements and financial reporting process of 
the Bank. On such “in-scope” IT systems, we have tested key IT 
general controls with respect to the following domains:
● 
Program change management, which includes that program 
changes are moved to the production environment as per 
defined procedures and relevant segregation of environment 
is ensured.
● 
User access management, which includes user access 
provisioning, de-provisioning, access review, password 
management, sensitive access rights and segregation 
of duties to ensure that privilege access to applications, 
operating systems and databases in the production 
environment were granted only to authorized personnel.
● 
Program development, which includes controls over IT 
application development or implementation and related 
infrastructure, which are relied upon for financial reporting. 
In addition, understood where relevant, changes made to 
the IT landscape during the audit period.
● 
IT operations, which includes job scheduling, monitoring 
and backup and recovery.
We also evaluated the design and tested the operating 
effectiveness of relevant key IT dependencies within the key 
business process, which included testing automated controls, 
automated calculations/ accounting procedures, interfaces, 
segregation of duties and system generated reports, as applicable.
We communicated with those charged with governance and 
management and tested a combination of compensating controls 
or remediated controls and/or performed alternative audit 
procedures, where necessary. 
Other Information
5. 
The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the 
other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the annual report but does not 
include the Financial Statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. The annual report is expected to be made available 
to us after the date of this auditor's report.
 
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover 
the other information and we will not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
 
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, 
our responsibility is to read the other information identified 
above when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider 
whether the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in 
the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
When we read the annual report, if we conclude that there 
is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance 
and take appropriate action as applicable under the relevant 
laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of management and those charged with 
governance for the Financial Statements
6. 
The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the matters 
stated in Section 134(5) of the Act, with respect to the 
preparation and presentation of these Financial Statements 
that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial 
performance and cash flows of the Bank in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
including the Accounting Standards specified under Section 
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
181
133 of the Act read with the Companies (Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2021, and the provisions of Section 
29 of the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 and circulars, 
guidelines and directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India 
(“RBI”) from time to time. This responsibility also includes 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets 
of the Bank and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the 
preparation and presentation of the Financial Statements 
that give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
7. 
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Board of Directors 
are responsible for assessing the Bank’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related 
to going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless management and Board of Director either 
intends to liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has 
no realistic alternative but to do so. 
 
The Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing 
the Bank’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial 
Statements
8. 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, 
and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not 
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with 
SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these Financial 
Statements.
9. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
 
• 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the Financial Statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control. 
 
• 
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the Bank has internal financial 
controls with reference to the Financial Statements in 
place and the operating effectiveness of such controls. 
 
• 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management of the 
Bank. 
 
• 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use 
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the Bank’s ability 
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the Financial Statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Bank to cease to 
continue as a going concern. 
 
• 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the Financial Statements, including the disclosures, 
and whether the Financial Statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation.
10. We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
11. We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
12. From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Financial Statements of the 
current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We 
describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or 
regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or 
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report because 
the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such 
communication.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
13. In our opinion, the Balance Sheet and the Profit and Loss 
Account have been drawn up in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 
and Section 133 of the Act.
182
Bandhan Bank Limited
14. As required by sub-section (3) of Section 30 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949, we report that:
 
(a) 
we have obtained all the information and explanations 
which, to the best of our knowledge and belief, were 
necessary for the purpose of our audit and have found 
them to be satisfactory;
 
(b) 
the transactions of the Bank, which have come to our 
notice, have been within the powers of the Bank;
 
(c) 
During the course of our audit, we have visited 22 
branches and 37 banking units to examine the books 
of account and other records maintained at the branch 
and performed other relevant audit procedures. Since 
the key operations of the Bank are automated with the 
key applications integrated to the core banking system, 
the audit is carried out centrally at the Bank’s Head 
Office located in Kolkata, as all the necessary records 
and data required for the purposes of our audit are 
available there.
15. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that: 
 
(a) 
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit;
 
(b) 
In our opinion, proper books of account as required by 
law have been kept by the Bank so far as it appears from 
our examination of those books, except for the matters 
stated in paragraph 15(h)(vi) below on reporting under 
Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended) (“the Rules”);
 
(c) 
The Balance Sheet, the Profit and Loss Account and the 
Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this report are in 
agreement with the books of account; 
 
(d) 
In our opinion, the aforesaid Financial Statements 
comply with the Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Act read with Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules 2021, to the extent they 
are not inconsistent with the guidelines prescribed by 
RBI;
 
(e) 
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on March 31, 2024 taken on 
record by the Board of Directors, none of the directors 
is disqualified as on March 31, 2024 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of 
the Act;
 
(f) 
The modifications relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith, 
reference is made to our remarks in paragraph 15(b) 
above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) of the act 
and paragraph 15(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 
11(g) of the Rules;
 
(g) 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to Financial Statements of the 
Bank and the operating effectiveness of such controls, 
refer to our separate report in “Annexure A”; and
 
(h) 
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
(as amended), in our opinion and to the best of 
our information and according to the explanations 
given to us: 
 
i. 
The Bank has disclosed the impact of pending litigations 
on its financial position in its Financial Statements – 
Refer Schedule 12 & 18.17 to the Financial Statements;
 
ii. 
The Bank did not have any long term contract including 
derivative contracts for which there were material 
foreseeable losses; 
 
iii. 
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, 
required to be transferred, to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund by the Bank, during the year 
ended March 31, 2024;
 
iv. 
(a) 
The management has represented that, to the 
best of its knowledge and belief, other than as 
disclosed in the Schedule 18.33 to the Financial 
Statements, no funds have been advanced 
or loaned or invested (either from borrowed 
funds or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Bank to or in any other 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that 
the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or 
indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever by 
or on behalf of the Bank (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
 
 
(b) 
The management has represented that, to the 
best of its knowledge and belief, other than as 
disclosed in the Schedule 18.33 to the Financial 
Statements, no funds have been received by the 
Bank from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the Bank shall, whether, directly 
or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security 
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; 
and
 
 
(c) 
Based on such audit procedures that we 
considered reasonable and appropriate in 
the circumstances, nothing has come to our 
notice that has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause (a) and (b) 
contain any material misstatement.
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
183
 
v. 
(a) 
The final dividend proposed in the previous year, 
declared and paid by the bank during the year is 
in accordance with the Section 123 of the Act, as 
applicable; and 
 
 
(b) 
As stated in Schedule 18.3 to the Financial 
Statements, the Board of Directors of the Bank 
have proposed dividend for the financial year 
2023-24 which is subject to the approval of 
the members at the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting. The amount of dividend proposed is 
in accordance with Section 123 of the Act, as 
applicable, until the date of this report.
 
vi. 
Based on our examination, which included test checks, 
the Bank has used various accounting software 
for maintaining its books of account which have a 
feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility, which 
have operated throughout the year for all relevant 
transactions recorded in the software, except;
 
 
(a) 
the audit trail feature was not enabled throughout 
the year at the database level in respect of two 
accounting software(s) to log any direct data 
changes and in case of one accounting software 
audit trail was enabled at database level from 
February 18, 2024;
 
 
(b) 
non-availability of sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence regarding recording of audit trail and 
non-disabling thereof in respect of two sunset 
software which were discontinued during the 
year (also, refer schedule 18.37 to the financial 
statements of the Bank).
 
 
Based on our procedures performed, we did not notice 
any instance of the audit trail feature being tampered 
with. In respect of the aforesaid databases, in the 
absence of audit trail for the said period, the question 
of our commenting on whether the audit trail was 
tampered with, does not arise.
16. In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the provisions of 
Section 197 of the Act are not applicable to the Bank by virtue 
of Section 35B(2A) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 
Accordingly, the reporting under Section 197(16) of the Act 
regarding payment/ provision for managerial remuneration 
in accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by the 
provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act, is 
not applicable. 
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration No. 107122W/ W100672)
Navin Kumar Jain
Partner
Membership No. 090847
UDIN: 24090847BKFEHH7745
Place: Kolkata
Date: May 17, 2024
For Singhi & Co
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration No. 302049E)
Ankit Dhelia
Partner
Membership No. 069178
UDIN: 24069178BKFDOD6107
Place: Kolkata
Date: May 17, 2024
184
Bandhan Bank Limited
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to Financial Statements under clause (i) of 
sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1. 
We have audited the internal financial controls with 
reference to Financial Statements of Bandhan Bank Limited 
(“the Bank”) as of March 31, 2024, in conjunction with our 
audit of the financial statements of the Bank for the year 
ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
2. 
The Banks’s management is responsible for establishing and 
maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established by the 
Bank considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance 
Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring 
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to Banks’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and 
the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as 
required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Banks's 
internal financial controls with reference to Financial 
Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in 
accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on 
Auditing deemed to be prescribed under Section 143(10) 
of the Act to the extent applicable to an audit of internal 
financial controls, both applicable to an audit of internal 
financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to Financial 
Statements was established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects. 
4. 
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls system with reference to Financial Statements and 
their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to Financial Statements included 
obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a 
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the 
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based 
on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the 
auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the Financial Statements, whether 
due to fraud or error.
5. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Banks’s internal financial controls system with 
reference to Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to financial statements
6. 
A Banks's internal financial controls with reference to 
Financial Statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial 
reporting and the preparation of Financial Statements for 
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A Banks's internal financial controls 
with reference to Financial Statements includes those 
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance 
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the 
Bank; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
Financial Statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the Bank are being made only in accordance with 
authorisations of management and directors of the Bank; 
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the Bank's assets that could have a material 
effect on the Financial Statements.
Annexure A to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 15(g) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of Bandhan Bank Limited on the financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2024
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
185
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
with reference to financial statements
7. 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to Financial Statements, including 
the possibility of collusion or improper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to error or 
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference 
to Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the 
risk that the internal financial controls with reference to 
Financial Statements may become inadequate because of 
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 
the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
Opinion
8. 
In our opinion, the Bank has, in all material respects, an 
adequate internal financial controls system with reference 
to financial statements and such internal financial controls 
with reference to Financial Statements were operating 
effectively as at March 31, 2024, based on the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established by the 
Bank considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note issued by ICAI.
For M M Nissim & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration No. 107122W/ W100672)
Navin Kumar Jain
Partner
Membership No. 090847
UDIN: 24090847BKFEHH7745
Place: Kolkata
Date: May 17, 2024
For Singhi & Co
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration No. 302049E)
Ankit Dhelia
Partner
Membership No. 069178
UDIN: 24069178BKFDOD6107
Place: Kolkata
Date: May 17, 2024
186
Bandhan Bank Limited
(` in ‘000)
Particulars
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Capital & Liabilities
Capital
1
16,109,697
16,108,365
Employees Stock Options Outstanding
1A
441,899
119,456
Reserves & Surplus
2
199,544,784
179,613,704
Deposits
3
1,352,019,862
1,080,646,905
Borrowings
4
163,715,240
247,108,226
Other Liabilities and Provisions
5
46,585,108
36,774,270
Total
1,778,416,590
1,560,370,926
Assets
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
6
153,926,841
73,265,829
Balance with Banks and Money at call and short notice
7
7,778,420
9,231,410
Investments
8
292,875,784
323,658,918
Advances
9
1,211,367,833
1,047,567,691
Fixed Assets
10
11,734,263
8,545,906
Other Assets
11
100,733,449
98,101,172
Total
1,778,416,590
1,560,370,926
Contingent liabilities
12
92,144,446
82,774,641
Bills for collection
-
-
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts
17 & 18
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Balance Sheet
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Bandhan Bank Limited
For M M NISSIM & CO LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm Registration Number : 
107122W / W100672
For SINGHI & CO
Chartered Accountants 
Firm Registration Number : 
302049E
Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
Managing Director & CEO
Kolkata
DIN: 00342477
Anup Kumar Sinha
Non-Executive Chairman
Kolkata
DIN: 08249893
Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt 
ACB Chairman & 
Independent Director
Kolkata 
DIN: 00751001
Navin Kumar Jain
Partner
Membership Number : 090847
Place : Kolkata
Date : May 17, 2024
Ankit Dhelia
Partner
Membership Number : 069178
Place : Kolkata
Date : May 17, 2024
Ratan Kumar Kesh
Executive Director & COO
Kolkata
DIN: 10082714
Rajinder Kumar Babbar
Executive Director & CBO
Kolkata
DIN: 10540386
Rajeev Mantri
Chief Financial Officer
Kolkata
Indranil Banerjee 
Company Secretary
Kolkata
Balance Sheet  
as at March 31, 2024
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Annual Report 2023-24
187
Profit and Loss Account  
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in ‘000)
Particulars
Schedule
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
I.	
Income
 
Interest Earned
13
188,696,182
159,046,996
 
Other Income
14
21,646,539
24,685,507
	
Total
210,342,721
183,732,503
II.	
Expenditure
 
Interest Expended
15
85,440,106
66,450,814
 
Operating Expenses
16
58,507,778
46,368,194
 
Provisions & Contingencies
18.1
44,099,210
48,967,115
	
Total
188,047,094
161,786,123
III.	
Net Profit for the year (I-II)
22,295,627
21,946,380
 
Balance in Profit & Loss Account brought forward from previous year
74,537,813
60,099,356
IV.	
Amount available for appropriations
96,833,440
82,045,736
V.	
Appropriations/Transfers
 
Transfer to Statutory Reserves
5,573,906
5,486,596
 
Transfer to Statutory Reserve u/s 36(1)(viii) of Income Tax Act 1961
984,116
1,692,035
 
Transfer to Capital Reserve
41,836
17,404
 
Transfer to Investment Reserve
1,532,773
-
 
Transfer to/(from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
(506,799)
311,888
 
Dividend Paid
2,416,297
-
 
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet
86,791,311
74,537,813
	
Total
96,833,440
82,045,736
VI.	
Earnings per Share (refer Note 18.14)
 
Basic (`)
13.84
13.62
 
Diluted (`)
13.84
13.62
 
Face value per share (`)
10
10
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts
17 & 18
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Profit & Loss Account. 
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Bandhan Bank Limited
For M M NISSIM & CO LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm Registration Number : 
107122W / W100672
For SINGHI & CO
Chartered Accountants 
Firm Registration Number : 
302049E
Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
Managing Director & CEO
Kolkata
DIN: 00342477
Anup Kumar Sinha
Non-Executive Chairman
Kolkata
DIN: 08249893
Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt 
ACB Chairman & 
Independent Director
Kolkata 
DIN: 00751001
Navin Kumar Jain
Partner
Membership Number : 090847
Place : Kolkata
Date : May 17, 2024
Ankit Dhelia
Partner
Membership Number : 069178
Place : Kolkata
Date : May 17, 2024
Ratan Kumar Kesh
Executive Director & COO
Kolkata
DIN: 10082714
Rajinder Kumar Babbar
Executive Director & CBO
Kolkata
DIN: 10540386
Rajeev Mantri
Chief Financial Officer
Kolkata
Indranil Banerjee 
Company Secretary
Kolkata
188
Bandhan Bank Limited
Cash Flow Statement 
for the year ended March 31, 2024
(` in '000)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
A.	
Cash flow from Operating Activities :
 
Profit Before Taxation
29,429,123
28,929,842
	
Adjustments for : 
 
Depreciation and amortization
2,375,756
1,426,456
 
Provisions & Contingencies
36,965,714
41,983,653
 
Interest Income from fixed deposits
(75,568)
(29,180)
 
Profit on sale of Held-to-maturity (HTM) securities
(74,543)
(31,009)
 
Interest Income from Investments in Held-to-maturity (HTM) securities
(14,008,995)
(13,357,140)
 
Provision/(reversal of provision) for depreciation in value of investments
(2,731,048)
7,719,732
 
Employee Stock Options Expense
351,537
67,060
 
Profit / (Loss) on sale of fixed assets
(1,263)
4,581
	
Operating Profit Before Working Capital Changes
52,230,713
66,713,995
	
Movements in working capital :
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Advance
(200,349,721)
(173,525,532)
 
(Increase)/Decrease in other Assets
197,880
(35,255,329)
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Investment in HFT & AFS securities
25,339,971
(15,594,406)
 
Increase in Deposits
271,372,958
117,340,773
 
Increase in Other Current Liabilities and Provisions
10,583,328
5,047,636
	
Cash flows generated from operations
159,375,129
(35,272,863)
 
Direct Taxes Paid (net of refunds)
(11,290,920)
(7,173,296)
	
Net Cash flows generated from/(used in) Operating Activities (A)
148,084,209
(42,446,159)
B.	
Cash flow from Investing Activities :
 
Purchase of Fixed Assets (including capital work in progress)
(5,574,223)
(4,120,858)
 
Sale of Fixed Assets
11,372
22,765
 
Interest Received from fixed deposits
76,074
29,045
 
Interest Received from Investments in Held-to-maturity (HTM) securities
14,148,765
12,855,870
 
(Increase)/Decrease in Held to Maturity Investment
8,248,747
(24,966,133)
 
Deposits created with banks and financial institutions
(955)
(91)
	
Net Cash flows generated from/(used in) Investing Activities (B)
16,909,780
(16,179,402)
C.	
Cash flow from Financing Activities :
 
Dividend paid
(2,416,297)
-
 
Proceeds from share issue (Including share premium)
23,988
16,576
 
Proceeds from/(Repayment) of short term borrowings
17,578,690
43,321,878
 
Proceeds from/(Repayment) of long term borrowings
(100,971,675)
4,574,067
	
Net Cash flows generated from/(used in) Financing Activities(C)
(85,785,294)
47,912,521
	
Net Increase/ (Decrease) In Cash And Cash Equivalents (A+B+C)
79,208,695
(10,713,040)
	
Cash And Cash Equivalents At The Beginning of the year
82,474,955
93,187,995
	
Cash And Cash Equivalents At The End of the year
161,683,650
82,474,955
	
Components of Cash and Cash Equivalents :
 
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India (Refer Schedule no. 6)
153,926,841
73,265,828
 
Balance with Banks and Money at call and short notice (Refer Schedule no. 7)*
7,756,809
9,209,127
161,683,650
82,474,955
*Cash and Cash Equivalents excludes lien marked Fixed Deposits of ` 0.64 crore (Previous Year: ` 0.54 crore) with original maturity of more than three 
months & amount transferred to Unpaid Dividend account of ` 1.53 crore (Previous Year: ` 1.69 crore)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Bandhan Bank Limited
For M M NISSIM & CO LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm Registration Number : 
107122W / W100672
For SINGHI & CO
Chartered Accountants 
Firm Registration Number : 
302049E
Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
Managing Director & CEO
Kolkata
DIN: 00342477
Anup Kumar Sinha
Non-Executive Chairman
Kolkata
DIN: 08249893
Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt 
ACB Chairman & 
Independent Director
Kolkata 
DIN: 00751001
Navin Kumar Jain
Partner
Membership Number : 090847
Place : Kolkata
Date : May 17, 2024
Ankit Dhelia
Partner
Membership Number : 069178
Place : Kolkata
Date : May 17, 2024
Ratan Kumar Kesh
Executive Director & COO
Kolkata
DIN: 10082714
Rajinder Kumar Babbar
Executive Director & CBO
Kolkata
DIN: 10540386
Rajeev Mantri
Chief Financial Officer
Kolkata
Indranil Banerjee 
Company Secretary
Kolkata
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
189
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Schedule 1 - Capital
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Authorized Capital
3,200,000,000 (Previous Year: 3,200,000,000) equity shares of ` 10/- each
32,000,000
32,000,000
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up capital
1,610,969,748 (Previous Year: 1,610,836,480) Equity Share of ` 10/- each
16,109,697
16,108,365
Total
16,109,697
16,108,365
Schedule 1A - Employees stock options outstanding
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance
119,456
52,395
Additions during the Year 1
351,537
67,061
Deduction during the Year 2
(29,094)
-
Total
441,899
119,456
1. Represents cost of stock options recongnised during the year. 
2. Represents amount transferred to General Reserve on lapses of employee stock options during the year. 
Schedule 2 - Reserves & Surplus
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
l.	
Statutory Reserve
 
Opening Balance
30,586,153
25,099,557
 
Additions during the Year
5,573,906
5,486,596
 
Deduction during the Year
-
-
	
Total
36,160,059
30,586,153
ll.	
Statutory Reserve U/S 36(1)(VIII) OF Income Tax Act 1961
 
Opening Balance
10,403,270
8,711,235
 
Additions during the Year
984,116
1,692,035
 
Deduction during the Year
-
-
	
Total
11,387,386
10,403,270
lll.	
Capital Reserve
 
Opening Balance
6,477,851
6,460,447
 
Additions during the Year1
41,836
17,404
 
Deduction during the Year
-
-
	
Total
6,519,687
6,477,851
IV.	
Share Premium Account
 
Opening Balance
54,187,887
54,172,016
 
Additions during the Year4
22,656
15,871
 
Deduction during the Year
-
-
	
Total
54,210,543
54,187,887
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
190
Bandhan Bank Limited
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
V.	
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 
Opening Balance
2,124,881
1,812,993
 
Additions during the Year
-
311,888
 
Deduction during the Year
(506,799)
-
	
Total
1,618,082
2,124,881
VI.	
Investment Reserve
 
Opening Balance
304,024
304,024
 
Additions during the Year2
1,532,773
-
 
Deduction during the Year
-
-
	
Total
1,836,797
304,024
VII.	 Additional Reserve3
 
Opening Balance
277,389
277,389
 
Additions during the Year
-
-
 
Deduction during the Year
-
-
	
Total
277,389
277,389
VIII.	 General Reserve
 
Opening Balance
714,436
714,436
 
Additions during the Year5
29,094
-
 
Deduction during the Year
-
-
	
Total
743,530
714,436
IX.	
Balance in Profit and Loss Account
86,791,311
74,537,813
GRAND TOTAL (I+II+III+IV+V+VI+VII+VIII+IX)
199,544,784
179,613,704
1. 
Appropriations made for profit on sale of investments in held to maturity category, net of taxes and transfer to Statutory 
reserve. 
2. 
Appropriations made for reversal of excess provision for depreciation in "Available for Sale" & "Held for Trading" categories, net of 
taxes and transfer to Statutory reserve. 
3. 
Additional Reserve represents reserve created in terms of section 29C of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 out of the 
distributable profits by erstwhile Gruh Finance Limited, which have been carried forward in accordance with the terms of the Merger 
scheme. 
4. 
Includes NIL (Previous Year: ` 0.39 crore) related to Employees stock option plan excercised in earlier years. 
5. 
Includes amount transferred from Employee Stock Options outstanding to general reserve on lapses of employee stock options 
during the period.	
Schedule 2 - Reserves & Surplus
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
191
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Schedule 3 - Deposits	
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
A. 
l. 
Demand Deposits
 
 
i) 
From Banks
17,072,419
2,885,980
 
 
ii) 
From Others
79,573,092
61,238,345
 
ll. 
Savings Bank Deposits
404,861,528
360,381,016
 
lll. 
Term Deposits
 
 
i) 
From Banks
208,942,812
193,950,945
 
 
ii) 
From Others
641,570,011
462,190,619
	
Total
1,352,019,862
1,080,646,905
B. 
l. 
Deposits of branches in India
1,352,019,862
1,080,646,905
 
ll. 
Deposits of branches outside India
-
-
	
Total
1,352,019,862
1,080,646,905
Schedule 4 - Borrowings
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
l. 
Borrowings in India
 
i) 
Reserve Bank of India 
-
-
 
ii) 
Other banks
26,597,580
10,000,000
 
iii) 
Other Institutions & agencies1
91,661,935
237,108,226
ll. 
Borrowings outside India
45,455,725
-
Total
163,715,240
247,108,226
Secured borrowings included in (I&II) above
750,000
45,574,615
1 
Includes borrowings made under refinance. 
Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities and Provisions
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
l. 
Bills Payable
8,144,551
3,077,567
ll. 
Inter-office Adjustments(Net)
-
-
lll. 
Interest accrued
2,791,124
1,195,556
lV. 
Contingent Provision against Standard Assets (refer Note 18.6(I))
10,106,627
10,097,847
V. 
Provision for Income Tax (Net of Advance tax and Tax deducted at source)
1,494,537
2,681,530
Vl. 
Others
24,048,269
19,721,770
Total
46,585,108
36,774,270
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
192
Bandhan Bank Limited
Schedule 6 - Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
l. 
Cash In hand (including foreign currency notes)
14,452,702
12,223,863
ll. 
Balance with Reserve Bank of India
 
i) 
In Current Account
49,474,139
45,041,966
 
ii) 
In Other Accounts1
90,000,000
16,000,000
Total
153,926,841
73,265,829
1. Represents Standing Deposit Facility (SDF) 
Schedule 7 - Balances with Banks and Money at call and short notice	
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
I.	
In India
 
i) 
Balance with Banks
 
 
a) 
In Current Account
7,639,914
9,117,395
 
 
b) 
In Other Deposit Accounts
6,354
5,399
 
ii) 
Money at call & short notice
 
 
a) 
With banks
-
-
 
 
b) 
With other institutions
-
-
	
Total
7,646,268
9,122,794
II.	
Outside India
 
a) 
In Current Account
132,152
108,616
 
b) 
In Other Deposit Accounts
-
-
 
c) 
Money at call & short notice
-
-
	
Total
132,152
108,616
GRAND TOTAL (I+II)
7,778,420
9,231,410
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
193
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Schedule 8 - Investments	
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
I.	
Investment in India in
 
i) 
Government Securities
285,775,418
314,828,973
 
ii) 
Other Approved Securities
-
-
 
iii) 
Shares
2,252,015
3,095,865
 
iv) 
Debentures & Bonds
2,606,239
3,552,617
 
v) 
Subsidiaries and /or joint ventures
-
-
 
vi) 
Others (Mututal Fund units, Certificate of Deposits, Security Receipts and Pass 
Through certificates)
7,649,158
10,319,551
	
Total
298,282,830
331,797,006
 
Less- Provision for Depreciation on Investment
(5,407,046)
(8,138,088)
	
Total
292,875,784
323,658,918
II.	
Investments outside India
-
-
	
Total
-
-
GRAND TOTAL (I+II)
292,875,784
323,658,918
Schedule 9 - Advances (Net of Provisions)
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
A.	
i) 
Bills Purchased & Discounted
-
-
 
ii) 
Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand
228,446,837
220,486,362
 
iii) 
Term loans *
982,920,996
827,081,329
	
Total
1,211,367,833
1,047,567,691
B.	
i) 
Secured by tangible assets (Including Advances against fixed deposits and book 
debts)
514,994,976
450,023,926
 
ii) 
Covered by Bank/Government Guarantees
1,865,233
10,860,945
 
iii) 
Unsecured
694,507,624
586,682,820
	
Total
1,211,367,833
1,047,567,691
C.	
I) 
Advances in India
 
 
i) 
Priority Sector
586,345,580
526,806,232
 
 
ii) 
Public Sector
-
-
 
 
iii) 
Banks
2,000,908
23,151,167
 
 
iv) 
Others
623,021,345
497,610,292
	
	
Total
1,211,367,833
1,047,567,691
 
II) 
Advances Outside India
-
-
	
	
Total
-
-
GRAND TOTAL
1,211,367,833
1,047,567,691
* Including loans outstanding under Inter bank participation certificate ` 2,606.63 crore (Previous Year: ` 2,153.77 crore)
The total amount received from Credit Guarantee Fund for Micro Units (CGFMU) & Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) is 
` NIL (Previous Year- ` 916.61 crore) & ` 136.82 crore (Previous Year- ` 24.31 crore) respectively.
The above Net Advances includes Provision made against amount received (net) from CGFMU & ECLGS held pending adjustment is ` NIL 
(Previous Year- ` 717.05 crore) & ` 145.55 crore (Previous Year- ` NIL) respectively 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
194
Bandhan Bank Limited
Schedule 10 - Fixed Assets	
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
I)	
Premises
	
Gross Block
 
At cost as at March 31, of the preceding year
1,677,164
1,537,625
 
Addition during the Year
1,475,126
139,539
 
Deduction during the Year
-
-
	
Total
3,152,290
1,677,164
	
Depreciation
 
As at the beginning of the Year
107,310
85,479
 
Charge for the year
27,852
21,831
 
Deduction during the Year
-
-
	
Depreciation to date
135,162
107,310
	
Net Block
3,017,128
1,569,854
II)	
Other Fixed Assets (Including Furniture & Fixture)
	
Gross Block
 
At cost as at March 31, of the preceding year
9,948,257
8,015,308
 
Addition during the Year *
5,412,295
2,257,589
 
Deduction during the Year
(49,788)
(324,640)
	
Total
15,310,764
9,948,257
	
Depreciation
 
As at the beginning of the Year
6,428,960
5,321,628
 
Charge for the year
2,347,904
1,404,625
 
Deduction during the Year
(39,679)
(297,293)
	
Depreciation to date
8,737,185
6,428,960
	
Net Block
6,573,579
3,519,297
III)	
Capital Work-in-progress (including capital advances)
2,143,556
3,456,755
GRAND TOTAL (I+II+III)
11,734,263
8,545,906
*Additions during the year ended March 31,'2024 includes Intangible Assets amounting to ` 155.45 crore (Previous Year: ` 42.10 crore) for Flexcube CBS 
and the same is amortised over the period of three years as per Bank's accounting policy 
Schedule 11 - Other Assets
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
I) 
Inter Office adjustment (Net)
7
1,671
II) 
Interest Accrued
14,370,151
9,672,082
III) 
Advance Income Tax (Net of Provision)
7,198,992
3,105,803
IV) 
Stationery and stamps
-
-
V) 
Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims (Net of Provision)
333,343
500,674
VI) 
Others *
78,830,956
84,820,942
Total
100,733,449
98,101,172
* Includes Deferred Tax Assets of ` 995.60 crore (Previous Year: ` 1,113.08 crore ) (Refer Note. 18.13) 
* Includes Deposits in Rural Infrastructure and Development Fund amounting to ` 6,244.61 crore (Previous Year: ` 6,797.36 crore)
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
195
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Schedule 12 - Contingent liabilities
(` in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
I) 
Claims against the Bank not acknowledged as debts
997,273
2,011,773
II) 
Liability for partly paid investments
-
-
III) 
Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts
71,154,315
66,123,053
IV) 
Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
 
(a) 
In India
13,180,405
9,352,101
 
(b) 
Outside India
-
-
V) 
Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
3,981,088
2,639,602
VII) Other items (including Capital Commitments)
2,831,365
2,648,112
Total
92,144,446
82,774,641
Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
(` in ‘000)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
I) 
Interest/discount on advances/bills
165,062,039
137,751,578
II) 
Income on investments
20,135,681
18,863,036
III) 
Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank funds
778,136
693,675
IV) 
Others (Includes gain on IBPC)
2,720,326
1,738,707
Total
188,696,182
159,046,996
Schedule 14 - Other Income	
(` in ‘000)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
I) 
Commission, exchange and brokerage
17,115,838
14,704,038
II) 
Profit/(Loss) on sale of investments (Net)
1,354,723
740,380
III) 
Profit/(Loss) on revaluation of investments (Net)
2,731,048
(1,800,167)
IV) 
Profit/(Loss) on sale of fixed assets (Net)
1,263
(4,581)
V) 
Profit/(Loss) on exchange/derivative transactions (Net)
(330,622)
(24,876)
VI) 
Income earned by way of dividends etc. from subsidiaries/companies and/or
 
joint venture abroad/in India
-
-
VII) Miscellaneous income
774,289
11,070,713
Total
21,646,539
24,685,507
Schedule 15 - Interest Expended
(` in ‘000)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
I) 
Interest on deposits
72,516,466
54,536,942
II) 
Interest on Reserve Bank of India/Inter-bank borrowings
907,597
636,248
III) 
Others
12,016,043
11,277,624
Total
85,440,106
66,450,814
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
196
Bandhan Bank Limited
Schedule 16 - Operating Expenses
(` in ‘000)
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
I) 
Payments to and provisions for employees
35,429,236
27,150,708
II) 
Rent, taxes and lighting
3,548,318
2,827,627
III) 
Printing and stationery
354,761
469,915
IV) 
Advertisement and publicity
558,025
534,023
V) 
Depreciation on bank’s property
2,375,756
1,426,457
VI) 
Directors’ fees, allowance and expenses (Refer Note 18.36)
65,632
58,682
VII) Auditors’ fees and expenses (including branch auditors) (Refer Note 18.42)
28,427
21,862
VIII) Law charges
120,756
207,187
IX) 
Postage, telegrams, telephones etc
884,182
766,120
X) 
Repairs and maintenance
810,631
658,288
XI) 
Insurance
1,492,872
1,373,311
XII) Other expenditure (Refer Note 18.34)
12,839,182
10,874,014
Total
58,507,778
46,368,194
Schedule 17 – Significant accounting policies forming 
part of the financial statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2024	
1.	
Background	
 
Bandhan Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’), incorporated on 
December 23, 2014 in India, is a banking company, governed 
by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
 
Pursuant to the Banking license received from Reserve Bank 
of India on June 17, 2015, the Bank has commenced its 
banking operations from August 23, 2015. 
2.	
Basis of preparation	
 
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared 
under the historical cost convention and on the accrual 
basis of accounting, unless otherwise stated and comply 
with the requirements prescribed under the Third Schedule 
(Form A and Form B) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 
The accounting and reporting policies of the Bank used in 
the preparation of these financial statements conform 
to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India 
('Indian GAAP'), the guidelines issued by RBI from time 
to time, the accounting standards notified under section 
133 of the Companies Act 2013, read together with the 
Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 to the extent 
applicable and practices generally prevalent in the banking 
industry in India. 
3.	
Use of Estimates	
 
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity 
with the generally accepted accounting principles requires 
the Management to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities 
(including contingent liabilities) as at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported income and expenses during 
the reporting period. The Management believes that the 
estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements 
shall be prudent and reasonable. Any revisions to the 
accounting estimates are recognised prospectively in the 
current and future periods. Actual results could differ from 
estimates. 
4.	
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES	
4.1	 Revenue Recognition	
 
Interest income is recognised in the profit and loss account 
on an accrual basis, except in the case of interest on 
non-performing assets, which is recognised as income 
on realisation, as per the income recognition and asset 
classification norms of RBI. Accrual of income shall also 
be suspended on certain other loans, including projects 
under implementation where the implementation has been 
significantly delayed and in the opinion of the management 
significant uncertainties exist as to the final financial closure 
and/ or date of completion of the project. 
 
The Bank shall not charge and take to income account interest 
on any NPA. This will apply to Government guaranteed 
accounts also. However, interest on advances against Term 
Deposits, National Savings Certificates (NSCs), Indira Vikas 
Patras (IVPs), Kisan Vikas Patras (KVPs) and Life policies is 
taken to income account on the due date, provided adequate 
margin is available in the accounts. 
 
Profit or Loss on sale of investments is recognised in the Profit 
and Loss Account. However, the profit on sale of investments 
in ‘Held to Maturity’ category is appropriated (net of 
applicable taxes and amount required to be transferred to 
statutory reserve) to ‘Capital Reserve Account’. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
197
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
 
Income from hire purchase operations is accrued by applying 
the interest rate implicit on outstanding investments. 
 
Income from leases is calculated by applying the interest rate 
implicit in the lease to the net investment outstanding on the 
lease over the primary lease period. 
 
Income on discounted instruments is recognised over the 
tenure of the instrument on a straight line basis. 
 
Interest Income on PTC and Loan purchase through 
assignment are recognised on a constant yield basis. 
 
Dividend is accounted on an when the right to receive the 
dividend is established. 
 
Loan processing fees is accounted for upfront when it 
becomes due. 
 
Fees other than loan processing fees received as a 
compensation of future interest sacrifice are amortized over 
the remaining period of the facility. 
 
Compromise on settlement is accounted on receipt of 
settlement money. 
 
Arranger’s fee is accrued proportionately where more 
than 75% of the total amount of finance has been 
arranged.	
 
Guarantee / Letter of credit (LC) commission is recognised 
over the period of the guarantee / LC. 
 
Annual/renewal fee on credit cards and debit cards is 
recognised upfront. 
 
Locker Rent recognised on Straight Line Method basis over 
the period of Contract.
 
All fees from deposit accounts are accounted for as and 
when they are due and realised. 
 
Income from sale of Priority Sector Lending certificate (PSLC) 
is recognized in the Profit & Loss Account during the quarter 
on an equated basis from the quarter in which the sale has 
occurred and the remaining amount will be recognized in the 
Profit & Loss Account over the remaining quarters of that 
financial year. 
 
Appropriation of recovery in NPAs and prudential written off 
accounts:
 
Any recoveries in NPA accounts and prudential written 
off accounts will be first appropriated to fees/charges 
outstanding, if any, then interest outstanding and then 
principal outstanding except in those cases where bank has 
specific agreement with the borrower w.r.t appropriation of 
recoveries. 
 
The sale of NPA and technically written off portfolio is 
accounted as per guidelines prescribed by RBI :-
 
i. 
When the Bank sells its financial assets to Securitisation 
Company (SC)/Reconstruction Company (RC), the same 
is removed from the books.
 
ii. 
If the sale is at a price below the net book value (NBV) 
(i.e., book value less provisions held), the shortfall 
is debited to the profit and loss account in the year 
of sale.
 
iii. 
If the sale is for a value higher than the NBV, the excess 
provision is reversed in the year the amounts are 
received, as permitted by the RBI. 
 
All other fees are accounted for as and when they become 
due.	
4.2.  Investments	
	
A)	
Classification	
 
 
Investments are classified into three categories, viz. 
Held to Maturity (HTM), Available for Sale (AFS) and 
Held for Trading (HFT) at the time of purchase. 
	
	
Basis of classification:	
 
 
Investments that the Bank intends to hold till maturity 
are classified as “Held to Maturity (HTM)”. 
 
 
Investments that are held principally for sale within 90 
days from the date of purchase are classified as “Held 
for Trading (HFT)”. 
 
 
Investments, which are not classified in any of the 
above two categories, are classified as “Available for 
Sale (AFS)” investments. 
 
 
However, for disclosure in the Balance Sheet, 
investments in India are classified under six categories 
Government Securities, Other approved securities, 
Shares, Debentures and Bonds, Investment in 
Subsidiaries/ Joint Ventures and Others. 
 
 
An investment is classified as HTM, HFT or AFS at the 
time of its purchase and subsequent shifting amongst 
categories is done in conformity with regulatory 
guidelines. 
 
 
Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates shall be classified as HTM. 
 
 
Investments are classified as performing or non-
performing as per RBI guidelines. Non performing 
investments are subjected to similar income recognition 
and provisioning norms as prescribed by RBI for non-
performing advances. 
	
B)	
Valuation	
 
 
Broken period interest and costs such as brokerage 
paid at the time of acquisition of the security are 
charged to Profit and Loss account. Cost of investments 
is computed on weighted average cost method. 
 
 
Investments marked as AFS and HFT are marked-
to-market on a periodic basis as per relevant RBI 
guidelines. The securities are valued scrip-wise and 
depreciation /appreciation is aggregated for each 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
198
Bandhan Bank Limited
category. Net appreciation in each category, if any, is 
ignored, while net depreciation is provided for. The 
book value of individual securities is not changed 
consequent to the periodic valuation of investments. 
 
 
‘Held to Maturity’ securities shall be carried at their 
acquisition cost or at amortized cost if acquired at a 
premium over the face value. Any premium over the 
face value of fixed rate and floating rate securities 
acquired is amortized over the remaining period to 
maturity on a constant yield basis and straight line basis 
respectively. Where in the opinion of the management, 
a diminution, other than temporary in the value of 
investments classified under HTM has taken place, 
suitable provisions are required to be made. 
 
 
Quoted investments are valued at traded/quoted price 
available from recognized stock exchanges, subsidiary 
general ledgers account transactions, price list of RBI, 
or prices declared by Primary Dealers Association of 
India (“PDAI”) jointly with Financial Benchmarks India 
Pvt. Limited (FBIL). The market/fair value of unquoted 
government securities which are in the nature of 
statutory liquidity ratio(SLR) securities included in the 
‘Available for Sale’ and ‘Held for trading’ categories is 
valued as per the rate published by the FBIL. 
 
 
Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up 
value, if the latest Balance Sheet is available or at Re.1 
as per the RBI guidelines. 
 
 
Treasury bills being discounted instruments shall be 
valued at current cost. 
 
 
The units of Mutual Funds are valued at the latest 
repurchase price/ net asset value declared by the 
Mutual Fund. 
 
 
Transfer 
of 
securities 
between 
categories 
of 
investments is accounted as per the RBI Guidelines 
 
 
Purchase and sale transactions in securities are 
recorded under settlement date of accounting, 
except in the case of equity shares where trade date 
accounting is followed. 
 
 
Repurchase (‘repo’) and reverse repurchase (‘reverse 
repo’) transactions including liquidity adjustment 
facility (with RBI) are accounted for as borrowing and 
lending transactions. Accordingly, securities given as 
collateral under an agreement to repurchase them 
continue to be held under the investment account 
of the Bank and the Bank would continue to accrue 
the coupon/discount on the security during the repo 
period. Also, the Bank continues to value the securities 
sold under repo as per the investment classification of 
the security. The difference between the clean price 
of the first leg and clean price of the second leg is 
recognized as interest income/expense over the period 
of the transaction in the profit and loss account. 
4.3	 Loans /Advances and Provisions thereon	
 
Advances are classified into performing and non-performing 
advances (‘NPAs’) as per the RBI guidelines and Stressed 
Asset Management & Recovery (SAMR) policy of the bank 
and are stated net of specific provisions made towards NPAs. 
Further, NPAs are classified into sub-standard, doubtful 
and loss assets based on the criteria stipulated by the RBI. 
Provisions for NPAs are made for sub-standard and doubtful 
assets at rates as prescribed by the RBI.
 
The Bank has a policy of deferment of installments for micro 
(EEB) loan borrowers in case the group meetings have 
been suspended and the same has not been considered as 
overdue for the purpose of NPA classification. 
 
Amounts recovered against debts written off in earlier years 
are recognised in the profit and loss account as credit to 
Miscellaneous Income under the head ‘Other Income’ 
 
The Bank maintains general provision on standard advances 
as prescribed by RBI. In case of micro (EEB & SBAL) lending 
portfolio, general provision on standard advances will be 
maintained by Bank at 1% comprising 0.25% as per the 
minimum provisioning requirement by RBI and 0.75% as 
additional provision. Provision made against standard assets 
is included in "Other liabilities & provisions". 
 
In case of non-performing micro (EEB & SBAL) lending 
portfolio, where 30 days have elapsed from the completion 
of loan tenure, the Bank is making 100% provision. 
 
Non-performing loans, which have been fully provided for, 
are written off when the prospect of recovery is considered 
remote as per the management estimate in compliance with 
the stressed assets management and recovery policy of the 
Bank.	
 
Restructured assets are classified and provided for in 
accordance with the guidelines issued by RBI from time to 
time. 
 
For entities with Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure 
(‘UFCE’), provision is made in accordance with the guidelines 
issued by RBI, which requires to ascertain the amount of 
UFCE, estimate the extent of likely loss and estimate the 
riskiness of unhedged position. This provision is classified 
under Schedule 5 – Other Liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
 
Further, Incremental capital is maintained in respect of 
borrower counter parties in the highest risk category, in line 
with stipulations by RBI. 
4.4	 Inter Bank Participation Certificate	
 
The Bank enters into Inter Bank Participation with risk sharing 
as issuing Bank and the aggregate amount of participation 
are reduced from the aggregate advance outstanding . 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
199
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
 
Gain on IBPC is the excess of income earned on the 
participation pool and interest paid to the issuing Bank and is 
recognised on accrual basis. 
4.5	 Tangible Assets	
 
All tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment loss, if any. Cost 
comprises the purchase price and any attributable cost of 
bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended 
use. 
 
Asset under development as at the balance sheet date are 
shown as Capital Work in Progress. Advance paid towards 
such development are shown as capital advance. 
 
Any subsequent expenses is capitalised only when it increases 
the future economic benefit / functioning capability. 
4.6	 Intangible Assets	
 
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial 
recognition at cost. Following initial recognition, intangible 
assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment loss, if any. 
4.7	 Depreciation and Amortisation	
 
Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of a 
fixed asset on a straight-line basis. The useful lives of the 
groups of fixed assets are given below: 
Asset
Useful life 
in years
Leasehold Land
99
Building
60
Improvements to leasehold premises
3
Furniture & Fixtures Interior
3
Furniture & Fixtures Moduler
5
Furniture & Fixtures Others
10
Office equipments
(including air conditioners)
5
Motor vehicles
4
Computers
3
Electrical Installation and Equipment
10
Software/ Intangible Assets
3
Computer Networking/Server
6
 
Items costing less than ` 5,000/- shall be fully depreciated in 
the year of purchase. 
 
Assets purchased and sold during the year shall be 
depreciated on the basis of actual number of days the asset 
has been put to use. 
 
In case of revision in the estimated useful life of assets 
any unamortized depreciation shall be amortised over the 
remaining useful life of the assets. 
4.8	 Impairment	
 
The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed at each 
balance sheet date to determine if there is any indication 
of impairment based on internal/external factors. An 
impairment loss is recognised wherever the carrying amount 
of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount which is the 
greater of the asset's net selling price and value in use. In 
assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows 
are discounted to their present value using pre-tax discount 
rate that reflects current market assessment of the time 
value of money and risks specific to the asset. 
 
After impairment, depreciation is provided on the revised 
carrying amount of the asset over its remaining useful 
life. 
4.9	 Foreign Currency transactions	
 
All transactions in foreign currency are recognised at the 
exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
 
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are 
translated at the Balance Sheet date at the closing rates 
of exchange notified by the Foreign Exchange Dealers’ 
Association of India (‘FEDAI’) and the resulting gains or losses 
are recognised in the Profit and Loss account. 
 
Non-monetary items which are measured in terms of 
historical cost denominated in a foreign currency, are 
reported using the exchange rate at the date of transaction. 
Non-monetary items, which are measured at fair value or 
others similar valuation denominated in a foreign currency, 
are translated using the exchange rate at the date when such 
value was determined. 
 
Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic 
operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on 
the date of the transaction. 
 
Foreign exchange spot and forward contracts outstanding as 
at the Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are revalued 
at the closing spot and forward rates respectively as notified 
by FEDAI and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim 
maturities. 
 
Contingent liabilities at the Balance Sheet date on account of 
outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts, guarantees, 
acceptances, 
endorsements 
and 
other 
obligations 
denominated in a foreign currency are stated at the closing 
rates of exchange notified by the FEDAI. 
4.10	 Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)	
 
In case of Employee stock option plan, measurement and 
disclosure of the employee share based payment plans is 
done in accordance with Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 
2014 and the Guidance Note on Accounting for Employee 
Share-based Payments, issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India. The cost of equity-settled transactions 
is measured using the intrinsic value method and recognised, 
together with a corresponding increase in the ‘Stock options 
outstanding account’ in reserve. The cumulative expense 
recognized for equity-settled transactions at each reporting 
date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
200
Bandhan Bank Limited
vesting period has expired and the Bank’s best estimate of 
the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. 
The expense or credit recognized in the statement of profit 
and loss for a period represents the movement in cumulative 
expense recognized as at the beginning and end of that 
period and is recognized in employee benefits expense.
 
Pursuant to RBI clarification dated August 30, 2021, the cost 
of stock options granted after March 31, 2021 to Whole Time 
Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material Risk Takers 
and Control Function Staff is recognised based on fair value 
method. The cost of stock options granted up to March 31, 
2021 continues to be recognised on intrinsic value method. 
The Bank uses Black-Scholes model to fair value the options 
on the grant date and the inputs used in the valuation model 
include assumptions such as the expected life of the share 
option, volatility, risk free rate and dividend yield. 
 
ESOP cost is recognised in Profit and Loss Statement on the 
basis of number of days of vesting period. 
4.11	 Retirement and employee benefits	
 
Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund is a defined 
contribution scheme. The Bank has no obligation, other 
than the contribution payable to the provident fund. The 
Bank recognises contribution payable to the provident fund 
scheme as expenditure, when an employee renders the 
related service. If the contribution payable to the scheme for 
service received before the balance sheet date exceeds the 
contribution already paid, the deficit payable to the scheme 
is recognised as a liability after deducting the contribution 
already paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds the 
contribution due for services received before the balance 
sheet date, then excess is recognised as an asset. 
 
Gratuity liability is a defined benefit obligation and is provided 
for on the basis of an actuarial valuation on projected unit 
credit method made at the end of each financial year. 
 
The Bank provides for compensated absences based on 
actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary.
 
Actuarial gains/losses are immediately taken to the profit 
and loss account and are not deferred. 
4.12	 Income Taxes	
 
Tax expenses comprises current and deferred tax. Current 
income tax is measured at the amount expected to be paid 
to the tax authorities in accordance with the Income Tax 
Act, 1961 and in compliance with AS 22 "Accounting for 
Taxation Income". Deferred income taxes reflects the impact 
of current year timing differences between taxable income 
and accounting income for the year and reversal of timing 
differences of earlier years. 
 
Deferred Tax is measured based on the tax rates and the tax 
laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent 
that there is reasonable certainty that sufficient future 
taxable income will be available against which such deferred 
tax assets can be realised. If the Bank has carried forward 
unabsorbed depreciation and tax losses, all deferred tax 
assets is recognised only to the extent that there is a virtual 
certainty supported by convincing evidence that sufficient 
taxable income will be available in future against which such 
deferred tax assets can be realised.
 
At each reporting date, the Bank re-assesses unrecognised 
deferred tax assets. It recognises unrecognised deferred tax 
assets to the extent that it has become reasonably certain 
or virtually certain, as the case may be, that sufficient future 
taxable income will be available against which such deferred 
tax assets can be realised.
 
Deferred Tax liability is created on amount transferred to 
special reserve under section 36(i)(viii) of the Income Tax 
Act, 1961 as per the RBI guidelines. 
 
The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are reviewed at 
each balance sheet date. The Bank writes down the carrying 
amount of deferred tax assets to the extent that it is no longer 
reasonably certain or virtually certain as the case may be, 
that sufficient future taxable income will be available against 
which deferred tax asset can be realised. Any such write 
down is reversed to the extent that it becomes reasonably 
certain or virtually certain, as the case may be that sufficient 
future taxable income will be available.
4.13	 Non-banking assets	
 
Non-banking assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction of claims 
are valued at the market value on a distress sale basis or 
value of loan, whichever is lower. Further, the Bank creates 
provision on these assets as per the extant RBI guidelines or 
specific RBI directions. 
4.14	 Earnings per Share	
 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net 
profit or loss after tax for the period attributable to equity 
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year. 
 
Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution 
that could occur if contracts to issue equity shares were 
exercised or converted during the year. Diluted earnings per 
equity share is computed using the net profit or loss for the 
period attributable to equity shareholders and the weighted 
average number of shares outstanding during the period are 
adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.
4.15	 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
 
A provision is recognized when the Bank has a present 
obligation as a result of past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can 
be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are 
not discounted to their present value and are determined 
based on the best estimate required to settle the obligation 
at the reporting date. These estimates are reviewed at each 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
201
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
reporting date and adjusted to reflect the current best 
estimates. 
 
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises 
from past events whose existence will be confirmed by the 
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain 
future events beyond the control of the Bank or a present 
obligation that is not recognized because it is not probable 
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the 
obligation. A contingent liability also arises in extremely rare 
cases where there is a liability that cannot be recognized 
because it cannot be measured reliably. The Bank does not 
recognize a contingent liability but discloses its existence in 
the financial statements.
 
Contingent Assets are not recognised in the financial 
statements.
4.16 Leases	
 
Leases where the lessor effectively retains substantially all 
the risks and benefits of ownership of the leased items are 
classified as operating leases. Operating lease payments are 
recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account on a 
straight line basis over the lease term. 
4.17 Cash and Cash equivalent	
 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances 
with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and 
short notice.
4.18 Share Issue Expenses	
 
Share issue expenses are adjusted against the Securities 
Premium Account in terms of Section 52(2) of the Companies 
Act, 2013.
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
202
Bandhan Bank Limited
Schedule 18 -Notes to accounts forming part of the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2024
The following disclosures have been made taking into account the requirements of Accounting Standards (ASs) and Reserve Bank of India 
(RBI) guidelines in this regard.
18.1	"Provisions & Contingencies" recognised in the Profit & Loss Account comprise:
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Provision for Income Tax
 
- 
Current Tax
601.07
589.74
 
- 
Deferred tax
122.42
108.60
 
- 
Income tax / Deferred Tax (previous years)
(10.14)
-
Total Tax Expenses
713.35
698.34
Provision for Standard assets
107.40
(1,330.20)
Provision for non-performing assets
[Includes bad debts written off ` 3,852.49 crore (Previous Year:` 6,071.78 crore)]
3,576.79
6,555.91
Provision for restructured assets
(106.52)
(1,041.63)
Provision for unhedged foreign currency exposure
4.20
6.64
Provision for country risk
-
-
Provision for One time Settlement
78.16
14.80
Provision for other contingencies
36.54
(7.15)
Total
4,409.92
4,896.71
Note -The Bank has assessed its obligations arising in the normal course of business, including pending litigations, proceedings pending 
with tax authorities and other contracts including derivative and long term contracts. In accordance with the provisions of AS 29 on 
‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’, the Bank recognises a provision for material foreseeable losses when it has a 
present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, in 
respect of which a reliable estimate can be made. In cases where the available information indicates that the loss on the contingency is 
reasonably possible or the amount of loss cannot be reasonably estimated, a disclosure to this effect is made as contingent liabilities in 
the financial statements. The Bank does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a materially adverse effect on its financial 
results. 
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in provision for legal and fraud cases, operational 
risk and other contingencies.	
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Legal
Other 
Contingencies
Legal
Other 
Contingencies
Opening Provisions
0.83
41.91
0.35
49.54
Movement during the year (net)
2.01
34.53
0.48
(7.63)
Less - Adjusted during the year
-
(0.12)
-
-
Closing Provisions
2.84
76.32
0.83
41.91
18.2	Capital 
During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank has allotted 133,268 Equity Shares (Previous Year- 70,613) of ` 10/-each in respect 
of stock option exercised aggregating to ` 2.40 crore (Previous Year- ` 1.27 crore) . Accordingly, share capital increased by ` 0.13 crore 
(Previous Year- ` 0.07 crore) and share premium increased by ` 2.27 crore (Previous Year- ` 1.20 crore) respectively. 
Details of movement in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank are given below:	
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
At the beginning of the year
1,610.84
1,610.77
Addition pursuant to share issued during the year
0.13
0.07
Outstanding at the end of the year
1,610.97
1,610.84
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
203
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
18.3	Proposed dividend
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on May 17, 2024, has proposed a dividend of ` 1.50 per share (Previous Year- ` 1.50 per share) 
for the year ended March 31, 2024 subject to approval of the members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. In terms of revised 
Accounting Standard (AS) 4 ‘Contingencies and Events occurring after the Balance sheet date as notified by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs through amendments to Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, the Bank has not accounted for proposed dividend 
aggregating to ` 241.65 crore (previous year: ` 241.63 crore ) as a liability for the year ended March 31, 2024. Effect of the proposed 
dividend has been reckoned in determining capital funds in the computation of capital adequacy ratios as at March 31, 2024 and March 
31, 2023. 
18.4	Regulatory Capital
A)	
Composition of Regulatory Capital	
 
The Bank is subject to the Basel III capital adequacy guidelines stipulated by RBI with effect from the date of incorporation. As per 
the guidelines, the Tier-1 capital is made up of Common Equity Tier-1 (CET1) and Additional Tier-1. 
 
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, computation of capital adequacy as per Basel III framework. 
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
i) 
Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET 1)
20,768.38
19,019.70
ii) 
Additional Tier 1 capital
-
-
iii) 
Tier 1 capital (i + ii)
20,768.38
19,019.70
iv) 
Tier 2 capital
1,286.07
1,071.88
v) 
Total capital (Tier 1+Tier 2)
22,054.45
20,091.58
vi) 
Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs)
120,683.93
101,697.20
vii) CET 1 Ratio
17.21
18.70
viii) Tier 1 Ratio
17.21
18.70
ix) 
Tier 2 Ratio
1.07
1.06
x) 
Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR)
18.28
19.76
xi) 
Leverage Ratio
11.47%
12.06%
xii) 
Percentage of the shareholding of Government of India
NIL
NIL
xiii) Amount of paid-up equity capital raised during the year#
-
-
xiv) Amount of non-equity Tier 1 capital raised during the year*
-
-
xv) 
Amount of Tier 2 capital raised during the year*
-
-
	
	
# An amount of ` 2.40 crore raised pursuant to exercise of employee stock options during the year ended March 31, 2024 (year ended March 
31, 2023: ` 1.27 crore) 
 
 
* The Bank has not raised (March 31, 2023: Nil) perpetual debt capital instruments qualifying for Additional Tier-1 capital and subordinated 
debt qualifying for Tier-2 capital (March 31, 2022: Nil).
 
 
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, banks are required to make consolidated Pillar 3 and Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) 
disclosures under the Basel III Framework. These disclosures are available on the Bank's website at the following link:https://
www.bandhanbank.com/regulatory-disclosures. The disclosures have not been subjected to audit by the statutory auditors of 
the Bank.	
B)	
Draw Down from Reserve
 
There has been no draw down from reserves during the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
204
Bandhan Bank Limited
18.5	(A)	 Investments	
i)	
Composition of Investment Portfolio as at March 31, 2024	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Investments in India
Investments outside India
 Total 
Investments 
 Government 
Securities 
Other 
Approved 
Securities 
 Shares @ Debentures 
and Bonds 
 Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures 
 Others # 
 Total 
investments 
in India 
Government 
securities 
(including 
local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures 
 Others 
Total 
Investments 
outside 
India
Held to Maturity
Gross
21,737.87
-
-
-
-
-
21,737.87
-
-
-
-
21,737.87
Less: Provision for non-
performing investments 
(NPI)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
21,737.87
-
-
-
-
-
21,737.87
-
-
-
-
21,737.87
Available for Sale
Gross
6,160.37
-
225.20
260.62
-
764.92
7,411.11
-
-
-
-
7,411.11
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
57.20
-
-
-
-
483.50
540.70
-
-
-
-
540.70
Net
6,103.17
-
225.20
260.62
-
281.42
6,870.41
-
-
-
-
6,870.41
Held for Trading
Gross
679.30
-
-
-
-
-
679.30
-
-
-
-
679.30
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
679.30
-
-
-
-
-
679.30
-
-
-
-
679.30
Total Investments
28,577.54
-
225.20
260.62
-
764.92
29,828.28
-
-
-
-
29,828.28
Less: Provision for non-
performing investments
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
57.20
-
-
-
-
483.50
540.70
-
-
-
-
540.70
Net
28,520.34
-
225.20
260.62
-
281.42
29,287.58
-
-
-
-
29,287.58
# Other Investments include investments in Alternative Investment Fund (AIF), Commercial paper (CP) , Security Receipts (SR) and Pass through Certificate (PTC).
@ Shares include investment in both quoted & unquoted Equity and Preference Shares
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
205
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
ii)	
Composition of Investment Portfolio as at March 31, 2023
(` in crore)
Particulars
Investments in India
Investments outside India
 Total 
Investments 
 Government 
Securities 
Other 
Approved 
Securities 
 Shares @ Debentures 
and Bonds 
 Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures 
 Others # 
 Total 
investments 
in India 
Government 
securities 
(including 
local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures 
 Others 
Total 
Investments 
outside 
India
Held to Maturity
Gross
22,555.29
-
-
-
-
-
22,555.29
-
-
-
-
22,555.29
Less: Provision for non- 
performing investments 
(NPI)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
22,555.29
-
-
-
-
-
22,555.29
-
-
-
-
22,555.29
Available for Sale
Gross
8,603.18
-
309.59
305.35
-
1,031.96
10,250.08
-
-
-
-
10,250.08
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
75.20
-
-
1.80
-
736.81
813.81
-
-
-
-
813.81
Net
8,527.98
-
309.59
303.55
-
295.15
9,436.27
-
-
-
-
9,436.27
Held for Trading
Gross
324.42
-
-
49.91
-
-
374.33
-
-
-
-
374.33
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
324.42
-
-
49.91
-
-
374.33
-
-
-
-
374.33
Total Investments
31,482.89
-
309.59
355.26
-
1,031.96
33,179.70
-
-
-
-
33,179.70
Less: Provision for non-
performing investments
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Less: Provision for 
depreciation and NPI
75.20
-
-
1.80
-
736.81
813.81
-
-
-
-
813.81
Net
31,407.69
-
309.59
353.46
-
295.15
32,365.89
-
-
-
-
32,365.89
# Other Investments include investments in Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) ,Commercial paper (CP) , Security Receipts (SR) and Pass through Certificate (PTC).
@ Shares include investment in both quoted & unquoted Equity and Preference Shares 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
206
Bandhan Bank Limited
18.5 (B)	 Movement of Provisions for Depreciation and Investment Fluctuation Reserve
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
i)	
Movement of provisions held towards depreciation on investments
 
a) 
Opening balance
813.81
41.84
 
b) 
Add: Provisions made during the year
3,489.61
1,568.22
 
c) 
Less: Write off / write back of excess provisions during the year
(3,762.72)
(796.25)
 
d) 
Closing balance
540.70
813.81
ii)	
Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve
 
a) 
Opening balance
212.49
181.30
 
b) 
Add: Amount transferred during the year
(50.68)
31.19
 
c) 
Less: Drawdown
-
-
 
d) 
Closing balance
161.81
212.49
iii)	
Closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments in 
AFS and HFT/Current category
2%
2%
C)	
Sale and transfers of Securities to / from HTM Category	
 
During the year ended March 31, 2024 and the previous year ended March 31, 2023 the Bank has not sold and transferred securities 
to or from HTM category exceeding 5% of the book value of investment held in HTM category at the beginning of the year. The 5% 
threshold referred to above does not include onetime transfer of securities to/from HTM category with the approval of Board of 
Directors permitted to be undertaken by banks as per extant RBI guidelines, sale of securities under pre-announced Open Market 
Operation (OMO) auction to the RBI and sale of securities or transfer to AFS / HFT consequent to the reduction of ceiling on SLR 
securities under HTM. 
D)	
Repo Transactions	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Minimum 
outstanding 
during the year
Maximum 
outstanding 
during the year
Daily Average 
outstanding 
during the year
Outstanding 
as at 
March 31, 2024
Securities sold under Repo*
i. 
Government securities
-
1,278.00
34.62
-
 -
(3,078.00)
(162.10)
-
ii. 
Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
 -
-
-
-
 iii. 
Any Other Securities
-
-
-
-
 -
-
-
-
Securities purchased under reverse repo*
i. 
Government securities
-
1,500.00
64.89
-
 -
(7,475.00)
(522.56)
-
 ii. 
Corporate debt securities
 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 iii. 
Any Other Securities
 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 
Previous year figures are shown in"()". 
 
*Amount reported are based on lending\borrowing amount under LAF/MSF 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
207
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
E)	
Non SLR Investment Portfolio	
	
i)	
Issuer composition of Non SLR investments	
(` in crore)
Issuer
Amount
Extent of 
Private 
Placement
Extent of ‘Below 
Investment 
Grade’ Securities
Extent of 
‘Unrated’ 
Securities
Extent of 
‘Unlisted’ 
Securities
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(i) 
Public Sector Units
69.91
-
-
-
-
(149.29)
-
-
-
-
(ii) 
Financial Institutions
190.71
-
-
-
-
(150.97)
-
-
-
-
(iii) Banks
344.56
220.00
-
-
-
(251.00)
(251.00)
-
-
-
(iv) Private Corporates #
492.21
487.21
-
-
-
(800.36)
(795.36)
-
-
(10.00)
(v) 
Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures
-
-
-
-
-
 -
-
-
-
-
(vi) Others
153.35
153.35
-
5.92
-
(345.18)
(316.80)
-
(3.70)
-
(vii) Provision held towards depreciation
483.50
-
-
-
-
(738.60)
-
-
-
-
Total
767.24
860.56
-
5.92
-
 (958.20)
(1,363.16)
-
(3.70)
(10.00)
 
 
Amounts reported under columns (3), (4), (5) and (6) above are not mutually exclusive. 
 
 
Discounted instruments are reported at carrying cost 
 
 
Previous year figures are shown in"()". 
 
 
# Includes Security receipts 
	
ii)	
Non performing Non-SLR investments	
 
 
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in gross non-performing investments in securities, 
other than government and other approved securities.
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
-
-
Additions during the year #
0.00
-
Reduction during the year
-
-
Closing balance
0.00
-
Total provision held
0.00
-
	
	
# Denotes less than ` 10,000	
 
 
GRUH was merged with and into Bandhan Bank Limited. At the time of merger of GRUH with the Bank, GRUH had a private 
provident fund trust, viz., Gruh Employees Provident Fund Trust, for its employees. Post-merger, GRUH had to transfer the 
balance in Gruh Employees Provident Fund Trust to EPFO, since the Bank had its PF managed by EPFO instead of Private 
Provident Fund Trust, some of the securities of IL&FS Limited and IL&FS Transportation Networks Ltd could not be liquidated 
and the EPFO was paid by the Bank the face value of the securities as the Non-Performing Investments (‘NPI’) bonds could not 
be liquidated. These securities were Non-Performing Investments, having zero value, with face value of the three securities 
being ` 2.20 crore, in lieu of which, the amount had been paid to EPFO. The face value of the three securities transferred 
was ` 2.20 crore, these NPI securities were transferred to the books of the Bank at Re. 1 each, thereby totalling ` 3 only and 
increasing the NPI by ` 3 only. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
208
Bandhan Bank Limited
	
F)	
Securities kept as Margin
(` in crore)
Sl 
No
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
i)
Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:
Collateral and funds management – Securities segment
400.00
300.00
Collateral and funds management –Tri-party Repo
3,650.00
8,710.00
Default fund – Forex Forward segment
5.00
5.00
Default fund – Forex Settlement segment
5.00
5.00
Default fund – Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment
-
-
Default fund – Securities segment
15.00
15.00
Default fund –Tri-party repo segment
8.00
8.00
ii)
Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:
Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
3,250.00
1,250.00
Repo transactions
3,950.00
4,300.00
iii)
Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of 
India (NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivatives segment.
-
-
iv)
Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation Limited towards 
BSE Currency Derivatives segment.
-
-
v)
Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of 
India (NSCCIL) towards Capital market.
5.00
-
	
G)	
Government Security Lending	
 
 
The bank has not entered in any Government Security Lending transactions for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 
2023. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
209
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
18.6	Asset Quality 
	
A)	
Classification of Advances and Provisions held	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Standard
Non -Performing
Total
Total 
Standard 
Advances
Sub- 
standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non - 
Performing 
Advances
Gross Standard Advances and NPAs
Opening Balance
103,528.50
1,531.88
559.74
3,207.00
5,298.62
108,827.12
(92,410.70)
(1,746.28)
(464.81)
(4,168.91)
(6,380.00)
(98,790.70)
Add: Additions during the year
5,681.68 
(9,662.69)
Less: Reductions during the 
year*
6,195.42 
(10,744.07)
Closing balance
119,789.17
2,579.55
674.05
1,531.28
4,784.88
124,574.05
(103,528.50)
(1,531.88)
(559.74)
(3,207.00)
(5,298.62)
(108,827.12)
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
i) 
Upgradation
1,021.48
1,021.48
(1,493.51)
(1,493.51)
ii) 
Recoveries (excluding 
recoveries from 
upgraded accounts)
523.60
523.60
(808.57)
(808.57)
iii) 
Technical/ Prudential 
Write-offs
3,852.49
3,852.49
(6,071.78)
(6,071.78)
iv) 
Write-offs other than 
those under (iii) above
78.16
78.16
(53.89)
(53.89)
v) 
Sale to ARC's
719.69
719.69
(2,316.32)
(2,316.32)
*Provisions (excluding Floating Provisions)
Opening balance of provisions 
held
1,009.78
585.39
277.96
3,207.00
4,070.35
5,080.13
(3,381.62)
(399.48)
(247.38)
(4,168.91)
(4,815.77)
(8,197.39)
Add: Fresh provisions made 
during the year
5,303.25 
(8,735.87)
Less: Excess provision 
reversed/ Write-off loans
5,936.33 
(9,481.29)
Closing balance of provisions 
held
1,010.66
1,368.37
537.62
1,531.28
3,437.27
4,447.93
(1,009.78)
(585.39)
(277.96)
(3,207.00)
(4,070.35)
(5,080.13)
Net NPAs 
Opening Balance
946.50
281.77
-
1,228.27 
(1,346.80)
(217.43)
(0.00)
(1,564.23)
Add: Fresh additions during 
the year
378.43 
(926.82)
Less: Reductions during the 
year
259.09 
(1,262.78)
Closing Balance
1,211.18
136.43
-
1,347.61
1,347.61
(946.50)
(281.77)
-
(1,228.27)
(1,228.27)
 
 
Previous year figures are shown in"()". 
 
 
*Closing balances of provision for NPAs include claims received (net) from CGFMU & ECLGS held pending adjustment is ` NIL (Previous Year- 
` 717.05 crore) & ` 145.55 crore (Previous Year- ` NIL) respectively 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
210
Bandhan Bank Limited
	
B)	
Classification of Advances and Provisions Held	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Standard
Non-Performing
Total
Total 
Standard 
Advances
Sub- 
standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non - 
Performing 
Advances
Floating Provisions	
Opening Balance
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
Add: Additional provisions 
made during the year
 - 
 (-) 
Less: Amount drawn down 
during the year
 - 
 (-) 
Closing balance of floating 
provisions
-
 (-) 
Technical write  -offs and the recoveries made thereon	
	
	
	
	
	
Opening balance of Technical/ 
Prudential written-off accounts
 54.35 
(5867.88)
Add: Technical/ Prudential 
write-offs during the year
 3,852.49 
(6071.78)
Less: Recoveries made 
from previously technical/ 
prudential written-off 
accounts during the year
 2.93 
 (374.28)
Less: Sale to ARC
 - 
 (11,511.03)
Closing balance
3,903.91
 (54.35)
	
	
Previous year figures are shown in"()". 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
211
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
C)	
Sector wise Advances and Gross NPA's	
(` in crore)
Sr. 
No.
Sector
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Outstanding 
Total 
Advances
Gross 
NPAs
Percentage of 
Gross NPAs to 
Total Advances 
in that sector
Outstanding 
Total 
Advances
Gross 
NPAs
Percentage of 
Gross NPAs to 
Total Advances 
in that sector
A
Priority Sector*
1
Agriculture and allied activities 
#
9,636.73
402.26
4.17%
8,646.56
531.09
6.14%
2
Advances to industries sector 
eligible 
as 
priority 
sector 
lending #
6,493.60
429.70
6.62%
5,612.03
355.77
6.34%
Textiles
-
-
-
650.45
126.51
19.45%
3
Services
30,737.51
1,139.23
3.71%
24,279.84
638.43
2.63%
Transport Operator
-
-
-
2,453.04
80.80
3.29%
Retail Trade
14,716.05
219.13
1.49%
17,408.22
472.99
2.72%
4
Personal loans
13,255.70
214.34
1.62%
15,637.24
548.28
3.51%
Housing Loans
12,761.75
208.58
1.63%
14,604.77
544.82
3.73%
Sub Total (A)
60,123.54
2,185.53
3.64%
54,175.67
2,073.57
3.83%
B
Non Priority Sector
1
Agriculture and allied activities
490.15
27.80
5.67%
-
-
-
2
Industry sector
6,795.28
420.33
6.19%
6,269.01
717.68
11.45%
Textiles
-
-
-
1,112.72
313.85
28.21%
Basic Metal and Metal Products
1,003.02
11.27
1.12%
-
-
-
3
Services
38,689.77
1,712.27
4.43%
29,527.08
1,947.19
6.59%
Retail Trade
15,014.04
827.32
5.51%
14,830.24
214.25
1.44%
NBFCs
8,214.17
362.21
4.41%
7,034.89
1,022.81
14.54%
4
Personal loans
18,475.31
438.95
2.38%
18,855.36
560.18
2.97%
Housing Loans
7,996.80
112.58
1.41%
8,673.93
257.31
2.97%
Sub Total (B)
64,450.51
2,599.35
4.03%
54,651.45
3,225.05
5.90%
Total (A+B)
124,574.05
4,784.88
3.84%
108,827.12
5,298.62
4.87%
 
Segments contributing in excess of 10% of the Sector as at March 31 of the respective years are individually listed 
 
*Priority sectors includes ` 12,750 crore (previous year : ` 15,175 crore), in respect of which the Bank has sold Priority Sector 
Lending Certificates (PSLC). During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank has bought PSLC amounting ` 13,175 crore (previous 
year : ` 6,330 crore ), which is not included in above. 
 
#The SFMF classification is based on Self certified Land Holding declaration as per approved PSL policy of the Bank and Turnover, 
Investment in P&M/Equipment is based on Udyam Registration Certificates for MSME classification. 
 
As per Board approved PSL policy of the Bank and in line with RBI Master direction, of Priority Sector Lending as updated by FIDD-RBI 
from time to time, the portfolio classified as Priority Sector advances for the year ended March 31, 2024 stands at ` 60,123.54 crore 
(Previous year : ` 54,175.67 crore). 
 
The bank has compiled the data for the purpose of this disclosure from the internal MIS. System/reports which has been furnished 
by the management and has been relied upon by the auditors. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
212
Bandhan Bank Limited
D)	
Ratios (in per cent)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Gross NPA to Gross Advances
3.84%
4.87%
Net NPA to Net Advances
1.11%
1.17%
Provision coverage ratio (without Prudential write-offs)
71.84%
76.82%
Provision coverage ratio (including Prudential write-offs)
84.49%
77.05%
 
Note: Net NPAs are non-performing assets net of specific provisions, claims received (net) from Credit Guarantors held pending 
adjustment. 
E)	
Overseas Assets, NPAs and Revenue	
 
The Bank does not have any overseas loan assets as on March 31,2024 and March 31,2023. 
F)	
Divergence in asset classification and provisioning	
 
In terms of the RBI guidelines banks are required to disclose the divergence in asset classification and provisioning consequent 
to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial statements, wherever the additional provisioning 
assessed / additional gross NPAs identified by RBI exceeds the threshold specified by RBI. The threshold for provisioning is 5 per 
cent (Previous year 10 per cent) of the reported profit before provisions and contingencies for the reference period and that for 
additional gross NPAs is 5 per cent (Previous year 10 per cent) of the published incremental Gross NPAs for the reference period.
 
Based on the above, there was no reportable divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs for the years ended March 
31, 2024 and March 31, 2023. 
G)	
Transfer of Loan Exposures
 
Details of loans transferred excluding through Inter- Bank Participation Certificate (IBPC) & acquired during the year ended March 
31, 2024 under the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated September 24, 2021 are given below: 
	
i)	
Details of Financial Assets sold to Securitisation / Reconstruction company for Reconstruction	
 
 
The details of stressed loans transferred and Investment made in Security Receipts during the Year ended March 31, 2024 to 
ARCs for technically written off and NPA accounts are given below: 
Particulars
Value (To ARCs)
No of accounts
7,866
(2,702,211)
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred (` in crore)
719.69
(13,827.30)
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years)
17.60
(0.78)
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer) (` in crore)
367.47
(369.73)
Aggregate consideration (` in crore)
289.60
(1,540.82)
Additional consideration realized in respect of accounts transferred in earlier years
-
(-)
**Quantum of excess provisions reversed to Profit and Loss Account (` in crore)
-
(-1,170.2)
*** Investment in Security Receipts (SR) (` in crore)
-
(764.33)
 
 
Previous year figures are shown in "()". 
	
	
Note:
 
 
**The net credit to Other Income is NIL related to transactions during the year (Previous year : ` 433.39 crore after adjusting ` 144.86 crore 
provision for diminution on value of Investments in Security Receipts) 
 
 
*** There are no fresh investment in Security Receipts during the current Financial year. The Investment in Security Receipts (SR) were not 
rated in previous year and current net book value is NIL (Previous year : ` 27.51 crore) as per RBI guidelines. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
213
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
	
ii)	
Details of Non Performing Financial Assets Purchased	
 
 
The Bank did not purchase any Non Performing Financial Assets during the year ended March 31,2024 and March 
31,2023. 
	
iii)	
Details of Special Mention Account (SMA) or Stressed Financial Assets Purchased	
 
 
The Bank did not purchase any Special Mention Account (SMA) or Stressed Financial Assets during the year ended 
March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023. 
	
(iv)	 Details of Loan Acquired through assignment	
 
 
Details of Loan not in default acquired through assignment during the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31,2023 are 
given below: 
Particulars
Value
Aggregate amount of loans acquired (` in crore)
1,262.58
(486.04)
Weighted average residual maturity (in years)
1.70
(1.49)
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years)
0.51
(0.66)
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator
10.00%
(12.11%)
Tangible security coverage (%)
3.09%
(15.41%)
 
 
Previous year figures are shown in"()". 
	
	
Note: The loans acquired are not rated. 
	
(v)	
Rating of Security Receipts
 
 
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, rating-wise distribution of Security Receipts held by the bank. 
(` in crore)
Rating
Recovery Rating
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Gross
Net
Gross
Net
RR1+
More than 150%
57.57
-
-
-
RR1
100%-150%
224.44
-
-
-
RR2
75%-100%
205.00
-
-
-
Unrated
-
-
764.33
27.51
Total
487.01
-
764.33
27.51
H)	
Disclosure of Provision for Frauds	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
No. of Frauds reported during the year to Reserve Bank of India
4,314
233*
Amount involved in such Frauds
48.02
30.51
Amount involved in such Frauds net of recoveries / write-offs
15.81
28.94
Amount of provision made/held for such frauds
15.81
28.94
Amount of Unamortised provision debited from ‘other reserves’ as at the end of the 
year
-
-
	
Note: The information on frauds as above includes certain accounts which were already reckoned as NPAs in the prior years and 
these are fully provided for. 
 
RBI vide circular No:  DoS.CO.FMG.No. S332/23.04.001/2022-23 dated 13.01.2023,  has directed Banks to report all UEBT 
(Unauthorized Electronic Banking Transactions) incidents on the XBRL platform (which is the same platform used to report frauds 
through FMR). These UEBT transactions are to be reported irrespective of whether customers have shared OTP/bank account 
credentials or not.  
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
214
Bandhan Bank Limited
 
 
Accordingly, a total of 3927 UEBT incidents (out of total 4,314 fraud incidents reported during FY 2023-24) amounting to ` 27.61 
crore (not classified by the Bank as fraud) for the period - April 01, 2023 to March 31, 2024 pertaining to FY 2023-24 were reported 
by the Bank to the RBI and are considered as contingent Liability as "Claim against the bank not acknowledge as debts".
 
 
*During the previous year a total of 599 UEBT incidents amounting ` 1.92 crore  (not classified by the Bank as fraud) for the 
period- January 30, 2023 till March 31, 2023 pertaining to FY 2022-23 were reported by the Bank to the RBI are not included 
in the same.
	
I)	
Provisions on Standard Assets	
	
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Provisions towards Standard Assets*
1,010.66
1,009.78
 
 
*Includes accelerated & additional provision amounting to ` 568.93 crore (Previous Year- ` 521.96 crore) and also includes 
provision against advances restructured under the Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress amounting to ` 81.48 
crore (Previous Year- ` 188.00 crore) 
	
J)	
Disclosure on Advances	
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Gross Advances (Including IBPC/Assignment)
124,574.05
108,827.12
Less: Managed Advance (IBPC/Assignment)
-
-
Gross Advances (Excluding IBPC/Assignment)
124,574.05
108,827.12
Less: Provision on NPA
3,437.27
4,070.35
Net Advances (Refer Schedule 9)
121,136.78
104,756.77
18.7	Disclosure under Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress	
(` in crore)
Type of borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan– Position 
as at the end of the 
previous half-year i.e 
September 30, 2023 (A)
Of (A), 
aggregate 
debt that 
slipped into 
NPA during 
the half-year 
ended March 
31, 2024^
Of (A) 
amount 
written off 
during the 
half-year
Of (A) 
amount 
paid by the 
borrowers 
during the 
half- year*
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan – 
Position as at the end 
of this half-year i.e 
March 31, 2024**
Personal Loans (Housing)
711.90
70.73
-
50.43
590.74
(877.39)
(110.82)
-
(55.09)
(711.48)
Corporate persons
-
-
-
-
-
(32.84)
-
-
(2.75)
(30.09)
Of which, MSMEs
-
-
-
-
-
 -
-
-
-
-
Others
66.83
46.10
35.83
20.73
-
(2,592.80)
(2,253.55)
(83.06)
(85.81)
(253.44)
Total
778.73
116.83
35.83
71.16
590.74
(3,503.03)
(2,364.37)
(83.06)
(143.65)
(995.01)
 
Previous year figures are shown in"()". 
 
^Includes loans which have been written off during the period 
 
*Net of increase in exposure during the period 
 
**Does not include loans restructured under the above frameworks amounting to ` 34.44 crore which were not standard as at September 30, 2023 
and upgraded to standard during the half year ended March 31, 2024. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
215
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
18.8	Exposures
	
A)	
Exposure to Real Estate Sector	
(` in crore)
Category
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
a)	
Direct exposure*
 
(i) 
Residential Mortgages - represents lending fully secured by 
mortgages on residential property that is or will be occupied by the 
borrower or that is rented.
31,288.09
27,152.27
 
(ii) 
Commercial Real Estate - represents lending secured by mortgages 
on commercial real estate
1,774.19
741.73
 
(iii) Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other 
securitised exposures –
 
 
1. 
Residential
140.86
80.38
 
 
2. 
Commercial Real Estate
6.57
4.67
b)	
Indirect exposure
 
Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing Bank 
(NHB) and Housing Finance Companies (HFCs).
2,426.20
938.10
Total Exposure to Real Estate Sector
35,635.91
28,917.15
 
 
* Includes purchase of retail mortgage loans through IBPC route. 
	
	
Note: Exposure is higher of limits sanctioned or the amounts outstanding as at the year end. 
	
B)	
Exposure to Capital Market	
(` in crore)
Category
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Direct investments in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures 
and units of equity-oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is not exclusively 
invested in corporate debt
220.20
304.59
Advances against shares/bonds/debentures or other securities or on clean 
basis to individuals for investment in shares (including IPOs/ESOPs), convertible 
bonds, convertible debentures, and units of equity-oriented mutual funds
-
-
Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or 
convertible debentures or units of equity-oriented mutual funds are taken as 
primary security
-
-
Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the collateral security 
of shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity-
oriented mutual funds i.e. where primary security other than shares/convertible 
bonds/convertible debentures/units of equity-oriented mutual funds does not 
fully cover the advances
-
-
Secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and guarantees issued on 
behalf of stockbrokers and market makers
981.43
891.79
Loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares/ bonds/debentures 
or other securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter’s contribution to the 
equity of new companies in anticipation of raising resources
-
-
Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows/issues
-
-
Underwriting commitments taken up in respect of primary issue of shares or 
convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity-oriented mutual 
funds
-
-
Financing to stock brokers for margin trading
-
-
All exposures to Venture Capital Funds (both registered and unregistered)
5.92
3.70
Total Exposure to Capital Market
1,207.55
1,200.08
	
	
Note: Exposure is higher of limits sanctioned or the amounts outstanding as at the year end. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
216
Bandhan Bank Limited
	
C)	
Details of Single Borrower Limit (SGL) / Group Borrower Limit (GBL) exceeded by the Bank	
 
 
During the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, the Bank’s credit exposure to single borrower and group borrowers 
was within the prudential exposure limits prescribed by RBI. 
	
D)	
Unsecured Advances against Intangible Collaterals	
 
 
During the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, there are no unsecured advances for which intangible securities 
such as charge over the rights, licenses, authority etc. has been taken as collateral by the Bank. 
	
E)	
Risk Category wise Country Exposure	
 
 
The Bank does not have any Risk Category wise country exposure for the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023.
	
F)	
Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure	
 
 
During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Bank made provision of ` 4.20 crore (Previous Year ` 6.64 crore) towards un-
hedged foreign currency exposure. As on March 31, 2024, the Bank held cumulative provision towards un-hedged foreign 
currency exposure of ` 11.40 crore (Previous Year ` 7.20 crore).
 
 
As on March'24, the Bank is required to provide additional Capital of ` 124.88 crore (Previous year ` 8.87 crore) towards 
borrowers having un-hedged foreign currency exposures in accordance with RBI guidelines. 
	
G)	
Intra Group Exposures
 
 
The Bank did not have any intra group exposure during the year ended March 31,2024 and March 31,2023. 
	
H)	
Factoring Exposures
 
 
The Bank did not have any factoring exposure during the year ended March 31,2024 and March 31,2023. 
18.9	Disclosure of penalties imposed by RBI	
 
Penalty amounting to ` 0.304 crore has been levied on the Bank by RBI during the year ended March 31,2024 and ` 0.006 crore as 
on March 31,2023. The details are specified below: 
Details
Particulars
Nature of Breach
Penalty for Cash outage in ATM
Number of Instances of default
1
Quantum of penalty imposed
` 0.001 crore
Other details
In terms of extant regulatory guidelines, banks have to ensure that the cash is available in all 
ATMs continuously. Any cash outage continuously for a period beyond 10 hours will attract 
penalty of ` 10,000 per instance. During the financial year 2023-24, penalty was imposed on 
the Bank for one such instance."
Nature of Breach
Penalty for Deficiency in services (exchange of soiled / mutilated / defective currency notes) 
identified by RBI during Incognito Visit.
Number of Instances of default
5
Quantum of penalty imposed
` 0.007 crore
Other details
In terms of extant regulatory guidelines, all the branches of banks in all parts of the country 
are required to mandatorily accept/exchange soiled/mutilated/defective currency notes.
During the financial year 2023-24, RBI has imposed penalties in five instances, with 
` 10,000 each on four occasions and ` 30,000 on single instance, due to deficiency in services 
identified during their incognito visits.
Nature of Breach
Penalty for Irregularities detected during the course of inspection of Currency chest
Number of Instances of default
1
Quantum of penalty imposed
` 0.0005 crore
Other details
In terms of extant regulatory guidelines, 2% of the balances in denominations `50, `20, `10 
and `5 are subjected to the detailed verification during bi-monthly verification.
During the financial year 2023-24, RBI has imposed penalty of ` 5,000 for one such instance.
Nature of Breach
Penalty for non-compliance with certain directions on ‘Reserve Bank of India (Interest Rate 
on Deposits) Directions, 2016
Number of Instances of default
1
Quantum of penalty imposed
` 0.2955 crore
Other details
In terms of extant regulatory guidelines, banks have to ensure compliance with the above 
Master Direction which shall be read as “Scheduled commercial banks shall not open a 
savings deposit account in the name of entities other than individuals, Karta of HUF and 
organisations/ agencies listed in Schedule I”.
During the financial year 2023-24, penalty was imposed on the Bank for one such instance.
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
217
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
18.10 Employee Benefits
	
A)	
Gratuity
 
 
The Bank has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Every employee who has completed five years or more of service is eligible for 
gratuity on departure and it is computed at 15 days salary (last drawn salary) for each completed year of service. The scheme 
is funded with an insurance company in the form of qualifying insurance policy. 
 
 
The following tables summarize the components of net benefit expense recognised in the profit and loss account and the 
funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the Gratuity plan. 
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
i)	
Table Showing changes in present value of Defined Benefit obligation:
 
Present value of defined benefit obligations as at beginning of the year
202.39
168.13
 
Interest cost
14.27
11.49
 
Current service cost
39.28
33.50
 
Acquisitions cost
-
-
 
Benefit Paid
8.32
8.11
 
Actuarial loss/(gain) on obligations
6.53
(2.62)
	
Present value of defined benefit obligations as at end of the year
254.15
202.39
ii)	
Table showing fair value of plan assets:
 
Fair value of plan assets as at beginning of the year
176.48
140.82
 
Acquisitions cost
-
-
 
Expected return on plan assets
13.94
11.37
 
Contributions paid
40.00
40.00
 
Benefits Paid
8.32
8.11
 
Acquisition Adjustment
-
-
 
Actuarial Gain/ (loss) on plan assets
0.50
(7.60)
	
Fair value of plan assets at end of the year
222.60
176.48
iii)	
Actuarial Gain/(Loss) recognised:
 
Actuarial (gain)/loss on obligations
6.53
(2.62)
 
Actuarial (loss)/gain for the year-Plan assets.
0.50
(7.60)
	
Net Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the year
(6.03)
(4.98)
iv)	
The amounts to be recognised in the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss 
Account:
 
Present value of obligations at the end of the year
254.15
202.39
 
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
222.60
176.48
	
Net liability recognised in balance sheet
31.55
25.91
v)	
The Principal assumptions used in the actuarial valuation are shown 
below :
 
Discount Rate
7.00%
7.20%
 
Salary Escalation
8.00%
8.00%
 
Withdrawal Rate
For Ages <=35 - 
16%; For Ages >35 
- 8%
For Ages <=35 - 
16%; For Ages >35 
- 8%
 
Expected rate of return on assets
7.25%
7.25%
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
218
Bandhan Bank Limited
	
vi)	
Expenses Recognised in Profit and Loss Account:	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Current Service Cost
39.28
33.50
Interest Cost
14.27
11.49
Expected return
(13.94)
(11.37)
Net Actuarial loss/(Gain) recognised in the year
6.03
4.98
Expenses recognised in profit and loss account
45.64
38.60
Actual return on plan assets
14.44
3.77
	
vii)	 Amounts for the current and previous year are as follows:	
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2022
As at 
March 31, 2021
As at 
March 31, 2020
a) 
Defined Benefit Obligations 
at the end of the period
(254.15)
(202.39)
(168.13)
(135.09)
(107.96)
b) 
Plan Assets at the end of 
the period
222.60
176.48
140.82
102.12
59.90
c) 
Deficit
(31.55)
(25.91)
(27.31)
(32.97)
(48.06)
d) 
Experience adjustments on 
plan liabilities [(Gain)/Loss]
6.53
(2.62)
1.48
2.29
18.83
e) 
Experience adjustments on 
plan assets [Gain/(Loss)]
0.50
(7.60)
(5.25)
(2.43)
(1.51)
	
viii)	 The Major categories of Plan Assets as a percentage of the fair value of Total Plan Asset are as follows:
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Insurance Managed Fund
100%
100%
	
ix)	
The estimates of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation, takes account of inflation, seniority and other 
relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market. 
	
x)	
The Bank expects to contribute ` 40 crore to gratuity fund in 2024-25 (Previous year ended March 31, 2023: ` 40 crore) 
	
xi)	
The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on market prices prevailing on that date, applicable to the 
year over which the obligation is to be settled. 
B)	
Provident Fund
 
Amount incurred as expense for defined contribution to Provident Fund is ` 176.61 crore (Previous year ended March 31, 2023 : 
` 141.11 crore) 
C)	
Compensated Absences
 
The Bank has provided for compensatory leaves which can be availed and not encashed as per policy of the Bank as present value 
obligation of the benefit at related current service cost measured using the Projected Unit Credit Method on the basis of an actuarial 
valuation. The Bank has accordingly booked ` 83.52 crore (Previous Year ` 55.55 crore) in the books of accounts for the year. 
D)	
The Code on Social Security, 2020	
 
The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘the Code’) relating to employee benefits, during the employment and postemployment, has 
received Presidential assent on September 28, 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Further, the Ministry of 
Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on November 13, 2020. The effective date from which the changes 
are applicable is yet to be notified and rules for quantifying the financial impact are not yet issued. The Bank will assess the impact 
of the Code and will give appropriate impact in the financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the 
related rules to determine the financial impact are published. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
219
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
18.11 Segment Reporting
A)	
Segment Identification
 
Pursuant to the guidelines issued by RBI on AS 17 - Segment Reporting - Enhancement of Disclosures dated April 18, 2007, the 
following business segments have been reported: 
	
i)	
Treasury : 
 
 
Treasury operations include investments in sovereign securities and trading operations. The Treasury segment also includes 
the central funding unit. 
	
ii)	
Retail banking :
 
 
Includes lending to individuals/small businesses through the branch network and other delivery channels subject to the 
orientation, nature of product, granularity of the exposure and low value of individual exposure thereof. It also includes liability 
products, card services, internet banking, mobile banking, ATM services and NRI services. All deposits sourced by branches are 
classified in retail category. 
	
iii)	
Corporate/Wholesale Banking:	
 
 
Includes corporate relationships not included under Retail Banking. 
	
iv)	
Other Banking Business :	
 
 
Include para banking activities like third party product distribution and other banking transaction not covered under any of the 
above three segments. 
 
 
Income, expenses, assets and liabilities are either specifically identified with individual segments or are allocated to segments 
on a systematic basis. 
 
 
The liabilities of the Bank are first used by the units generating the same. Any excess liabilities of the units are pooled to central 
funding unit (Treasury). Treasury then lends these funds to other units at appropriate rates. 
 
 
The transfer pricing mechanism of the Bank is periodically reviewed. The segment results are determined based on the transfer 
pricing mechanism prevailing for the respective reporting periods. 
 
 
Revenues of the Treasury segment primarily consist of fees and gains or losses from trading operations and interest income 
on the investment portfolio. The principal expenses of the segment consist of interest expense on funds borrowed from 
external sources and other internal segments, premises expenses, personnel costs, other direct overheads and allocated 
expenses. 
 
 
Revenues of the Corporate/Wholesale Banking segment consist of interest and fees earned on loans given to customers falling 
under this segment and fees arising from these. Revenues of the Retail Banking segment are derived from interest earned on 
loans classified under this segment, fees for banking services and ATM interchange fees. Expenses of the Corporate/Wholesale 
Banking and Retail Banking segments primarily comprise interest expense on deposits and funds borrowed from other internal 
segments, infrastructure and premises expenses for operating the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel 
costs, other direct overheads and allocated expenses. 
 
 
Segment income includes earnings from external customers and from funds transferred to the other segments. Segment result 
includes revenue as reduced by interest expense and operating expenses and provisions, if any, for that segment. Segment-
wise income and expenses include certain allocations. Inter segment interest income and interest expense represent the 
transfer price received from and paid as per the transfer pricing mechanism presently followed by the Bank. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
220
Bandhan Bank Limited
B)	
Segment Information
i)	
Primary (Business Segment)
(` in crore)
Particulars
Treasury
Retail 
Banking
Corporate/
Wholesale 
Banking
Other 
banking 
business
Total
Segment Revenue
Gross interest income (external customers)
2,158.04
15,141.83
1,569.75
-
18,869.62
(1,950.55)
(13,113.81)
(840.34)
-
(15,904.70)
Other income
125.71
1,722.26
-
316.68
2,164.65
(35.50)
(2,028.52)
-
(404.53)
(2,468.55)
Total income as per profit and Loss Account
2,283.75
16,864.09
1,569.75
316.68
21,034.27
(1,986.05)
(15,142.33)
(840.34)
(404.53)
(18,373.25)
Add: Inter segment interest income
-
850.26
-
-
850.26
(182.41)
-
-
-
(182.41)
Total segment revenue
2,283.75
17,714.34
1,569.75
316.68
21,884.53
(2,168.46)
(15,142.33)
(840.34)
(404.53)
(18,555.66)
Less: Interest expenses
1,338.21
6,773.32
432.48
-
8,544.01
(1,250.64)
(4,971.55)
(422.89)
-
(6,645.08)
Less: Inter segment interest expenses
104.77
-
742.82
2.67
850.26
 -
(40.34)
(140.32)
(1.75)
(182.41)
Less: Operating expenses
21.25
5,635.39
181.77
12.37
5,850.78
(135.59)
(4,347.72)
(145.25)
(8.26)
(4,636.82)
Operating Profit
819.52
5,305.63
212.68
301.64
6,639.48
(782.23)
(5,782.72)
(131.88)
(394.52)
(7,091.35)
Less: Provisions for non performing assets/others
-
3,579.25
117.32
-
3,696.57
 -
(4,151.17)
(47.20)
-
(4,198.37)
Segment results
819.52
1,726.39
95.36
301.64
2,942.91
(782.23)
(1,631.55)
(84.68)
(394.52)
(2,892.98)
Less: provisions for tax
713.34
(698.34)
Net profit
2,229.57
(2,194.64)
Other information
Segment assets
44,538.39
110,459.28
21,049.44
29.33
176,076.45
(39,777.48)
(97,986.81)
(16,789.31)
(22.16)
(154,575.76)
Unallocated assets
1,765.21
(1,461.33)
Total assets
44,538.39
110,459.28
21,049.44
29.33
177,841.66
(39,777.48)
(97,986.81)
(16,789.31)
(22.16)
(156,037.09)
Segment liabilities*
39,339.11
127,938.37
10,255.01
-
177,532.49
(45,138.62)
(100,104.23)
(10,403.22)
-
(155,646.07)
Unallocated liabilities
309.17
(391.02)
Total liabilities
39,339.11
127,938.37
10,255.01
-
177,841.66
(45,138.62)
(100,104.23)
(10,403.22)
(-)
(156,037.09)
Capital Expenditure
16.76
516.90
23.76
-
557.42
 -
(387.56)
(24.52)
(-)
(412.08)
Depreciation
32.53
192.34
12.70
-
237.57
(26.57)
(107.59)
(8.49)
(-)
(142.65)
Notes:
The business of the Bank does not extend outside India and it does not have any assets outside India or earnings emanating from outside 
India. Accordingly, the Bank has reported operations in the domestic segment only. 
*Treasury segment liabilities includes share capital and reserve & surplus 
The RBI vide its circular dated April 7, 2022 on establishment of Digital Banking Units (DBUs), has prescribed reporting of Digital Banking 
Segment as a sub-segment of Retail Banking Segment. The Bank does not have any DBUs, hence Digital Banking Segment disclosures is 
not applicable. 
Previous year figures are shown in"()". 
Segment information is provided as per the MIS available for internal reporting purposes, which include certain estimates/assumptions. 
The methodology adopted in compiling and reporting the above information has been relied upon by the auditors. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
221
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
18.12 Related Party disclosure
 
The Bank has transactions with its related parties comprising of associates/other related entities, key management personnel and 
the relatives of key management personnel. 
 
As per AS 18 “Related Party Disclosures”, notified under section 133 of the Companies Act 2013, read together with paragraph 7 of 
the Companies (Accounts) Rules 2014, the Bank’s related parties for the year ended March 31, 2024 are disclosed below: 
	
A)	
Names of related parties and nature of relationship	
Entities
Nature of relationship
Bandhan Financial Services Limited
Entity having Significant influence (Promoter)
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
Entity having Significant influence (Promoter)
Bandhan Konnagar
Promoter Group Entity
Bandhan AMC Limited
Entity in which Promoter entity exercises control
Nakshi Creations Pvt. Ltd.
Entity in which key management personnel are interested
Key Management Personnel
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (w.e.f. March 31, 2023)
Executive Director
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar (w.e.f. March 08, 2024)
Executive Director
Mr. Indranil Banerjee
Company Secretary
Mr. Rajeev Mantri (w.e.f. February 22, 2024)
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Abhijit Ghosh (from October 20, 2023 to February 22, 2024)
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Sunil Samdani (upto October 20, 2023)
Chief Financial Officer
Relatives of Key Management Personnel
Nilima Ghosh, Suchitra Ghosh, Angshuman Ghosh, Vaskar Ghosh, Dibakar Ghosh, Shipra Ghosh, Supriya Ghosh
Antara Kesh, Ashalata Kesh, Rajarshi Kesh, Manik Chand Kesh, Sulekha Sam, Sipra Roy (w.e.f. March 31,2023)
Inderpreet Kaur, Nauvtej Singh Babbar, Gourima Singh Babbar, Sarla Grover, Anju Sethi, Shashi Sachdeva (w.e.f. March 08, 
2024)
Saswati Banerjee, Arati Banerjee, Ishaan Banerjee, Mousumi Mukherjee.
Rupal Mantri, Vijay Shankar Mantri, Sampat Mantri, Raaghav Mantri, Ria Mantri, Naveen Mantri, Suman Rathi (w.e.f. 
February 22, 2024)
Sweta Pathak, Pratima Ghosh, Ritam Ghosh (from October 20, 2023 to February 22, 2024)
Nidhi Samdani, Sohan Samdani, Manju Somani, Asha Boheria, Usha Kothari (upto October 20, 2023)
In accordance with paragraph 5 & 6 of AS-18, the Bank has not disclosed certain transactions with entity in which Key 
management personnel or their relatives are interested as they are in the nature of banker-customer relationship. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
222
Bandhan Bank Limited
	
	
The Bank’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2024 are summarised as follows:
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Entity having 
Significant 
influence 
(Promoter)
Promoter 
Group 
Entity
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
Deposits taken*
637.66
338.08
3.85
5.96
985.55
(1,678.10)
(679.61)
(9.33)
(14.87)
(2,381.91)
Deposits placed
-
-
-
-
-
Advances given
-
-
10.17
-
10.17
 -
-
(14.15)
-
(14.15)
Security Deposit given
-
0.06
-
-
0.06
Payables
-
5.97
-
-
5.97
Dividend paid
96.62
-
0.25
0.00
96.87
Interest received
-
-
0.14
-
0.14
Interest paid
73.12
10.80
0.23
0.22
84.37
Rendering of services
0.00
0.00
-
0.002
0.00
Remuneration paid
-
-
10.86
0.72
11.58
Stock options exercised during the year**
-
-
1.44
-
1.44
Rental Expense
-
6.80
-
-
6.80
Training Expense
-
32.59
-
-
32.59
CSR Expense
-
35.80
-
-
35.80
Other reimbursements
-
1.58
0.10
0.00
1.68
 
 
Figures in bracket () indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year. 
 
 
* Deposits taken includes Fixed Deposits & accrued interest 
 
 
** Options exercised under Employee Stock Option Plan Series 1. 
	
	
The Bank’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2023 are summarised as follows:
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Entity having 
Significant 
influence 
(Promoter)
Promoter 
Group 
Entity
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
Deposits taken*
804.74
213.67
2.83
3.84
1,025.08
(2,952.72)
(213.67)
(2.96)
(3.82)
(3,173.17)
Deposits placed
-
0.00
-
-
-
Advances given
-
-
3.04
-
3.04
-
-
(3.04)
-
(3.04)
Security Deposit given
-
0.06
-
-
0.06
Payables
-
7.05
-
-
7.05
Dividend paid
-
-
-
-
-
Dividend received
-
-
0.06
-
0.06
Interest paid
135.01
8.63
0.13
0.18
143.95
Rendering of services
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.003
0.00
Remuneration paid
-
-
5.78
0.71
6.49
Stock options exercised during the year**
-
-
-
-
-
Rental Expense
-
6.27
-
-
6.27
Training Expense
-
23.89
-
-
23.89
CSR Expense
-
53.56
-
-
53.56
Other reimbursements
-
1.00
0.04
0.01
1.05
	
	
Notes: Figures in bracket () indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year. 
 
 
* Deposits taken includes Fixed Deposits & accrued interest 
 
 
** Options exercised under Employee Stock Option Plan Series 1. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
223
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
 
A specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that 
category. The significant transactions between the Bank and related parties during the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 
2023 are given below 
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Entity having 
Significant influence 
(Promoter)
Promoter 
Group 
Entity
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Deposits*
Bandhan Financial Services Limited 
 380.83 
 (309.09)
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
 256.83 
 (495.64)
Bandhan Konnagar
 338.08 
 (213.67)
Advances
Ratan Kumar Kesh
 3.54 
 (-) 
Rajinder Kumar Babbar 
 5.73 
 (-) 
Dividend paid
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
 96.62 
 (-) 
Interest paid 
Bandhan Financial Services Limited 
 34.74 
 (20.55)
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
 38.38 
 (114.46)
Bandhan Konnagar
 10.80 
 (8.63)
Interest received
Sunil Samdani
 0.07 
 (0.06)
Ratan Kumar Kesh
 0.05 
 (-) 
Indranil Banerjee
 0.02 
 (-) 
Rendering of services
Nidhi Samdani
 # 
 (#) 
Nilima Ghosh
 # 
 (#) 
Bandhan Konnagar
 # 
 (-) 
Stock Options exercised **
Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
 0.90 
 (-) 
Sunil Samdani
 0.54 
 (-) 
Rent Expense
Bandhan Konnagar
 6.80 
 (5.64)
Training Expense
Bandhan Konnagar
 32.59 
 (23.24)
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
224
Bandhan Bank Limited
(` in crore)
Items/Related Party
Entity having 
Significant influence 
(Promoter)
Promoter 
Group 
Entity
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel
CSR Expense
Bandhan Konnagar
 35.80 
 (53.56)
Other reimbursements
Bandhan Konnagar
 1.58 
 (1.00)
Remuneration paid
Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
 4.11 
 (3.21)
Ratan Kumar Kesh
 2.42 
 - 
Sunil Samdani
 1.96 
 (1.57)
Indranil Banerjee
 1.39 
 (1.00)
 
Previous year figures are shown in"()". 
 
# Denotes amount less than ` 1 lacs 
 
* Deposits taken includes Fixed Deposits 
 
** Options exercised under Employee Stock Option Plan Series 1. 
18.13	Deferred Tax	
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Deferred Tax Assets arising out of
Depreciation on fixed assets
38.20
34.59
Provisions for loan losses
947.14
1,002.94
Provision for depreciation in value of investments
136.08
204.82
Expenditure charged to the profit & Loss account in the current year but allowed for 
tax purposes on payment basis
150.46
123.80
Others
8.04
6.48
Total (a)
1,279.92
1,372.63
Deferred Tax Liability arising out of
Special Reserves
(284.32)
(259.55)
Total (b)
(284.32)
(259.55)
Deferred tax asset (net) (a-b)
995.60
1,113.08
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
225
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
18.14	Earnings per Share
 
The Bank reports basic and diluted earnings per equity share in accordance with Accounting Standard 20 - “Earnings per Share”.
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Basic
Weighted Average Number of equity shares
1,610,889,761
1,610,809,940
Net Profit after tax available for equity share holders
2,229.56
2,194.64
Basic Earnings Per Share (FV `10/-)
13.84
13.62
Diluted
Weighted Average Number of equity shares (including dilutive potential equity share)
1,611,074,329
1,611,088,297
Net Profit after tax available for equity share holders
2,229.56
2,194.64
Diluted Earnings Per Share (FV `10/-)
13.84
13.62
Nominal value per share
10.00
10.00
 
The dilutive impact is due to stock options granted to employees of the Bank. 
18.15	Liability for Operating Leases	
 
The Banking Units premises are generally rented on cancellable terms for less than twelve months with no escalation clause and 
renewable at the option of the Company . The Head office and the Bank Branches office premises are obtained on non- cancellable 
lease terms. Lease payment during the year are charged in the statement of profit & loss. 
 
The amount of rent expenses included in the Profit & Loss account towards operating leases aggregate to ` 298.43 crore (Previous 
year ended March 31,2023: ` 234.03 crore). 
 
Particulars of future minimum lease payment in respect of Head office & Bank branches are as mentioned below : 
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
a) 
Not later than 1 year
194.63
147.59
b) 
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years
534.92
373.51
c) 
Later than 5 years
304.08
196.75
18.16	Small and Micro Industries
 
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from October 02, 2006, certain 
disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. There have been no reported cases of delays 
in payments to micro and small enterprises or of interest payments due to delays in such payments during the years ended March 
31, 2024 and March 31, 2023. The above is based on the information available with the Bank which has been relied upon by the 
auditors. 
18.17	Description of contingent liabilities	
	
i)	
Claims against the Bank not acknowledged as debts:	
	
	
An amount of ` 99.73 crore (Previous year: ` 201.18 crore) is outstanding as at March 31, 2024, as claims against the Bank 
not acknowledged as Debts including ` 40.69 crore (Previous year: ` 174.20 crore) being in the nature of a contingent liability 
on account of proceedings pending with Tax authorities. The Bank is a party to various taxation matters in respect of which 
appeals are pending and various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. The Bank has reviewed and classified 
these items as possible obligations based on legal opinion/judicial precedents/assessment and does not expect the outcome 
of these proceedings to have a materially adverse effect on the Bank’s Financial Statements. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
226
Bandhan Bank Limited
	
ii)	
Liability on account of Forward Exchange contracts	
 
 
The Bank has entered into foreign exchange contracts with interbank Counterparties. Forward exchange contracts are 
commitments to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the contracted rate. The forward exchange contracts that 
are not intended for trading and are entered into to establish the amount of reporting currency required or available at the 
settlement date of a transaction are effectively valued at closing spot rate. The premium or discount arising on inception 
of such forward exchange contracts is amortised over the life of the contract as interest Expense / income. The amount in 
contingent liability represents notional outstanding principal amount.
	
iii)	
Guarantees given on behalf of constituents, Acceptances, Endorsements and Others	
	
	
An amount of ` 1,716.15 crore (Previous year: ` 1,199.17 crore) is outstanding as at March 31, 2024. As part of its commercial 
banking activity, the Bank issues documentary credit and guarantees on behalf of its customers. Guarantees generally 
represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of the customer failing to fulfil its financial or 
performance obligations. 
	
iv)	
Other items:
	
	
An amount of ` 283.14 crore (Previous year: ` 264.81 crore) is outstanding as at March 31, 2024. These include:
 
 
a) 
Liability in respect of capital commitments relating to fixed assets.
 
 
b) 
Amount transferred to RBI under Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund).
18.18	Additional Disclosures
	
A)	
Disclosure of customer complaints	
 
 
Summary information on complaints received by the bank from customers and from the offices of Ombudsman 
Sr. 
No
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Complaints received by the bank from its customers
1
Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
1,420
373
2
Number of complaints received during the year*
60,330
37,752
3
Number of complaints disposed during the year*
60,600
36,705
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the bank
5,995
5,429
4
Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
1,150
1,420
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from OBOs
5
Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from OBOs
952
474
5.1 Number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by 'BOs'
334
227
5.2 Number of complaints resolved through conciliation/mediation/
advisories issued by 'BOs'
617
247
5.3 Number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by 'BOs' 
against the bank
1
-
6
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time
(other than those appealed)
-
-
 
 
* The above does not include 9,596 Nos. of complaints received and resolved within next working day during the year ended 
March 31, 2024 (Previous Year - 11,132 Nos.) 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
227
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
	
	
Top five grounds of complaints received by the bank from customers	
Grounds of complaints, 
(i.e. complaints relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
at the 
beginning 
of the year
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
% increase/ 
(decrease) in 
the number 
of complaints 
received over the 
previous year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
the end of 
the year
Of 5, 
number of 
complaints 
pending 
beyond 30 
days
1
2
3
4
5
6
Year ended March 31, 2024
ATM/Debit Cards
211
17,957
(3.30%)
148
2
Internet/Mobile/Electronic Banking
189
22,501
349.75%
312
18
Account opening/difficulty in operation of 
accounts
740
12,391
26.07%
300
42
Loans and advances
175
4,176
80.70%
223
63
Cheques/drafts/bills
3
1,053
621.23%
3
3
Others
102
2,252
18.96%
164
36
Total
1,420
60,330
1,150
164
Year ended March 31, 2023
ATM/Debit Cards
206
18,570
(3.26)%
211
7
Internet/Mobile/Electronic Banking
70
5,003
(54.30)%
189
40
Account opening/difficulty in operation of 
accounts
62
9,829
100.96%
740
631
Loans and advances
14
2,311
556.53%
175
56
Mis-selling/Para-banking
14
573
264.97%
60
35
Others
7
1,466
372.90%
45
27
Total
373
37,752
1,420
796
	
B)	
Letter of Comfort (LOC's) issued by the Bank	
 
 
The Bank has not issued any Letter of Comfort (LOC) during the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023. 
	
C)	
Bancassurance Business
 
 
The following table shows breakup of income derived from sale of insurance /Mutual funds.
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
For selling life insurance policies
261.90
211.62
For selling non-life insurance policies
15.16
26.65
For selling mutual fund products
6.31
5.14
Others
0.15
0.11
	
D)	
Concentration of Deposits, Advances Exposures & NPAs	
	
	
I)	
Concentration of Deposits	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
i) 
Total Deposits of twenty largest depositors
21,847.93
17,737.14
ii) 
Percentage of Deposits of twenty largest depositors to Total Deposits 
of the bank
16.16%
16.41%
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
228
Bandhan Bank Limited
	
	
II)	
Concentration of Advances
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
i) 
Total Advances to twenty largest borrowers
8,606.34
7,168.11
ii) 
Percentage of Advances to twenty largest borrowers to Total 
Advances of the Bank
6.62%
6.38%
 
 
 
Advances comprises credit exposure (funded and non-funded credit limits) and excludes Advances against Bank own 
deposit computed as per current exposure method in accordance with RBI guidelines. 
	
	
III)	
Concentration of Exposures	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
i) 
Total Exposure to twenty largest borrowers / customers
8,606.34
7,558.87
ii) 
Percentage of Exposures to twenty largest borrowers / customers to 
total exposure of the bank on borrowers / customers
6.56%
6.60%
 
 
 
Exposure comprises credit exposure (funded and non-funded credit limits), Investment exposure and excludes Advances 
against Bank own deposit in accordance with RBI guidelines. 
	
	
IV)	 Concentration of NPAs	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Total Exposure to the top twenty NPA accounts
651.88
573.70
Percentage of exposures to the twenty largest NPA exposure to total Gross 
NPAs.
13.62%
10.83%
18.19	Disclosures on Remuneration	
	
Qualitative Disclosures
	
A)	
Information relating to the composition and mandate of the Remuneration Committee.	
 
 
The Bank’s Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) oversees the framing, review and implementation of the 
Compensation Policy on behalf of the Board of Directors. The NRC reviews the policy at least once a year to ensure that the 
reward design is aligned to industry best practices and is consistent with effective risk management and long term business 
interests of the Bank. The NRC works in close coordination with the Risk Management Committee of the Bank, to achieve the 
effective alignment between remuneration and risks. 
 
 
As on March 31,2024 the NRC comprises of the following directors. 
 
 
Mr. Suhail Chander - Chairman 
 
 
Dr. A S Ramasastri
 
 
Mr. Philip Mathew
 
 
The NRC functions with the following main objectives: 
 
 
i) 
To identify persons who are qualified to become directors in accordance with the criteria laid down, recommend to the Board 
their appointment, re-appointment or removal and to carry out evaluation of every Director’s performance; 
 
 
ii) 
To formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a Director and decide 
their ‘fit & proper’ status; 
 
 
iii) 
To oversee the framing, review and implementation of compensation policy of the Bank and recommend to the Board the 
overall remuneration philosophy and policy including the level and structure of fixed pay, variable pay, perquisites, bonus 
pool, stock based remuneration to employees; 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
229
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
 
 
iv) 
To oversee the framing, implementation and review of the Remuneration of the Whole Time Director (WTDs) /Managing 
Director (MD)/ Chief Executive Officer (CEOs) as per the RBI Guidelines and Companies Act, 2013. The Committee 
shall recommend to the Board the remuneration package for the Managing Director & CEO and the other Whole Time 
Directors – including the level of fixed pay, variable pay, stock based Remuneration and perquisites; 
 
 
v) 
To review the HR strategy and policy including the conduct and ethics of the Bank and review any fundamental changes 
in the organization structure which could have wide ranging and high risk implications; 
 
 
vi) 
To review and recommend to the Board, the succession policy at the level of Managing Director & CEO, other WTDs, 
senior management one level below the Board and key roles. 
	
B)	
Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes and the key features and objectives of 
remuneration policy	
	
	
Objectives of the Remuneration Policy	
 
 
The Compensation Policy reflects the Bank’s objectives for good corporate governance as well as sustained and long-term 
value creation for stakeholders. The aims of the Bank’s remuneration framework are to: 
 
 
i) 
Attract, motivate and retain people with requisite skill, experience and ability to deliver the Bank’s strategy; 
 
 
ii) 
Create an alignment and balance between the rewards and risk exposure of shareholders and interests of employees;
 
 
iii) 
Link rewards to creation of long term sustainable shareholder value consistent with strategic goals and appropriate risk 
management; and
 
 
iv) 
Encourage behaviour consistent with the Bank’s values and principles. 
 
 
v) 
Support appropriate conduct and meritocratic culture through differentiated performance rewards 
 
 
To achieve the above objectives, the philosophy adopted by the Bank is as follows: 
 
 
i) 
Market referenced: offer employees competitive salary, achieved through benchmarking with peer groups. 
 
 
ii) 
Making fixed salary the main remuneration component. 
 
 
iii) 
Ensure that jobs of similar internal value are grouped and pegged within a range guided by market benchmarked jobs.
 
 
iv) 
Risk Adjusted: By integrating non-financial considerations relating to conduct in performance assessments, employing 
proper mix of compensation elements and aligning compensation incentives to risk outcomes and factoring the time 
horizon of risks 
 
 
v) 
Focus on ‘Total rewards’, all aspects of compensation, rewards and well defined benefits, including rewarding work 
environment and personal development. 
 
 
vi) 
The focus will be to ensure that the Bank is competitive in its overall salary offer to its employees without being excessively 
expensive for the Bank. 
 
 
The compensation structure for the MD & CEO also mirrors the Bank’s philosophy of aligning with the principles of sound 
compensation practices to ensure: 
 
 
i) 
Effective and independent governance of compensation. 
 
 
ii) 
Effective alignment of compensation with prudent risk taking. 
 
 
iii) 
Effective supervisory oversight and engagement by stakeholders. 
	
	
Design & Structure of Remuneration process	
 
 
The total compensation is a prudent mix of fixed remuneration and performance-based variable remuneration 
 
 
The key remuneration elements are: 
 
 
1) 
Fixed Pay
 
 
2) 
Discretionary Performance-based Variable Remuneration 
 
 
The Bank ensures that the fixed pay element is reasonable, taking into account the market rates and trends. The fixed pay is 
reviewed annually using market intelligence provided by a leading global performance/reward consulting and benchmarking 
firm for financial services industry to ensure that the Bank remains competitive in marketplace and that the Bank is able to 
attract and retain best talent. The level of fixed pay shall be sufficient enough in order to discourage inappropriate risk-taking.
 
 
Performance-based variable remuneration may comprise cash bonus, stock linked instruments, and is awarded by 
ensuring: 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
230
Bandhan Bank Limited
 
 
i) 
an appropriate balance between fixed and performance-based components; 
 
 
ii) 
that the fixed component represents a higher proportion of the total remuneration; 
 
 
iii) 
that the performance-based component reflects the risk underlying the achieved result; 
 
 
iv) 
that a substantial part of the performance-based component may be deferred; 
 
 
v) 
that no hedging of deferred shares takes place; 
 
 
Presently, the bank utilises only two form of performance based variable remuneration, viz.,cash bonus, ESOP, as referred in 
note no 18.29 is linked to continuous service with the Bank. 
 
 
The compensation policy of the Bank is reviewed by the NRC and approved by the Board of Directors. The NRC oversees the 
implementation of the policy and reviews the fixed pay increases, the organizational performance threshold for bonus to be 
paid, cash bonus and deferred variable remuneration. 
	
C)	
Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration process	
 
 
The MD & CEO, employees in the grades of SVPs and above and employees engaged in the functions of Risk Control and 
Compliance are included in the policy of risk alignment of compensation. 
 
 
The alignment of compensation to prudent risk taking is ensured through the following: 
 
 
i) 
Structure of remuneration is such that a significant part of performance based variable remuneration is deferred. 
 
 
ii) 
Performance hurdles includes financial and non-financial parameters, ensuring compensation is aligned to both. 
 
 
iii) 
Fixed Salary is reasonable and sufficient, thereby discouraging inappropriate risk taking. 
 
 
iv) 
Annual Bonus Plan is managed with an independent governance framework. 
 
 
v) 
Variable remuneration awards are conditional, discretionary and contingent upon a sustainable and risk-adjusted 
performance. They are therefore capable of forfeiture or reduction at the Bank’s discretion. 
 
 
vi) 
For employees included in the policy of risk alignment of compensation, NRC has the discretion to apply malus and 
clawback – ex-post risk adjustment, allowing the Bank to adjust previously awarded remuneration to take account of 
subsequent performance and potential risk outcomes and thus enabling to recoup variable pay in the event of a negative 
contribution. 
	
	
Deferral of Variable Pay
 
 
To ensure that risk measures are not focused only on the achievement of short term goals, variable payout is deferred, if it 
exceeds 50% of the fixed pay. 
 
 
The Bank’s compensation policy aims to ensure that both ex-ante estimates and ex-post outcomes of risk affect payoffs; so that 
one or the other, can better address the various situations or risks. 
	
D)	
Description of ways in which the Bank seeks to link performance, during a performance measurement period with levels 
of remuneration.	
 
 
The Bank has a performance measurement framework in place to assess the achievements of the organization as a whole, its 
business lines and organizational units as well as individual employees. In order to maximise the incentive to deliver adequate 
performance and to take into account any risks of the business activities, the Bank seeks to closely link remuneration outcomes 
with performance and risk outcomes. Accordingly, the Bank’s performance management and compensation philosophy is 
designed in a manner to help achieve the Bank's business objectives. 
 
 
The performance management system in the Bank is aligned to the balanced scorecard approach. The goal setting process helps 
individuals to have clarity on their roles and align their profiles in line with the broad organization strategy. Both quantitative 
/ financial and qualitative / non-financial performance measures are considered. The qualitative or non-financial measures 
include customer service, adherence to risk and compliance standards, behaviour and values such as accountability, team 
work, etc., which builds a culture conducive to sustainable business performance. 
 
 
The performance appraisal process starts with the employee conducting self-appraisal followed by the assessment of the 
supervisor via appraisal feedback and discussion. 
 
 
Individual fixed pay increases and variable remuneration are based on the final performance ratings. In addition, the fixed 
pay increase is also influenced by an employee's position in the salary range and relevant market salaries. Performance 
related variable compensation is linked to corporate performance, business performance and individual performance. The 
performance ratings based bonus distribution matrix is reviewed by the NRC. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
231
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
 
 
Employees engaged in all control functions including Compliance and Risk do not carry business profit targets in their goal 
sheets and hence are compensated based on their achievement of key result areas as per the balance score card. The aim is 
to ensure that the remuneration system and outcomes relating to such control functions maintain the independence of the 
function and Bank’s robust risk management framework. Accordingly, for the control functions, the variable pay is conservative 
to promote prudent risk management behaviour and the ‘pay mix’ is skewed towards fixed pay. 
 
 
In the case of performance evaluation of the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Bank, factors such as financial 
performance measures, cost management initiatives, other strategic initiatives, prudential risk and compliance management, 
recognition and awards to the Bank, etc., is taken into account, which may vary from year to year depending on the Bank’s 
strategic priorities. Based on the inputs from NRC, the Board reviews the performance and recommends the rate of bonus to 
be paid, and the increments for the MD & CEO, for regulatory approval in terms of Section 35B of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949 (B.R. Act, 1949). 
	
E)	
Bank’s policy on deferral and vesting of variable remuneration and bank’s policy and criteria for adjusting deferred 
remuneration before vesting and after vesting.	
 
 
In terms of RBI guidelines, the Compensation Policy specifically addresses the following categories of employees: 
 
 
Category I : Managing Director &Chief Executive Officer / Whole Time Directors / Material Risk Takers 
 
 
Category II : Risk Control and Compliance Staff 
 
 
Category III: Other Categories of Staff (employees receiving share-linked variable pay) 
 
 
The following principles are applied for grant and deferral of performance-based variable remuneration for the above categories 
of employees. 
	
	
Category I
 
 
i) 
Variable pay shall not exceed 3 (three) times the annual fixed pay for MD & CEO and WTDs. 
 
 
ii) 
Variable pay shall not exceed 2.5 (two and half) times the annual fixed pay for MRTs. 
 
 
iii) 
At minimum, variable pay shall be equal to the annual fixed pay. 
 
 
iv) 
If an executive is barred by regulation/ statute to receive grant of share-linked instruments, the variable pay shall be 
capped at 1.5 (one and half) times the annual fixed pay, but will be more than 50% of the annual fixed pay 
 
 
v) 
If variable pay is up to 2 (two) times the annual fixed pay, then at least 50% of the variable pay shall be in the form of 
share-linked instruments (i.e. non-cash). 
 
 
vi) 
If variable pay is between 2 (two) to 3 (three) times the annual fixed pay, then at least two—thirds of the variable pay shall 
be in the form of share-linked instruments (i.e. non-cash). 
 
 
vii) At least 60% of total variable pay shall be deferred including at least 50% of cash-based variable pay. However, in cases 
where the cash component of variable pay is under INR 25 lakh, the Bank at its discretion, may not necessarily have 
deferral requirements. 
 
 
viii) Deferral of cash based variable pay shall be for 3 years on pro-rata yearly basis (annual vesting). 
 
 
ix) 
Deferral of share-linked variable pay shall be for 4 years on pro-rata yearly basis (annual vesting). 
 
 
x) 
In case the employee exits the organization before the vesting of all three parts, the remaining deferred cash based 
variable pay will not be paid 
	
	
Category II
 
 
i) 
The mix of Fixed Pay and Variable remuneration will be weighed towards Fixed Pay. 
 
 
ii) 
Variable pay shall not exceed the annual fixed pay. 
 
 
iii) 
At least 40% of the variable pay shall be in the form of share-linked instruments (i.e. non-cash). 
 
 
iv) 
Deferral of share-linked variable pay shall be for 4 years on pro-rata yearly basis (annual vesting). 
 
 
v) 
The compensation will be commensurate to their key role in the Bank. 
	
	
Category III
 
 
i) 
Variable Remuneration will be as per the NRC approved pay-out levels in terms of performance, grade and role matrix.
 
 
ii) 
Variable pay shall not exceed the annual fixed pay. 
 
 
iii) 
At least 50% of the variable pay shall be in the form of share-linked instruments (i.e. non-cash). 
 
 
iv) 
Deferral of share-linked variable pay shall be for 4 years on pro-rata yearly basis (annual vesting). 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
232
Bandhan Bank Limited
 
 
For the three categories of employees mentioned hereinabove, the awarded performance based variable pay shall be subject 
to in-year adjustment, malus or clawback as decided by the NRC, in the event of negative contribution of the Bank and / or 
relevant line of business and in material cases of detrimental conduct of individual or business. 
 
 
Negative contribution of the Bank and / or relevant line of business is defined as: 
	
	
Conduct related:
 
 
i) 
If an employee engages in certain detrimental conduct, including mis-selling practices, manipulation of interest rate 
benchmarks, illegal activity, breach of a fiduciary duty, etc. that causes material financial or reputational harm to the 
Bank.
 
 
ii) 
If the award was based on a material misrepresentation by the employee. 
 
 
iii) 
If there is reasonable evidence of employee malfeasance and breach of integrity inviting disciplinary actions. 
 
 
iv) 
Violation of Anti Hedging and Anti Pledging Policy or Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading. 
	
	
Risk related and others:
 
 
i) 
If the awarded performance-based variable pay was granted on a deliberately erroneous foundation or an incorrect 
decision made due to gross negligence not considered as errors of judgement. 
 
 
ii) 
If the employee who is reasonably expected to be aware of the failure, misconduct or weakness in approach that 
contributed to the failure, improperly or with gross negligence failed to identify, assess, report or escalate in a timely 
manner.
 
 
iii) 
If the performance, decisions or actions taken leads to the Bank or the relevant business unit suffering a significant 
material downturn in its financial performance. 
 
 
iv) 
If the RBI assessed divergence in the Bank’s provisioning for Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) or asset classification exceeds 
the prescribed threshold for public disclosure, the bank shall not pay the unvested portion of the variable compensation 
for the assessment year under malus clause. Further, in such a situation, there shall not be any increase in variable pay 
for the assessment year. In case the bank’s post assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0%, these restrictions will apply 
only if the criteria for public disclosure are triggered either on account of divergence in provisioning or both provisioning 
and asset classification.
 
 
v) 
In the event of a material restatement, correction or amendment of the Bank’s financial results for the relevant period.
	
F)	
Description of the different forms of variable remuneration (i.e. cash, shares, ESOPs and other forms) that the bank 
utilizes and the rationale for using these different forms.
 
 
The Bank presently utilizes only one form of variable remuneration, viz., cash bonus, which is linked to corporate performance, 
business performance and individual performance ensuring differential pay based on the performance. ESOP, as referred in 
Note 18.31 is linked to continuous service with the Bank. 
Quantitative disclosures :
The quantitative disclosures pertaining to the MD & CEO, WTDs & MRTs, for the year ended March 31,2024 and March 31,2023 are given below:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
a) 
i) 
Number of meetings held by the Remuneration Committee 
during the year.
7
6
  
ii) 
Remuneration paid to its members (sitting fees)
 ` 1,260,000
 ` 1,140,000
b) 
Number of employees having received a variable remuneration 
award during the year (Active & Inactive).
23
7
c) 
Number and total amount of sign on awards made during the year.
Nil
Nil
d) 
Details of guaranteed bonus, if any, paid as joining / sign on bonus.
Nil
Nil
e) 
Details of severance pay, in addition to accrued benefits, if any.
Nil
Nil
f) 
Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration, split into cash, 
shares and share linked instruments and other forms.
` 2.96 Cr (Cash) Unvested 
ESOP (Shares) -54,34,704
` 5.00 Cr (Cash) Unvested 
ESOP (Shares) -3,38,042
g) 
Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in the year 
 
(paid in cash)
` 0.79 Cr (Cash)
` 0.092 Cr (Cash)
h) 
Breakdown of amount of remuneration awards for the year to show 
fixed and variable, deferred and non deferred.
Fixed - ` 30.55 Crore, 
Variable - ` 4.29 Crore, 
Non-deferred - ` 3.49 Crore, 
Deferred- ` 0.79 Crore
Fixed - ` 24.45 Crore, 
Variable - ` 0.38 Crore, 
Non-deferred - ` 0.38 Crore, 
Deferred- ` 5.00 Crore
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
233
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
i) 
Shares granted under ESOP
3,941,125
1,783,116
j) 
Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration and retained 
remuneration exposed to ex-post explicit and / or implicit 
adjustments.
Nil
Nil
k) 
Total amount of reductions during the year due to ex post explicit 
adjustments.
Nil
Nil
l) 
Total amount of reductions during the year due to ex post implicit 
adjustments.
Nil
Nil
m) 
*Number of MRTs identified.
25
23
n) 
(i) 
Number of cases where malus has been exercised.
Nil
Nil
 
(ii) 
Number of cases where clawback has been exercised.
Nil
Nil
 
(iii) Number of cases where both malus and clawback have been 
exercised.
Nil
Nil
o) 
The mean pay for the bank as a whole (excluding sub-staff) and the 
deviation of the pay of each of its WTDs from the mean pay.
The mean pay for the Bank 
as a whole (excluding sub-
staff) - ` 0.0406 crore. The 
deviation of the pay of MD 
from the mean pay - ` 3.31 
crore. The deviation of the 
pay of ED from the mean pay 
- ` 2.37 crore. The deviation 
of the pay of ED from the 
mean pay - ` 2.90 crore.
The mean pay for the Bank 
as a whole (excluding sub-
staff) - ` 0.0350 crore. The 
deviation of the pay of each 
of its WTDs from the mean 
pay - 1.45%
* As on year ended March 31,2024 and March 31,2023 number of active MRTs are 25 and 17 respectively. 
18.20	Disclosure relating to Securitisation	
 
The Bank has not originated any securitisation transactions during the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023. 
18.21	Disclosure on Derivatives 
	
(i)	
Derivatives 
 
 
For the financial year ended March 31,2024 and March 31,2023, the Bank has not entered into any derivative transactions 
like Exchange Traded Derivatives or Options, other than Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts for the purpose of Trading / 
Balance Sheet Management. However, at later stage, Bank may place a separate policy on dealing in derivatives before the 
Board based on extant regulatory guidelines and internal capabilities, on approval of which derivative transactions may be 
undertaken.	
	
(ii)	
Credit default swaps
 
 
The Bank has not transacted in credit default swaps during the year ended March 31,2024 and March 31, 2023. 
18.22	Off-balance Sheet SPVs sponsored	
 
The Bank has not sponsored any special purposes vehicle which is required to be consolidated as per accounting norms. 
18.23	Transfer to Depositor education and awareness fund (DEA Fund)	
 
The details of amount transferred to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund during the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 
31, 2023:
(` in crore)
Sr. 
No
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
i)
Opening balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund
0.02
-
ii)
Add: Amounts transferred to DEA Fund during the year
0.04
0.02
iii)
Less: Amounts reimbursed by DEA Fund towards claims
-
-
iv)
Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund
0.06
0.02
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
234
Bandhan Bank Limited
18.24	Transfer to Investor education and protection fund (IEPF)	
 
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the 
Bank during the years ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023. 
18.25	The key business ratios and other information is set out below :
A)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest income as a percentage to working funds1
11.80%
10.89%
Non-interest income as a percentage to working funds1
1.35%
1.69%
Cost of Deposits
6.49%
5.58%
Net Interest Margin5
7.35%
7.21%
Operating profit as a percentage to working funds1,2
4.15%
4.86%
Return on assets1
1.39%
1.50%
Profit per employee (` in crore)3
0.030
0.034
Business (deposits less inter-bank deposits plus advances) per employee 
(` in crore)3,4
3.19
3.02
 
 
1. 
Working funds represent average of total assets as reported to Reserve Bank of India in Form X under Section 27 of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, during the year ended March 31,2024 and March 31,2023. 
 
 
2. 
Operating profit is profit for the year before considering provisions and contingencies. 
 
 
3. 
Productivity ratios are based on average number of employees for the year. 
 
 
4. 
Business per employee (Deposits plus Gross Advances (on book), inter-bank deposits shall be excluded. 
 
 
5. 
Net interest income/Average earning assets. Net interest income is the difference of interest income and interest expense. 
Average earning assets are average of balance of interest earning assets. 
	
B)	
Marketing and distribution
 
 
During the year ended March 31,2024 and March 31,2023, the Bank has received ` 33.06 crore (Previous Year ` 161.57 crore) 
in respect of the marketing and distribution function (excluding bancassurance business) undertaken by them. 
	
C)	
Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium	
(` in crore)
Sr. 
No
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
i)
Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium*
129.89
111.68
ii)
Arrears in payment of DICGC premium
-
-
 
 
 
* The amount includes GST.
18.26	Green Deposits raised by the bank	
 
The Bank has not raised green deposits on or after June 1, 2023 based on the Framework for the acceptance of Green deposits 
issued by RBI. 
18.27	Disclosure on Liquidity Coverage Ratio	
	
(A)	 Qualitative disclosure
 
 
The Bank has adopted the Basel III framework on liquidity standards as prescribed by RBI and has put in place requisite systems 
and processes to enable periodical computation and reporting of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). The Risk department 
computes the LCR and reports the same to the Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) every month for review. 
 
 
The Bank follows the criteria laid down by RBI for calculation of High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA),gross outflows and inflows 
within the next 30-day period. HQLA predominantly comprises Government securities in excess of minimum SLR requirement 
viz. Treasury Bills, Central and State Government securities and excess of minimum cash reserve ratio (CRR). 
 
 
The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for management of liquidity risk. The Board at overall level decides the 
strategy, policies and procedures of the bank to manage liquidity risk in accordance with the liquidity risk tolerance/limits. The 
Board has constituted Risk Management Committee, which reports to the Board, and consist of Managing Director and certain 
other Board members. The Committee is responsible for evaluating the overall risks faced by the bank including liquidity risk.
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
235
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
18.27	Disclosure on Liquidity Coverage Ratio	
(b)	
Quantitative Disclosure as on March 31, 2024	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Day end Average for quarter 
ended June 30, 2023
Day end Average for quarter 
ended September 30, 2023
Day end Average for quarter 
ended December 31, 2023
Day end Average for quarter 
ended March 31, 2024
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1) 
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
 34,753.15 
 32,984.02 
 30,870.65 
 29,066.00 
Cash Outflows
2) 
Retail Deposits and deposits from small business 
customers, of which:
 60,704.43 
 5,901.97 
 63,646.68 
 6,193.89 
 65,736.74 
 6,388.28 
 68,635.61 
 6,508.99 
 
a) 
Stable deposits
 3,369.40 
 168.47 
 3,415.59 
 170.78 
 3,707.94 
 185.40 
 7,091.45 
 354.57 
 
b) 
Less stable deposits
 57,335.03 
 5,733.50 
 60,231.09 
 6,023.11 
 62,028.80 
 6,202.88 
 61,544.16 
 6,154.42 
3) 
Unsecured wholesale funding, of which:
 19,268.64 
 13,145.60 
 19,815.41 
 13,762.87 
 20,318.14 
 13,257.77 
 22,708.12 
 15,314.50 
 
a) 
Operational deposits (all counterparties)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
b) 
Non-operational deposits (all counterparties)
 19,268.64 
 13,145.60 
 19,815.41 
 13,762.87 
 20,318.14 
 13,257.77 
 22,708.12 
 15,314.50 
 
c) 
Unsecured debt
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
4) 
Secured wholesale funding
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
5) 
Additional requirements, of which:
 7,181.04 
 1,994.12 
 5,926.79 
 1,454.46 
 3,720.19 
 583.39 
 4,579.47 
 475.13 
 
a) 
Outflows related to derivative exposures and 
other collateral requirements*
 0.08 
 0.08 
 1.57 
 1.57 
 0.07 
 0.07 
 0.02 
 0.02 
 
b) 
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt 
products
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
c) 
Credit and liquidity facilities
 7,180.96 
 1,994.04 
 5,925.22 
 1,452.89 
 3,720.12 
 583.32 
 4,579.45 
 475.11 
6) 
Other contractual funding obligations
 3,026.53 
 3,026.53 
 4,548.97 
 4,548.97 
 4,192.80 
 4,192.80 
 4,558.80 
 4,558.80 
7) 
Other contingent funding obligations
 1,902.73 
 66.82 
 2,180.39 
 75.69 
 2,150.65 
 75.15 
 2,168.82 
 74.91 
8)	
Total Cash outflows
 24,135.04 
 26,035.88 
 24,497.39 
 26,932.33 
Cash Inflows
9) 
Secured lending (eg. Reverse repos)
 2,250.99 
 - 
 555.36 
 - 
 1,099.70 
 - 
 488.99 
 - 
10) 
Inflows from fully performing exposures
 7,649.31 
 4,807.81 
 7,002.53 
 4,208.97 
 7,535.39 
 4,723.19 
 7,182.33 
 4,436.12 
11) 
Other cash inflows
 317.16 
 317.16 
 486.97 
 486.97 
 221.72 
 221.72 
 124.67 
 124.67 
12)	
Total Cash Inflows
 10,217.46 
 5,124.97 
 8,044.86 
 4,695.94 
 8,856.81 
 4,944.91 
 7,795.99 
 4,560.79 
13) 
Total HQLA
 34,753.15 
 32,984.02 
 30,870.65 
 29,066.00 
14) 
Total Net Cash outflow
 19,010.07 
 21,339.94 
 19,552.48 
 22,371.55 
15) 
Liquidity Coverage Ratio(%)
182.81%
154.56%
157.89%
129.92%
*Item shown under derivative exposure relates to Fx swaps 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
236
Bandhan Bank Limited
(c)	
Quantitative Disclosure as on March 31, 2023	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Day end Average for quarter 
ended June 30, 2022
Day end Average for quarter 
ended September 30, 2022
Day end Average for quarter 
ended December 31, 2022
Day end Average for quarter 
ended March 31, 2023
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1) 
Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
 - 
 29,096.37 
 - 
 26,053.65 
 - 
 29,138.27 
 - 
 28,329.34 
Cash Outflows
2) 
Retail Deposits and deposits from small business 
customers, of which:
 50,795.54 
 4,863.76 
 53,105.07 
 5,091.50 
 54,715.18 
 5,303.13 
 57,373.37 
 5,570.73 
 
a) 
Stable deposits
 4,315.92 
 215.80 
 4,380.09 
 219.00 
 3,367.75 
 168.39 
 3,332.05 
 166.60 
 
b) 
Less stable deposits
 46,479.62 
 4,647.96 
 48,724.98 
 4,872.50 
 51,347.43 
 5,134.74 
 54,041.32 
 5,404.13 
3) 
Unsecured wholesale funding, of which:
 26,872.40 
 17,465.73 
 23,899.34 
 17,097.77 
 22,505.12 
 16,922.38 
 21,024.08 
 15,617.20 
 
a) 
Operational deposits (all counterparties)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
b) 
Non-operational deposits (all counterparties)
 26,872.40 
 17,465.73 
 23,899.34 
 17,097.77 
 22,505.12 
 16,922.38 
 21,024.08 
 15,617.20 
 
c) 
Unsecured debt
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
4) 
Secured wholesale funding
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
5) 
Additional requirements, of which:
 2,707.58 
 395.62 
 3,055.10 
 530.50 
 3,666.25 
 708.83 
 4,413.78 
 965.36 
 
a) 
Outflows related to derivative exposures and 
other collateral requirements*
 0.03 
 0.03 
 0.88 
 0.88 
 1.05 
 1.05 
 4.17 
 4.17 
 
b) 
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt 
products
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
c) 
Credit and liquidity facilities
 2,707.55 
 395.59 
 3,054.22 
 529.62 
 3,665.20 
 707.78 
 4,409.61 
 961.19 
6) 
Other contractual funding obligations
 2,444.10 
 2,444.10 
 2,206.12 
 2,206.12 
 2,128.03 
 2,128.03 
 2,457.16 
 2,457.16 
7) 
Other contingent funding obligations
 623.83 
 18.71 
 629.87 
 19.00 
 1,222.18 
 43.87 
 1,655.34 
 59.48 
8)	
Total Cash outflows
 25,187.92 
 24,944.89 
 25,106.24 
 24,669.93 
Cash Inflows
9) 
Secured lending (eg. Reverse repos)
 2,209.97 
 - 
 274.81 
 - 
 184.35 
 - 
 362.60 
 - 
10) 
Inflows from fully performing exposures
 5,702.68 
 3,513.45 
 5,821.44 
 3,641.72 
 6,105.02 
 3,654.73 
 6,784.61 
 4,269.95 
11) 
Other cash inflows
 57.60 
 57.60 
 256.98 
 256.98 
 79.12 
 79.12 
 245.93 
 245.93 
12) 
Total Cash Inflows
 7,970.25 
 3,571.05 
 6,353.23 
 3,898.70 
 6,368.49 
 3,733.85 
 7,393.14 
 4,515.88 
13) 
Total HQLA
 29,096.37 
 26,053.65 
 29,138.27 
 28,329.34 
14) 
Total Net Cash outflow
 21,616.87 
 21,046.19 
 21,372.39 
 20,154.05 
15) 
Liquidity Coverage Ratio(%)
134.60%
123.79%
136.34%
140.56%
*Item shown under derivative exposure relates to Fx swaps 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
237
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
18.28	Maturity pattern of certain items of assets and liabilities	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Day 1
2 To 7 Days
8 To 14 Days
15 To 30 
Days
31 Days To 2 
Months
Over 2 
Months And 
To 3 Months
Over 3 
Months 
And Up To 6 
Months
Over 6 
Months 
And Up To 1 
Year
Over 1 Year 
And Up To 3 
Years
Over 3 Years 
And Up To 5 
Years
Over 5 
Years
Total
Liabilities
Borrowings *
-
2.48
-
860.53
1,125.97
4,104.49
4,164.50
4,344.74
1,206.15
464.75
97.91
16,371.52
 -
(4,447.46)
-
(678.50)
-
(333.33)
(2,412.27)
(5,869.25)
(10,112.16)
(445.06)
(412.79)
(24,710.82)
Deposits*
3,859.50
3,540.73
784.68
837.19
2,479.06
3,107.09
14,181.30
46,678.25
57,091.46
2,057.57
585.16
135,201.99
(1,725.25)
(2,516.96)
(922.72)
(826.42)
(1,818.10)
(1,396.88)
(11,303.05)
(25,144.14)
(58,972.62)
(2,797.07)
(641.48)
(108,064.69)
Foreign Currency Liabilities #
-
-
-
417.03
1,125.97
1,351.16
3,311.68
5.84
6.78
0.67
-
6,219.13
 -
-
-
-
-
(0.11)
(0.53)
(20.92)
(9.47)
-
-
(31.03)
Assets
Advances
1,101.18
2,253.05
2,794.82
2,163.47
5,221.09
5,271.14
14,491.13
22,305.44
33,092.37
7,358.79
25,084.30
121,136.78
(967.48)
(2,863.99)
(1,684.04)
(2,568.67)
(6,116.20)
(6,270.25)
(18,209.13)
(19,101.28)
(23,525.03)
(3,461.64)
(19,989.06)
(104,756.77)
Investment
-
9.97
-
180.42
3.83
3.84
1,972.40
414.26
2,583.22
3,760.89
20,358.75
29,287.58
 -
(167.95)
(48.73)
(155.81)
(1,552.22)
(747.37)
(786.82)
(1,973.26)
(2,274.88)
(4,213.53)
(20,445.32)
(32,365.89)
Foreign Currency Assets #
13.22
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
37.53
-
-
50.75
(10.86)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(24.65)
-
-
(35.51)
* Deposits & Borrowings includes Foreign Currency Liabilities which is shown seperately 
Classification of non-maturing assets and liabilities under the different maturity buckets is based on the same estimates and assumptions as used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI, 
which has been relied upon by the auditors. 
Previous year figures are shown in"()". 
# Excludes off-balance sheet assets and liabilities & includes Foreign currency borrowings 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
238
Bandhan Bank Limited
18.29	Details of Priority sector lending certificates (category wise) sold and purchased:	
(` in crore)
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
Purchase
Sale
Purchase
Sale
i)
PSLC – Agriculture
1,500.00
-
-
2,500.00
ii)
PSLC - Small & Marginal farmers(SFMF)
6,975.00
-
3,880.00
1,500.00
iii)
PSLC - Micro Enterprises
4,700.00
2,750.00
2,450.00
-
iv)
PSLC – General
-
10,000.00
-
11,175.00
18.30	Details of Inter-Bank Participation Certificate (IBPC) transactions	
(` in crore)
Sl 
No.
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Sale 
Purchase
Sale 
Purchase
i)
Outstanding value of aggregate IBPCs entered
-
2,606.63
-
2,153.77
ii)
Outstanding value of aggregate consideration received/paid
-
2,606.63
-
2,153.77
iii)
Aggregate gain recorded
-
-
-
-
iv)
IBPCs outstanding [including principal amount of ` NIL 
(March 31, 2023 : ` NIL) collected against the pool sold 
and not yet due for payment and included under other 
liabilities]
-
-
-
-
18.31	Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)	
 
On July 26, 2017 the board of directors approved the Bandhan Bank Employee Stock Option Plan Series 1 for issue of stock options 
to eligible employees and directors of the Bank. 
 
The Shareholders of the Bank at the meeting held on November 23, 2017 has approved the Employee Stock Option Plan Series 1 
and the grant of Employee Stock Option to the employees of the Bank. The said approval accords the Board of Directors of the Bank 
or any Committee including the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, which the Board has constituted, to create, offer, and 
grant at any time to permanent employees of the Bank, including any Director of the Bank, whether whole-time or otherwise but 
excluding Promoter(s), Independent Directors and Directors holding directly or indirectly more than 10% of the outstanding equity 
shares, employee stock options from time to time in one or more tranches. 
 
This plan was framed in accordance with the SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme & Employee Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 
1999 as amended from time to time and as applicable at the time of the grant. The accounting for the stock options has been in 
accordance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 to the extent applicable. 
 
Employee Stock Option Plan Series 1 provides for the issuance of options at the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee of the Board (‘NRC’) at the closing price on the working day immediately preceding the date when options are granted. 
The closing price of the Bank’s equity share on an Indian stock exchange with the highest trading volume as of the working day 
preceding the date of grant set forth by the NRC at the time of grant. The period in which the options may be exercised cannot 
exceed five years from date of expiry of vesting period. However, if the participant’s employment terminates due to retirement 
(including pursuant to any early/ voluntary retirement scheme), the whole of the unvested options shall vest on the first vesting date 
relating to the said grant, immediately following the date of superannuation. During the years ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 
2023, no modifications were made to the terms and conditions of ESOPs as approved by the NRC. 
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
239
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
	
Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2024:	
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Number of 
options
Weighted average 
exercise price (` )
i)
Options outstanding, beginning of year
30,785,151
356.00
ii)
Granted during the year
14,999,423
250.84
iii)
Exercised during the year*
115,030
180.00
iv)
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year**
5,697,704
350.96
v)
Options outstanding, end of year
39,971,840
302.40
vi)
Options exercisable
14,750,897
380.06
 
*Includes 249 shares against which application money was received but pending allotment to ` 0.004 crore 
 
** 6588 forfeited options have not been considered as the same has been reported in last FY. 
	
Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2023:
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Number of 
options
Weighted average 
exercise price (`)
i)
Options outstanding, beginning of year
22,645,881
376.99
ii)
Granted during the year
11,127,127
313.60
iii)
Exercised during the year*
80,611
180.00
iv)
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
2,907,246
362.10
v)
Options outstanding, end of year
30,785,151
356.00
vi)
Options exercisable
11,672,459
397.30
 
*Includes 18,487 shares against which application money was received but pending allotment to ` 0.33 crore 
	
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstandings as at March 31, 2024:	
Sl 
No.
Plan
Range of exercise 
price (Rs)
Number of shares 
arising out of options
Weighted average 
remaining life of 
options (in years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (` )
1
Plan Series 1
180.00 to 539.22
39,971,840
5.18
302.40
	
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstandings as at March 31, 2023:	
Sl 
No.
Plan
Range of exercise 
price (Rs)
Number of shares 
arising out of options
Weighted average 
remaining life of 
options (in years)
Weighted average 
exercise price (` )
1
Plan Series 1
180.00 to 539.22
30,785,151
5.13
356.00
	
Fair value methodology	
 
The weighted average fair value of stock option granted during the year was ` 126.91 . The fair value of options used to compute the 
proforma net profit and earnings per equity share have been estimated on the dates of each grant using the binomial option-pricing 
model. The Bank estimates the volatility based on the historical prices of its equity shares. The various assumptions considered in 
the pricing model for the ESOPs granted during the year ended March 31, 2024 are: 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
Dividend yield (%)
0-0.42%
Expected volatility (%)
36.99% - 51.05% - 50.53% - 49.70%
Risk-free interest rate (%)
6.75%, 6.78%, 6.82%, 6.85%
Expected remaining life of the options (yrs)
0.47- 8.95 yrs
 
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual 
outcome.	
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
240
Bandhan Bank Limited
 
The Bank measures the cost of ESOP using the intrinsic value method. Had the Bank used the fair value model to determine 
compensation, its profit after tax and earnings per share as reported would have changed as indicated below:
(` in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Profit after tax as reported
2,229.56
2,194.64
Add: ESOP cost using the intrinsic value method
-
-
Less: ESOP cost (net of taxes) using the fair value method *
74.04
52.98
Proforma profit after tax
2,155.52
2,141.65
Weighted Average Number of equity shares
1,610,889,761
1,610,809,940
Weighted Average Number of equity shares (including dilutive potential equity share)
1,611,074,329
1,611,088,297
Earnings Per Share
Basic
- 
As reported
13.84
13.62
- 
Proforma
13.38
13.30
Diluted
- 
As reported
13.84
13.62
- 
Proforma
13.38
13.30
 
* In accordance with the RBI circular RBI/2021-22/95 DOR.GOV.REC.44 /29.67.001 /2021-22 “Guidelines on Compensation of Whole 
Time Directors/ Chief Executive Officers/ Material Risk Takers and Control Function staff – Clarification” dated August 30, 2021, 
Share-linked instruments granted to Whole Time Directors/ Chief Executive Officers/ Material Risk Takers and Control Function 
staff after the accounting period ending March 31, 2021, are fair valued on the date of grant, using Black-Scholes model instead of 
Intrinsic value method. As a result, ‘Employees’ cost’ for the year ended March 31, 2024 is higher by ` 35.15 crore and the same 
is therefore not considered in above table. 
18.32	Corporate Social Responsibility	
	
a)	
Gross amount required to be spent by the Bank during the year ended is ` 39.80 crore (Previous year ended March 31, 2023: 
` 53.37 crore**) 
	
b)	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amount spent by the Bank on CSR related activities;
(` in crore)
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
In Cash *
Yet to be 
paid in Cash
Total
In Cash **
Yet to be 
paid in Cash
Total
i)
Construction/ acquisition 
of any assets
-
-
-
-
-
-
ii)
On purpose other than (i) 
above
40.05
-
40.05
53.37
-
53.37
 
 
*Includes amount required to be spent on surplus generated of ` 0.25 crore towards Bank Interest in project account
 
 
**The amount of ` 53.37 crore includes the amount of ` 3.92 crore paid in cash from the previous year ended March 31, 2022
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
241
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
18.33	Disclosure under Rule 11(e) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014	
 
As part of the normal banking business, the Bank grants loans and advances to its borrowers with permission to lend/invest or 
provide guarantee/security in other entities identified by such borrowers or on the basis of the basis of security/guarantee provided 
by the co-borrower. Similarly, the Bank may accept funds from its customers, who may instruct the Bank to lend/invest/provide 
guarantee or security or the like against such deposit in other entities identified by such customers. These transactions are part 
of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted after exercising proper due diligence including adherence to “Know Your 
Customer” guidelines.
 
Other than the nature of transactions described above:
 
• 
No funds have been advanced or loaned or invested by the Bank to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies) (“Intermediaries”) 
with the understanding that the Intermediary shall lend or invest in party identified by or on behalf of the Bank (Ultimate 
Beneficiaries).
 
• 
The Bank has not received any fund from any party(s) (Funding Party) with the understanding that the Bank shall whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of the Bank (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. 
18.34	Disclosure of Items that exceeds one percent under respective categories:	
 
Other expenditure includes IT Operating expenses amounting to ` 305.13 crore (previous year: ` 218.34 crore) exceeding 1% of the 
total income of the Bank. 
18.35	 Other Assets includes Investment in RIDF (Rural Infrastructure Development Fund) amounting to ` 6,244.61 crore (previous year 
ended March 31, 2023 ` 6,797.36 crore) 
18.36	Remuneration by way of sitting fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors for attending meeting of the Board and its committees 
during the year ended March 31, 2024 amounting to ` 3.38 crore (previous year: ` 3.04 crore). 
18.37	Accounting Software Used for maintenance of Books of Accounts	
 
As per the requirements of rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules 2014 the Bank uses only such accounting software for 
maintaining its books of account that have a feature of recording audit trail of each and every transaction creating an edit log of 
each change made in the books of account along with the date when such changes were made within such accounting software. This 
feature of recording audit trail has operated throughout the year and was not disabled, tampered with during the year, except -
 
a. 
the audit trail feature was not enabled throughout the year at the database level in respect of two accounting software(s) to 
log any direct data changes and in case of one accounting software audit trail was enabled at database level from February 18, 
2024
 
b. 
for two sunset software(s) which were discontinued during the year. 
18.38	Provision for credit card and debit card reward points	
 
The Bank is not providing any reward points on debit & credit cards during the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 
2023. 
18.39	Accounts restructured under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector	
 
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of accounts restructured under MSME sector as per RBI circular 
no. FIDD.MSME & NFS.BC.No. 21/06.02.31/2015-16 dated March 17, 2016 subsequent changes thereafter. 
At March 31, 2024
At March 31, 2023
Number of accounts 
restructured
Amount 
Outstanding
Number of accounts 
restructured
Amount 
Outstanding
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
242
Bandhan Bank Limited
18.40	Resolution of Stressed Assets	
 
During the year ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, the Bank has not implemented any resolution plan under the prudential 
framework for stressed assets issued as per RBI/2018-19/ 203 DBR.No.BP.BC.45/21.04.048/2018-19 dated June 7, 2019 on Prudential 
Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets 
18.41	Details of Accounts subjected to Restructuring	
Particulars
Agriculture and 
allied activities
Corporates 
(excluding MSME)
Retail (excluding 
agriculture and 
MSME)
Total
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2023
Standard
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
11
-
11
-
Gross Amount 
(in crore)
-
-
-
-
0.04
-
0.04
-
Provision Held 
(in crore)
-
-
-
-
0.002
-
0.002
-
Substandard
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Gross Amount 
(in crore)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Provision Held 
(in crore)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Doubtful
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Gross Amount 
(in crore)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Provision Held 
(in crore)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
11
-
11
-
Gross Amount 
(in crore)
-
-
-
-
0.04
-
0.04
-
Provision Held 
(in crore)
-
-
-
-
0.002
-
0.002
-
18.42	Details of payments to Auditors	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Statutory Audit Fees
1.50
1.27
Others
1.34
0.92
18.43	Accounting policies have been consistently applied by the Bank except where a newly issued accounting standard is initially adopted 
or a revision to an existing accounting standard requires a change in the accounting policy hitherto in use. Any circular / direction 
issued by the RBI is implemented prospectively when it becomes applicable. 
18.44	Implementation of IFRS converged Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)	
 
The RBI issued a circular in February, 2016 requiring banks to implement Indian Accounting Standards ('Ind AS‘) and prepare Ind AS 
financial statements with effect from April 01, 2018. In line with the RBI guidelines on Ind AS implementation, the Bank has formed 
a Steering Committee comprising members from the concerned functional areas. As advised by the RBI, the Bank has also submitted 
Proforma Ind AS financial statements every half year to the RBI.
Schedules  
forming part of the Balance sheet as at March 31, 2024
Annual Report 2023-24
243
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory 
Reports
Financial 
Statement
 
Further, RBI vide its communication dated August 08, 2021, had advised the bank to submit Proforma Ind AS financial statements 
every quarter.
 
Further on January 16, 2023 RBI released a discussion paper on the Expected Loss (EL) based approach for loan loss provisioning by 
banks to formulate a principle based guidelines supplemented by regulatory backstops wherever necessary.
 
However, the RBI in its press release issued on March 22, 2019 has deferred the applicability of Ind AS till further notice for Scheduled 
Commercial Banks.
 
The Bank has made a diagnostic study to identify the gaps, process and system changes required to implement Ind AS and is in 
the process of implementing necessary changes in its IT system and other processes. The Bank is regularly holding workshops and 
training for its staff.
18.45	Master Direction on Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio of Commercial Banks (Directions), 2023 issued by 
Reserve Bank of India vide their circular RBI/DOR/2023-24/104 DOR.MRG.36/21.04.141/2023-24 dated September 12, 2023 
 
Pursuant to the Master Direction on Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio of Commercial Banks (Directions), 
2023 issued by Reserve Bank of India vide their circular RBI/DOR/2023-24/104 DOR.MRG.36/21.04.141/2023-24 dated September 
12, 2023, Bank confirms complying to the Master Direction and implementing the relevant changes in the Core Treasury system, 
Calypso, effective April 01,2024.
 
The revised Investment Policy was placed before the Board and approved on March 20, 2024. 
18.46	During previous year, the Bank had received guarantee claim of ` 916.61 crore from Credit Guarantee Fund for Micro Units (CGFMU) 
set up by Government of India and guarantee claim of ` 161.13 crore (` 136.82 crore received during the year) under Emergency 
Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) against certain guaranteed loan accounts.
 
Subsequently, the Bank claimed ` 1,296.32 crore from CGFMU in respect of other guaranteed loans. During the last quarter, basis 
special audit of sample documents, the National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Ltd. (NCGTC), being trustee of CGFMU and 
ECLGS, asked the Bank to Show Cause as to why all claims should not be rejected. The Bank responded to the SCN and is engaging 
with the NCGTC. The NCGTC asked for a forensic audit of portfolio covered under the CGFMU and ECGLS schemes by an external 
agency. The Bank has fully cooperated with the external agency and has provided all related information. As a prudent measure, the 
Bank has technically written-off the said loans in accordance with the Bank’s policy. The approved claim amount would be accounted 
on receipt.	
18.47 Previous year figures have been regrouped/reclassified, wherever necessary, to conform to current year classification.
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Bandhan Bank Limited
For M M NISSIM & CO LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm Registration Number : 
107122W / W100672
For SINGHI & CO
Chartered Accountants 
Firm Registration Number : 
302049E
Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
Managing Director & CEO
Kolkata
DIN: 00342477
Anup Kumar Sinha
Non-Executive Chairman
Kolkata
DIN: 08249893
Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt 
ACB Chairman & 
Independent Director
Kolkata 
DIN: 00751001
Navin Kumar Jain
Partner
Membership Number : 090847
Place : Kolkata
Date : May 17, 2024
Ankit Dhelia
Partner
Membership Number : 069178
Place : Kolkata
Date : May 17, 2024
Ratan Kumar Kesh
Executive Director & COO
Kolkata
DIN: 10082714
Rajinder Kumar Babbar
Executive Director & CBO
Kolkata
DIN: 10540386
Rajeev Mantri
Chief Financial Officer
Kolkata
Indranil Banerjee 
Company Secretary
Kolkata
244
Bandhan Bank Limited
Registered & Head Office
Regd. Office: DN-32, Sector V, Salt Lake, Kolkata  - 700 091
Head Office: Floors 12-14, Adventz Infinity@5, 
BN 5, Sector V, Salt Lake City, Kolkata  - 700 091
Tel. No.: 91 (33) 6609 0909
Email ID: investors@bandhanbank.com
Website: www.bandhanbank.com
Corporate Identity Number (CIN)
L67190WB2014PLC204622
Listed with Scrip Name
BSE Scrip Code: 541153
NSE Symbol: BANDHANBNK
Registrars & Transfer Agents
KFin Technologies Limited
Selenium Building, Tower-B, Plot Nos. 31 & 32,
Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad, Rangareddi, Telangana, India  - 500 032
Toll Free No.: 1800 309 4001
Email ID: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website: www.kfintech.com
Joint Statutory Auditors
M M Nissim & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants
Barodawala Mansion,  
B  - Wing, 3rd Floor,
81 Dr. Annie Besant Road,  
Worli, Mumbai  - 400 018
M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered Accountants 
161, Sarat Bose Road,
Kolkata  - 700 026
Secretarial Auditor
CS Hansraj Jaria, Practicing Company Secretary 
36, Abinash Sashmal Lane, Beleghata, Phoolbagan,
Near Pawanputra Hotel, Kolkata  - 700 010
Tel. No.: +91 (33) 4600 9667 | Email ID: hansrajjaria@gmail.com
Auditor for Certificate on Corporate Governance
CS Anjan Kumar Roy, Practicing Company Secretary
M/s. Anjan Kumar Roy & Co., Company Secretaries
GR 1, Gouri Bhaban, 28A Gurupada Halder Road,
Kolkata  - 700 026
Tel. No.: +91 (33) 2475 0112 | Email ID: akroyco@yahoo.co.in
Corporate Information
Registered Office
DN-32, Sector V, Salt Lake, Kolkata - 700 091, West Bengal, India
T: +91-33-6609 0909 | F: +91-33-6609 0502
www.bandhanbank.com
bandhanbank.in
bandhanbank_in
company/bandhanbank
C/BandhanBankLimited
bandhan_bank
