 
Page 1 of 2 
Ref. No.: BBL/SEC/072/2025-26 
 
July 30, 2025 
 
BSE Limited  
Dept of Corporate Services 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,  
Dalal Street,  
Mumbai - 400 001 
BSE Scrip Code: 541153 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
The Listing Department 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Mumbai - 400 051 
NSE Symbol: BANDHANBNK 
 
Dear Sir/Madam,  
 
Sub.: Disclosure under the applicable provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI LODR’) – Notice of 11th 
Annual General Meeting, Annual Report for the Financial Year 2024-25, and 
related information 
 
In continuation to the letter bearing Ref. No.: BBL/SEC/042/2025-26 dated June 27, 2025, 
intimating that the 11th Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) of Bandhan Bank Limited (the 
‘Bank’) will be held on Thursday, August 21, 2025, at 11.00 a.m. (IST), through Video-
Conferencing (‘VC’)/ Other Audio-Visual Means (‘OAVM’), in compliance with relevant 
applicable Circulars, and pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 34(1) and other applicable 
provisions of the SEBI LODR, the Bank hereby submits, copies of the Notice of the 11th AGM 
of the Bank (‘AGM Notice’) and the Annual Report for the Financial Year 2024-25 (‘Annual 
Report’). 
 
In terms of the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI LODR, the Bank 
is providing the facility to the Members holding shares in dematerialized as well as physical 
form to exercise their right to vote by way of electronic means (‘e-voting’) on any or all 
resolutions specified in the AGM Notice. Members may cast their vote(s) remotely on the 
resolutions proposed to be passed at the AGM, using electronic voting system from, 
Sunday, August 17, 2025 (9.00 a.m., IST) till Wednesday, August 20, 2025 (5.00 p.m., 
IST) (‘remote e-voting’). The Bank is also offering the facility to the Members to cast their 
vote electronically during the AGM. The Bank has fixed Thursday, August 14, 2025 as the 
Cut-off Date for the purpose of determining the eligibility of Members to vote either 
through remote e-voting or e-voting during the AGM. Members attending the AGM who 
have not cast their vote(s) by remote e-voting will be able to vote during the AGM. Members 
may please refer to the Notes to the AGM Notice for detailed procedure on attending the 
AGM through VC/ OAVM and e-voting related matters. 
 
Page 2 of 2 
 
Further, the AGM Notice and the Annual Report have been made available on the website 
of the Bank at https://www.bandhanbank.com/annual-reports. 
 
The Bank has commenced the dispatch of the AGM Notice and the Annual Report, through 
electronic mode, today, i.e., July 30, 2025. 
 
Further, as already intimated vide our aforesaid letter dated June 27, 2025, the Record Date 
for the purpose of Dividend has been fixed as Thursday, August 14, 2025. The Dividend, if 
declared by the Members in the ensuing AGM, will be paid to the eligible Members of the 
Bank within 30 days of the date of its declaration. 
 
You are requested to take note of the above. 
 
This disclosure is being simultaneously uploaded on the website of the Bank, 
www.bandhanbank.com. 
 
Thanking you. 
 
Yours faithfully, 
for Bandhan Bank Limited 
 
 
Indranil Banerjee 
Company Secretary 
 
Encl.: As above 
 
 
Cc:  
National Securities Depository Limited 
Trade World, A Wing, 4th Floor, Kamala Mills 
Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg,  
Lower Parel, Mumbai - 400 013 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited  
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 16th Floor,  
Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400 023 
 
KFin Technologies Limited 
Selenium Tower B, Plot Nos. 31 and 32, 
Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally Mandal, 
Hyderabad - 500 032, Telengana 
INDRANIL 
BANERJEE
Digitally signed by 
INDRANIL BANERJEE 
Date: 2025.07.30 
01:28:21 +05'30'
Bandhan Bank Limited
CIN: L67190WB2014PLC204622
Registered Office: DN 32, Sector V, Salt Lake, Kolkata – 700091; Phone No.: 91-33-6609 0909;
Head Office: Floors 12th to 14th, Adventz Infinity@5, BN 5, Sector V, Salt Lake City, Kolkata – 700091;
Website: www.bandhanbank.com; E-mail ID: investors@bandhanbank.com
NOTICE
Notice is hereby given that the Eleventh ANNUAL 
GENERAL MEETING (the ‘Meeting’/ ‘AGM’) of the 
Members of Bandhan Bank Limited ('the Bank') will be 
held on Thursday, August 21, 2025 at 11:00 A.M. Indian 
Standard Time (‘IST’), through Video Conferencing (‘VC’)/ 
Other Audio Visual Means (‘OAVM’), to transact the 
following business(es):
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
Consideration and adoption of the Audited 
Annual Financial Statement of the Bank for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2025 and 
the Reports of the Auditors and the Board 
of Directors thereon
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 129, 134 and other applicable provisions, if 
any, of the Companies Act, 2013, read with relevant 
rules made thereunder, Section 29 and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949 [including any statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force] 
and the rules, circulars, guidelines and notifications 
issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) in this 
regard, from time to time, the Audited Annual Financial 
Statement of Bandhan Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’) for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2025, including 
the Balance Sheet as on that date, the Statement 
of Profit and Loss and the Cash Flow Statement for 
the said financial year, along with any explanatory 
notes thereto, and the Reports of the Auditors and 
the Board of Directors thereon, as circulated to the 
Members and laid before this Meeting, be and are 
hereby considered and adopted.”
2.	
Declaration of dividend on equity shares 
of the Bank for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2025
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the applicable 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 and Circular No. DBOD.NO.BP.
BC.88/21.02.067/2004-05 dated May 04, 2005 
and other applicable rules, circulars, guidelines 
and notifications issued by the Reserve Bank of 
India in this regard, from time to time, and the 
applicable provisions of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 [including any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, 
for the time being in force] and Dividend Distribution 
Policy of Bandhan Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’), a 
dividend at the rate of ₹1.50 (Rupees One and Fifty 
Paise only) per equity share having face value of ₹10 
(ten) each fully paid-up (i.e., 15%), as recommended by 
the Board of Directors, be and is hereby declared for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2025 and the same 
be paid out of the profits of the Bank for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2025.”
3.	
Appointment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 
10082714), who retires by rotation as a 
Director and being eligible, offers himself 
for re-appointment
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 152 and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Companies Act, 2013, read with relevant 
rules made thereunder, applicable provisions of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949 [including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the 
time being in force] and the rules, circulars, guidelines, 
notifications issued by the Reserve Bank of India in this 
regard, from time to time, and the provisions of the 
Articles of Association and ‘Policy on Appointment 
and Fit & Proper Criteria for Directors’ of Bandhan 
Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’), Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh 
(DIN: 10082714), Whole-time Director (designated as 
Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer), who 
retires by rotation at this Meeting and being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment, be and is hereby 
re-appointed as a Director of the Bank, liable to retire 
by rotation.”
01
Notice
4.	
Appointment of M/s. V. Singhi & Associates, 
Chartered Accountants, as Joint Statutory 
Auditors of the Bank, and fixation of the 
remuneration of Joint Statutory Auditors
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 139 to 142 and other applicable provisions, 
if any, of the Companies Act, 2013, read with relevant 
rules made thereunder, Section 30 and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949, read with the ‘Guidelines for Appointment 
of Statutory Central Auditors (SCAs)/ Statutory 
Auditors (SAs) of Commercial Banks (excluding RRBs), 
UCBs and NBFCs (including HFCs)’ dated April 27, 
2021 issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) (‘RBI 
Guidelines’), and other rules, circulars, guidelines 
and notifications issued by the RBI in this regard, the 
applicable provisions of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 [including any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, 
for the time being in force], provisions of the Articles 
of Association and the Policy for Appointment of 
Statutory Auditors of Bandhan Bank Limited (the 
‘Bank’), and the approval of RBI, M/s. V. Singhi 
& Associates, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm 
Registration No.: 0311017E), who have offered 
themselves for appointment and have confirmed their 
eligibility to be appointed as Statutory Auditors, be 
and are hereby appointed as Joint Statutory Auditors 
of the Bank, for a period of three consecutive years, 
to hold office from the conclusion of the 11th Annual 
General Meeting (‘AGM’) until the conclusion of the 
14th AGM of the Bank to be held in 2028, subject to 
the fulfilment of the eligibility norms each year as per 
the RBI Guidelines and approval of RBI on an annual 
basis during this tenure, for the purpose of audit 
of the Bank’s books of accounts, with the power to 
the Board/ Audit Committee of the Board to alter 
and vary the terms and conditions of appointment, 
etc., including by reason of necessity on account of 
conditions as may be stipulated by RBI and/ or any 
other authority, in such manner and to such extent, as 
may be mutually agreed with the Statutory Auditors;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the 
applicable laws and regulations including the relevant 
rules, circulars, guidelines and notifications issued by 
RBI, from time to time, including the RBI Guidelines, 
M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants (ICAI 
Firm Registration No.: 109208W), who were already 
appointed as Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank at 
the 10th AGM of the Bank held on August 20, 2024, 
to hold office till the conclusion of 13th AGM to be 
held in 2027 in terms of RBI Guidelines, along with 
M/s. V. Singhi & Associates, Chartered Accountants, 
shall act as Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank 
until the conclusion of the 13th AGM, at an audit fees 
(statutory audit & limited review) of ₹1,65,00,000 
(Rupees One Crore Sixty Five Lakhs Only) per annum, 
as may be allocated by the Bank between the Joint 
Statutory Auditors, and as may be mutually agreed 
between the Bank and the said Joint Statutory 
Auditors, depending upon their respective scope of 
works, in addition to certification and other fees, out 
of pocket expenses, outlays and taxes, as applicable, 
with the power to the Board/ Audit Committee of the 
Board to alter and vary the terms of remuneration 
during the current tenure of Joint Statutory Auditors;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
of the Bank [including any Committee thereof or any 
person(s) as have been/ may be authorised by the 
Board or such Committee, in this regard], be and is 
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters 
and things, including the power to settle all questions, 
difficulties or doubts that may arise, with regard to the 
said appointment and remuneration, as it may in its 
absolute discretion deem fit, including but not limited 
to the determination of the scope of works, roles 
and responsibilities of the respective Joint Statutory 
Auditors, negotiating, finalising, amending, signing, 
delivering, executing the terms of appointment, 
including any contracts or documents in this regard, 
and seeking approval of RBI or any other regulatory/ 
statutory authority, as may be required, to give effect 
to this Resolution, without being required to seek 
any further consent or approval of the Members of 
the Bank.”
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
5.	
Appointment and remuneration of 
M/s. Makrand M. Joshi & Co., Company 
Secretaries, as Secretarial Auditor of the Bank
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Regulation 24(A) of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI LODR’), read 
with Circulars issued thereunder, from time to time, 
Section 204 and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘Companies Act’), read 
with relevant rules made thereunder, applicable rules, 
circulars, guidelines and notifications, if any, issued 
by the Reserve Bank of India in this regard, from time 
to time, and other applicable laws, if any [including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof, for the time being in force], and pursuant to 
the recommendation of the Audit Committee of the 
Board and recommendation/approval of the Board 
of Directors, M/s. Makrand M. Joshi & Co., Company 
Secretaries (Firm Registration No.: P2009MH007000), 
02
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
a peer reviewed firm of Company Secretary(ies) 
in practice, who have offered themselves for 
appointment and have confirmed their eligibility to be 
appointed as Secretarial Auditor, be and are hereby 
appointed as the Secretarial Auditor of Bandhan Bank 
Limited (the ‘Bank’), for a term of five consecutive 
years, i.e., with effect from April 01, 2025 to March 31, 
2030, for the purpose of conducting the Secretarial 
Audit of the Bank and providing the Secretarial Audit 
Reports for the Financial Years 2025-26 to 2029-30 to 
be annexed to the Board’s Reports of the Bank for 
respective Financial Years, at such remuneration and 
on such terms and conditions, as may be determined 
by the Board of Directors / Audit Committee of the 
Board, and to avail any other services, certificates, or 
reports as may be permissible under applicable laws;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
of the Bank [including any Committee thereof or any 
person(s) as have been/ may be authorised by the 
Board or such Committee, in this regard], be and is 
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters 
and things, including the power to settle all questions, 
difficulties or doubts that may arise, with regard to 
the aforesaid appointment and remuneration of 
the Secretarial Auditor, as it may, in its absolute 
discretion, deem fit, including but not limited to 
the determination of the scope of works, roles and 
responsibilities of the Secretarial Auditor, negotiating, 
finalising, amending, signing, delivering, executing the 
terms of appointment, including filing the requisite 
forms or submission of documents with any authority, 
as may be required, to give effect to this Resolution, 
without being required to seek any further consent or 
approval of the Members of the Bank.”
6.	
Appointment of Ms. Veni Thapar (DIN: 
01811724) as an Independent Director
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as a Special Resolution:
	
"RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions 
of Sections 149, 152, 160, Schedule IV and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 
2013 (the 'Companies Act'), read with relevant rules 
made thereunder, the applicable provisions of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, Section 10A and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949 [including any statutory modification(s) or re-
enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force], the 
rules, circulars and guidelines issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India ('RBI') in this regard, from time to time, 
the applicable provisions of the Articles of Association 
and the 'Policy on Appointment and Fit & Proper 
Criteria for Directors' of Bandhan Bank Limited (the 
'Bank') and pursuant to the recommendations of 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and 
the Board of Directors of the Bank, Ms. Veni Thapar 
(DIN: 01811724), who was appointed as an Additional 
Director (Independent), effective June 27, 2025, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 161 of the Act, 
to hold office up to the date of this Annual General 
Meeting and in respect of whom the Bank has received 
a notice in writing under Section 160 of the Companies 
Act from a Member proposing her candidature for 
the office of Director, being eligible, be and is hereby 
appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank, 
not liable to retire by rotation, for a term of three 
consecutive years, effective June 27, 2025 up to 
June 26, 2028;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
of the Bank [including any Committee thereof or 
any person(s) as have been/ may be authorized by 
the Board or such Committee, in this regard] be and 
is hereby authorized, to execute any agreements, 
documents, instruments and writings, as may be 
deemed necessary, and to file requisite forms or 
applications with statutory/ regulatory authorities, 
with power to settle all questions, difficulties or 
doubts that may arise in regard to the aforesaid 
appointment, and to do all such acts, deeds, matters 
and things, as it may, in its sole discretion, deem fit, to 
give effect to this Resolution."
7.	
Remuneration of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh 
(DIN: 10082714), as Executive Director & 
Chief Operating Officer
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 196, 197 and other applicable provisions, 
if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Companies 
Act’), read with relevant rules made thereunder, 
Section 35B and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (the ‘BR Act’), 
‘Guidelines on Compensation of Whole Time Directors/ 
Chief Executive Officers/ Material Risk Takers and 
Control Function Staff’ dated November 04, 2019 (the 
‘RBI Guidelines’) and other applicable rules, circulars, 
guidelines and notifications issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India (the ‘RBI’) in this regard, from time to 
time, the applicable provisions of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and other 
applicable laws [including any statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in 
force], provisions of the Articles of Association and 
Compensation Policy of Bandhan Bank Limited (the 
‘Bank’) and subject to approval of the RBI from time 
to time, and pursuant to the recommendation of 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and 
approval of the Board of Directors, consent of the 
Members of the Bank, be and is hereby accorded for 
03
Notice
the revision in the remuneration payable to Mr. Ratan 
Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714), Executive Director & 
Chief Operating Officer of the Bank, with effect from 
April 01, 2024, on the following terms and conditions:
A.	
Fixed Pay and Perquisites (per annum)
Particulars
Amount in ₹
Basic
93,00,000
House Rent Allowance
46,50,000
Retirals (Provident Fund and Gratuity)
15,63,336
Other Allowances and Perquisites*
1,54,86,664
Total Fixed Pay and Perquisites
3,10,00,000
*Includes Medical Allowance, Child Education Allowance, 
Conveyance Allowance, Car benefits under the Bank’s Car 
Scheme, Car fuel and driver allowances, Housing Loan under the 
Bank’s Staff Loan Policy, Club Membership, Insurance Valuation 
(Group Term Life, Group Mediclaim & Accidental Disability) & 
Health Check-up, mobile handset & usage, broadband charges, 
residential telephone connection & usage. All hospitalization and 
medical expenses for self, spouse, and dependents (max self+4) 
shall be reimbursed on actuals.
B.	
Variable Pay (cash and non-cash components) 
for Financial Year 2024-25
Particulars
Amount in ₹
Cash Component
1,14,75,000
Non-cash component (Black Scholes 
value of Employee Stock Options to 
be granted)
2,98,35,000
Total Variable Pay
4,13,10,000
•	 50% of the Cash Component of the variable pay will be 
payable upfront and the balance in equal installments 
over 3 years.
•	 The stock options will be vested over a period of 4 
years pro-rated as per the Bank’s ESOP Plan.
•	 The deferred compensation would be subject to malus 
and clawback arrangements in the event of subdued 
or negative financial performance of the Bank and/ 
or the relevant line of business in any year. Further, 
the representative set of situations provided in the 
Bank’s Compensation Policy for invocation of malus 
and clawback clauses shall be applicable on the entire 
variable pay.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
of the Bank [including any Committee thereof or 
any person(s) as have been/ may be authorised by 
the Board or such Committee, in this regard] be 
and is hereby authorised to execute any agreement, 
document, instrument, writing, etc., as may be 
required, and to file requisite forms or applications 
with statutory/ regulatory authorities, with power 
to settle all questions, difficulties or doubts that may 
arise in regard to the aforesaid remuneration, and to 
do all such other acts, deeds, matters and things, as it 
may, in its absolute discretion, deem fit, to give effect 
to this Resolution.”
8.	
Approval for fixed remuneration for Non-
Executive Directors except Part-time Non-
Executive Chairperson
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 197 and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Companies Act’), 
read with relevant rules made thereunder, the 
applicable provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, 
the applicable provisions of the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949 [including any statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in 
force], Circular on ‘Corporate Governance in Banks 
- Appointment of Directors and Constitution of 
Committees of the Board’ dated April 26, 2021, read 
with Circular on ‘Review of Fixed Remuneration 
granted to Non-Executive Directors (NEDs)’ dated 
February 09, 2024, issued by the Reserve Bank of India 
(the ‘RBI’), as may be amended from time to time 
and any other relevant RBI guidelines in relation to 
compensation to Non-Executive Directors, consent of 
the Members of Bandhan Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’), 
be and is hereby accorded to pay compensation to 
Non-Executive Directors (the ‘NEDs’) of the Bank, 
other than the Part-time Non-Executive Chairperson, 
in the form of fixed remuneration of up to ₹18,00,000 
(Rupees Eighteen Lakhs Only) per annum for each NED, 
which is commensurate with the individual director’s 
responsibilities and demands on time, with effect from 
April 01, 2025, for a period of one year, or any other or 
different limits as may be applicable under any law / 
relevant RBI guidelines, from time to time, in addition to 
payment of sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses 
for attending the Board and Committee meetings;
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of the Bank 
[including any Committee thereof or any person(s) as 
have been/ may be authorized by the Board or such 
Committee, in this regard] be and is hereby authorized, 
to execute any agreements, documents, instruments 
and writings, as may be deemed necessary, and to 
file requisite forms or applications with statutory/ 
regulatory authorities, with power to settle all 
questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise in 
regard to the aforesaid payment of fixed remuneration 
to NEDs, and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and 
things, as it may, in its sole discretion, deem fit, to give 
effect to this Resolution.”
By Order of the Board
for Bandhan Bank Limited
Indranil Banerjee
Place: Kolkata
Company Secretary
Date: June 27, 2025
FCS No.: 9917
04
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
Notes:
1.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’), vide its 
General Circular Nos. 14/2020 dated April 08, 2020, 
17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, 20/2020 dated May 05, 
2020, read with other relevant circulars, including 
General Circular No. 09/2024 dated September 19, 
2024 (‘MCA Circulars’), read with Circulars, if any, 
issued by the SEBI (hereinafter collectively referred 
to as ‘AGM related Circulars’) has permitted holding 
of the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’ or ‘Meeting’) 
through Video Conferencing (‘VC’) or Other Audio 
Visual Means (‘OAVM’) on or before September 30, 
2025, without the physical presence of Members at a 
common venue.
2.	
In compliance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (the ‘Companies Act’), the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI LODR’) and AGM related 
circulars, the 11th AGM of Bandhan Bank Limited (the 
‘Bank’) will be held through VC/ OAVM. The deemed 
venue for the AGM shall be the Head Office of the 
Bank at 14th Floor, Adventz Infinity@5, BN 5, Sector V, 
Salt Lake City, Kolkata 700 091.
3.	
Since the AGM will be held through VC/ OAVM, the 
Route Map for the AGM venue is not annexed to 
this Notice.
4.	
Further, since the AGM is being held through VC/ 
OAVM, the requirement of physical attendance of 
Members has been dispensed with. Accordingly, 
the facility for appointment of proxies by the 
Members will not be available for the AGM and 
hence, the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are 
not annexed to this Notice.
5.	
Members attending the AGM through VC/ OAVM shall 
be counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum 
under the provisions of Section 103 of the Companies 
Act, read with the AGM related Circulars.
6.	
Institutional/ Corporate Shareholders (i.e., other 
than individuals/ HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send 
a scanned certified copy (PDF/ JPEG Format) of its 
Board or governing body Resolution/ Authorisation, 
etc., authorising their representative on their behalf 
to vote through remote e-voting or attend the AGM 
through VC/ OAVM and cast vote through e-voting 
during the AGM, to the Scrutinizer by email through 
its registered e-mail address at hansrajjaria@gmail.
com, with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.com and 
investors@bandhanbank.com, or to the Bank at its 
Head Office, addressed to the Company Secretary. 
Institutional/ Corporate Shareholders (i.e., other than 
individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) can also upload their Board 
Resolution/ Power of Attorney/ Authority Letter, etc., 
by clicking on "Upload Board Resolution/ Authority 
Letter" displayed under "e-Voting" tab in their login 
at the NSDL e-voting website.
7.	
The Bank has appointed National Securities Depository 
Limited (‘NSDL’) to provide VC facility for the AGM and 
the attendant enablers for conducting the AGM. NSDL 
has also been appointed as service provider to provide 
the electronic voting facility for the AGM.
8.	
The relevant explanatory statement pursuant to 
Section 102 of the Companies Act and Regulation 36 
of the SEBI LODR, setting out all material facts relating 
to ordinary/ special businesses from Item Nos. 4 to 8 of 
this Notice is annexed herewith and the same should 
be taken as part of this Notice.
9.	
Brief profile and other information about the 
Directors proposed to be appointed/ re-appointed, 
as required under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI 
LODR and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings 
(‘SS-2’) are forming part of the explanatory statement 
to this Notice.
10.	 All relevant documents referred to in this Notice will be 
available electronically for inspection, without any fee, 
by the Members, up to the date of the AGM. Further, 
relevant Statutory Registers and the certificate from 
the Secretarial Auditor of the Bank, certifying that 
the Bank’s Employees Stock Option Scheme is being 
implemented in accordance with the SEBI (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021, to the extent applicable, and in accordance with 
the resolutions passed by the Members of the Bank, 
will also be available electronically for inspection, 
without any fee, by the Members, during the AGM. 
Members seeking to inspect such documents can 
send an e-mail to investors@bandhanbank.com, 
mentioning their name, Folio No./ DP ID and Client ID 
and the documents that they seek to inspect, with a 
self-attested copy of their PAN Card attached to the 
e-mail.
11.	 Members seeking any information with regard to the 
financial statements or any matter to be placed at 
the AGM, are requested to write to the Bank on or 
before Saturday, August 16, 2025 through e-mail at 
investors@bandhanbank.com, with their name, Folio 
No./ DP ID and Client ID. The same will be addressed 
suitably by the Bank.
05
Notice
12.	 Despatch of AGM Notice and Annual Report:
	
a.	
In compliance with the aforesaid AGM related 
Circulars, Notice of the 11th AGM, along with the 
Annual Report for the financial year ended March 
31, 2025 (‘Annual Report’), are being sent only 
through electronic mode to all those Members 
of the Bank, who have registered their e-mail 
addresses with the Bank/ the Bank’s Registrars 
and Share Transfer Agents, Kfin Technologies 
Limited (‘KFintech’ or ‘RTA’) [in respect of shares 
held in physical form] or with Depositories/ 
Depositories Participants (‘DP’) [in respect of 
shares held in dematerialized form]. Physical copy 
of the same may be provided to the Members 
on request.
	
b.	
Further, in accordance with Regulation 36(1)
(b) of the SEBI LODR, the Bank is also sending a 
letter, providing the web-link, including the exact 
path, where complete details of the AGM Notice 
and the Annual Report for the FY 2024-25 are 
available, to those shareholder(s) who have not 
so registered their e-mail address with the Bank/ 
RTA or DP.
	
c.	
Members may note that the Notice and Annual 
Report will also be available on the Bank’s 
website at https://www.bandhanbank.com/
annual-reports, websites of the Stock Exchanges, 
i.e., BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited at www.bseindia.com and www.
nseindia.com, respectively, and on the website 
of Service Provider, i.e., NSDL, at www.evoting.
nsdl.com.
	
d.	
Members holding shares in dematerialised 
mode are requested to register/ update their 
e-mail addresses with their respective DPs. 
Members holding shares in physical mode and 
who have not yet updated their e-mail address, 
bank details, etc., are requested to update the 
same by submitting duly filled in Form ISR-1 
(available on the website of the Bank at https://
www.bandhanbank.com/sebi-circular, along 
with relevant documents, to the RTA. The 
communication details of RTA are as under:
	
	
KFin Technologies Limited
	
	
(Unit: Bandhan Bank Limited),
	
	
Selenium Tower B, Plot Nos. 31 and 32,  
Financial District,
	
	
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Mandal,
	
	
Hyderabad - 500 032, Telangana, India
	
	
E-mail ID: einward.ris@kfintech.com
	
	
Website: www.kfintech.com
	
	
Toll-free Number: 1800 309 4001
13.	 THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR REMOTE 
E-VOTING ARE AS UNDER:
	
a.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of 
the Companies Act read with the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, 
as amended, and Regulation 44 of SEBI LODR, 
the Bank is providing the facility to the Members 
holding shares in physical or dematerialised form 
as on the Cut-off Date, being Thursday, August 
14, 2025, to exercise their rights to vote on the 
resolutions proposed to be passed at the AGM by 
electronic means (‘e-voting’). Members may cast 
their vote remotely on the resolutions proposed 
to be passed at the AGM, using an electronic 
voting system on the dates mentioned herein 
below (‘remote e-voting’).
	
b.	
E-voting facility will also be made available during 
the AGM and Members attending the AGM who 
have not cast their vote(s) by remote e-voting will 
be able to vote during the AGM through e-voting.
	
c.	
The Bank has engaged the Services of NSDL, for 
providing e-voting facilities.
	
d.	
The e-voting rights of the Members/ beneficial 
owners shall be reckoned in proportion to equity 
shares held by them in the Bank as on Thursday, 
August 14, 2025 (Cut–off Date fixed for this 
purpose), subject to the provisions of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949.
	
e.	
The Board of Directors has appointed CS Hansraj 
Jaria, Practising Company Secretary (FCS No. 
7703/ CP No. 19394), failing him, CS Rakesh 
Agrawal, Practising Company Secretary, (FCS 
No. 8792/ CP No. 9014), who have communicated 
their willingness to be appointed, to act as the 
Scrutinizer, to scrutinize the voting process in a 
fair and transparent manner.
	
f.	
The remote e-voting period commences on 
Sunday, August 17, 2025 (9.00 A.M., IST) and 
ends on Wednesday, August 20, 2025 (5.00 
P.M., IST). During this period, Members of 
the Bank, holding shares either in physical or 
dematerialised form, as on the Cut-off Date, 
i.e., Thursday, August 14, 2025, may cast their 
votes electronically through remote e-voting. 
The remote e-voting module shall be disabled by 
NSDL for voting thereafter. Once the vote(s) on 
a resolution(s) is cast by the Member, whether 
partially or otherwise, the Member shall not be 
allowed to change it subsequently or cast the 
vote again. A person, who is not a Member as 
on the Cut-off Date, should treat this Notice for 
information purposes only.
06
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
	
g.	
A Member can opt for only a single mode of voting, i.e., remote e-voting or e-voting during the Meeting. In case 
a Member casts vote(s) through remote e-voting, he/ she shall not be allowed to vote again during the AGM.
	
h.	
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting system?
	
	
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system consists of “Two Steps”, which are mentioned below:
	
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
	
A)	
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode
	
	
In terms of Section VI-C of the SEBI Master Circular dated November 11, 2024 on ‘e-voting facility provided 
by listed entities’, Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their 
demat account maintained with Depositories and Depository Participants. Individual shareholders are advised 
to update their respective mobile numbers and e-mail IDs in their respective demat accounts, in order to access 
the e-Voting facility.
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL.
1.	 For OTP based login you can click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/
evotinglogin.jsp. You will have to enter your 8-digit DP ID, 8-digit Client ID, PAN, Verification 
code and generate OTP. Enter the OTP received on registered e-mail ID/ mobile number and 
click on login. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site 
wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider, 
i.e., NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during 
the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & e-voting during the meeting.
2.	 Alternatively, existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL, viz., https://
eservices.nsdl.com, either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home 
page, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login”, which is available under “IDeAS” 
section. This will prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. After successful 
authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services under Value added services. Click on 
“Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click 
on company name or e-Voting service provider, i.e., NSDL and you will be re-directed to 
e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining 
virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
3.	 If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://
eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://eservices.
nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp.
4.	 Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home 
page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login”, which is available under 
“Shareholder/ Member” section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User 
ID (i.e., your sixteen digit demat account number held with NSDL), Password/ OTP and 
a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be 
redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company 
name or e-Voting service provider, i.e., NSDL, and you will be redirected to e-Voting 
website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual 
meeting & voting during the meeting.
5.	 Shareholders/ Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by 
scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
NSDL Mobile App is available on
07
Notice
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with CDSL
1.	 Users who have opted for CDSL Easi/ Easiest facility, can login through their existing User 
ID and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further 
authentication. To login through Easi/ Easiest, the users are requested to visit CDSL website, 
www.cdslindia.com, and click on the login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then enter 
existing my easi username & password.
2.	 After successful login, the Easi/ Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible 
companies, where evoting is in progress as per the information provided by company. On 
clicking the evoting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service 
provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is also links provided to access the system of all 
e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting service providers’ website 
directly.
3.	 If the user is not registered for Easi/ Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website, 
www.cdslindia.com. Click on login, go to New System Myeasi Tab and then click on the 
registration option.
4.	 Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account Number and 
PAN at the e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate 
the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & E-mail as recorded in the Demat Account. After 
successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-voting option where the evoting is in 
progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual Shareholders 
(holding securities in demat 
mode) login through their 
depository participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository 
Participant registered with NSDL/ CDSL for e-Voting facility. Upon logging in, you will be able to 
see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/ CDSL Depository 
site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on company 
name or e-Voting service provider, i.e., NSDL, and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of 
NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting and 
voting during the meeting.
Important Note: Members who are unable to retrieve 
User ID/ Password are advised to use Forgot User 
ID and Forgot Password related options available at 
abovementioned websites.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode for any technical issues related to login 
through Depositories, i.e., NSDL and CDSL:
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual 
Shareholders holding 
securities in demat 
mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in 
login can contact NSDL helpdesk by 
sending a request at evoting@nsdl.
com or call at 022 - 4886 7000
Individual 
Shareholders holding 
securities in demat 
mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue 
in login can contact CDSL helpdesk 
by sending a request at helpdesk.
evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 
toll free no. 1800-21-09911
B)	
Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual 
meeting for shareholders other than Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode and 
shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
	
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
	
(a)	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web 
browser by typing the following URL: https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal 
Computer or on a mobile.
	
(b)	 Once the home page of e-Voting system is 
launched, click on the icon “Login”, which is 
available under “Shareholder/Member” section.
	
(c)	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your 
User ID, your Password/ OTP and a Verification 
Code as shown on the screen.
	
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL 
eservices, i.e., IDEAS, you can log-in at https://
eservices.nsdl.com/ with your existing IDeAS 
login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after 
using your login credentials, click on e-Voting 
and you can proceed to Step 2, i.e., Cast your 
vote electronically.
	
(d)	 Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding 
shares, i.e., Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) or 
Physical
Your User ID is:
a)	 For Members 
who hold 
shares in demat 
account with 
NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed 
by 8 Digit Client ID
For example, if your DP ID 
is IN300*** and Client ID is 
12******, then your User ID 
is IN300***12******.
b)	 For Members 
who hold 
shares in demat 
account with 
CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example, if your 
Beneficiary ID is 
12**************, 
then your User ID is 
12**************.
08
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
Manner of holding 
shares, i.e., Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) or 
Physical
Your User ID is:
c)	 For Members 
holding shares 
in Physical 
Form.
EVEN Number followed by 
Folio Number registered 
with the Bank.
For example, if folio 
number is 001*** and EVEN 
is 101456, then User ID is 
101456001***.
	
(e)	
EVEN of Bandhan Bank Limited is ‘134636’.
	
(f)	
Password details for shareholders other than 
Individual shareholders are given below:
	
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-Voting, 
then you can use your existing password to 
login and cast your vote.
	
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for 
the first time, you will need to retrieve the 
‘initial password’, which was communicated 
to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial 
password’, you need to enter the ‘initial 
password’ and the system will force you to 
change your password.
	
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
	
(i)	
If your email ID is registered in your 
demat account or with the Bank, your 
‘initial password’ is communicated to 
you on your e-mail ID. Trace the e-mail 
sent to you from NSDL from your 
mailbox. Open the e-mail and open 
the attachment, i.e., a .pdf file. The 
password to open the .pdf file is your 8 
digit client ID for NSDL account, last 8 
digits of client ID for CDSL account or 
folio number for shares held in physical 
form. The .pdf file contains your ‘User 
ID’ and your ‘initial password’.
	
	
	
(ii)	
If your email ID is not registered, 
please follow steps mentioned below 
in process for those shareholders 
whose email IDs are not registered, 
at page no. 10.
	
(g)	 If you are unable to retrieve or have not 
received the ‘Initial password’ or have forgotten 
your password:
	
	
a)	
Click 
on 
“Forgot 
User 
Details/
Password?”(If you are holding shares in 
your demat account with NSDL or CDSL) 
option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
b)	
“Physical User Reset Password?” (If you 
are holding shares in physical mode) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the password 
by aforesaid two options, you can send a 
request at evoting@nsdl.com, mentioning 
your demat account number/ folio number, 
your PAN, your name and your registered 
address, etc.
	
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the votes 
on the e-Voting system of NSDL.
	
(h)	 After entering your password, tick on Agree to 
“Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the 
check box.
	
(i)	
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
	
(j)	
After you click on the “Login” button, Home page 
of e-Voting will open.
	
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join 
General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
	
How to cast your vote electronically and join 
General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
	
a)	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able 
to see all the companies “EVEN” in which you 
are holding shares and whose voting cycle and 
General Meeting is in active status.
	
b)	
Select “EVEN” of ‘Bandhan Bank Limited’ i.e., 
134636, to cast your vote during the remote 
e-Voting period or to cast your vote during the 
AGM. For joining virtual meeting, you need to 
click on “VC/ OAVM” link placed under “Join 
Meeting”.
	
c)	
Now, you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting 
page opens.
	
d)	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options, 
i.e., assent or dissent, verify/ modify the number 
of shares for which you wish to cast your vote 
and click on “Submit” and also “Confirm” 
when prompted.
	
e)	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed.
	
f)	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast 
by you by clicking on the print option on the 
confirmation page.
	
g)	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, 
you will not be allowed to modify your vote.
i.	
General Guidelines for shareholders
(a)	
Institutional shareholders (i.e., other than individuals, 
HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send scanned copy 
(PDF/ JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ 
09
Notice
Authority Letter, etc., with attested specimen 
signature of the duly authorized signatory(ies) who 
are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail 
to hansrajjaria@gmail.com, with a copy marked to 
evoting@nsdl.com and investors@bandhanbank.
com, or to the Bank at its Head Office, addressed to 
the Company Secretary. Institutional shareholders (i.e. 
other than individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) can also upload 
their Board Resolution/ Power of Attorney/ Authority 
Letter etc. by clicking on "Upload Board Resolution/ 
Authority Letter" displayed under "e-Voting" tab in 
their login.
(b)	 It is strongly recommended not to share your password 
with any other person and take utmost care to keep 
your password confidential. Login to the e-voting 
website will be disabled upon five unsuccessful 
attempts to key in the correct password. In such 
an event, you will need to go through the “Forgot 
User Details/Password?” or “Physical User Reset 
Password?” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.
com to reset the password.
(c)	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and 
e-voting user manual for Shareholders available at 
the download section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call 
on: 022 - 4886 7000 or send a request to Ms. Pallavi 
Mhatre, Senior Manager, at evoting@nsdl.com for 
any further clarification(s) or write to the Company 
Secretary of the Bank at its registered office or at 
investors@bandhanbank.com.
j.	
Process for those shareholders whose e-mail IDs 
are not registered with the depositories/ RTA for 
procuring User ID and password for e-voting for 
the resolutions set out in this Notice:
	
(a)	
In case shares are held in physical mode, please 
provide Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned 
copy of the share certificate (front and back), 
PAN (self-attested scanned copy of PAN card), 
AADHAAR (self-attested scanned copy of Aadhaar 
card) by e-mail to investors@bandhanbank.com.
	
(b)	 In case shares are held in demat mode, please 
provide DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 
digit beneficiary ID), Name, client master or copy 
of Consolidated Account Statement, PAN (self-
attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAAR 
(self-attested scanned copy of Aadhaar card) 
to investors@bandhanbank.com. If you are 
an Individual shareholder holding securities in 
demat mode, you are requested to refer to the 
login method explained at step 1 (A), i.e., Login 
method for e-Voting and joining virtual 
meeting for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode.
	
(c)	
Alternatively, Shareholders/ Members may send a 
request to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring USER 
ID and password for e-voting by providing above 
mentioned documents.
14.	 INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR E-VOTING ON 
THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:
	
a)	
The Bank has opted to provide the same electronic 
voting system during the AGM, as being used for 
remote e-voting, and the said facility shall be 
operational till all the resolutions proposed in 
the Notice are considered and voted upon during 
the AGM.
	
b)	
Only those Members/ Shareholders, who will be 
present in the AGM through VC/ OAVM facility 
and have not cast their vote on the Resolutions 
through remote e-voting and are otherwise not 
barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote 
through e-Voting system in the AGM.
	
c)	
Facility to cast vote through e-voting will be 
made available on the VC screen and will be 
activated once the voting is announced at the 
AGM. The voting rights of the Members shall be 
in proportion to their share of the paid-up voting 
equity share capital of the Bank as on the Cut-off 
Date being Thursday, August 14, 2025, subject 
to the provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949, as amended.
	
d)	
Members who have voted through remote 
e-voting will be eligible to attend the AGM. 
However, they will not be eligible to vote at 
the AGM.
	
e)	
The details of the person who may be contacted 
for any grievances connected with the facility for 
e-voting on the day of the AGM shall be the same 
person mentioned for remote e-voting, at page 
no. 10.
15.	 INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING 
THE AGM THROUGH VC/ OAVM ARE AS UNDER:
	
a.	
Members will be provided with a facility to 
attend the AGM through VC/ OAVM through the 
NSDL e-Voting system. Members may access by 
following the steps mentioned above for Access 
to NSDL e-Voting system. After successful 
login, you can see link of “VC/ OAVM” placed 
under “Join Meeting” menu against company 
name, i.e., ‘Bandhan Bank Limited’. Members 
are requested to click on “VC/ OAVM” link placed 
under the “Join Meeting” menu. The link for VC/ 
OAVM will be available in Shareholder/ Member 
login where the EVEN (i.e., 134636) of ‘Bandhan 
10
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
Bank Limited’ will be displayed. Please note 
that members who do not have the User ID and 
Password for e-Voting or have forgotten the 
User ID and Password may retrieve the same 
by following the remote e-voting instructions 
mentioned in the Notice to avoid last minute rush.
	
b.	
The facility to join the AGM shall be opened 
thirty minutes before the scheduled time of 
the AGM and shall be kept open throughout the 
proceedings of the AGM on a first-come, first-
served basis.
	
c.	
In case of joint holders attending the Meeting, 
only such joint holder who is higher in the order 
of names will be entitled to vote at the AGM, 
provided the votes are not already cast by remote 
e-voting by the first holder.
	
d.	
Pursuant to the provisions of the AGM related 
Circulars, at least 1,000 Members are allowed 
to register and attend the AGM through VC/ 
OAVM on a first-come, first-served basis. 
However, the said restriction is not applicable 
to large Shareholders (Members holding 2% or 
more shareholding), Promoters, Institutional 
Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, 
the Chairpersons of the Audit Committee, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, 
Auditors, etc.
	
e.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting 
through Laptops for better experience.
	
f.	
Further, Members will be required to allow 
Camera and use Internet with a good speed to 
avoid any disturbance during the Meeting.
	
g.	
Please note that Participants connecting 
from Mobile Devices or Tablets or through 
Laptop connecting via Mobile Hotspot 
may experience Audio/ Video loss due to 
fluctuation in their respective networks. It is, 
therefore, recommended to use stable Wi-
Fi or LAN Connection to mitigate any kind of 
aforesaid glitches.
16.	 Any person, who becomes a Member of the Bank after 
this Notice is sent through e-mail and holds shares as 
on the Cut-off Date, i.e., Thursday, August 14, 2025, 
may obtain the login ID and password by sending a 
request at evoting@nsdl.com or to the Bank. However, 
if you are already registered with NSDL for remote 
e-voting, then you can use your existing User ID and 
Password for casting your vote. If you have forgotten 
your Password, you can reset your Password by using 
“Forgot User Details/ Password” or “Physical 
User Reset Password” option available on www.
evoting.nsdl.com or call on 022 - 4886 7000. In case 
of Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode who acquire shares of the Bank and become 
Members of the Bank after sending of the Notice and 
hold shares as on the Cut-off Date, i.e., Thursday, 
August 14, 2025, may follow steps mentioned in this 
Notice under “Access to NSDL e-Voting system”.
17.	 Members of the Bank under the category of 
Institutional Investors are encouraged to attend 
and vote at the AGM.
18.	 Speaker Registration
	
a)	
Members who would like to express their views 
or ask questions during the AGM may register 
themselves by following the procedure as 
mentioned above for login and thereafter, click 
on the link “Speaker Registration” available 
against the EVEN of ‘Bandhan Bank Limited’.
	
b)	
The Speaker Registration will be available from 
Sunday, August 17, 2025 to Tuesday, August 19, 
2025, for those Members, holding shares either 
in physical or demat mode, as on the Cut-off 
Date, i.e., Thursday, August 14, 2025. Only those 
Members who are registered will be allowed to 
express their views or ask questions during the 
AGM. The Bank reserves the right to restrict the 
number of questions and number of speakers, 
depending upon the availability of time as 
appropriate for smooth conduct of the AGM.
19.	 Dividend Related Information:
	
a.	
The Board of Directors has recommended a 
dividend of ₹1.50 (Rupees One and Fifty Paise 
Only) per equity share having a face value of ₹10 
each (i.e., 15%) from the profits of the Bank for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2025, for the 
approval of Members.
	
b.	
The Record Date fixed for the purpose of 
determining the eligibility of Members for 
dividend is Thursday, August 14, 2025. The 
dividend, if declared by the Members in the 
ensuing AGM, will be paid within 30 days of the 
date of its declaration, to the Members whose 
names appear on the Bank’s Register of Members/ 
Beneficial Owners as on the Record Date.
	
c.	
Further, as per the provisions of the SEBI Master 
Circular for Registrars to an Issue and Share 
Transfer Agents dated June 23, 2025, read with 
SEBI Circular dated June 10, 2024, SEBI has 
mandated that the security holders holding 
shares in physical form, who have not updated 
their PAN or Contact Details (Postal Address 
with PIN and Mobile Number) or Bank Account 
Details or Specimen Signature, then the dividend 
shall be paid only through electronic mode to 
11
Notice
such security holders, with effect from April 01, 
2024, only upon furnishing all the said details 
in entirety.
	
d.	
Shareholders are requested to register/ update 
their complete bank details:
•	 if shares are held in demat mode: with the DPs 
with whom they maintain their demat accounts, 
by submitting forms and documents as may be 
required by the DPs; and
•	 if shares are held in physical mode: by furnishing 
their bank account details, as mandated by 
SEBI, by submitting duly filled in Form ISR-1 
to KFintech, along with self-attested copy of 
PAN card, bank details (bank account number, 
bank and branch name, address of the bank, 11 
digits IFSC Code, 9 digits MICR No.) and original 
cancelled cheque leaf bearing the name of the 
shareholder printed on it and reflecting active 
core bank account number.
	
e.	
Pursuant to the provisions of Income-tax Act, 
1961 (‘IT Act’), dividends paid or distributed 
by the Bank shall be taxable in the hands of the 
shareholders and the Bank shall be required to 
deduct tax at source (‘TDS’) at the prescribed 
rates from the dividend to be paid to Members, 
subject to the approval of dividend by the 
shareholders in the ensuing AGM. No tax will be 
deducted on payment of dividend to the resident 
individual shareholders, if the total dividend 
paid does not exceed ₹10,000 during a financial 
year. The rate of TDS would vary depending on 
the residential status of the shareholder and 
documents registered with the Bank.
A.	
RESIDENT SHAREHOLDERS:
A.1	 Tax Deductible at source for resident shareholders
Sl. 
No.
(1)
Particulars
(2)
TDS/ Withholding 
Tax Rate(3)
Documents required (if any)/ Remarks
(4)
1
Valid PAN updated in the 
Bank’s Register of Members
10%
No document required, if dividend does not exceed ₹10,000/- to 
the resident individual shareholders, and no TDS/ withholding tax 
will be deducted. Also, please refer to note (C)(v) below.
2
No PAN/Valid PAN not 
updated in the Bank’s Register 
of Members
20%
TDS/ Withholding tax will be deducted, regardless of the dividend 
amount, if PAN of the shareholder is not registered with the Bank/ 
KFintech/ Depository Participant.
All the shareholders are requested to update, on or before 
Thursday, August 14, 2025, their PAN with their Depository 
Participant (if shares are held in electronic form) or with the Bank/ 
KFintech (if shares are held in physical form). Please quote all the 
folio numbers under which you hold your shares while updating 
the records. Please also refer to note (C)(v) below.
3
Availability of lower/ nil tax 
deduction certificate issued by 
the Income Tax Department 
u/s 197 of the IT Act.
Rate specified in 
the certificate
Lower tax deduction certificate obtained from the Income Tax 
Authority to be submitted on or before Thursday, August 14, 2025.
	
If PAN is not submitted/ is inoperative on non-linking of PAN with Aadhaar/ is invalid, TDS would be deducted @ 20% 
as per Section 206AA of the IT Act.
A.2	 No TDS on dividend payment to resident shareholders, if the Shareholders submit and register following documents as 
mentioned in column no. 4 of the below table with the Bank/ KFintech/ Depository Participant on or before Thursday, 
August 14, 2025:
Sl. 
No.
(1)
Particulars
(2)
TDS/ Withholding 
Tax Rate (3)
Documents required (if any)/ Remarks
(4)
1
Submission of form 15G/ 15H
NIL
Declaration in Form No. 15G (applicable to an individual who 
is below 60 years)/ Form 15H (applicable to an individual who 
is 60 years and above), fulfilling certain conditions.
2
Shareholders to whom section 194 of 
the IT Act does not apply as per the 
second proviso to Section 194 such as 
LIC, GIC, etc.
NIL
Documentary evidence for exemption u/s
194 of the IT Act.
3
Shareholder covered u/s 196 of 
IT Act such as Government, RBI, 
corporations established by Central 
Act and mutual funds.
NIL
Documentary evidence for coverage u/s 196 of IT Act
12
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
Sl. 
No.
(1)
Particulars
(2)
TDS/ Withholding 
Tax Rate (3)
Documents required (if any)/ Remarks
(4)
4
Category I and II Alternative 
Investment Fund
NIL
SEBI registration certificate to claim benefit under Section 
197A (1F) of IT Act
5
1	
Recognised provident funds
2	
Approved superannuation fund
3	
Approved gratuity fund
NIL
Necessary documentary evidence as per Circular No. 18/2017 
issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT)
6
National Pension Scheme
NIL
No TDS/ withholding tax as per section 197A (1E) of IT Act
7
Any resident shareholder exempted 
from TDS deduction as per the 
provisions of the IT Act or by any 
other law or notification
NIL
Necessary documentary evidence substantiating exemption 
from deduction of TDS
B.	
NON-RESIDENT SHAREHOLDERS:
	
The table below shows the withholding tax on dividend payment to non-resident shareholders who submit, on or 
before Thursday, August 14, 2025, the following document(s), as mentioned in column no. 4 of the below table, to the 
Bank/ KFintech. In case all necessary documents are not submitted, then the TDS/ Withholding tax will be deducted 
@ 20% (plus applicable surcharge and cess).
Sl. 
No.
(1)
Particulars
(2)
TDS/ 
Withholding 
Tax Rate (3)
Documents required (if any)
(4)
1
Foreign Institutional 
Investors (FIIs)/ Foreign 
Portfolio Investors (FPIs)/ 
Other Non-Resident 
shareholders
20% (plus 
applicable 
surcharge 
and cess) 
or tax 
treaty rate, 
whichever is 
beneficial
FPI registration certificate in case of FIIs/ FPIs
To avail beneficial rate of tax treaty following tax documents would be 
required:
1.	 Tax Residency certificate issued by revenue authority of the country of 
residence of shareholder for the year in which dividend is received
2.	 Self-attested copy of the PAN card, if any, allotted by the Indian Income 
Tax authorities.
3.	 Form 10F electronically filled & duly signed
4.	 Self-declaration from the shareholder primarily covering the following:
•		 Shareholder is eligible to claim the benefit of respective tax treaty;
•		 Shareholder receiving the dividend income is the beneficial owner of 
such income;
•		 Dividend income is not attributable/ effectively connected to any 
Permanent Establishment (PE) or Fixed Base in India;
•		 Shareholder complies with any other condition prescribed in the relevant 
Tax Treaty and provisions under the Multilateral Instrument (‘MLI’);
•	Shareholder does not have a place of effective management in India.
(Note: Application of beneficial Tax Treaty Rate shall depend upon the 
completeness of the documents submitted by the Non- Resident shareholder 
and review to the satisfaction of the Bank)
2
Availability of Lower/ NIL 
tax deduction certificate 
issued by Income Tax 
Authority
Rate 
specified in 
certificate
Lower tax deduction certificate obtained from Income Tax Authority
3
Any Non-Resident 
shareholder exempted 
from Withholding Tax 
(WHT) deduction as per 
the provisions of Income 
Tax Act or any other 
law such as The United 
Nations (Privileges and 
Immunities) Act 1947, etc.
NIL
Necessary documentary evidence substantiating exemption from WHT 
deduction
13
Notice
C.	
Important Points to Note:
	
(i)	
The Bank will issue a soft copy of the TDS 
certificate to its Members through email 
registered with the Bank/ KFintech, post payment 
of the dividend. Members will be able to view the 
TDS Credit from the Income Tax Department’s 
website https://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in 
(refer to Form 26AS).
	
(ii)	
The aforesaid documents such as Form 15G/ 15H, 
documents under sections 196 and 197A of the IT 
Act, FPI Registration Certificate, Tax Residency 
Certificate, Lower Tax Certificate, etc., can be 
uploaded on the link, https://ris.kfintech.com/
form15 on or before Thursday, August 14, 2025, 
in order to enable the Bank to determine the 
appropriate TDS/ withholding tax rate applicable. 
Any communication on the tax determination/ 
deduction received post Thursday, August 14, 
2025 shall not be considered. Formats of Form 
15G/ Form 15H can be downloaded from the link 
https://ris.kfintech.com/form15.
	
(iii)	 As per NSDL Circular NSDL/CIR/II/03/2023 
dated January 11, 2023, the Resident Non-
Individual Members, such as, Insurance 
companies, Mutual Funds, Alternative 
Investment Fund (AIF) and other domestic 
financial institutions established in India, and 
Non-Resident Non-Individual Members, such 
as, Foreign Portfolio Investors may submit the 
relevant forms, declarations and documents 
through their respective custodians, who are 
registered with NSDL for tax services, on or 
before Thursday, August 14, 2025.
	
(iv)	 Application of TDS rate is subject to necessary 
verification of the Members’ details by the Bank, 
as available in Register of Members as on the 
Record Date, and other documents available with 
the Bank/ KFintech.
	
(v)	
In case TDS is deducted at a higher rate, an option 
is still available with the Members to file the 
return of income and claim an appropriate refund.
	
(vi)	 No TDS will be deducted in case of resident 
individual shareholders who furnish their PAN 
details and whose dividend does not exceed 
₹10,000/-.
	
	
All the shareholders are requested to update 
their PAN with their Depository Participant (if 
shares are held in electronic form) and with the 
Bank/ KFintech (if shares are held in physical 
form) against all their folio holdings on or before 
Thursday, August 14, 2025.
	
(vii)	 In the event of any income tax demand 
(including interest, penalty, etc.) arising from 
any misrepresentation, inaccuracy or omission 
of information provided by the Member(s), such 
Member(s) will be responsible to indemnify 
the Bank and also, provide the Bank with all 
information/ documents and co-operation in any 
appellate proceedings.
	
(viii)	This Communication is not exhaustive and does 
not purport to be a complete analysis or listing 
of all potential tax consequences in the matter 
of dividend payment. Members should consult 
their tax advisors for requisite action to be taken 
by them.
Voting and results related matters:
20.	 Since the resolutions as set out in this Notice are being 
conducted through e-voting, the said resolutions will 
not be decided on a show of hands at the AGM.
21.	 The Scrutiniser will, after the conclusion of e-voting 
at the AGM, scrutinise the votes cast during the AGM 
and votes cast through remote e-voting, and make 
a consolidated Scrutiniser’s Report and submit the 
same, not later than 2 days of the conclusion of the 
AGM, to the Chairman or the Managing Director & 
CEO or the Executive Director(s) or the Company 
Secretary, who shall countersign the same. The result 
of e-voting shall be declared forthwith upon receipt 
of the Scrutinizer’s Report.
22.	 The result declared, along with the Scrutiniser’s 
Report, shall be placed on the Bank’s website at 
https://www.bandhanbank.com/annual-reports and 
on the website of NSDL at www.evoting.nsdl.com, 
immediately after the declaration of the result and 
shall also be simultaneously submitted to BSE Limited 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited. The 
e-voting results will also be displayed at the Registered 
Office and Head Office of the Bank.
23.	 Subject to receipt of requisite number of votes, the 
Resolutions proposed in the Notice shall be deemed 
to be passed on the date of the AGM, i.e., Thursday, 
August 21, 2025.
Shareholders related matters:
24.	 In terms of the provisions of the SEBI LODR, securities 
of listed companies can be transferred only in 
dematerialised form with effect from April 01, 2019. 
Further, SEBI, vide its circular dated January 25, 2022, 
has also advised listed companies and Registrar & 
Transfer Agents to issue shares in dematerialised form 
while processing service requests for transmission, 
transposition, issue of duplicate certificates, renewal, 
splitting, consolidation of share certificate, etc. In view 
of the above and to eliminate all risks associated with 
physical shares and for ease of portfolio management, 
Members holding shares in physical form are 
requested to consider converting their shareholdings 
into dematerialized form. Members can contact the 
Bank’s RTA, KFintech, for assistance in this regard.
14
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
25.	 Mandatory furnishing of PAN, KYC details and 
Nomination by holders of physical securities: SEBI, 
vide Section V of its ‘Master Circular for Registrars to 
an Issue and Share Transfer Agents’ dated June 23, 
2025, has mandated furnishing of PAN, KYC details 
and nomination by holders of physical securities and 
linking PAN with Aadhaar. Members holding shares 
in physical mode and who have not yet updated their 
KYC, including e-mail address, mobile no., bank details, 
etc., are requested to update the same by submitting 
duly filled in Form ISR-1 with relevant documents 
to the RTA or the Bank. Similarly, for updation of 
signature, Form ISR-2; for nomination, Form No. SH 13; 
for change in nomination, Form No. SH 14; and for opt 
out of nomination, Form ISR -3; and for cancellation of 
nomination, Form ISR-3, along with Form No. SH 14, duly 
filled in all respect, with relevant documents, shall be 
submitted to the RTA or the Bank. The detailed process 
of submission of PAN, KYC details and nomination, along 
with necessary forms, are available on the website of 
the Bank at www.bandhanbank.com/sebi-circular.
26.	 In case a holder of physical securities fails to furnish 
any of the abovementioned details (except choice of 
nomination), the security holder shall be eligible to 
lodge grievance or avail any service request from the 
RTA only after furnishing all such details/ documents. 
Further, payment of dividend in respect of such folios 
shall be done only through electronic mode with effect 
from April 01, 2024 upon furnishing of all the aforesaid 
details (except choice of nomination) in entirety.
27.	 Members are requested to note that, in order to 
facilitate the Members to access portfolio services 
rendered by RTA and to check requests, viz., annual 
reports, change of address, change/ update Bank 
mandate and download standard forms, RTA has 
launched a website, https://kprism.kfintech.com/, 
for Members.
28.	 Online processing of investor service requests 
and complaints by RTAs: SEBI, vide Section VII of its 
Master Circular dated June 23, 2025, advised RTAs to 
digitize the process of service requests/ complaints 
and provide a mechanism or portal for investors to 
lodge service requests/ complaints online. In view of 
the same, KFintech has digitized the process of service 
requests/ complaints and has launched a webpage, 
which can be accessed at https://kprism.kfintech.
com/signup. Investors may register/ signup, using their 
Name, PAN, Mobile Number and Email ID, for online 
processing of service requests. Post registration, 
users can login via OTP and execute activities, like, 
raising Service Request, Query, Complaints, check for 
status, KYC details, Dividend, Interest, Redemptions, 
e-Meeting and e-Voting details.
29.	 As an ongoing endeavour to enhance Investor 
experience and leverage new technology, facilities 
provided by RTA for smooth updation of KYC are 
as follows:
	
eSign Facility: Common and simplified norms for 
processing investor’s service requests by RTAs and 
norms for furnishing PAN, KYC details and Nomination 
requires that eSign option be provided to Investors for 
raising service requests. URL: https://ris.kfintech.com/
clientservices/isc/isrforms.aspx.
	
KYC Status: To ensure that shareholders have 
requisite information regarding their folios, the RTA 
has created a webpage at https://kprism.kfintech.
com/, where the Members may access the KYC status 
of their respective folios by registering with the first 
holder’s PAN details.
30.	 Transfer of unclaimed/ unpaid dividends to the IEPF: 
Members are requested to note that dividends which are 
not claimed within seven years from the date of transfer 
to the Bank’s Unpaid Dividend Account, will, as per the 
provisions of Section 124 of the Companies Act and 
rules made thereunder, be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (‘IEPF’). Further, pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 
read with the IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer 
and Refund) Rules, 2016 (‘IEPF Rules’), as amended, all 
shares in respect of which dividend has not been paid 
or claimed for seven consecutive years or more shall be 
transferred to the demat account of the IEPF Authority. 
The details of unpaid dividend and the unclaimed shares 
transferred to the IEPF Authority during FY 2024-25 and 
the process for claiming these are provided in the Report 
on Corporate Governance forming part of the Annual 
Report for FY 2024-25.
31.	 As per Rule 5 of the IEPF Rules, information containing 
the names and the last known addresses of the persons 
entitled to receive the sums lying in the account referred 
to in Section 125(2) of the Companies Act, nature of the 
amount, the amount to which each person is entitled, 
the due date for transfer to IEPF, etc., is provided 
by the Bank on its website at the link: https://www.
bandhanbank.com/unclaimed-dividend. The concerned 
Members are requested to verify the details of their 
unclaimed dividend, if any, from the website and lodge 
their claim with KFintech before the unclaimed dividends 
are transferred to the IEPF. The Bank has also sent a 
communication to all the Members, whose dividends 
have remained un-encashed, with a request to send the 
requisite documents to the Bank/ KFintech for claiming 
such un-encashed dividends and the newspaper notice 
was also issued in this regard in an English national daily 
and in Bengali and Gujarati language newspapers.
By Order of the Board
for Bandhan Bank Limited
Indranil Banerjee
Place: Kolkata
Company Secretary
Date: June 27, 2025
FCS No.: 9917
15
Notice
STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 AND 
OTHER APPLICABLE PROVISIONS
Statements with respect to items under Ordinary/ Special Business covered in the Notice of Meeting are given below:
Item No. 4:
In terms of the Guidelines for Appointment of Statutory 
Central Auditors (SCAs)/ Statutory Auditors (SAs) of 
Commercial Banks (excluding RRBs), UCBs and NBFCs 
(including HFCs) dated April 27, 2021, issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) (‘RBI Guidelines’), for 
entities with asset size of ₹15,000 crore and above, as at 
the end of the previous year, the statutory audit should 
be conducted under joint audit of a minimum of two audit 
firms [Partnership Firms/ Limited Liability Partnerships 
(LLPs)]. Further, in order to protect the independence of 
the auditors/ audit firms, entities will have to appoint the 
SCAs/ SAs for a continuous period of three years, subject 
to the firms satisfying the eligibility norms each year. 
Furthermore, Commercial Banks (excluding RRBs) will be 
required to take prior approval of RBI for appointment/ 
re-appointment of SCAs/ SAs, on an annual basis. In view 
of the RBI Guidelines, the Bank has adopted a Policy for 
Appointment of Statutory Auditors of the Bank (‘Policy’). 
Accordingly, in terms of the RBI Guidelines and the Policy 
of the Bank, the Bank is required to have two Statutory 
Auditors to act as its Joint Statutory Auditors.
M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm 
Registration No.: 302049E), were appointed as the Joint 
Statutory Auditors of the Bank, in its 8th AGM, for a period 
of three years, to hold office as Joint Statutory Auditors 
of the Bank until the conclusion of its 11th AGM of the 
Bank to be held in 2025. Further, M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & 
Co., Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No.: 
109208W) were appointed as the Joint Statutory Auditors 
of the Bank, in its 10th AGM, for a period of three years, to 
hold office as Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank until the 
conclusion of its 13th AGM to be held in 2027. Therefore, 
since the term of M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered Accountants, 
as the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank will end with the 
conclusion of this AGM of the Bank, the Bank is required to 
appoint one more audit firm to act as the Joint Statutory 
Auditors of the Bank, along with M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., 
Chartered Accountants, in place of the retiring auditors. 
Accordingly, on the basis of recommendation of the Audit 
Committee of the Board (‘ACB’) and considering the profile, 
experience and expertise in the audit of banking and 
financial service sector, the Board of Directors recommends 
the appointment of M/s. V. Singhi & Associates, Chartered 
Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No.: 0311017E), as Joint 
Statutory Auditors of the Bank, for a period of three years, 
to hold office from the conclusion of this 11th AGM until the 
conclusion of the 14th AGM of the Bank, for the approval of 
the Shareholders at the ensuing AGM, subject to approval 
of RBI on an annual basis. As per the requirements of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Companies Act’), M/s. V. Singhi 
& Associates, Chartered Accountants, have confirmed 
that the appointment, if made, would be within the limits 
specified under Section 141(3)(g) of the Companies Act and 
that they are not disqualified to be appointed as Statutory 
Auditors in terms of the provisions of Sections 139 and 141 
of the Companies Act and rules made thereunder. Further, 
the Bank has also received an eligibility certificate from 
M/s. V. Singhi & Associates, Chartered Accountants, in 
Form-B, as prescribed under the RBI Guidelines. They have 
also been subject to peer review by the ICAI.
M/s. V. Singhi & Associates, Chartered Accountants, was 
established in the year 1977. Currently, the firm has 21 
partners and more than 550+ manpower strength, having 
touchpoints in 7 cities of India. The firm has a total of 38 
years of audit experience and has extensive experience in 
the fields of Banking and Financial services, including audit 
of large public sector banks and financial institutions, like, 
State Bank of India, UCO Bank, Paschim Banga Gramin Bank, 
Malda District Central Cooperative Bank, Dakshin Dinajpur 
District Central Cooperative Bank.
Audit fees (statutory audit & limited review) as paid for 
FY 2024-25 has been recommended to be paid to Joint 
Statutory Auditors i.e. ₹1,65,00,000 (Rupees One Crore and 
Sixty Five Lakh Only) per annum to M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & 
Co., Chartered Accountants, and M/s. V. Singhi & Associates, 
Chartered Accountants, Joint Statutory Auditors of the 
Bank, for FY 2025-26 and onward for their remaining 
tenure, as may be allocated by the Bank between the 
Joint Statutory Auditors, and as may be mutually agreed 
between the Bank and the said Joint Statutory Auditors, 
depending upon their respective scope of work, in addition 
to Certification and other Fees, out of pocket expenses, 
outlays and taxes as applicable. The Board/ ACB shall have 
the power to alter and vary the terms and conditions of 
appointment and remuneration, including allocation of 
audit fees between the Joint Statutory Auditors depending 
upon their respective scope of work and/ or by reason of 
necessity, on account of conditions as may be stipulated by 
the RBI and/ or any other authority, in such manner and to 
such extent as may be mutually agreed between the Bank 
and the said Joint Statutory Auditors. The remuneration 
paid to the Joint Statutory Auditors will be disclosed in 
the Report on Corporate Governance as well as the Annual 
Financial Statement of the Bank.
Approval of RBI has already been received for appointments 
of M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants and 
M/s. V. Singhi & Associates, Chartered Accountants, as the 
Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank, for the Financial Year 
2025-26, for their second year and first year, respectively.
Since the appointment of M/s. V. Singhi & Associates, 
Chartered Accountants, as the Joint Statutory Auditors is 
proposed, in place of the retiring auditors, viz., M/s. Singhi 
16
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
& Co., Chartered Accountants, as per the provisions of the 
RBI Guidelines, and the existing Statutory Auditors, viz., 
M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants, shall act 
as the Joint Statutory Auditors with them, no special notice 
is required under Section 140(4) of the Companies Act for 
moving the resolution set out at Item No. 4 of this Notice.
Your Board of Directors, therefore, recommends passing 
of the Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 4 of 
this Notice.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of 
the Bank or their relatives are, in any way, concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution set 
out at Item No. 4 of this Notice.
Item No. 5:
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, read 
with rules allied thereto, and Regulation 24A of the SEBI 
LODR, the Bank, being a listed company, is required to 
annex to its Board’s Report, prepared under Section 134(3) 
of the Companies Act, a Secretarial Audit Report, given by a 
Practicing Company Secretary, in Form No. MR-3.
Further, pursuant to the recent amendments to Regulation 
24A of the SEBI LODR, the Bank shall appoint or re-appoint 
a Company Secretary in Practice as Secretarial Auditor for 
not more than one term of five consecutive years or a firm 
of Company Secretary(ies) in practice as Secretarial Auditor 
for not more than two terms of five consecutive years, on 
the basis of recommendation of its Board of Directors, 
with the approval of its shareholders in its Annual General 
Meeting. Furthermore, Regulation 24A of the SEBI LODR, 
as amended, mandates that the Secretarial Auditor of the 
Bank shall hold a valid certificate of peer review issued by 
the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (‘ICSI’).
M/s. Makrand M. Joshi & Co. (‘MMJC’), Company 
Secretaries, a firm of Company Secretary(ies) in practice, 
is a leading firm of practicing Company Secretaries with 
over 25 years of excellence in Corporate Governance and 
Compliance. MMJC is widely recognized for its expertise in 
Secretarial Audits, Compliance Audits, and Due Diligence 
across sectors like banking, financial services, IT/Telecom, 
pharmaceuticals, FMCG, and infrastructure, etc. The firm 
offers end-to-end advisory and compliance services under 
Corporate Laws, SEBI Regulations, NBFC Laws, FEMA, and 
Merger & Acquisition. Considering its profile, experience 
and technical expertise in the field of Secretarial Audit and 
Corporate Governance, and based on the recommendation 
of the Audit Committee of the Board (‘ACB’), the Board of 
Directors of the Bank, at its meeting held on June 27, 2025, 
has approved and recommended to the Shareholders of the 
Bank, the appointment of MMJC, as the Secretarial Auditor 
of the Bank, for a term of five consecutive years, i.e., for 
the Financial Years 2025-26 to 2029-30, for the purpose 
of conducting the Secretarial Audit of the Bank, and for 
providing the Secretarial Audit Reports for to be annexed 
with the Annual Reports of the Bank for the said respective 
Financial Years. They hold a valid certificate of peer review 
issued by the ICSI.
Based on the recommendation of the ACB, the Board has 
approved an overall remuneration of ₹9,00,000/- (Rupees 
Nine Lakhs Only) per annum, excluding GST or any other 
applicable tax, plus out of pocket expenses, if any, at 
actuals, for MMJC, as the Secretarial Auditor of the Bank, 
for the Financial Year 2025-26. The proposed fee has been 
determined considering the scope of work, team strength, 
experience, and the time and expertise required by MMJC, 
to conduct the Secretarial Audit of the Bank, effectively. 
The Board of the Bank [including any Committee thereof or 
any person(s) as have been/ may be authorised by the Board 
or such Committee, in this regard] shall have the power to 
determine the remuneration for the subsequent Financial 
Years, i.e., from Financial Year 2026-27 to Financial Year 
2029-30, as may be mutually agreed between the Bank and 
the said Secretarial Auditor. In addition to the secretarial 
audit services, the Bank may also obtain other certifications, 
audit related services and other permissible non-secretarial 
audit services from MMJC, as may be required from time 
to time, for which they will be remunerated separately on 
mutually agreed terms, as may be approved by the Board 
in consultation with the ACB.
MMJC has provided its consent to act as the Secretarial 
Auditor of the Bank and has also confirmed that the 
appointment, if made, would be in compliance with the 
eligibility and qualifications requirements as laid down in 
the SEBI LODR and the Companies Act.
Your Board of Directors, therefore, recommends passing 
of the Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 5 of 
this Notice.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of 
the Bank or their relatives are, in any way, concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution set 
out at Item No. 5 of this Notice.
Item No. 6:
The Board of Directors (the ‘Board’) of the Bank, at 
its meeting held on June 27, 2025, pursuant to the 
recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (‘NRC’), approved the appointment of 
Ms. Veni Thapar (DIN: 01811724) as an Additional Director 
(Independent) of the Bank effective June 27, 2025. 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 161 of the Companies 
Act and Regulation 17(1C) of the SEBI LODR, Ms. Thapar 
can hold office as an Additional Director of the Bank, up 
to the date of the ensuing AGM of the Bank or up to three 
months from the date of her appointment, whichever is 
earlier, and is eligible for appointment. In terms of Section 
160(1) of the Companies Act, the Bank has received a 
notice in writing from a Member signifying his intention 
17
Notice
to propose the candidature of Ms. Veni Thapar for the 
office of Director of the Bank. Ms. Thapar has furnished 
her consent and declarations for appointment as required 
under the Companies Act and the Rules made thereunder, 
including the declaration that she is not disqualified from 
being appointed as a director.
The NRC has assessed and determined that Ms. Veni Thapar 
is a fit and proper person to be appointed as a Director of 
the Bank, as per the norms prescribed by the RBI and that 
she fulfils the conditions specified in the Companies Act 
and the relevant Rules made thereunder, the SEBI LODR 
and other rules, guidelines and circulars issued by the RBI, 
in this regard, from time to time. Further, Ms. Thapar is not 
debarred from holding the office of director by virtue of 
any order by SEBI or any other authority. Accordingly, NRC 
recommended her appointment to the Board.
The Bank has received declarations from Ms. Veni Thapar 
to the effect that she fulfils all criteria of independence 
stipulated in the Companies Act and the SEBI LODR and 
inclusion of her name in the independent director’s 
databank. In the opinion of the Board, Ms. Thapar is 
independent of the management of the Bank and fulfils the 
conditions specified in Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 
the rules made thereunder and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the 
SEBI LODR for her appointment as an Independent Director. 
Further, the Board is also of the opinion that Ms. Thapar 
is a person of integrity and has relevant experience and 
expertise to be appointed as an Independent Director of 
the Bank.
Ms. Veni Thapar’s appointment is in compliance with 
the provisions of Section 10A of the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949 (‘BR Act’), in particular, on account of her 
having the requisite experience/ expertise in the areas 
of Audit, Accountancy, Banking, Economics, Finance, Risk 
Management, Information Technology, Cyber Security, 
Law and Business Management as required under Section 
10A(2) of the BR Act. The Bank would benefit immensely 
from her rich experience.
Brief profile of Ms. Veni Thapar and relevant details in 
terms of Regulation 36(3) of SEBI LODR and the SS-2 are 
provided as under:
Ms. Thapar, a qualified Chartered Accountant, has over 29 
years of extensive knowledge and experience in the fields 
of Statutory and Internal Audits, Bank Audits, Government 
Audits, Information Systems Audit, Consultancy in Company 
Law, Indirect Taxes, FEMA and RBI Matters with an ability 
to handle complex and challenging assignments in the field 
of Audit, Taxation and International Taxation as a Senior 
Partner in the firm, M/s. V K Thapar and Company, a well 
recognised Chartered Accountants firm established in 
1965, which she had joined in April 1996, after completing 
her training with Price WaterHouse.
She is currently on the boards of various companies, as per 
the details given below and is also a member on the board 
of the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority. 
She has been an Independent Director on the boards of 
Bank of India for two terms, HLS Asia Limited and Yokogawa 
India Limited, both Public Limited Companies and has been 
a member on the Board of Governors of Indian Institute of 
Corporate Affairs also for two terms.
She has excellent communication skills and has been a 
speaker at various forums and a part of various round 
table and fire side deliberations, covering topics related to 
Indian Banks, their challenges, solutions and way forward; 
Reforming Financial Institutions, preparing NBFCs for 
Future Challenge; Employability Matrix and Skilling New 
India; Roadmap for $5 Trillion Economy; Technology & Ease 
of Living in Urban India; Challenges to brick and mortar 
in an online model; Auditors contribution to the financial 
sector and economy as a whole; Chartered Accountants 
Profession in the Artificial Intelligence Era; Role of 
Independent Directors; Presence and upliftment of women 
in board positions; Work life balance for women among 
other related areas with a firm conviction that learning is 
a continuous process and imagination and creativity have 
no boundaries while endorsing responsible adaptability 
and compliance.
Age
54 years
Qualification
Fellow Member of ICAI,
Cost Accountant from ICMAI,
Certified Information Systems Auditor from ISACA (USA)
Diploma holder in Information Systems Audit and a Certificate holder in International Taxation 
from ICAI.
Completed the certificate programme in IT and Cyber Security for Board Members from IDRBT
Certification in the IICA Valuation Certificate Programme
Successfully completed the Online Proficiency Self-Assessment Test for Independent 
Director’s Database from IICA
Completed the Directors Development Program from Harvard Business Publishing and 
EgonZehnder
Date of Appointment on Board
June 27, 2025
Nature of expertise in specific 
functional areas
Audit, Accountancy, Banking, Economics, Finance, Risk Management, Information Technology, 
Cyber Security, Law and Business Management
18
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
Other Directorship
Listed Companies:
1.	 S.J.S. Enterprises Limited
2.	 Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited
Unlisted Companies:
1.	 Monedo Financial Services Private Limited
2.	 RVR Corporate Consultancy Private Limited
Listed entities from which the 
person has resigned in the past 
three years
Nil
Chairpersonship / Membership 
of Committees in other 
companies
Chairpersonship:
1.	 Audit Committee, S.J.S. Enterprises Limited
2.	 Nomination & Remuneration Committee, S.J.S. Enterprises Limited
3.	 Audit Committee, Monedo Financial Services Private Limited
4.	 Risk Management Committee, Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited
Membership:
1.	 Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee, S.J.S. Enterprises Limited
2.	 Stakeholders Relationship Committee, S.J.S. Enterprises Limited
3.	 Risk Management Committee, S.J.S. Enterprises Limited
4.	 Risk Committee, Monedo Financial Services Private Limited
5.	 IT Strategy Committee, Monedo Financial Services Private Limited
6.	 Audit Committee, Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited
Relationship with other 
Directors, Managers and Key 
Managerial Personnel of the 
Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the 
Bank (including shareholding as 
a beneficial owner) (as on June 
27, 2025)
Ms. Thapar does not hold any equity shares in the Bank, neither does she hold any equity share 
as a beneficial owner of the Bank.
No. of Board Meetings attended 
during the year (i.e., FY 2024-25)
Not Applicable
Terms and conditions of 
appointment or re-appointment 
including remuneration
Appointment as an Independent Director, not liable to retire by rotation, for a period of three 
years effective June 27, 2025. Ms. Thapar will be eligible for sitting fees and reimbursement 
of expenses for attending the Board and Committee meetings, as applicable, and fixed 
remuneration, as may be approved by the Board and Members, from time to time, in terms 
of RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021, from the date of her appointment till the end of her 
proposed tenure, on proportionate basis.
Remuneration last drawn
Not Applicable
Your Board of Directors, therefore, recommends passing of 
the Special Resolution as set out at Item No. 6 of this Notice, 
with respect to the proposed appointment of Ms. Veni 
Thapar as an Independent Director of the Bank, for a period 
of three years, effective June 27, 2025, not liable to retire 
by rotation.
Save and except Ms. Veni Thapar and her relatives, none 
of the other Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of 
the Bank or their relatives are, in any way, concerned or 
interested, financially or otherwise, in the resolution set 
out at Item No. 6 of this Notice.
Item No. 7:
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714) has been the 
Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer (‘ED&COO’) 
of the Bank since March 31, 2023. His current tenure as 
ED&COO, as approved by the RBI and the Members of the 
Bank, is of three years, from March 31, 2023 up to March 30, 
2026. The remuneration of an Executive Director is subject 
to prior approval of RBI and approval of Members of the 
Bank, on the basis of recommendations of the NRC and 
the Board of Directors. The remuneration of an Executive 
Director is also subject to the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013, Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the RBI Guidelines 
on Compensation of Whole Time Directors/ Chief Executive 
Officers/ Material Risk Takers and Control Function staff 
dated November 04, 2019 and the Compensation Policy of 
the Bank.
In view of the above and pursuant to approval of the RBI 
on fixed pay, the proposal for remuneration (Fixed and 
Variable) of Mr. Kesh for FY 2023-24 was placed before 
the Members of the Bank at its 10th AGM held on August 
20, 2024. The Members had approved Total Fixed Pay and 
Perquisites of ₹2.80 crore and Total Variable Pay of ₹3.51 
crore for Mr. Kesh for FY 2023-24. Subsequently, the RBI 
had approved a variable pay of ₹2.80 crore for Mr. Kesh for 
FY 2023-24. Approval of Members is, now, being sought, 
by way of resolution at Item No. 7 of this Notice, for the 
19
Notice
remuneration of Mr. Kesh for FY 2024-25, on the basis of 
the recommendations of the NRC and the Board.
The proposed revised remuneration comprises fixed pay 
and variable pay. In line with the RBI approval, a fixed pay of 
₹3.10 crore per annum is proposed for Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, 
for FY 2024-25, as against ₹2.80 crore per annum, which was 
previously approved by the Members. Further, considering 
the Bank’s performance as per Balanced Score Card (‘BSC’) 
methodology and on the basis of the recommendation of 
the NRC, the Board recommends the performance based 
variable pay of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh for FY 2024-25, as 
stated in the resolution, which is subject to approval of 
the RBI. The proposed revision in the remuneration of 
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh is in line with the Compensation 
Policy of the Bank. Further, for overall performance 
assessment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, ED&COO, BSC is used. 
The BSC is a performance evaluation technique that takes 
into consideration a number of financial and non-financial 
performance indicators aligned to the long-term strategy 
of the organisation. The performance goals are organised 
to address four perspectives, viz., financial, customer, 
internal process and people, the latter three being drivers 
of future performance. As per the RBI guidelines dated 
November 04, 2019, the performance based variable pay is 
subject to in-year adjustment, malus or clawback. Further, 
the deferred composition of the variable pay would be 
subject to malus and clawback arrangements in the event 
of subdued or negative financial performance of the Bank 
and/ or the relevant line of business in any year. Further 
details are provided in the Report on Corporate Governance 
and Financial Statement forming part of the Bank’s Annual 
Report for FY 2024-25.
The required details of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh as per the 
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (‘SS-2’) are 
annexed to this Notice.
Your Board of Directors, therefore, recommends passing of 
Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 7 of this Notice, 
with respect to the proposed revision in the remuneration 
of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, ED&COO of the Bank.
Save and except Mr. Kesh and his relatives, none of the 
other Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank 
or their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in the resolution set out at Item 
No. 7 of this Notice.
Item No. 8:
In terms of the RBI Guidelines dated April 26, 2021 on 
‘Corporate Governance in Banks - Appointment of Directors 
and Constitution of Committees of the Board’ (‘RBI 
Guidelines'), read with RBI Circular dated February 09, 
2024 on ‘Review of Fixed Remuneration granted to Non-
Executive Directors (NEDs)’, in addition to sitting fees and 
expenses related to attending meetings of the Board and 
its committees as per extant statutory norms/ practices, the 
Bank may provide for payment of compensation to NEDs 
in the form of a fixed remuneration commensurate with an 
individual director’s responsibilities and demands on time 
and which are considered sufficient to attract qualified 
competent individuals, however, such fixed remuneration 
for an NED including independent directors, other than the 
Chair of the board, shall not exceed ₹30 Lakh per annum.
In terms of the provisions of Regulation 17(6) of the SEBI 
LODR, the Board shall recommend all fees or compensation, 
if any, paid to NEDs, including independent directors and 
shall require approval of shareholders in general meeting. 
Further, in terms of Section 197 of the Companies Act, 
except with the approval of the shareholders in general 
meeting by a special resolution, any remuneration payable 
to directors who are neither managing directors nor whole-
time directors shall not in aggregate exceed one per cent 
of the net profits of the company, if there is a managing or 
whole-time director or manager.
Pursuant to the RBI Guidelines, based on recommendations 
of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the 
Board of Directors of the Bank, the Shareholders of the 
Bank, at their 8th Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) held on 
August 10, 2022, approved the proposal for payment of 
compensation in the form of fixed remuneration of up to 
₹12,00,000 per annum per NED, other than the Part-time 
Non-Executive Chairperson, with effect from April 01, 2022 
onwards for a period of three years.
Considering the amount of time and efforts devoted 
by the NEDs, providing professional expertise in their 
respective fields of specialization while discharging their 
duties as a member of the Board and the critical roles that 
they are playing in the effective functioning of the Board 
Committees, and considering the nature and complexity 
of the banking business, and considering the prevailing 
industry benchmarks and the performance of the Bank, 
the approval of the Members of the Bank is, now, being 
20
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
sought for increase in payment of fixed remuneration 
from ₹12,00,000 to up to ₹18,00,000 per annum per NED, 
other than the Part-time Non-Executive Chairperson, with 
effect from April 01, 2025, for a period of one year, or any 
other or different limits as may be applicable under law / 
relevant RBI guidelines, from time to time, in addition to 
payment of sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses 
for attending the Board and Committee meetings. The 
fixed remuneration will be paid at such frequency as may 
be decided by the Board, which should be proportionate to 
the tenure of the NEDs during a financial year.
As per the Secretarial Standard on General Meetings, the 
required details of the NEDs who are entitled for fixed 
remuneration are annexed to this Notice, except for NEDs 
whose details are already captured in the Explanatory 
Statement to this Notice.
Your Board of Directors, therefore, recommends the fixed 
remuneration of NEDs except Non-Executive Chairman, by 
way of an Ordinary Resolution, as set out at Item No. 8 of 
this Notice.
Save and except the NEDs (other than Non-Executive 
Chairman) and their relatives, none of the other Directors 
or Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank or their relatives 
are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or 
otherwise, in the resolution set out at Item No. 8 of 
this Notice.
By Order of the Board
for Bandhan Bank Limited
Indranil Banerjee
Place: Kolkata
Company Secretary
Date: June 27, 2025
FCS No.: 9917
21
Notice
ANNEXURE FOR ITEM NOS. 3, 7 AND 8 OF THE NOTICE AND THE EXPLANATORY 
STATEMENT THERETO
[Pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI LODR and SS-2]
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714):
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh
Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer (‘ED&COO’)
Age
54 years
Qualification
B.E (Mechanical), PGDBM (MBA).
Certified Quality Engineer from Quality Council of Indiana, USA.
Completed advance leadership course from IIM-A and Strategic Agility from Harvard.
Date of Appointment on the Board
March 31, 2023 as ED&COO
(July 10, 2024 to October 31, 2024 as Interim MD&CEO)
Brief Resume including Experience
Mr. Kesh has around three decades of experience across industries in leadership roles 
in multiple domains – Operations, Technology, Transaction Banking, Product, Affluent 
Banking, Operations Risk, Enterprise Governance, Intelligent Automation, Digital, Cx and 
Organisation Transformation. He was recognised among the 50 most talented Quality 
Professionals in India by the World Quality Congress. He was also recognised as one of 
India’s top 25 Emerging Tech Leaders by BIOCON Network in collaboration with MeitY.
At Bandhan Bank, he has been the Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer since 
March 31, 2023. He is leading multiple functions including Technology, Operations, Digital 
and Transaction Banking, Data Team, Customer Experience, Transformation, Internal 
Audit, and other support functions. Mr. Kesh successfully led the IT transformation 
at the Bank and has been playing an instrumental role in optimising the processes, 
controls, digitization at scale, Intelligent Automation and AI, customer services, business 
excellence, etc., at the Bank.
He was part of the core team to lead organisation transformation with technology, 
digital, governance, quality and customer focus during his tenures at ICICI Bank, HDFC 
Bank, Yes Bank and Axis Bank. Mr. Kesh is also a Member of Managing Committee of The 
Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Co-Chairman of CII Eastern Region Banking 
& Financial Services Subcommittee. He is also the Finance Advisor in Economic Council 
of India promoting Peace Economy.
Nature of his expertise in specific 
functional areas
Banking, Information Technology, Payment & Settlement Systems
Other Directorship
Listed Companies: Nil
Unlisted Companies:
1.	 The Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry (A Section 8 Company)
Listed entities from which the person 
has resigned in the past three years
None
Chairmanship/ Membership of 
Committees in other companies
Not Applicable
Relationship with other Directors, 
Managers and Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the Bank 
(including shareholding as a beneficial 
owner) (as on June 27, 2025)
300 equity shares of ₹10 each (not holding any other equity share of the Bank as a 
beneficial owner)
No. of Board Meetings attended 
during the year (i.e., FY 2024-25)
22/23
Terms and conditions of appointment 
or re-appointment, including 
remuneration
Appointed as the ED&COO of the Bank, liable to retire by rotation, effective March 31, 
2023, for a period of three years. The remuneration of Mr. Kesh, being an Executive 
Director, is subject to prior approval of RBI and approval of Members of the Bank, on the 
basis of recommendations of the NRC and the Board of Directors.
His remuneration as an ED&COO of the Bank is as proposed in Item No. 7 of this Notice.
Remuneration last drawn
Remuneration details provided in the Report on Corporate Governance forming part of 
Annual Report for FY 2024-25.
22
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
Dr. A. S. Ramasastri (DIN: 06916673):
Dr. A. S. Ramasastri
Independent Director
Age
68 years
Qualification
M.Sc. (Statistics), Ph.D. in finance and attended Advanced Management Programmes at 
the University of Oxford and Kellogg School of Management.
Date of Appointment on Board
August 08, 2018
Brief Resume including Experience
Dr. Ramasastri is widely known for his commendable domain knowledge in Banking 
technologies such as cybersecurity, analytics, Cloud computing, and payment systems, 
in addition to his other areas of expertise. He was the Director of the Institute for 
Development and Research in Banking Technology (‘IDRBT’) from 2014-2020. Prior to 
joining the IDRBT, he was the Chief General Manager-in-charge of the Department of 
Information Technology at RBI. In the RBI, he had spearheaded many important projects, 
including the implementation of the Next Generation RTGS, adoption of XBRL and ISO 
20022, and preparation of the IT Vision of RBI from 2011-17.
He has authored two books titled ‘Quantitative Methods for Valuation of Assets’ 
and ‘Quantitative Methods for Banking and Finance’. He had also guided the Bank 
of Mauritius, Bank of Malaysia and Bank of Uganda on the implementation of Data 
Warehouse, XBRL, etc., and delivered talks on standards and technology for data 
reporting at the International Monetary Fund and Bank of International Settlements.
Nature of his expertise in specific 
functional areas
Information Technology, Payment & Settlement Systems, Finance and Banking
Other Directorship
Listed Company: Nil
Unlisted Company:
1.	 Telangana Industrial Health Clinic Limited
2.	 Financial Benchmarks India Private Limited
Listed entities from which the person 
has resigned in the past three years
None
Chairmanship / Membership of 
Committees in other companies
Chairmanship:
1.	 Information Technology Committee, Telangana Industrial Health Clinic Limited
Membership:
1.	 Risk Management Committee, Telangana Industrial Health Clinic Limited
2.	 Management Committee, Telangana Industrial Health Clinic Limited
Relationship with other Directors, 
Managers and Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the Bank 
(including shareholding as a beneficial 
owner) (as on June 27, 2025)
Dr. Ramasastri does not hold any equity shares in the Bank, neither does he hold any 
equity shares as a beneficial owner of the Bank.
No. of Board Meetings attended during 
the year (i.e., FY 2024-25)
19/23
Terms and conditions of appointment or 
re-appointment including remuneration
As an Independent Director, not liable to retire by rotation, Dr. Ramasastri is eligible for 
sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses for attending the Board and Committee 
meetings, as applicable, and fixed remuneration as may be approved by the Board and 
Members, from time to time, in terms of RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021.
Remuneration last drawn
Remuneration details have been provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, 
forming part of Annual Report for FY 2024-25.
23
Notice
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee (DIN: 07716452):
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
Independent Director
Age
68 years
Qualification
B. Sc. (Honours) and CAIIB
Date of Appointment on Board
January 07, 2019
Brief Resume including Experience
Mr. Mukherjee is the former Managing Director of the erstwhile State Bank of Hyderabad, 
an associate bank of the country’s largest lender - State Bank of India. He has four decades 
of experience in the fields of banking, treasury, finance, risk management, etc. in various 
capacities. From 2013 to mid of 2014, he was acting as Chief General Manager of State 
Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur. He has also worked as a Chief Executive Officer of State Bank 
of India, Paris from 2004 to 2008. He joined as a probationary officer and carried out 
important domestic and overseas assignments in the SBI Group.
Nature of his expertise in specific 
functional areas
Banking, Finance, Treasury and Risk Management
Other Directorship
Listed Companies:
1.	 Suven Life Sciences Limited
2.	 Sumedha Fiscal Services Limited
3.	 Rainbow Children's Medicare Limited
4.	 Aurobindo Pharma Limited
5.	 NACL Industries Limited
Unlisted Companies:
1.	 Muthoot Housing Finance Company Limited
2.	 Rainbow Speciality Hospitals Private Limited
Listed entities from which the 
person has resigned in the past 
three years
None
Chairmanship / Membership of 
Committees in other companies
Chairmanship:
1.	 Audit Committee, Suven Life Sciences Limited
2.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Suven Life Sciences Limited
3.	 Audit Committee, Sumedha Fiscal Services Limited
4.	 Audit Committee, Rainbow Children's Medicare Limited
5.	 Risk Management Committee, Rainbow Children's Medicare Limited
6.	 Audit Committee, Rainbow Speciality Hospitals Private Limited
7.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Aurobindo Pharma Limited
8.	 IT Stewardship Committee, Aurobindo Pharma Limited
9.	 Audit Committee, NACL Industries Limited
10.	Nomination and Remuneration Committee, NACL Industries Limited
11.	Banking Committee, NACL Industries Limited
Membership:
1.	 Risk Management Committee, Suven Life Sciences Limited
2.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Sumedha Fiscal Services Limited
3.	 Audit Committee, Muthoot Housing Finance Company Limited
4.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Muthoot Housing Finance Company 
Limited
5.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Rainbow Children's Medicare Limited
6.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Rainbow Children's Medicare Limited
7.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Rainbow Speciality Hospitals Private 
Limited
8.	 Audit Committee, Aurobindo Pharma Limited
9.	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Aurobindo Pharma Limited
10.	Risk Management Committee, Aurobindo Pharma Limited
11.	ESG Committee, Aurobindo Pharma Limited
Relationship with other Directors, 
Managers and Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the Bank
(including shareholding as a beneficial 
owner) (as on June 27, 2025)
Mr. Mukherjee does not hold any equity shares in the Bank, neither does he hold any 
equity shares as a beneficial owner of the Bank.
No. of Board Meetings attended 
during the year (i.e., FY 2024-25)
23/23
Terms and conditions of 
appointment or re-appointment 
including remuneration
As an Independent Director, not liable to retire by rotation, Mr. Mukherjee is eligible for 
sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses for attending the Board and Committee 
meetings, as applicable, and fixed remuneration as may be approved by the Board and 
Members, from time to time, in terms of RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021.
Remuneration last drawn
Remuneration details have been provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, 
forming part of Annual Report for FY 2024-25.
24
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta	 (DIN: 08767943):
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
Independent Director
Age
71 years
Qualification
M.A. (Economics)
Date of Appointment on Board
March 19, 2021
Brief Resume including Experience
Mr. Gupta has a rich experience of more than 35 years in Asset-based Financing, with 20 
years dedicated to the Mortgage industry in India and 11 years to Development Finance. 
His domain expertise has been in investment and advisory services related to the mortgage 
industry, covering areas like strategic planning, business plan, underwriting and policy 
formulation. He has an extensive experience in mentoring the workforce at startups in 
the Housing Finance sector, grooming and upskilling them on lending to the informal and 
low income borrowers, including developing business plans and data analytics platforms.
Mr. Gupta worked at the International Financial Corporation (‘IFC’), World Bank Group for 
more than a decade from 2005 to 2019 and retired as the Principal Financial Officer of IFC. 
During his stint at IFC, he worked in South Asia, South East Asia, and Central Asia. He has 
also been associated with BHW Birla Home Finance as the Managing Director.
Nature of his expertise in specific 
functional areas
Economics, Housing and Mortgage finance
Other Directorship
Listed Companies: Nil
Unlisted Companies:
1.	 RMBS Development Company Limited
Listed entities from which the person 
has resigned in the past three years
None
Chairmanship / Membership of 
Committees in other companies
Chairmanship:
1.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, RMBS Development Company Limited
Membership:
1.	 Audit Committee, RMBS Development Company Limited
Relationship with other Directors, 
Managers and Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the Bank 
(including shareholding as a beneficial 
owner) (as on June 27, 2025)
Mr. Dutta Gupta does not hold any equity shares in the Bank, neither does he hold any 
equity shares as a beneficial owner of the Bank.
No. of Board Meetings attended 
during the year (i.e., FY 2024-25)
23/23
Terms and conditions of appointment 
or re-appointment including 
remuneration
As an Independent Director, not liable to retire by rotation, Mr. Dutta Gupta is eligible 
for sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses for attending the Board and Committee 
meetings, as applicable, and fixed remuneration as may be approved by the Board and 
Members, from time to time, in terms of RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021.
Remuneration last drawn
Remuneration details have been provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, 
forming part of Annual Report for FY 2024-25.
25
Notice
Mr. Suhail Chander (DIN: 06941577):
Mr. Suhail Chander
Independent Director
Age
66 years
Qualification
B.A. (Hons.) Economics, Chartered Accountant
Date of Appointment on Board
March 19, 2021
Brief Resume including Experience
Mr. Chander is a veteran Banker. He has 42 years of rich experience in Banking Operations, 
Trade Finance, Retail and Wholesale Banking. His extensive experience covers the entire 
gamut from retail, small and medium enterprise, mid-sized corporates to large corporates.
Mr. Chander started his professional journey in banking as a trainee at Grindlays Bank in 
1983 and since then has worked in foreign banks in India and abroad, and a private sector 
bank in India. He retired as the Head of Corporate and Institutional Banking at IndusInd 
Bank in March 2020. Currently, he is also an Independent Director on the board of Canara 
Robeco Asset Management Company Limited.
In 2018, Mr. Chander set up SOCH Foundation, a not for profit that works with children 
with Learning Disability studying in Government and Municipal Schools. The Foundation 
is one of the few organizations working at grassroots level to ensure inclusive education 
for students of all abilities.
Nature of his expertise in specific 
functional areas
Banking, Risk Management, Accountancy, Finance and Business Management
Other Directorship
Listed Companies: Nil
Unlisted Companies:
1.	 Canara Robeco Asset Management Company Limited
Listed entities from which the person 
has resigned in the past three years
None
Chairmanship / Membership of 
Committees in other companies
Chairmanship: Nil
Membership:
Canara Robecco Asset Management Company Limited
1.	 Audit Committee,
2.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee
3.	 Risk Management Committee
4.	 IPO Committee
5.	 Unit Holders Protection Committee
6.	 CSR Committee
Relationship with other Directors, 
Managers and Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the Bank 
(including shareholding as a beneficial 
owner) (as on June 27, 2025)
Mr. Chander does not hold any equity shares in the Bank, neither does he hold any equity 
shares as a beneficial owner of the Bank.
No. of Board Meetings attended 
during the year (i.e., FY 2024-25)
23/23
Terms and conditions of appointment 
or re-appointment including 
remuneration
As an Independent Director, not liable to retire by rotation, Mr. Chander is eligible for 
sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses for attending the Board and Committee 
meetings, as applicable, and fixed remuneration as may be approved by the Board and 
Members, from time to time, in terms of RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021.
Remuneration last drawn
Remuneration details have been provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, 
forming part of Annual Report for FY 2024-25.
26
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt (00751001):
Mr. Vijay N. Bhatt
Independent Director
Age
66 years
Qualification
Chartered Accountant, LLB (Gen.)
Date of Appointment on Board
May 08, 2020
Brief Resume including Experience
Mr. Bhatt has over 39 years of experience in large, medium and small Indian and 
Multinational businesses. Being in the audit profession, he has a good understanding of 
the business environment, business risks, controls, accounting and financial reporting 
issues relevant to businesses operating in India. He was with KMPG for over 10 years 
(Senior Independent Director), with E&Y for 2 years, R S M & Co., Chartered Accountants 
for 19 years and for a few months with Lovelock Lewis. He has been a member of various 
committees of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, such as Accounting 
Standard Board, Audit Standard Board, Information Technology Committee, Financial 
Reporting Review Group and Professional Development Committee of WIRC.
Nature of his expertise in specific 
functional areas
Audit, Accountancy, Assurance, Finance and Law
Other Directorship
Listed Companies:
1.	 FDC Limited
2.	 IRB Infrastructure Developers Limited
3.	 Finolex Industries Limited
Unlisted Companies:
1.	 Qontrac Prints Private Limited
2.	 JK Files & Engineering Limited
3.	 Maini Precision Products Limited
Listed entities from which the person 
has resigned in the past three years
Not Applicable
Chairmanship / Membership of 
Committees in other companies
Chairmanship:
1.	 Audit Committee, JK Files & Engineering Limited
2.	 Audit Committee, IRB Infrastructure Developers Limited
3.	 Audit Committee, Maini Precision Products Limited
4.	 Audit Committee, Finolex Industries Limited
Membership:
1.	 Risk Management Committee, JK Files & Engineering Limited
2.	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, JK Files & Engineering Limited
3.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, JK Files & Engineering Limited
4.	 Audit Committee, FDC Limited
5.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, FDC Limited
6.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, IRB Infrastructure Developers Limited
7.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Maini Precision Products Limited
8.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Finolex Industries Limited
9.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Finolex Industries Limited
10.	Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Finolex Industries Limited
11.	Risk Management Committee, Finolex Industries Limited
Relationship with other Directors, 
Managers and Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the Bank 
(including shareholding as a beneficial 
owner) (as on June 27, 2025)
Mr. Bhatt does not hold any equity shares in the Bank, neither does he hold any equity 
shares of the Bank as a beneficial owner.
No. of Board Meetings attended 
during the year (i.e., FY 2024-25)
22/23
Terms and conditions of appointment 
or re-appointment including 
remuneration
As an Independent Director, not liable to retire by rotation, Mr. Bhatt is eligible for sitting 
fees and reimbursement of expenses for attending the Board and Committee meetings, 
as applicable, and fixed remuneration as may be approved by the Board and Members, 
from time to time, in terms of RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021.
Remuneration last drawn
Remuneration details have been provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, 
forming part of Annual Report for FY 2024-25.
27
Notice
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhu Tendulkar (DIN: 00869913):
Mr. N. V. P. Tendulkar
Independent Director
Age
67 years
Qualification
Chartered Accountant and Company Secretary
Executive Management from Wartorn Universality, USA
Date of Appointment on Board
May 08, 2020
Brief Resume including Experience
He has more than 41 years of experience in Finance, General Management & Operations 
in IT, Telecom and Manufacturing industries. He has extensive experience working with 
American & European based multinational organisations and has successfully resolved 
multidimensional, dynamic & challenging issues.
He was an Executive Director with Hewlett Packard /Hewlett Packard Enterprise India 
Limited for almost 14 years. He was also on several boards of like Trans India Network Private 
Limited, Tata Telecom Ltd, Aruba Network, Mercury Software, Krone Communications Ltd 
and etc. He was also associated with many IT Companies including Tata Telecom, AT & T, 
USA, Digital Global Soft etc.
Mr. Tendulkar is the recipient of many awards such as CFO 100 Roll of Honor in 2012 
and 2016 from 9.9 Media, Best CFO of Hewlett Packard worldwide, Special Achievement 
Award for leading the Best Finance Team in APAC & Japan Region for FY 2005, Best 
Governance Award in year 2000 from the Institute of Chartered Finance Analyst and was 
also nominated for the prestigious CNBC TV 18 CFO award for the year 2006.
Nature of his expertise in specific 
functional areas
Accountancy, Finance, Information Technology and Law
Other Directorship
Listed Companies: Nil
Unlisted Companies:
1.	 Siemens Gamesa Renewable Power Private Limited
2.	 PSB Alliance Private Limited
Listed entities from which the person 
has resigned in the past three years
Centrum Capital Limited
Global Vectra Helicorp Limited
Chairmanship / Membership of 
Committees in other companies
Chairmanship:
1.	 Audit Committee, Siemens Gamesa Renewable Power Private Limited
2.	 Audit Committee, PSB Alliance Private Limited
3.	 IT Committee, PSB Alliance Private Limited
Membership:
1.	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, PSB Alliance Private Limited
Relationship with other Directors, 
Managers and Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the Bank 
(including shareholding as a beneficial 
owner) (as on June 27, 2025)
Mr. Tendulkar does not hold any equity shares in the Bank, neither does he hold any equity 
shares of the Bank as a beneficial owner.
No. of Board Meetings attended 
during the year (i.e., FY 2024-25)
23/23
Terms and conditions of appointment 
or re-appointment including 
remuneration
As an Independent Director, not liable to retire by rotation, Mr. Tendulkar is eligible for 
sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses for attending the Board and Committee 
meetings, as applicable, and fixed remuneration as may be approved by the Board and 
Members, from time to time, in terms of RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021.
Remuneration last drawn
Remuneration details have been provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, 
forming part of Annual Report for FY 2024-25.
28
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
Ms. Divya Krishnan (DIN: 09276201):
Ms. Divya Krishnan
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee of Bandhan Financial Holdings 
Limited, Non-Operative Financial Holding Company)
Age
57 years
Qualification
MBA from IIM, Ahmedabad
Date of Appointment on Board
May 11, 2022
Brief Resume including Experience
Ms. Krishnan is a finance and investment banking consultant with over 30 years of 
experience in the sector. She also currently serves as visiting faculty at one of India’s 
leading private universities, Ashoka, where she teaches highly rated courses in finance. 
She was formerly Chief Investment Officer and Head of Investments at SBI Mutual Fund, 
India’s largest mutual fund.
She left SBI Mutual Fund to pursue her passion to work in the social impact sector and has 
served as an advisor to several leading non-profits and NGOs. She has worked primarily 
in the areas of education and disability, including advising an organization that works 
with government administration and teachers to transform the quality of education at 
government schools, educational organizations for the hearing impaired, the blind, and 
young girl children from economically disadvantaged backgrounds. She was a member of 
the Working Group on Disabilities to help develop the 12th Five Year Plan for the Kerala 
state government. She was invited as Scholar-in-Residence by a leading Private University 
in the US, to guide its students to effectively support developmental initiatives in India.
Nature of her expertise in specific 
functional areas
Finance and Investment Banking
Other Directorship
Listed Companies:
1.	 Repro India Limited
Unlisted Companies:
1.	 Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
Listed entities from which the person 
has resigned in the past three years
None
Chairpersonship/ Membership of 
Committees in other companies
Chairpersonship:
1.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
Membership:
1.	 Audit Committee, Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
2.	 Audit Committee, Repro India Limited
3.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Repro India Limited
Relationship with other Directors, 
Managers and Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the Bank
(including shareholding as a beneficial 
owner) (as on June 27, 2025)
Ms. Krishnan does not hold any equity shares in the Bank, neither does she hold any equity 
share as a beneficial owner of the Bank.
No. of Board Meetings attended 
during the year (i.e., FY 2024-25)
23/23
Terms and conditions of appointment 
or re-appointment including 
remuneration
Appointed as a Non-Executive Non-Independent Director [Nominee of Bandhan Financial 
Holdings Limited], liable to retire by rotation, effective May 11, 2022. Ms. Krishnan is 
eligible for sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses for attending the Board and 
Committee meetings, as applicable, and fixed remuneration as may be approved by the 
Board and Members, from time to time, in terms of RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021.
Remuneration last drawn
Remuneration details have been provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, 
forming part of Annual Report for FY 2024-25.
29
Notice
Mr. Philip Mathew (DIN: 09638394):
Mr. Philip Mathew
Independent Director
Age
62 years
Qualification
B.Sc., MA (PM & IR)
Date of Appointment on Board
June 15, 2022
(With completion of his tenure on June 14, 2025, Mr. Mathew has ceased to be a Director 
of the Bank with effect from June 15, 2025)
Brief Resume including Experience
Mr. Mathew, a HR practitioner, has almost 30 years of work experience. He left HDFC Bank 
as the Chief People Officer in 2018 after his association of around 16 years. During his 
tenure at HDFC Bank, he was involved in various HR related initiatives, such as, successful 
transition to a cloud-based enterprise-wide HR application, amongst the first to adopt the 
new governance and risk management standards set by Compensation Guidelines by RBI, 
implementation of HR metrics, recognition as ‘Best Employer’ in the BT Survey in 2016, 
etc., and with regard to training and development, online learning, revisiting instructional 
design and systematic measurement of training effectiveness of designated programmes.
His experience as a HR practitioner spans across organisations involved in manufacturing 
and financial services. His career journey has been through the entire landscape of HR 
with significant depth. He was Plant HR In-charge at Rallis India Ltd and Marico Industries 
Ltd, Project Lead for roll-out of new PMS at ANZ Grindlays Bank, a brief corporate stint at 
Colgate-Palmolive before becoming Head HR at Sharekhan.com and thereafter, moved 
to HDFC Bank in 2002, where he started as AVP - HR Operations and grew to become the 
Chief People Officer for HDFC Bank. Currently, he is associated with development of HR 
related solutions.
Nature of expertise in specific 
functional areas
Human Resources and Banking
Other Directorship
None
Listed entities from which the person 
has resigned in the past three years
Not Applicable
Chairmanship / Membership of 
Committees in other companies
Not Applicable
Relationship with other Directors, 
Managers and Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the Bank 
(including shareholding as a beneficial 
owner) (as on June 27, 2025)
Mr. Philip Mathew does not hold any equity shares in the Bank, neither does he hold any 
equity shares of the Bank as a beneficial owner.
No. of Board Meetings attended 
during the year (i.e., FY 2024-25)
23/23
Terms and conditions of appointment 
or re-appointment including 
remuneration
Appointed as an Independent Director, not liable to retire by rotation, for a period of 
three years effective June 15, 2022. Mr. Philip Mathew was eligible for sitting fees 
and reimbursement of expenses for attending the Board and Committee meetings, as 
applicable, and fixed remuneration as may be approved by the Board and Members, from 
time to time, in terms of RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021, till the end of his tenure, i.e., 
June 14, 2025, on a proportionate basis.
Remuneration last drawn
Remuneration details have been provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, 
forming part of Annual Report for FY 2024-25.
30
11th AGM Notice 2024-25
Dr. Aparajita Mitra (DIN: 09484337):
Dr. Aparajita Mitra
Independent Director
Age
66 years
Qualification
Ph.D. in Agriculture, M. Tech., B.Sc in Botany (Hons), Chemistry and Zoology
Date of Appointment on Board
July 13, 2022
(With completion of her tenure on July 12, 2025, Dr. Mitra shall cease to be a Director of 
the Bank with effect from July 13, 2025)
Brief Resume including Experience
Dr. Aparajita Mitra, a Doctorate in Agriculture (Dept. of Plant Molecular and Cellular Biology, 
Bose Institute), has an extensive experience and expertise of more than three decades in 
the field of agricultural sciences. She has done extensive research and published articles 
in the field of commercial micropropagation of Horticulture/tree and medicinal species, 
DNA extraction and sequencing, DNA fingerprinting (plants), gel electrophoresis, protein 
and isozyme analysis, etc. Dr. Mitra is a recipient of the CSIR Fellowship and the ‘Women 
Scientist Award’ from the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, 
2005 for the project “Identification of Disease Resistant Genetic Markers in Bamboo Spp.”
Nature of expertise in specific 
functional areas
Agriculture and Rural Economy
Other Directorship
Listed Companies: Nil
Unlisted Companies:
Uncarbon Private Limited
Listed entities from which the person 
has resigned in the past three years
Not Applicable
Chairmanship / Membership of 
Committees in other companies
None
Relationship with other Directors, 
Managers and Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank
None
No. of equity shares held in the Bank 
(including shareholding as a beneficial 
owner) (as on June 27, 2025)
Dr. Aparajita Mitra does not hold any equity shares in the Bank, neither does she hold any 
equity shares of the Bank as a beneficial owner.
No. of Board Meetings attended 
during the year (i.e., FY 2024-25)
23/23
Terms and conditions of appointment 
or re-appointment including 
remuneration
Appointed as an Independent Director, not liable to retire by rotation, for a period of 
three years effective July 13, 2022. Dr. Aparajita Mitra is eligible for sitting fees and 
reimbursement of expenses for attending the Board and Committee meetings, as 
applicable, and fixed remuneration as may be approved by the Board and Members, from 
time to time, in terms of RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021, till the end of her tenure, i.e., 
July 12, 2025, on a proportionate basis.
Remuneration last drawn
Remuneration details have been provided in the Report on Corporate Governance, 
forming part of Annual Report for FY 2024-25.
31
Notice
Trust
that Grows,
Bandhan that
Strengthens
Annual Report
2024-25
Contents
About the Report _ ___________________________  02
Trust that Grows,  
Bandhan that Strengthens ________________  04
Company Overview
A Growing Network, A Deeper Commitment_________ 06
Nationwide Footprint 
Strengthening Trust Across India_____________________ 08
Milestone 
Our Journey Over the Years__________________________  10
FY25 Highlights 
Trust Reflected in Numbers___________________________ 12
Key Performance Indicators
Sustaining the Bandhan in Numbers__________________ 14
Management Messages
Chairman’s Message __________________________________ 18 
MD and CEO’s Message_______________________________ 20
Governance 
Board of Directors____________________________________ 24 
Senior Management Team____________________________ 31
Leadership Team______________________________________ 31
Diversified Product Suite 
Tailored Offerings: Built on Bandhan,  
Designed for Progress________________________________ 32
Information Technology
Fortifying Digital Trust through Scalable Tech________ 48
Operational Excellence
Cementing Trust Through  
Operational Strength_________________________________ 50
Customer Experience 
Quality in Every Interaction and  
Delivering Best-in-Class Banking Experience_________ 52
Corporate Overview
Transformation Management Office
The Epicentre of Trust-led Transformation___________ 54
Human Capital
Embedding a Culture of Care,  
Capability, and Collaboration_________________________ 56
Risk Management 
Focusing on what Matters: 
Key Risk Areas________________________________________ 62
Credit Underwriting 
Building a Disciplined and Feasible  
Credit Underwriting Framework______________________ 69
Compliance
Compliance First:  
Ensuring Integrity, Earning Trust_ ____________________ 70
Data Analytics 
Data-Driven Approach: 
Fostering Trust Through Analytics____________________ 72
Marketing 
Championing Bandhan: Marketing  
that Connects, Messaging that Endures______________ 74 
Corporate Social Responsibility
Driven by Values, Defined by Impact__________________ 78
Stories of Transformation
Bandhan in Action:  
Lending Vision, Transforming Lives___________________ 85
Statutory Reports
Board’s Report_ __________________________________ 88
Report on Corporate Governance__________125
Management Discussion &  
Analysis Report_ _________________________________ 170
Business Responsibility &  
Sustainability Report___________________________ 176
Financial Statements___________________________ 224
About the Report
Reporting Objective 
As an entity deeply committed to upholding a legacy of 
trust, integrity, and excellence, your Bank’s journey in 
FY25 reflects its unwavering focus on customer centricity, 
ethical governance, and long-term value creation. Your 
Bank’s key purpose is to ensure that every individual falls 
under the purview of formal banking. To achieve this, 
your Bank is providing universal banking services to the 
unbanked and underbanked, while also serving metro and 
urban customers through its products and services. This 
reflects your Bank’s commitment to its purpose.
The objective of this Annual Report is to communicate 
your Bank’s FY25 financial performance, strategic 
priorities, and operational successes openly and 
comprehensively. Through this Report, your Bank seeks 
to strengthen stakeholder trust, reaffirm its commitment 
to ethical governance, and showcase its brand values 
translate into meaningful impact for its customers, 
partners, and the wider community.
Scope and Boundary 
This Annual Report presents a comprehensive 
account of the financial and non-financial 
performance of your Bank for the period of 
April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025.
It offers a holistic view of your Bank’s operations, 
outlining the key activities that drive short-
term and long-term value creation for its 
stakeholders. The Report also covers your Bank’s 
product portfolio, competitive positioning, 
strategic priorities, business model, and risk 
management framework.
02
Annual Report 2024-25
Reporting Framework
This Report has been prepared as per the 
following guiding principles, encompassing 
strategic focus, future orientation, information 
connectivity, stakeholder engagement, and 
consistency to ensure transparency and long-term 
value communication.
Board Approval
The Board of Directors affirms that it has collectively 
applied its mind to the preparation and presentation 
of this Annual Report. The Board accepts responsibility 
for the integrity and completeness of the Report. 
It is of the view that it fairly, transparently, and 
accurately reflects all material matters and your Bank’s 
financial and non-financial performance during the 
reporting period. This Report has been prepared in 
accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and 
reporting frameworks.
Forward-looking Statement
 
Certain statements in the Report regarding your Bank’s business operations may constitute 
forward-looking statements. They may be identified by their use of words like ‘plans’, 
‘expects’, ‘will’, ‘anticipates’, ‘believes’, ‘intends’, ‘projects’, ‘estimates’, or other words of similar 
meaning. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including 
but not limited to statements about your Bank’s strategy for growth, product development, 
market position, expenditures and financial results, are forward-looking statements.
While these statements reflect your Bank’s future expectations, it is important to be mindful 
that some of the risks, uncertainties and other important factors can cause actual results to 
differ materially from the expectations.
Your Bank does not assume responsibility to publicly amend, modify, or revise any forward-
looking statements based on subsequent developments, information, or events. Your Bank 
has sourced the industry information from publicly available resources and has not verified 
that information independently.
03
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Trust that Grows,
Bandhan that 
Strengthens
Your Bank’s continued efforts to serve the unbanked and 
underbanked segments remain uninterrupted. The bold 
journey towards becoming a universal Bank has been 
marked by a range of financially inclusive products closely 
knit by hope. 
In this journey, what has transpired, is the 
trust of our customers. A trust forged gradually  
through every interaction, every transaction, 
every relationship. This year’s theme, ‘Trust 
that Grows, Bandhan that Strengthens’, 
encapsulates your Bank’s FY25 journey.
04
Annual Report 2024-25
For us, our customers’ trust is valued – a measurable outcome of 
our relentless efforts to diversify our product portfolio, deepen 
our geographical presence, enhance our digital capabilities, and 
empower communities. 
The bandhan between our stakeholders, customers, and 
communities reflects our shared progress. As we adopt new 
operating models, expand our financial footprints, and serve a 
diverse socio-economic base, our commitment to a financially 
inclusive India is stronger than ever.
05
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Company Overview
A Growing Network,  
A Deeper Commitment
With an inclusive banking approach at its core, your Bank is among India’s 
youngest universal banks. Your Bank’s philosophy, ‘Aapka Bhala, Sabki 
Bhalai’, embodies its mission to provide end-to-end banking solutions catering 
to all kinds of customers. Trust is your Bank’s currency, and Bandhan its 
promise, together signifying integrity and reliability reflected in the resilient 
customer relationships it has built and nurtured over the years. With a diverse 
range of financial services, your Bank continues to strengthen its standing as 
a trusted banking partner.
Your Bank’s 360o financial services are 
tailored to meet the dynamic demands 
across India. 
Your Bank’s dual focus on inclusive 
and last-mile banking ensures a smooth 
transition and economic prosperity across 
diverse regions. Also, your Bank’s customer-
centric approach strengthens its strategic 
resolve to upgrade its digital, retail, and 
Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) 
banking services.
06
Annual Report 2024-25
Your Bank’s vision, mission, and 
values define its Philosophy.
Core Values
Cost-Effective 
and Simple
C
Respect 
for AllR
Exemplary  
Governance
E
Accountability, 
Professionalism, 
and Discipline
A
Transparency 
and Integrity
T
Effective Teamwork 
and Commitment
E
To provide our customers with accessible, simple, 
cost-effective and innovative financial solutions 
in a courteous and responsible manner. To create 
value for all stakeholders with a committed 
team, robust policies and superior systems 
and technology.
Mission
To be a world class bank for convenient 
and affordable financial solutions to all, 
in an inclusive and sustainable manner.
Vision
07
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Nationwide Footprint
Strengthening  
Trust Across India
Your Bank’s growth story is rooted in its ever-expanding footprint, 
spanning over 35 states and union territories and serving 3.16 crore 
customers. The robust outreach is supplemented by a wide network of 
around 6,309 banking outlets, delivering personalised, accessible, and 
convenient services across the nation. 
Banking Outlets as on March 31, 2025*
  Metro
693
10.98%
  Rural
2,109
33.43%
  Semi Urban
2,353
37.29%
  Urban
1,154
18.30%
Grand Total
6,309
Distribution of Banking Outlets as 
on March 31, 2025
*Basis original classification 
at the time of opening.
  Central
1,041
16.50%
  Eastern
2,839
45.00%
  North Eastern
644
10.21%
  Northern
472
07.48%
  Southern
657
10.41%
  Western
656
10.40%
Grand Total
6,309
08
Annual Report 2024-25
Tamil Nadu
Andhra Pradesh
Puducherry
Telangana
Andaman and 
Nicobar Islands
2
39
66
45
44
20
1
32
26
76
183
171
112
149
4
126
12
46
15
16
Odisha
68
184
Ladakh
Jammu 
and Kashmir
2
3
Himachal Pradesh
Bank Branches
Bank Units
Home Loan Centres
Arunachal Pradesh
Bihar
Uttar Pradesh
Maharashtra
Jharkhand
Assam
Sikkim
Meghalaya
Mizoram
Tripura
Manipur
 Nagaland
Uttarakhand
5
Chandigarh
Dadra and Nagar 
Haveli and Daman 
and Diu
Karnataka
Kerala
Haryana
Gujarat
Rajasthan
2
4
Goa
Punjab
3
35
1
2
130
126
84
52
22
1
24
6
546
424
217
119
1
5
50
27
381
7
107
1
3
6
4
8
29
89
3
5
NCT of Delhi
64
20
48
36
2
1
1
Madhya Pradesh
65
210
35
Chhattisgarh
31
85
11
West Bengal
548
1179
2
Pan-India presence with a strong network of branches, banking units, and 
home loan centres, driving inclusive growth.
Map not to scale. For illustrative purposes only.
09
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Milestone
Our Journey 
Over the Years
Your Bank’s long, purposeful journey has covered several 
milestones from its humble beginning as an NGO to becoming 
India’s largest NBFC-MFI and a universal Bank. Your Bank 
attributes the sustained success of its purposeful journey to the 
unwavering trust of its stakeholders. 
•	 2001
Started as a society 
that stood for financial 
inclusion and women’s 
empowerment through 
sustainable livelihood 
creation, along with the 
launch of microfinance 
operations in rural Bengal.
•	 2006
Acquired an NBFC and 
established Bandhan 
Financial Services 
Private Limited, with 
a continued focus on 
financial inclusion.
•	 2009
Microfinance 
portfolio was 
transferred from 
society to NBFC.
•	 2010
Became the largest 
Micro Finance 
Institution (MFI) in 
the country.
10
Annual Report 2024-25
•	 2021
Crossed the milestone 
of ₹1,50,000 crore 
total business.
•	 2015
Started operations 
as a universal Bank 
on August 23, with 
2,523 banking outlets, 
after becoming 
India’s first Micro 
Finance Institution 
to get a universal 
banking licence.
•	 2019
Acquired HDFC 
Limited’s stake in 
GRUH Finance.
•	 2022
Crossed the 
milestone ₹2,00,000 
crore total business.
•	 2023
Migrated to a new 
state-of-the-art Core 
Banking System (CBS).
•	 2018
Emerged as the 
eighth most valued 
bank in India on 
the basis of market 
capitalisation on 
the day of listing on 
stock exchanges.
•	 2024
Surpassed 3.16 
crore customer 
mark across 
Bank’s growing 
nationwide network.
11
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
FY25 Highlights
Trust Reflected  
in Numbers
1,36,995
Gross Advances 
(₹ in cr)
2,745
Profit After Tax (PAT) 
(₹ in cr)
7,389
Operating Profit 
(₹ in cr)
1.53%
Return on 
Assets (ROA)
11.57%
Return on 
Equity (ROE)
11,491
Net Interest Income (NII)
(₹ in cr)
7.07%
Net Interest 
Margin (NIM)
12
Annual Report 2024-25
48.89%
Cost-to-Income  
Ratio
1,715
4,594
Banking  
Units
3.16 cr 
Total 
Customers
438
Branches
ATMs
13
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Key Performance Indicators
Sustaining the 
Bandhan in Numbers
Net Worth 
(₹ in crore)
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
23,411
16,130
18,402
20,366
17,148
Net Total Income 
(₹ in crore)
14,457
11,537
11,728
12,490
9,586
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
Net Interest Margin  
(%)
7.07 
8.17
7.21
7.35
7.78
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
Cost to Income Ratio 
(%)
48.89
30.54
39.54
46.84
29.39
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
14
Annual Report 2024-25
Capital Adequacy Ratio  
(%)
18.71
20.10
19.76
14.69
23.47
*includes PTC amounting to ₹265 crore in FY25 and 
₹147 crore in FY24
Profit After Tax 
(₹ in crore)
2,745
126
2,195
2,230
2,205
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
Gross NPA  
(%)
4.71
6.46
4.87
3.84
6.81
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
Net NPA 
(%)
1.28
1.66
1.17
1.11
3.51
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
Total Business 
(₹ in crore)
 2,88,207 
1,95,669
2,17,187
2,59,923
1,65,015
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
Advances 
(₹ in crore)
1,36,995*
99,338
1,09,122
1,24,721*
87,043
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
15
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Deposits 
(₹ in crore)
1,51,212
96,331
1,08,065
1,35,202
77,972
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
CASA 
(₹ in crore)
47,437
40,079
42,455
50,151
33,827
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
CASA Ratio 
(%)
31.37
41.61
39.29
37.09
43.38
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
Branches  
(in numbers)
1,715
1,189
1,411
1,700
1,147
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
16
Annual Report 2024-25
Business Mix (Assets)  
(₹ in crore)
Business Mix (Liabilities) 
(₹ in crore)
  EEB Group
36,088
  EEB Individual
20,456
  Retail Loans
11,021
  Commercial Banking#
36,344
  Mortgages
33,086
  Term Deposit (Retail)
56,720
  Term Deposit (Others)
47,055
  Savings Account
39,348
  Current Account
8,089
#includes PTC amounting to ₹265 crore 
in FY25
Banking Units 
(in numbers)
4,594
4,450
4,588
4,597
4,163
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
Number of Customers 
(in crore)
3.16
2.63
3.00
3.36
2.30
FY 20-21
FY 21-22
FY 22-23
FY 23-24
FY 24-25
17
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Management Messages
Chairman’s Message
Dear Shareholders,
It is with great privilege that I present your 
Bank’s Annual Report for FY 2024-25.  This 
is a moment to reflect on the progress your 
Bank has made and the values that have 
shaped its journey. As your Bank continues 
to grow and evolve, we remain committed 
to building a resilient, inclusive, and 
purpose-driven institution.
From its inception with a bold vision for 
financial empowerment, your Bank has 
evolved into a trusted financial institution, 
grounded in resilience, transparency, 
and empathy. The theme of this year’s 
report, ‘trust that grows, bandhan that 
strengthens’, aptly captures the essence 
of what we have built together, a 
growing institution anchored in enduring 
relationships and shared purpose
Indian Economic Review 
The Indian economy demonstrated commendable resilience 
in FY25, sustaining its status as the fastest-growing major 
economy worldwide. GDP growth eased to 6.5% in FY25 
due to a high base in the previous year. However, a strong 
7.4% growth in the fourth quarter reaffirmed the economy’s 
momentum. This recovery was driven partly by private 
consumption (over 7% growth), steady rural demand, and 
a resilient agricultural sector that grew by more than 4%. 
Additionally, construction activity surged, registering 
annual growth exceeding 9%. Gross Fixed Capital Formation 
(GFCF) rose by 9.4% in Q4 FY25, the fastest pace in six 
quarters, indicating increased investment in infrastructure 
and construction. 
Despite external challenges, including heightened 
geopolitical tension and policy uncertainty and subdued 
global demand, India’s structural strengths, favourable 
demographics, accelerating digital adoption, and supportive 
fiscal policies continued to provide macroeconomic 
stability. These trends created a conducive environment 
for credit growth and financial sector expansion. Sustained 
consumption and infrastructure investment are expected 
to drive continued demand for retail and corporate banking 
services, while a stable macroeconomic backdrop supports 
prudent risk management and long-term sectoral growth.
Indian Banking Sector’s Performance
The Indian banking sector demonstrated resilience and 
adaptability in FY 2024-25 amidst evolving macroeconomic 
dynamics. Public sector banks (PSBs) strengthened their 
market position, particularly in home and MSME lending, 
supported by improved asset quality and effective credit 
guarantee mechanisms. Private sector banks continued to 
exhibit stability, although they exercised greater caution 
in unsecured retail and small business lending due to rising 
delinquency levels. The microfinance segment, however, faced 
headwinds with a contraction in the loan book, elevated credit 
costs, and increased delinquencies, particularly in specific 
pockets. Despite these challenges, sector-wide GNPA levels 
remained contained, and the regulatory outlook points to 
gradual normalisation in asset quality and credit performance 
into FY26. 
Bandhan Bank’s Progress 
Amid a challenging macroeconomic landscape and 
headwinds for the microfinance (MFI) segment during the 
latter half of FY 2024-25, marked by rising credit costs and 
moderated growth, your Bank displayed strong resilience 
and strategic agility. Despite these headwinds, Profit After 
Tax (PAT) for the full year rose by a robust 23% year-on-
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha 
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
18
Annual Report 2024-25
year to ₹2,745 crore, highlighting your Bank’s disciplined 
execution and focus on sustainable profitability. Building on 
this momentum, your Bank’s digital transformation remained 
a key enabler of its strategic priorities, driving operational 
efficiency, enhancing risk management, and elevating 
customer engagement. Initiatives such as the establishment 
of the Transformation Management Team and the Digital 
and Transaction Excellence Unit have advanced automation, 
digital payments, and fee-based income streams, while the 
Market Intelligence Team leverages AI to provide real-
time market insights. Additionally, your Bank’s expanded 
government payment integrations have strengthened its 
presence in the public sector, collectively positioning your 
Bank as a digitally empowered, customer-centric institution 
ready to capture new growth opportunities.
This year also marked a critical transition in your Bank’s 
leadership journey. Your Bank welcomed Mr. Partha Pratim 
Sengupta as the new Managing Director & CEO, effective 
November 1, 2024. A seasoned industry leader with expertise 
across business, credit, and technology, Mr. Sengupta 
brings with him a fresh perspective and strategic depth that 
will be instrumental in leading your Bank through its next 
phase—Bandhan Bank 2.0. His vision for a customer-centric, 
digitally enabled, and operationally efficient Bank is well 
aligned with your Bank’s long-term goals. The leadership 
transition was seamless, further strengthening your 
Bank’s governance and risk management frameworks, and 
reinforcing our commitment to regulatory compliance and 
operational resilience. 
Throughout the year, your Bank remained steadfast in its 
commitment to good governance, risk discipline, and long-
term value creation. We have expanded the scope of our 
conversations beyond just financial metrics to encompass 
the growing relevance of financial inclusion, digital equity, 
climate-conscious banking, and ethical leadership. Your Bank 
continues to evolve, ensuring its growth is not only inclusive 
but also sustainable. We recognise that while balance sheet 
strength is essential; it is trust, transparency, and social 
impact that define an enduring institution.
India’s macroeconomic fundamentals remain supportive of 
sustained growth in the financial sector. GDP is projected to 
expand by around 6.5% in FY26, with inflation easing towards 
the lower end of the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) target 
range. In response, the RBI reduced key policy rates and the 
Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) in June 2025, signalling a more 
neutral monetary stance aimed at lowering funding costs, 
improving liquidity, and stimulating credit demand. Stable 
food prices and moderating inflation are expected to revive 
rural demand and support urban consumption. Investment 
activity is gaining momentum, driven by healthy corporate 
balance sheets, increasing private capital expenditure, and 
continued public infrastructure investment. While global 
uncertainties, geopolitical tensions, commodity price 
volatility, and climate-related risks persist, India’s banking 
sector remains well-positioned to navigate these challenges.
In this promising environment, your Bank remains focused 
on leveraging these macro tailwinds by expanding its reach, 
deepening its customer relationships, and continuing 
to strengthen its balance sheet. We are confident that 
its diversified portfolio, robust capital base, and digital-
led approach will enable your Bank to capture emerging 
opportunities and deliver sustainable growth in the 
years ahead. 
As your Bank enters its second decade, it does so with 
renewed momentum, a sharper strategic vision, and a deep 
sense of responsibility to the millions of lives it serves. 
The journey ahead is filled with both purpose and promise, 
and we are well-positioned to seize the opportunities it 
presents. With each passing year, we have gained not only 
scale but also a richer understanding of the evolving needs 
of our customers, communities, and stakeholders. We 
move forward with the confidence that comes from staying 
rooted in our founding values, of trust, inclusion, service, 
and resilience. These values have served as our compass, 
guiding us through dynamic economic landscapes and times 
of transformation.
Looking Ahead 
Looking ahead, your Bank is more determined than ever 
to accelerate progress on its core priorities: delivering 
inclusive financial solutions, driving digital innovation, 
enhancing customer experience, and building a future-
ready, sustainable bank. This agenda is firmly anchored in 
strong governance, regulatory compliance, and robust risk 
management, ensuring that its growth is both responsible 
and resilient. Your Bank’s mission is not just to expand but 
to empower, not just to grow but to do so with integrity 
and accountability.
I would like to take this opportunity to express my deepest 
gratitude to all those who have been part of this journey 
- customers, employees, regulators, and shareholders, for 
your enduring trust and belief in your Bank’s purpose.
Together, let us build not just a larger Bank, but a stronger, 
more inclusive, and future-ready institution that continues 
to stand the test of time and creates lasting value for 
generations to come.
Warm regards, 
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
19
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Management Messages
MD and CEO’s Message
Despite the headwinds of global 
macroeconomic and geopolitical 
uncertainties, the Indian economy and 
the banking sector demonstrated strong 
resilience. Amongst the major economies, 
India’s real GDP growth of 6.5% during 
FY25 had been the highest. While 
inflation had been high during H1 FY25, 
it moderated considerably during the 
latter half of the financial year allowing 
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to start 
lowering the repo rate by Q4, apart from 
strongly infusing liquidity. Banking sector’s 
deposit and credit growth moderated 
during the year to reach low double-digit 
growth by the end of the year, while 
maintaining decent asset quality.
Dear Shareholders,
It is with great pride and gratitude that I present your Bank’s 
Annual Report for the financial year 2024–25. This year’s 
report, themed trust that grows, bandhan that strengthens, 
reflects the essence of your Bank’s journey — building 
enduring trust, nurturing stronger bonds, and driving 
sustainable growth. Over the past decade, your Bank has 
evolved from a pioneering venture to a pan-India universal 
Bank, serving millions and strengthening financial inclusion 
across diverse geographies.
Despite the headwinds of global macroeconomic and 
geopolitical uncertainties, the Indian economy and the 
banking sector demonstrated strong resilience. Amongst 
the major economies, India’s real GDP growth of 6.5% 
during FY25 had been the highest. While inflation had been 
high during H1 FY25, it moderated considerably during 
the latter half of the financial year allowing the Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) to start lowering the repo rate by Q4, 
apart from strongly infusing liquidity. Banking sector’s 
deposit and credit growth moderated during the year to 
reach low double-digit growth by the end of the year, while 
maintaining decent asset quality.
Against the backdrop of a resilient economy and banking 
sector, your Bank also continued demonstrating resilience, 
innovation, and an unwavering commitment to stakeholders. 
Your Bank reaffirms its dedication to creating lasting value, 
deepening relationships, and fortifying its position as a 
trusted banking partner in India.
Performance:
Your Bank’s deposits reached ₹1.51 lakh crore by March 
2025, a decent 12% increase year-on-year. This growth 
is a testament to the trust our customers have placed in 
your Bank as a safe, reliable financial partner. A well-
diversified and granular deposit base underpins your 
Bank’s financial resilience. We prioritised CASA and 
retail term deposits to ensure a stable, low-cost funding 
mix that supports sustainable credit expansion and 
liquidity management.
Partha Pratim Sengupta 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
20
Annual Report 2024-25
Reducing dependence on volatile bulk deposits has 
been a strategic focus, as these funds, while substantial, 
tend to be more expensive and less reliable. Your Bank’s 
conscious shift towards a more stable deposit profile 
safeguards long-term cost efficiency and balance sheet 
stability. Your Bank also pivoted towards enhancing 
fee-based income, accelerating digital adoption, and 
reinforcing risk controls to sustain profitability and 
stakeholder confidence.
Gross advances grew by 10% year-on-year to ₹1.37 lakh 
crore as of March 2025. This growth was broad-based, 
driven by increased demand from secured lending 
portfolios and strategic sectors aligned with national 
priorities. Secured advances showed exceptional growth 
of 32%, now forming 50.5% of total advances. This 
transition towards secured lending mitigates credit risk 
and improves portfolio quality by leveraging collateral-
backed credit. Emerging Entrepreneur Business (EEB) 
loans continued to be a key segment, with prudent 
credit appraisal and collection efforts ensuring strong 
portfolio performance vis-à-vis other players in the 
microfinance industry.
Your Bank delivered a Profit After Tax of ₹2,745 crore for 
FY25, a growth of 23% year-on-year increase in full-year 
profit, reflecting sustained and resilient performance. 
Fee-based income, treasury operations, and trade finance 
also contributed to diversifying income streams beyond 
interest margins.
A disciplined cost management approach, including 
technology-driven operational efficiencies, helped 
maintain a competitive cost-to-income ratio. Your Bank 
posted a Return on Assets (RoA) of 1.5% for FY25. Your 
Bank remains focused on enhancing RoA to 1.8%–1.9% 
over the next 2–3 years through quality asset growth and 
diversified revenue sources.
The capital adequacy ratio stood robustly at 18.7% as of 
31 March 2025, well above the regulatory requirement 
of 11.5%. This strong capital position enables your 
Bank to absorb shocks, invest in growth initiatives, and 
meet future regulatory demands comfortably. Capital 
strength remains a key enabler of strategic flexibility and 
risk mitigation.
We are committed to improve our Gross NPA and Net 
NPA levels, which stood at 4.7% and 1.3%, respectively, 
at the end of FY25. This will be achieved through 
disciplined credit appraisal, proactive provisioning, and 
effective recovery mechanisms. The Provision Coverage 
Ratio improved to 86.5%, including technical write-offs, 
indicating prudent provisioning. Excluding technical 
write-offs, PCR was at 73.7%, reinforcing our conservative 
risk posture.
Risk Management and Compliance
Your Bank’s risk management framework is a foundational 
pillar that supports sustainable growth and stakeholder 
confidence. We continuously embed risk awareness across 
all levels, from frontline employees to senior management, 
ensuring risks are identified early and mitigated effectively. 
Regular risk assessments and stress-testing scenarios are 
integral to our prudential practices. Your Bank maintains 
strict adherence to our Risk Appetite Framework, ensuring 
that all business decisions align with our risk tolerance levels 
and strategic objectives. In today’s dynamic regulatory 
environment, compliance is more critical than ever. Your 
Bank is committed towards a high standard of compliance 
– statutory, regulatory, and internal policies. A robust 
vigilance mechanism protects customers and your Bank’s 
reputation alike.
21
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Geographic Diversification:
Your Bank remains steadfast in its mission to expand its 
geographic footprint across the country. Your Bank had over 
6,300 outlets pan-India, including over 1,700 bank branches 
as at end of FY25, which reflects our commitment to inclusive 
banking. Your Bank will remain committed to strengthening 
presence in semi-urban and rural areas, while maintaining 
steady branch and ATM expansion across the country. Your 
Bank remains focused to further promote financial inclusion 
through these banking outlets.
Customer Centricity:
At the heart of your Bank’s success is an unwavering focus 
on the customer. Your Bank strives to deliver seamless 
experiences through innovative products and both 
personalised and digital services. Your Bank has initiated 
steps towards revamping its mobile banking, retail and 
corporate internet banking, WhatsApp banking and QR 
payments to enhance customer delight. Your Bank also 
prioritises complaint resolution and prevention of cyber 
frauds through feedback mechanisms and customer 
engagement initiatives.
Technology, Innovation and 
Transformation:
During the year, your Bank made significant progress in 
embedding technology across functions to drive innovation 
and agility. A major milestone in this journey was the 
establishment of the Transformation Management Team, 
a dedicated unit focused on reimagining core processes 
through automation and digital services.
In parallel, your Bank formed Digital and Transaction 
Excellence Unit (DTEU) to build customised digital solutions 
combining technical, functional, and commercial platforms.
Your Bank has also introduced Credit Administration and 
Asset Operations Department (CAD), which monitors post-
disbursement formalities, NPA resolutions, underwriting 
reviews, and ensures regulatory reporting. This will help in 
achieving better asset quality for the Bank.
Additionally, your Bank has established a Market Intelligence 
Team that works in extensive collaboration with the Data 
Science and Analytics team to process unstructured data, 
providing early warning signals and also real-time insights 
into borrower sentiments and market trends.
These initiatives collectively reinforce your Bank’s position 
as a digitally empowered customer-centric institution, ready 
to adapt to rapid technological changes while capturing new 
growth opportunities across the financial ecosystem.
Your Bank remains steadfast in its mission 
to expand its geographic footprint across 
the country. Your Bank had over 6,300 
outlets pan-India, including over 1,700 
bank branches as at end of FY25, which 
reflects our commitment to inclusive 
banking. Your Bank will remain committed 
to strengthening presence in semi-urban 
and rural areas, while maintaining steady 
branch and ATM expansion across the 
country. Your Bank remains focused to 
further promote financial inclusion through 
these banking outlets.
22
Annual Report 2024-25
People Initiatives:
Your Bank’s most valuable asset is its people. With a 
workforce of over 70,000, your Bank remains deeply 
committed to building a future-ready organisation through 
continuous investment in training, upskilling, and reskilling 
initiatives. These efforts empower employees to thrive in a 
dynamic banking environment and contribute meaningfully 
to your Bank’s growth and innovation.
Learning and Development (L&D) plays a central role in this 
transformation. Through structured programmes delivered 
at dedicated learning centres, the L&D team addresses 
identified skill and knowledge gaps and drives strategic 
capability building across levels.
Recognising the critical role of leadership in guiding 
employee transformation and driving long-term success, 
your Bank has partnered with the Indian School of Business 
(ISB) and INSEAD. In FY25, our Employee Engagement Survey 
with Gallup yielded an impressive score of 4.56 out of 5. 
Together, these initiatives are shaping a skilled, agile, and 
productive workforce, fully aligned with your Bank’s long-
term strategic vision and commitment to inclusive, customer-
centric banking.
Sustainability and Social Responsibility:
Your Bank’s commitment to sustainability and social 
responsibility is embedded in our mission. Guided by 
Trust that grows, bandhan that strengthens, your Bank 
has positively impacted over 25.81 lakh families across 82 
districts in 14 states through targeted CSR initiatives.
Your Bank’s programmes address critical areas such as 
healthcare, education, livelihoods, and climate resilience, 
particularly benefiting women and rural communities. 
Your Bank continues to align efforts with United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals, reinforcing our role as a 
catalyst for inclusive, long-term development.
Way Forward:
This year holds special significance as your Bank completes 
ten years of service, growth, and impact. It is a moment to 
reflect on the journey so far and the foundation that has 
been laid for the future.
While the first decade was about building, learning, and 
evolving, the next decade holds the promise of greater 
opportunities, confident growth, and purposeful scale. Your 
Bank is now poised to enter a new chapter — one defined 
by innovation, inclusion, and impact. With experience as our 
guide and a strong foundation in place, your Bank is prepared 
to meet the aspirations of customers – both existing and 
potential – in a rapidly evolving financial landscape.
Together, we will embrace the future with confidence and 
a shared commitment to building a stronger, more inclusive 
financial ecosystem for India.
Warm regards, 
Partha Pratim Sengupta
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Recognising the critical role of leadership 
in guiding employee transformation and 
driving long-term success, your Bank 
has partnered with the Indian School of 
Business (ISB) and INSEAD. In FY25, our 
Employee Engagement Survey with Gallup 
yielded an impressive score of 4.56 out of 
5. Together, these initiatives are shaping 
a skilled, agile, and productive workforce, 
fully aligned with your Bank’s long-term 
strategic vision and commitment to 
inclusive, customer-centric banking.
23
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Board of Directors
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha is the former Director of Heritage 
Business School (‘HBS’) and currently designated as the Chief 
Mentor. He has also served on the Board of NABARD.
Dr. Sinha has taught at Presidency College and Indian 
Institute of Management Calcutta (‘IIMC’). He served IIMC as 
Professor of Economics for 25 years. He served three terms 
on the Board of Governors at IIMC and also as the Dean 
during 2003-06.
Shri Arun Kumar Singh was appointed by the Reserve Bank 
of India as an additional director on the Board of the Bank 
on June 24, 2024. Shri Singh is a former Senior Central 
Banker and has a wide and rich experience of working in 
RBI for 35 years in the field of Banking and Non-Banking 
Regulation and Supervision, Enforcement actions against 
banks and non-banks, Information Technology, Financial 
Inclusion, Monetary Policy, Government Banking, etc. He has 
acted as Principal Inspecting Officer / Senior Supervisory 
Manager for various commercial banks and NBFCs and has 
actively participated in first Asset Quality Review (AQR) 
of banks as well as Risk-based Supervision (RBS) related 
processes and development. He has been associated with 
committees / working groups related to operational risk, 
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha 
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Arun Kumar Singh 
RBI (Nominee) Additional Director
He received the Best Teacher Award in 2004 and Best Faculty 
Award in 2005 from the IIMC Alumni Association. In 2012, 2014 
and 2015, he won the Most Popular Teacher Award from the 
outgoing MBA students of IIMC
He has held visiting appointments at University of Calcutta, 
Indian Statistical Institute, National Institute of Public Finance & 
Policy, University of Southern California, Washington University 
at St. Louis, Curtin University and Curtin Business School at 
Perth and Kyoto University. He has been actively engaged in 
training and consulting for a number of organisations in the 
public and private sector, as well as for international agencies 
in the fields of economics. He has also authored publications 
on various topics including economics, rural economy, 
management, etc.
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha is an economist with a Ph.D. from the 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles. He is also an 
M.S. in Economics, University of Rochester, USA, Master in 
Economics from University of Calcutta and B.A (Economics 
Honours), Presidency College, Calcutta.
MCLR, stress testing, payment and small finance banks, prompt 
corrective action, financial resolution, returns rationalisation, 
etc. He was involved in framing banking policies in various 
capacities. As the head of the Enforcement Department, he 
was responsible for enforcement action against commercial 
banks, small finance and payment banks, NBFCs, cooperative 
banks, credit information companies, payment system 
operators, asset reconstruction companies, etc. He was also 
the head of Information Technology, Reserve Bank of India, 
spearheading technological development in RBI, particularly, 
in the areas of Currency Management, Government Banking, 
Payment System, e-Kuber, Cyber Security, Data Centre 
upgradation, Internal Applications, IT Infrastructure, etc. 
He was the Regional Director for Rajasthan and carried out 
his central banking responsibilities in the areas of currency 
management, financial inclusion, financial literacy, banking / 
non-banking development, government banking, etc. in the 
state of Rajasthan.
He has served as RBI nominee director on the Board of Uttar 
Bihar Gramin Bank (RRB), Union Bank of India, Reserve Bank 
Information Technology Pvt. Ltd. (ReBIT), Mumbai, Reserve 
Bank Innovation Hub (RBiH), Bengaluru, and Institute for 
Development in Research and Banking Technology (IDRBT), 
Hyderabad. Besides he is currently serving on the Board of PNB 
MetLife India Insurance Company Ltd.
Shri Arun Kumar Singh has done his Graduation in Economics 
and MBA in Finance and HR. He is also a Certified Associate of 
the India Institute of Banking (CAIIB).
Governance
24
Annual Report 2024-25
Ms. Krishnan is a finance and investment banking consultant 
with over 30 years of experience in the sector. She also 
currently serves as visiting faculty at one of India’s leading 
private universities, Ashoka, where she teaches highly 
rated courses in finance. She was formerly Chief Investment 
Officer and Head of Investments at SBI Mutual Fund, India’s 
largest mutual fund. 
Mr. Tendulkar is a qualified Chartered Accountant and 
Company Secretary and did his executive management from 
Wartorn Universality USA. He has more than 41 years of 
experience in Finance, General Management & Operations in 
IT, Telecom and Manufacturing industries. He has extensive 
experience working with American & European based 
multinational organisations and has successfully resolved 
multidimensional, dynamic & challenging issues.
Divya Krishnan 
Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Director (Nominee of BFHL)
N V P Tendulkar 
Independent Director
She left SBI Mutual Fund to pursue her passion to work 
in the social impact sector and has served as an advisor 
to several leading non-profits and NGOs. She has worked 
primarily in the areas of education and disability, including 
advising an organisation that works with government 
administration and teachers to transform the quality of 
education at government schools, educational organisations 
for the hearing impaired, the blind, and young girl children 
from economically disadvantaged backgrounds. She was a 
member of the Working Group on Disabilities to help develop 
the 12th Five Year Plan for the Kerala state government. She 
was invited as Scholar-in- Residence by a leading Private 
University in the US, to guide its students to effectively 
support developmental initiatives in India.
Ms. Krishnan holds an MBA from the Indian Institute 
of Management, Ahmedabad and is an alumnus of Shri 
Ram College of Commerce, Delhi and La Martiniere 
School, Kolkata.
He was an Executive Director with Hewlett Packard /
Hewlett Packard Enterprise India Limited for almost 14 
years. He was also on several boards of like Trans India 
Network Private Limited, Tata Telecom Ltd, Aruba Network, 
Mercury Software, Krone Communications Ltd and etc. He 
was also associated with many IT Companies including Tata 
Telecom, AT & T, USA, Digital Global Soft etc. Currently, he 
is also an Independent Director on the boards of Siemens 
Gamesa Renewal Power Private Limited and PSB Alliance 
Private Limited.
Mr. Tendulkar is the recipient of many awards such as CFO 
100 Roll of Honor in 2012 and 2016 from 9.9 Media, Best 
CFO of Hewlett Packard worldwide, Special Achievement 
Award for leading the Best Finance Team in APAC & Japan 
Region for FY 2005, Best Governance Award in year 2000 
from the Institute of Chartered Finance Analyst and was also 
nominated for the prestigious CNBC TV 18 CFO award for the 
year 2006.
25
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta is an experienced banker, 
who has nearly four decades of experience in the banking 
industry. He has worked in different geographies, across 
both retail and corporate banking. He has been groomed 
at State Bank of India (‘SBI’), where he rose to the role of 
Deputy Managing Director and Chief Credit Officer of the 
Bank. He then took over as the Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer of Indian Overseas Bank (‘IOB’). 
Mr. Sengupta is a resilient and outcome-oriented leader who 
has demonstrated consistent achievement of goals. In both 
his stints, at SBI and at IOB, he has leveraged technology and 
innovation for achieving business results. Mr. Sengupta has 
spent his career in a range of retail and corporate branches 
and business. His postings included Branch Manager roles 
at retail and commercial branches, Forex, Trade Finance 
Mr. Babbar has over 35 years of experience across the 
banking sector in various leadership roles. He is an 
accomplished senior leader, with vast experience across 
multiple spheres of banking. He has a proven track record 
Partha Pratim Sengupta 
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Rajinder Kumar Babbar 
Executive Director & Chief Business Officer
of creating new businesses and propelling existing ones, 
consistently delivering growth multiples in AUM, market 
share, and profitability.
At Bandhan Bank, he has been the Executive Director and 
Chief Business Officer since March 8, 2024. He is leading 
the business functions including Liabilities, Emerging 
Entrepreneur Business, Wholesale Banking, Housing Finance, 
Retail Assets, etc.
During his tenure spanning more than 23 years with HDFC 
Bank, he has handled various leadership assignments and 
has successfully led large teams across Transportation and 
Infrastructure Finance, Rural Banking and Retail Liabilities. 
He was the Group Head - Transportation, Infrastructure and 
Tractor Finance Group at HDFC Bank.
and Credit Officer roles, Regional Manager, Deputy General 
Manager in Corporate Centre Internet Banking Department, 
General Manager Mid Corporate, etc.
Between 2016 to 2018, Mr. Sengupta served as Chief General 
Manager, SBI Kolkata Circle, which included the states of 
West Bengal and Sikkim and also the Union Territory of 
Andaman and Nicobar Islands. In 2018, Mr. Sengupta was 
elevated to the rank of Deputy Managing Director and Chief 
Credit Officer of State Bank of India. He was the Chairman 
of the Corporate Centre Credit Committee, the highest 
sanctioning committee of the Bank just below the Board. 
He was a member of the Investment Committee, Fraud 
Management Committee, NPA Management Committee 
and Operational Risk and Marketing Risk Management 
Committees of the Bank. At SBI, he was a permanent invitee 
in the Board of SBI as DMD & Chief Credit Officer of the 
Bank. He has also been a non-executive director on the Board 
of SBI’s investments (YES Bank, ARCIL, among others) and 
IOB’s joint venture (Universal Sompo Life Insurance).
In 2020, Mr. Sengupta was selected as the Managing Director 
and Chief Executive Officer of Indian Overseas Bank and led 
the bank until December, 2022.
Mr. Sengupta has graduated in Physics Honours and is also 
a Certified Associate of Indian Institute of Bankers. He has 
received training in Leadership Development from Harvard 
Business School, IIM Calcutta, and ISB Hyderabad.
26
Annual Report 2024-25
Mr. Kesh has around three decades of experience across 
industries in leadership roles in multiple domains, including 
Operations, Technology, Transaction Banking, Product, 
Affluent Banking, Operations Risk, Enterprise Governance, 
Intelligent Automation, Digital, Cx and Organisation 
Transformation. He was recognised among the 50 most 
talented Quality Professionals in India by the World 
Quality Congress. He was also recognised as one of India’s 
top 25 Emerging Tech Leaders by BIOCON Network in 
collaboration with MeitY.
Ratan Kumar Kesh 
Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer
At Bandhan Bank, he has been the Executive Director and 
Chief Operating Officer since March 31, 2023. He is leading 
multiple functions including Technology, Operations, Digital 
and Transaction Banking, Data Team, Customer Experience, 
Transformation, Internal Audit, and other support functions. 
Mr. Kesh successfully led the IT transformation at the Bank 
and has been playing an instrumental role in optimising 
the processes, controls, digitisation at scale, Intelligent 
Automation and AI, customer services, and business 
excellence, among others at the Bank.
He was a part of the core team to lead organisation 
transformation with technology, digital, governance, quality 
and customer focus during his tenures at ICICI Bank, HDFC 
Bank, Yes Bank, and Axis Bank. Mr. Kesh is also a Member 
of the Managing Committee of the Bengal Chamber of 
Commerce and Industry, Co-Chairman of CII Eastern Region 
Banking & Financial Services Subcommittee. He is also the 
Finance Advisor in Economic Council of India promoting 
Peace Economy.
He is a B.E (Mechanical Engineering) from NIT, Durgapur and 
MBA from NMIMS. He is also certified Quality Engineer from 
Quality Council of Indiana, USA and has completed advance 
leadership course from IIM-A and Harvard.
Prior to this, he was responsible for building and managing 
the Rural Banking Group for the HDFC Bank covering farmer 
finance, MSME loans to intermediaries, related retail assets 
and third party products. Under his leadership, the rural 
businesses witnessed robust growth, making it one of the 
best rural franchises in the industry for any bank or financial 
institution in terms of size and profitability.
Prior to joining HDFC Bank Ltd, he has worked with 
Centurion Bank, Bank of Punjab and Central Bank of India, 
handling various roles and responsibilities.
He holds Bachelor in Science, LLB, LLM Corporate Law & 
Criminal Law and is currently pursuing PhD from NMIMS, 
Mumbai. He has also completed a leadership development 
programme from IIM Ahmedabad.
27
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee is the former Managing Director of 
the erstwhile State Bank of Hyderabad, an associate bank of 
the country’s largest lender, State Bank of India. He has four 
decades of experience in the fields of banking, finance, risk 
management, etc. in various capacities. From 2013 to mid-
2014, he was the Chief General Manager of State Bank of 
Mr. Dutta Gupta has a rich experience of more than 35 years 
in Asset-based Financing, with 20 years dedicated to the 
Mortgage industry in India and 11 years to Development 
Finance. His domain expertise has been in investment and 
advisory services related to the mortgage industry, covering 
areas like strategic planning, business plan, underwriting, 
and policy formulation.
Bikaner and Jaipur. He has also worked as the Chief Executive 
Officer of State Bank of India, Paris from 2004 to 2008. He 
joined as a probationary officer and carried out important 
domestic and overseas assignments in the SBI Group.
Mr. Mukherjee is an Independent Director on the boards 
of Aurobindo Pharma Limited, Suven Life Sciences 
Limited, Muthoot Housing Finance Company Limited, 
Sumedha Fiscal Services Limited, NACL Industries Limited, 
Rainbow Children’s Medicare Limited, and Rainbow 
Speciality Hospitals Private limited. He is also on the 
Board of Governors of the Institute of Management and 
Technology, Hyderabad.
Mr. Mukherjee holds a B.Sc. (Honours) degree from 
Presidency College under the University of Calcutta and 
CAIIB from the Indian Institute of Bankers.
He has an extensive experience in mentoring the workforce 
at startups in the housing finance sector, grooming and 
upskilling them on lending to the informal and low-income 
borrowers, including developing business plans and data 
analytics platforms.
Mr. Dutta Gupta worked at the International Financial 
Corporation (‘IFC’), World Bank Group for more than a 
decade from 2008 to 2019 and retired as the Principal 
Financial Officer of IFC. During his stint at IFC, he worked 
in South Asia, South East Asia, and Central Asia. He has 
also been associated with BHW Birla Home Finance as 
the Managing Director, with SREI International Finance as 
Senior Vice President and with Classic Financial Services & 
Enterprises Ltd. as the Regional Manager for Operations. 
Currently, he is also an Independent Director on the Board of 
RMBS Development Company Limited.
Mr. Dutta Gupta holds a Master of Arts degree in Economics 
from the Delhi School of Economics.
Santanu Mukherjee 
Independent Director
Subrata Dutta Gupta 
Independent Director
28
Annual Report 2024-25
Mr. Chander is a veteran Banker. He has 42 years of rich 
experience in Banking Operations, Trade Finance, Retail and 
Wholesale Banking. His extensive experience covers the 
entire gamut from retail, small and medium enterprise, mid-
sized corporates to large corporates.
Ms. Thapar, a qualified Chartered Accountant, has over  
29 years of extensive knowledge and experience in the fields 
of Statutory and Internal Audits, Bank Audits, Government 
Audits, Information Systems Audit, Consultancy in Company 
Law, Indirect Taxes, FEMA and RBI Matters with an ability 
to handle complex and challenging assignments in the field 
of Audit, Taxation and International Taxation as a Senior 
Partner in the firm, M/s. V K Thapar and Company, a well 
recognised Chartered Accountants firm established in 1965, 
which she had joined in April 1996, after completing her 
training with Price WaterHouse.
She is currently an Independent Director on the Board of 
Directors of Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited and SJS 
Enterprises Ltd, both listed companies; an Independent 
Director on the board of Monedo Financial Services Private 
Mr. Chander started his professional journey in banking 
as a trainee at Grindlays Bank in 1983 and since then has 
worked in foreign banks in India and abroad, and a private 
sector bank in India. He retired as the Head of Corporate 
and Institutional Banking at IndusInd Bank in March 2020. 
Currently, he is also an Independent Director on the Board of 
Canara Robeco Asset Management Company Limited.
In 2018, Mr. Chander set up SOCH Foundation, a not for profit 
that works with children with Learning Disability studying in 
Government and Municipal Schools. The Foundation is one of 
the few organisations working at grassroots level to ensure 
inclusive education for students of all abilities.
Mr. Chander is a Chartered Accountant (1982). He also holds 
a Bachelor of Arts (Honours) degree in Economics from the 
University of Delhi (1978).
Limited, a base layer NBFC and RVR Corporate Consultancy 
Pvt Ltd., a Management Consultancy Firm in Practice in 
Corporation form and is a member on the Board of Investor 
Education and Protection Fund Authority appointed through 
the order of the Central Government.
She has been an Independent Director on the Boards of 
Bank of India for two terms, HLS Asia Limited and Yokogawa 
India Limited, both public limited companies and has been 
a member on the Board of Governors of Indian Institute 
of Corporate Affairs also for two terms. She has the 
experience of chairing the Audit Committee of the Board, 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and the Risk Committee across 
various boards and has been a member of other committees 
of the Board, viz. Monitoring of Large Value Frauds 
Committee, Committee of Directors for Customer Service, 
IT Strategy and Digital Payment Promotion Committee, 
Share Transfers Committee, Stakeholders Committee, Group 
Governance Committee, Committee for Non Cooperative 
Borrowers, Disciplinary Proceedings Committee, Steering 
Committee of the Board on HR.
She has excellent communication skills and has been a 
speaker at various forums and a part of various round 
table and fire side deliberations, covering topics related to 
Indian banks, their challenges, solutions and way forward; 
Reforming Financial Institutions, Preparing NBFCs for Future 
Challenge; Employability Matrix and Skilling New India; 
Suhail Chander 
Independent Director
Veni Thapar 
Additional (Independent) Director
29
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Roadmap for $5 Trillion Economy; Technology & Ease of 
Living in Urban India; Challenges to Brick and Mortar in 
an Online Model; Auditors Contribution to the Financial 
Sector and Economy as a Whole; Chartered Accountants 
Profession in the Artificial Intelligence Era; Role of 
Independent Directors; Presence and Upliftment of Women 
in Board Positions; Work-life balance for women among 
other related areas with a firm conviction that learning is 
a continuous process and imagination and creativity have 
no boundaries while endorsing responsible adaptability 
and compliance.
Ms. Thapar is a qualified Chartered Accountant, a Cost 
Accountant from ICMA, a qualified Certified Information 
Systems Auditor from ISACA (USA) and a qualified Diploma 
holder in Information Systems Audit from ICAI. She is a 
certificate holder in International Taxation from ICAI, 
and has completed the certificate programme in IT and 
Cyber Security for Board Members from the IDRBT. She 
has successfully completed the Online Proficiency Self-
Assessment Test for Independent Director’s Database 
from IICA, a certification in the IICA Valuation Certificate 
Programme from IICA, and has a certification of successfully 
completing the Directors Development Program from 
Harvard Business Publishing and EgonZehnder.
Mr. Vijay N Bhatt is a qualified Chartered Accountant and a 
Bachelor in Law. He has over 39 years of experience in large, 
medium, and small Indian and multinational businesses. 
Being in the audit profession, he has a good understanding 
Vijay N Bhatt 
Independent Director
of the business environment, business risks, controls, 
accounting and financial reporting issues relevant to 
businesses operating in India.
He was with KMPG for over 10 years (Senior Independent 
Director), with E&Y for 2 years, R S M & Co., Chartered 
Accountants for 19 years and for a few months with Lovelock 
Lewis. He has been a member of various committees of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, such 
as Accounting Standard Board, Audit Standard Board, 
Information Technology Committee, Financial Reporting 
Review Group and Professional Development Committee of 
WIRC. Currently, he is also an Independent Director on the 
boards of JK Files & Engineering Limited, FDC Limited, IRB 
Infrastructure Developers Limited, Maini Precision Products 
Limited and Finolex Industries Limited.
30
Annual Report 2024-25
Governance
Senior Management Team
Leadership Team
Santanu Banerjee 
Head - Human Resources
Gopalkrishnan Santosh 
Head - Consumer Lending & Mortgages
Rajeev Mantri 
Chief Financial Officer
Satish Kumar 
Head - Wholesale Banking
Biju E Punnachalil 
Chief Risk Officer
Nand Kumar Singh 
Head - Credit Administration & Asset Operations
Navin Sharma 
Chief Audit Executive
Amitava Goswami 
Chief Compliance Officer
Arindam Sarkar 
Head - Treasury
Pinaki Halder 
Chief Information Officer
Rajesh Kumar Srivastava 
Head - Liabilities & Transaction Operations & 
Operations Support Group
Suresh Chandran 
Head - Branch Banking, Current Accounts, Affluent, 
TPP & Government Business
Vishal Wadhwa 
Head - Emerging Entrepreneurs Business
Indranil Banerjee 
Company Secretary
P Ramaswamy 
Chief of Internal Vigilance
Ravindra Baburaya Gadiyar 
Head - Commercial & Retail Credit
Dibyendu Kumar Das 
Head - Digital & Transaction Excellence Unit
Sujoy Roy 
Head - Financial Institutions Group (FIG),  
Business Banking Group (BBG), &  
Small Enterprise Loans (SEL)
Biswajit Das 
Chief Transformation Officer
Hirak Sumatiprasad Joshi 
Head - Retail Assets
Neha Dharmendra Chotaliya 
Head - Liability Products & Assets Cross-sell
Piush Jha 
Head - Credit Card
Pramod Agarwal 
Head - Product, Consumer Lending, Mortgages & Digital
Radhika Raghavan 
Head - Customer Experience,  
Process Quality & Transformation
Ronti Kar 
Head - Vendor Management
Siddhartha Sanyal 
Chief Economist & Head Research
Subhash Balkrishna Samant 
Head - Housing Finance
Sundeep Bhan 
Head - Operational & Fraud Risk
Sureshkumar S Pillai 
Head - Legal
Vinay Jain 
Head - Finance & Accounts
Partha Pratim Samanta 
Head - Infra Facility Management
Dhruba Jyoti Chaudhuri  
Head - Corporate Services
31
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Diversified Product Suite
Tailored Offerings:  
Built on Bandhan, 
Designed for Progress 
Your Bank offers an array of products designed for prompt and 
efficient functioning for diverse banking requirements, irrespective 
of the socio-economic status. Your Bank’s comprehensive product 
suite prioritises customer satisfaction, values trust, and enhances 
its bandhan with its stakeholders.
32
Annual Report 2024-25
Retail Liabilities 
Designed for your 
Bank’s Diverse Customer 
Aspirations
Your Bank continues to deepen its commitment to 
customer-centric banking through a broad suite of 
retail liability products. These offerings are designed to 
promptly and effectively serve the diverse banking needs 
of your Bank’s customers, reinforcing the growing trust 
they place in your Bank and the enduring relationships 
the Bank cultivates with them.
During FY25, your Bank’s deposit portfolio recorded a 
robust 12% growth, with the total deposit base reaching 
₹1,51,212 crore as on March 31, 2025. This growth was 
largely driven by a well-diversified liability product mix 
comprising term, savings, and current account deposits, 
reflecting the growing confidence that customers place 
in your Bank. The retail deposit book grew by 11%, 
underscoring the strengthening of customer relationships 
and your Bank’s expanding reach.
Further, your Bank enhanced its savings product 
proposition by strategically addressing diverse customer 
segments. Alongside strengthening its offerings for 
the Affluent Segment with Elite Plus and Elite Savings 
Accounts, your Bank introduced four new savings 
products: Avni Savings Account for women, Pension 
Savings Account, PMJDY Savings Account, and Classic 
Savings Account.
These were launched to deepen financial inclusion further 
and respond to the unique needs of every customer 
segment, thereby strengthening the bandhan your Bank 
shares with its customers. These efforts were supported 
by targeted campaigns focused on product awareness, 
interest rates, and technology-led services.
Furthermore, in FY25, your Bank also introduced new 
Debit Card variants — Elite Plus, Elite, Platinum Plus, 
Titanium, PMJDY, and Avni Debit Cards — offering 
enhanced features and benefits. The Debit Card portfolio 
contributed approximately ₹88 crore in card fee income, 
encompassing annual issuance, and re-issuance fees, 
reflecting the value customers continue to find in your 
Bank’s offerings.
The Current Account segment demonstrated remarkable 
resilience, benefiting from a range of well-executed 
strategic initiatives. These included the launch of the 
new Collection Account, higher penetration of EDC 
and QR code solutions, re-engagement with existing 
customers, and a stronger team of Current Account 
managers. Through sharper customer segmentation, 
digital expansion, and process automation, your Bank not 
only enhanced customer experience but also fortified 
operational efficiency, advancing its focus on long-term, 
trust-driven growth. Expansion into high-potential 
catchment areas and targeted acquisition campaigns 
further contributed to the performance.
The Merchant Acquiring Business remains a key driver of 
liability growth.  FY25 marked significant gains:
•	 127% Y-O-Y growth in merchant acquisition
•	 68% Y-O-Y increase in transaction throughput
•	 21% Y-O-Y growth in revenue, backed by increased 
balances in associated current accounts
Merchant Acquiring Business’ success highlights the 
trust merchants place in your Bank and its integral 
role in reinforcing relationships through value-added 
digital services. To deepen connections with customers, 
your Bank undertook extensive communication 
efforts through marketing campaigns, social media, 
and branch-level initiatives. Looking ahead, your Bank 
remains focused on harnessing technology to deliver 
secure, convenient, and user-friendly solutions, living 
up to its core values of trust, customer-centricity, and 
empowerment. Indeed, FY25 reflects your Bank’s 
customers’ growing trust through continued deposit 
momentum and a deepening bandhan through broader 
customer engagement and inclusive growth strategies. 
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
33
The Affluent Business has emerged as a significant 
contributor to the growth of your Bank’s liabilities. 
Customers in this segment have consistently 
demonstrated their confidence in your Bank’s offerings, 
especially the Elite Plus and Elite propositions. In the 
current financial year, your Bank has successfully added 
1,00,000 new affluent customers, reflecting strong 
market acceptance and trust.
As a result, the Affluent Segment 
now accounts for:
45% of the Total Retail Deposit
34%   of the Total Liability Book
This remarkable growth has empowered your Bank 
to tailor innovative, high-value products specifically 
designed for the Affluent Segment. These new offerings 
will further strengthen the proposition and enhance 
customer engagement.
Under its guiding philosophy, your Bank has built 
deep-rooted trust by delivering personalised banking 
experiences. A team of dedicated relationship managers, 
supported by strong branch leadership and an efficient 
service team, has been instrumental in delivering 
consistent, high-touch service.
To further elevate the service quality, your Bank has 
implemented a comprehensive training programme for 
the relationship team. This initiative has significantly 
enhanced customer experience across all touchpoints.
Furthermore, the introduction of the green channel for 
the seamless onboarding of affluent clients has further 
enriched their journey, offering a smoother and more 
personalised welcome experience, building a strong sense 
of bandhan and belonging.
Looking ahead, your Bank remains dedicated to upholding 
its service ethos, leveraging technology without losing 
sight of the personal touch. Your Bank’s Affluent Segment 
team will symbolise an unparalleled blend of digital 
innovation and personal engagement, a combination that 
will reinforce the trust clients place in your Bank.
Your Bank is confident that the Affluent Segment will 
drive continued success and elevate service excellence, 
carrying forward your Bank’s trajectory of sustained  
trust and strengthened bandhan.
Affluent Business 
A Steady Growth Pillar 
in your Bank’s Liability 
Franchise
34
Annual Report 2024-25
The Government Business Group has built a robust 
liability business franchise by forging enduring 
partnerships with Central and State Governments, 
Public Sector Undertakings and Autonomous Bodies, 
offering comprehensive account management services. 
Strengthening these institutional relationships, your Bank 
continues to nurture trust while expanding its reach and 
relevance across the governance ecosystem.
Leveraging its ever-expanding distribution network, your 
Bank caters to the banking needs at every level: Central, 
State, District, Block, and Panchayat. These efforts 
are anchored in your Bank’s commitment to deepen 
connections and deliver impactful services that reinforce 
the trust placed in it by both institutions and individuals.
In FY25, your Bank facilitated the collection of Direct 
Taxes and Indirect Taxes (Goods and Services Tax) and 
disbursed Central, Civil, and Railway Pensions under the 
Agency Business mandate. Through its digital platforms 
and 1,700+ branches nationwide, your Bank enabled tax 
payments for both customers and non-customers, making 
the process more accessible and inclusive. Your Bank also 
activated account validation services, allowing customers 
to receive income tax refunds directly, and integrated 
with the Government of India’s Jeevan Pramaan portal 
to enable the digital submission of life certificates, 
delivering services that reflect its commitment to 
seamless public financial services.
Furthermore, your Bank has been empanelled by the 
Government of Haryana to undertake government 
business within the state. Simultaneously, the 
Government of Madhya Pradesh has authorised your Bank 
to manage investments for state bodies, corporations, 
boards and similar entities, thereby strengthening 
relationships with key public-sector organisations and 
deepening institutional trust in your Bank’s capabilities. 
Moreover, your Bank provides tailored fund management 
solutions to State Governments, enabling efficient 
tracking of financial flows and balances across 
administrative functions. These digital solutions are 
fully aligned with the Single Nodal Account framework 
prescribed by the Government of India. Additionally, 
your Bank remains responsive and agile, implementing 
ongoing system upgrades in sync with the Public 
Financial Management System (PFMS) and various state 
financial platforms to ensure the seamless processing of 
government transactions.
Reflecting its core value of serving those who serve 
the nation, your Bank has revitalised its product suite 
and outreach strategy. It has signed a Memorandum of 
Understanding (MoU) with the Indian Air Force to offer 
‘Shaurya Salary Accounts’ for serving personnel and 
empowered over 557 branches to provide focused service 
to defence pensioners through the SPARSH platform. 
These initiatives not only meet the financial needs of  
the servicemen but also symbolise the growing trust and 
deepening bandhan between your Bank and those it is 
privileged to serve.
Government Business Group 
Deepening 
Institutional Trust
35
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
FY25 marked a pivotal milestone in the evolution of 
your Bank’s digital banking journey, an embodiment 
of your Bank’s commitment to nurturing trust and 
deepening the bandhan it shares with its customers 
through innovation and inclusion.
At the heart of this transformation is the Digital and 
Transaction Excellence Unit (DTEU), established to lead 
the design and delivery of highly personalised, relevant 
digital banking solutions that cater to the evolving needs 
of your Bank’s diverse customer base. This strategic 
initiative underscores your Bank’s commitment to 
building trust through seamless, secure, and customer-
centric digital experiences.
Accelerating Digital Transformation
Staying true to your Bank’s core value of customer-
centricity, DTEU has driven key advances in digitisation 
across your Bank:
•	 Enhanced Customer Onboarding: Your Bank has made 
notable strides in its digital onboarding journeys, across 
assisted savings accounts, self-service savings accounts, 
and self-service term deposits, making it easier and 
more secure for customers to start banking with 
your Bank.
•	 Expanding the Government Payment Ecosystem: Your 
Bank’s integration capabilities have grown to include 
SBIePAY, West Bengal’s GRIPS system, and soon, EPFO 
and Customs tax systems, in addition to GST and CBDT. 
This demonstrates your Bank’s ongoing commitment to 
financial inclusion and collaboration with government 
systems, further strengthening its bandhan with 
institutional stakeholders.
•	 Streamlining Collections: The introduction of QR code-
based collections for your Bank’s EEB segment has 
enhanced efficiency and ease of use for your Bank’s 
field teams.
The DTEU continues to drive agility, compliance, and 
innovation by integrating advanced technology and 
analytics into your Bank’s processes, ensuring richer digital 
experiences while carefully managing risk. Through these 
efforts, your Bank continues to earn the trust that grows 
with every digital touchpoint.
Empowering Customers through Innovation
Your Bank’s digital offerings are built with one aim in mind: 
to empower customers to bank anytime, from anywhere.
•	 The Neo+ Digital Savings Account, equipped with video 
Know Your Customer (vKYC), has revolutionised account 
opening by offering a fully paperless and seamless 
onboarding experience. Currently, 90% of your Bank’s 
savings accounts are opened digitally via vKYC and tab-
assisted models, highlighting the strong adoption of 
digital channels.
•	 Mobile banking activations surged by 52%, driving a 
remarkable 61% increase in digital transaction volumes, 
reflecting an accelerating shift towards digital adoption 
and trust in your Bank’s platforms.
•	 In the Corporate and Transaction Banking space, the 
launch of the Cash Management Solutions (CMS) and 
expanded payment capabilities, integrated with multiple 
government entities, have significantly enhanced your 
Bank’s product offering.
Digital Banking
Nurturing Innovation and 
Inclusion
36
Annual Report 2024-25
As your Bank looks to the future, it is dedicated to 
positioning its digital platforms not merely as service 
channels but as powerful strategic enablers for sustained 
business growth and competitive differentiation. 
Your Bank’s vision is to create best-in-class digital 
ecosystems that deliver unmatched convenience, 
personalisation, and security, becoming the preferred 
banking destination for every customer segment.
Key strategic priorities include:
•	 Agile Technology and AI Integration: By harnessing 
agile development methodologies and embedding 
artificial intelligence across its platforms, your Bank 
will create adaptive, intuitive user experiences that 
anticipate and respond to customer needs in real 
time. This will enhance personalisation, simplify 
complex banking processes, and enable proactive 
financial management.
•	 Omnichannel Excellence: Your Bank ensures seamless 
integration across all digital touchpoints—mobile 
apps, web portals, and emerging channels—offering 
customers a consistent, frictionless banking journey 
whether they bank digitally or through assisted 
models. This cohesion will drive higher engagement 
and loyalty.
•	 Data-Driven Insights and Analytics: Leveraging 
advanced analytics, customer behaviour data, and 
market trends will enable your Bank to design hyper-
personalised products and services, optimise risk 
management, and identify growth opportunities 
rapidly. Data will be central to enhancing customer 
lifetime value.
•	 Robust Security and Compliance: As digital adoption 
expands, your Bank will continue to prioritise 
cybersecurity, ensuring that all platforms adhere to 
the highest standards of safety, privacy, and regulatory 
compliance, building trust as the foundation of 
every interaction.
•	 Innovation in Financial Inclusion: Expanding digital 
access to underserved and new-to-bank customers 
remain a top priority. By innovating on onboarding, 
payments, and credit delivery, your Bank aims 
to deepen its impact and grow its customer 
base sustainably.
Through these focused efforts, digital banking will 
become the main leveraging tool for driving new 
e main leveraging tool for driving new 
business, increasing wallet share, and delivering superior 
business, increasing wallet share, and delivering superior 
customer experiences. Your Bank envisions a future 
customer experiences. Your Bank envisions a future 
where every customer touchpoint reinforces its promise 
where every customer touchpoint reinforces its promise 
of trust and strengthens the 
of trust and strengthens the bandhan
bandhan that connects.
 that connects.
In essence, your Bank’s digital transformation journey will 
be the cornerstone of its growth story, fuelling resilience, 
agility, and innovation. Through consistent value-creation 
for customers, stakeholders, and the communities, your 
Bank continues to build a well-connected ecosystem 
rooted in trust and strengthened by bandhan.
The Road Ahead 
Building Best-in-Class  
Digital Platforms
37
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Empowering Inclusive Growth and 
Economic Upliftment
Your Bank's Emerging Entrepreneurs 
Business (EEB) vertical offers accessible 
and affordable loans to borrowers at the 
bottom of the economic pyramid. 
Through EEB, your Bank enables individuals to harness 
their entrepreneurial potential and reshape their 
futures. As your Bank continues to chart new paths of 
opportunity, it remains steadfast in its commitment to 
inclusive banking, enabling access for financially excluded 
communities and enabling them to step confidently into a 
brighter tomorrow.
At the heart of your Bank's EEB strategy lies its 
unwavering belief in building long-term relationships 
rooted in trust. Guided by the principles of inclusive 
banking and economic upliftment, your Bank partners 
with individuals across various stages of their 
entrepreneurial journey. It aims not merely to create 
customers but to walk alongside them, offering timely 
financial solutions that help them climb the socio-
economic ladder. In doing so, your Bank nurtures 
enduring relationships that deepen over time, steadily 
strengthening its bond with customers and communities.
Loans under EEB are disbursed through Banking 
Units (BUs) designed to reach and support small 
business owners by providing doorstep service. The 
BUs are empowered with the capability to conduct 
credit assessments, open loan and deposit accounts 
independently, and operate seamlessly through tablets 
integrated with the Core Banking System (CBS).
To ensure efficient, consistent service and timely support, 
your Bank has established a structured framework 
comprising circles, territories, divisions, areas, and 
banking unit catchments. A dedicated central operations 
team ensures close monitoring of processes, maintaining 
operational integrity and adherence to regulatory 
guidelines at all times. With a strong focus on controls 
and standardisation, your Bank strives to ensure every 
customer interaction reflects the highest level of care, 
consistency, and compliance.
Your Bank continues to build inclusive growth and 
strengthen the foundation of trust it shares with its 
customers. These evolving relationships, built with 
sincerity and sustained engagement, exemplify the spirit 
of your Bank’s deepening bandhan, driving its journey of 
resilience, impact, and collective progress.
EEB Performance
During FY25, your Bank's commitment to financial 
inclusion was reflected in the loans offered to ₹15.17 lakh 
new borrowers under the Group Loan and SBAL schemes. 
The portfolio for Group Loans stood at ₹36,088 crore, 
whereas the SBAL portfolio stood at ₹20,456 crore as 
your Bank worked towards bringing additional measures 
in credit control to improve the quality of its portfolio.
Emerging Entrepreneurs Business (EEB)
38
Annual Report 2024-25
Product Portfolio
•	 Implemented guardrails for microfinance loans 
to further strengthen customer selection and 
portfolio quality in the longer run, including 
limitations in lender cap, limitations in total 
outstanding per borrower and restrictions in 
lending to customers having 60+ DPD across 
microfinance lenders.
•	 Several initiatives to sharpen the underwriting 
process for the Group Loan and SBAL to have 
a better portfolio, such as location-specific 
credit strengthening and a higher CIC cut-off. An 
analytics-driven rule engine is being implemented 
to ensure quality sourcing.
•	 Awareness about using digital solutions, such as 
smartphone-based transactions and using credit/
debit cards for online transactions, is among 
the persisting gaps in consumer interaction in 
the Banking Unit vertical. To overcome these 
challenges, your Bank is training the customers 
to be aware of the benefits of digital payments 
and various other aspects, such as seeding bank 
accounts with mobile numbers and Aadhaar. 
Also, an initiative is in place to inform customers 
about payments through online transactions. 
Additionally, your Bank has launched digital 
repayment modules, such as QR-based channels, 
to make repayments easier and hassle-free.
Fortifying Business Operations
During FY25, your Bank undertook the following initiatives:
Group Loans
 
Srishti Loan:  
₹15,000 – ₹1,50,000 for starting or 
expanding businesses
Suraksha Loan:  
Up to ₹15,000 for emergency expenses like medical 
needs and sanitation
Sushiksha Loan:  
Up to ₹10,000 for children’s education expenses
Small Business and Agri Loans (SBAL)
 
Sahayata Loan:  
₹50,001 – ₹5,00,000 for income-generating 
business needs
Bazaar Loan:  
₹26,000 – ₹1,50,000 for working capital support to 
existing deposit customers
•	 Tracking and monitoring portfolios at the Banking 
Unit level through semi-automated dashboards 
and scorecards. Devising business strategies at the 
granular level to ensure effective and sustainable 
business growth.
•	 A separate independent Recovery Team is in place 
to improve recovery collections from delinquent 
customers based on data analytics-based 
prioritisation of recovery pools to ensure higher 
collection and productivity. A digital collection 
module is also being launched to enhance the 
collection process further and increase efficiency at 
an individual level.
•	 Deployed several analytics-driven models to 
improve both sourcing and recovery. Some of the 
key initiatives in this regard include identifying 
good borrowers for higher-ticket loans based on 
a data-driven renewal base, identifying potential 
borrowers graduating to individual loans, 
categorising delinquent borrowers based on 
their propensity to repay, prioritising collections 
accordingly, etc.
•	 Strong emphasis on training and development to 
upskill and reskill staff to ensure that they stay 
relevant to the fast-changing world across levels 
and locations. This includes online and classroom 
training sessions.
39
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Financing Dreams, 
Building Futures 
During FY25, your Bank's Housing Finance business 
continued to align with its long-term strategic roadmap, 
delivering strong performance despite a challenging 
macroeconomic environment. Your Bank's commitment 
to inclusive housing credit, prudent risk management, and 
operational agility have translated into resilient growth 
across disbursements, portfolio size, borrower quality 
and geographic reach.
Business Performance Highlights
In FY25, the total housing loan book (excluding IBPC) 
reached ₹32,105 crore, up from ₹27,309 crore in FY24, 
registering an increase of 18% Y-O-Y. Disbursements 
during FY25 stood at ~₹9,340 crore, registering a 26% 
Y-O-Y increase. This growth is attributed to the Prime 
Lending Channel launched in FY24. It significantly 
enhanced disbursement volumes and contributed to a 
healthier asset quality by targeting stronger borrower 
profiles and reducing delinquency risk.
Furthermore, the share of the salaried borrower segment 
in your Bank's Housing Finance portfolio grew to 57.8% in 
FY25, up from 53% in FY24. 
Geographic Expansion and Reach
In line with its financial inclusion goals, your Bank 
operated its housing loan network through 450+ 
branches offering home loans and 300+ banking units 
delivering micro home loans across 18 states and 3 union 
territories. This expansion enabled deeper market 
penetration and better customer access, particularly in 
underserved regions.
The portfolio remained predominantly Affordable 
Housing, constituting approximately 80% of the 
book. Regional diversification continued with strong 
performances across all zones.
Housing Finance
40
Annual Report 2024-25
Retail Assets
Building a Responsible and 
Accessible Portfolio
Your Bank has continued to strengthen its Retail Assets 
portfolio, focusing on building trust through relevant, 
responsible, and accessible credit offerings. Anchored 
in a prudent risk framework, your Bank’s strategy 
emphasises secured lending, spanning Gold Loans, Car 
Loans, Commercial Vehicle and Construction Equipment 
(CVCE) Loans, and Two-Wheeler Loans, supplemented 
by carefully selected unsecured Personal Loans. This 
expanding portfolio reflects a growing bandhan with 
customers across geographies and income segments, 
underpinned by your Bank’s commitment to long-term, 
sustainable relationships.
Gold Loan
Designed to address immediate financial needs with 
speed and simplicity, the Gold Loan product offers 
loan amounts ranging from ₹10,000 to ₹80,00,000, 
with flexible tenures of up to three years and 
competitive interest rates. To enhance accessibility, 
your Bank is expanding its branch network, enabling 
more customers to access timely credit with minimal 
formalities. This growing reach not only supports 
individual needs, but also reinforces your Bank’s 
commitment to trust-led growth.
Car Loan
The Car Loan offering is tailored to a wide range of 
customers, with financing available for both new and 
pre-owned vehicles up to ₹1.5 crore. A seamless digital 
application process, an extensive dealer network, and 
flexible repayment structures ensure that customers 
experience a convenient and rewarding car ownership 
journey. The growing focus on pre-owned Car Loans 
reflects your Bank’s agility in enabling access and 
responding to a changing market landscape.
CVCE Loan
Committed to supporting India’s infrastructure and 
logistics sectors, your Bank offers CVCE Loans ranging 
from ₹1 lakh to ₹25 crore. By enhancing the single-unit 
loan limit and expanding into the used CVCE segment, 
your Bank is enabling greater financial flexibility for 
transporters and contractors. This offering is delivered 
through an integrated network of branches and 
partnerships with dealers and manufacturers, reinforcing 
your Bank’s role as a trusted financial enabler.
Two-Wheeler Loan
Supporting mobility and access, your Bank’s Two-Wheeler 
Loan portfolio has surpassed 1,90,000 customers, 90% of 
whom are new to your Bank. Loans of up to ₹5,00,000 are 
extended through a dealer or channel-based distribution 
model. With the addition of financing options for electric 
vehicles and premium motorcycles, your Bank continues 
to meet evolving consumer preferences while broadening 
its reach among new customer segments.
Personal Loan
Your Bank maintained a focused and adaptive approach 
to its Personal Loan offerings in FY25, aligning with 
customer expectations and market dynamics. With 
loan amounts between ₹50,000 and ₹25,00,000 and 
flexible tenures of up to five years, these unsecured 
loans are delivered through a dedicated sales team 
that ensures a responsive, trustworthy, and customer-
centric experience.
Your Bank’s retail lending journey continues to be 
marked by steady growth, increasing customer 
trust, and a strategic focus on secured asset-backed 
credit. It becomes the foundation upon which your 
Bank strengthens customer trust and delivers on 
its long-term vision of inclusive and sustainable 
financial empowerment.
41
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Wholesale Banking
Advancing Balanced 
Development
With a keen focus on the corporate segment, your 
Bank actively engages with small, medium, and large 
businesses to contribute to financial inclusion, job 
creation, and equitable economic development. 
Your Bank has set up specialised verticals in the 
Wholesale Banking segment to expand its vertical and 
horizontal presence.
Mid-Market Group
The Mid-Market Group (MMG) supports small, medium, 
and large enterprises by offering secured financial 
solutions tailored to meet working capital and capital 
expenditure needs. These include both fund-based and 
non-fund-based options such as Term Loans, Cash Credit, 
Overdrafts, Loans Against Property, Construction/Project 
Finance, Lease Rental Discounting, Letters of Credit and 
Bank Guarantees.
With a national footprint and teams based in large 
business centres, the Group’s businesses have dedicated 
relationship support. As part of its continued evolution, 
the Group has operationalised Cash Management 
Services and Trade Finance, while Supply Chain Finance is 
currently being rolled out.
Total Advances for the segment stood at ₹12,243 crore 
as of March 31, 2025, compared to ₹6,701 crore as of 
March 31, 2024, registering a growth of 83% during FY25. 
This progress reflects the growing confidence placed 
in your Bank by enterprise customers and the depth of 
relationships that have been cultivated over time.
Financial Institution Group (FIG), 
Healthcare and Education
The Financial Institution Group (FIG) continues to meet 
the financing requirements of Non-Banking Financial 
Companies (NBFCs), Housing Finance Companies (HFCs), 
and public financial institutions through a broad range 
of secured lending products. These include Term Loans, 
Working Capital Limits, Overdrafts and Cash Credit.
Within the NBFC segment, the focus remains on secured 
financing, including Housing Loans, Loans Against 
Property (LAP), Gold Loans, Commercial Vehicle Finance 
and Business Loans. For NBFC-MFIs, your Bank supports 
funding requirements aligned with priority sector norms.
Furthermore, FIG has developed a balanced and 
diversified portfolio with a nationwide presence. The 
Total Advances (including PTC and DA) stood at ₹15,773 
crore as of March 31, 2025, up from ₹12,815 crore in the 
previous year, reflecting a growth of 23%. This steady 
growth is underpinned by long-standing partnerships 
42
Annual Report 2024-25
and a measured approach to risk, enabling sustained 
performance in a dynamic sector.
In FY25, your Bank strengthened its bandhan by 
extending its lending franchise to the healthcare and 
education sectors, providing tailored credit solutions 
within its existing secured lending framework. For the 
Healthcare and Education vertical, the book stood at 
₹232 crore as of March 31, 2025, signifying your Bank’s 
commitment to sectors essential for human and economic 
development. Your Bank also holds exposures through 
Direct Assignments, Pass-Through Certificates, and Non-
Convertible Debentures.
Commercial Loan Against Property 
(Commercial LAP)
The Commercial LAP segment provides secured loans 
to proprietorships, partnerships, and private limited 
companies by leveraging immovable property. This 
segment plays a crucial role in strengthening your Bank’s 
secured lending portfolio, offering businesses the 
flexibility to address a range of financial needs.
With an expanded reach of over 625 branches (as 
of March 2025) and complementary open-market 
sourcing, your Bank is expanding its presence in this 
segment. Digital enhancements are being introduced 
to improve turnaround time, scalability, and the overall 
customer experience.
As of March 31, 2025, the segment’s Total Advances 
stood at ₹1,118 crore, compared to ₹516 crore in FY24, 
registering a growth of 117%. This reflects the growing 
reliance of small business owners on structured, 
transparent financial solutions and the trust built through 
consistent delivery.
Business Banking Group (BBG)
The Business Banking Group (BBG) caters to Micro, Small 
and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), offering secured loans 
ranging from ₹25 lakh to ₹30 crore. Credit is extended 
in the form of Term Loans, Overdrafts, Lease Rental 
Discounting, and non-fund-based facilities, such as 
Letters of Credit and Bank Guarantees.
The segment features several specialised products:
•	 SME Business Connect, which finances both working 
capital and capital expenditure needs against primary 
and collateral security.
•	 SME GST Connect, offering Overdrafts and other fund-
based facilities secured by business assets or property.
•	 Bandhan CGTMSE Loan, which provides collateral-free 
or partially secured loans under the CGTMSE scheme 
for micro and small enterprises.
As of March 31, 2025, BBG’s fund-based advances reached 
₹1,703 crore, displaying a rise of 69%, growing from 
₹1,010 crore in FY24. This reflects not just access to 
capital but an enduring commitment to entrepreneurs 
whose ambitions fuel economic activity at the 
grassroots level.
Agri-business Loans
Agriculture remains integral to India’s economy and 
livelihoods. Your Bank offers financial solutions that 
empower farmers and agri-entrepreneurs alike. The 
segment provides Kisan Cash Credit (KCC) loans for a 
range of farming and allied activities, including animal 
husbandry, horticulture, and aquaculture, supported by 
competitive rates and streamlined processes.
Beyond farm-level credit, your Bank also supports entities 
across the agricultural value chain, including processors, 
input dealers, and service providers. Offerings include 
working capital, term loans, and commodity pledge 
finance for agri-infrastructure and agri-trade.
As of March 31, 2025, the Total Advances stood at ₹749 
crore, up from ₹268 crore in FY24, reflecting a growth 
of 180%. It reflects a long-term, relationship-driven 
approach to rural and agri-sector banking—grounded in 
familiarity, relevance, and continued support.
Across its Wholesale Banking portfolio, your Bank 
continues to build lasting financial partnerships, anchored 
in prudent risk management, responsive service, and 
sectoral expertise. The uniform growth across segments 
reflects not only expanding opportunities but also the 
43
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
enduring trust placed in your Bank by businesses, 
institutions, and entrepreneurs. These deepening 
relationships are the foundation upon which your Bank 
strengthens its bandhan as a reliable partner in India’s 
growth story.
Small Enterprise Loan (SEL)
Small Enterprise Loan (SEL) offers Term Loans and 
working capital products to small enterprises that rely 
on accessible and dependable financial solutions to 
sustain and expand their operations. The SEL vertical 
stands as a trusted financial partner, committed to 
empowering businesses with tailored funding solutions. 
With SEL, businesses gain more than just financial 
assistance; they build a relationship rooted in trust, 
security, and sustained growth.
Trusted financial products under SEL include:
•	 SEL Term Loans (₹3 lakh to ₹10 lakh): Designed to 
support small businesses in their journey, these term 
loans offer flexible tenures of one to three years, 
ensuring access to working capital and asset creation 
with reliability and ease.
•	 SEL Max Loans (₹10.01 lakh to ₹25 lakh): Designed 
for enterprises with ambitious business aspirations, 
SEL Max Loans extend higher-value funding, offering 
businesses a dependable avenue for expansion.
•	 SEL Cash Credit (₹5 lakh to ₹25 lakh): A trusted 
revolving credit facility that provides businesses 
the flexibility to access funds as needed, with 
interest applicable only on the utilised amount. 
Limits are renewed yearly, ensuring continuous 
financial support.
•	 SEL Secured Overdraft Loans (₹10.01 lakh to 
₹25 lakh): Introduced in FY23 to cater to MSME 
borrowers, this overdraft solution strengthens 
financial resilience. Businesses can secure working 
capital while pledging assets, reaffirming the 
foundation of trust in financial partnerships.
The Total Advances of the segment stood at ₹4,526 
crore as on March 31, 2025, supporting over 1.13 lakh 
valued small and growing businesses.
Transaction Banking
During FY25, your Bank continued to strengthen 
its transaction banking proposition across Cash 
Management Services (CMS), Trade Finance, and Supply 
Chain Finance, with a focus on product expansion and 
digital enablement.
During the year, the cash pick-up offering was further 
scaled and enhanced. Several new initiatives were also 
undertaken to broaden the CMS suite, including eNACH 
for external corporates, a centralised escrow platform, 
cheque printing and collection services, host-to-host 
integration, API banking, and virtual account solutions.
These offerings are currently under development and 
are expected to be launched during the current financial 
year, with the objective of building a comprehensive and 
future-ready CMS platform to meet the evolving needs of 
corporate and institutional clients.
On the Trade Finance front, your Bank’s non-fund-
based trade book crossed ₹2,100 crore. The first foreign 
currency import Letter of Credit (LC) and the first Letter 
of Credit Bill Discounting (LCBD) transaction were 
executed, alongside steady growth in cross-border 
remittances averaging over $2.2 million per month.
Your Bank is also in the process of developing a Supply 
Chain Finance platform to complement its existing trade 
and CMS offerings. CMS and Trade continue to be key 
pillars within the Wholesale Banking business, supported 
by ongoing investments in product development and 
service delivery.
Annual Report 2024-25
Annual Report 2024-25
44
Your Bank’s Proactive 
Treasury Risk Governance 
The Treasury Department of your Bank continues 
to play a pivotal role in nurturing financial stability, 
deepening stakeholder confidence, and enabling 
sustainable growth. It stands as a cornerstone of 
prudent financial management, ensuring an optimal 
balance between maintaining liquidity, profitability, 
and risk alongside unwavering compliance with 
regulatory frameworks.
The Treasury Department’s proactive approach to 
excellence entails navigating dynamic economic 
conditions, managing risks and safeguarding your 
Bank’s financial health. It leverages advanced analytics, 
a robust IT infrastructure, managing risks, and an 
in-depth perception of market dynamics. At the same 
time, it oversees value enhancement for depositors, 
investors, and partners. This dual-lensed approach 
ensures that your Bank upholds and sustains the trust  
it shares with all stakeholders. 
This year, your Bank continued its legacy of competently 
managing investments across a diversified portfolio 
of bonds, equities, and foreign exchange instruments, 
amidst a shifting economic landscape. With a strong focus 
on transparency and performance, the team has delivered 
consistent returns while upholding the highest standards 
of governance and risk management. 
In essence, the Treasury Department embodies the 
true spirit of bandhan—a bond of trust, responsibility, 
and shared progress in every transaction and strategy. 
As your Bank continues its journey of expansion and 
empowerment, the Treasury Department remains 
unwavering in its mission: to build enduring financial 
resilience and reinforce the trust that stakeholders place 
in your Bank.
Treasury
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
45
Third-Party Products 
Facilitating 
Comprehensive Solutions 
for Evolving Needs 
The banking industry is undergoing a rapid transition, 
driven by shifting customer demands and data-driven 
technological advancements. However, amidst all this 
evolution in the banking ecosystem, the core philosophy 
of relationship-driven, trust-embedded banking remains 
firmly entrenched. 
Your Bank continues its firm endeavour to be a Bank for 
All – the one destination for all financial services. Your 
Bank provides a comprehensive range of insurance and 
investment solutions, meticulously tailored to customers’ 
financial well-being, a testament to its commitment to 
building a resilient relationship with its customers.
Over the past year, your Bank has focused on enhancing 
its service offerings by leveraging analytics, customer 
insights, and technology to better meet its customers’ 
evolving needs. In doing so, your Bank continues to 
embody the spirit of trust that grows, bandhan that 
strengthens, reinforcing its dedication to nurturing trust 
and deepening its bond with customers, stakeholders, 
and communities.
Furthermore, in an era where the entire banking 
ecosystem is built on partnerships that heavily leverage 
decision sciences, tailored product and service offerings, 
your Bank has been steadfast in its commitment to 
serving customers throughout different life stages. This 
commitment is supported by a well-established and 
diversified network of branches, an empathy-driven 
workforce, as well as robust internet and mobile banking 
platforms. The market for third-party distribution of 
financial products, including life insurance, general 
insurance, and mutual funds, is rapidly evolving in 
response to the progression of customer needs and 
preferences, as well as regulatory interventions.
To keep pace with the evolving financial needs of 
customers, your Bank has entered into ecosystem 
partnerships and built strong synergies with third parties 
to offer robust product propositions closely tailored to its 
customers. In addition to the focused products, your Bank 
has established a strong distribution network for third-
party products, both offline through the branch network 
and online through digital banking platforms.
The focus remains on providing the customers with need-
based solutions to manage their financial well-being, 
reinforcing the values of long-term empowerment and 
relationship-building.
Non-Life Insurance
The world has witnessed an unprecedented increase in 
awareness and response to the growing importance of 
health and financial security following the pandemic. The 
importance of both comprehensive and specialised health 
cover benefits is clearly discernible. 
Your Bank has strengthened its partnerships with 
existing insurance providers such as Bajaj Allianz General 
Insurance Company, Niva Bupa Health Insurance Company 
and The Oriental Insurance Company Ltd. (OICL). Your 
Bank has also forged a new partnership with ICICI 
Lombard General Insurance Company Ltd.
Through these partnerships, your Bank offers a diverse 
range of general insurance products, including home, 
health, motor, personal accident, and critical illness 
insurance. These solutions and offerings help in building 
a comprehensive proposition for your Bank’s customers, 
offering benefits supporting lifestyle and livelihood. 
These offerings are designed to help customers manage 
health-related risks and ensure financial protection 
against uncertainties. 
Furthermore, your Bank’s strong focus on providing 
a safety net around health-related risks has led to a 
comprehensive array of products and solutions tailored 
to secure the specific health needs of its customers and 
protect against unforeseen events. 
Life Insurance
The Indian life insurance industry is experiencing robust 
growth, fuelled by economic progress, increased product 
awareness, a growing middle class, rising disposable 
incomes and supportive government policies and actions. 
Additionally, the industry is benefiting from technological 
advancements, data-driven decision-making, product 
and process innovation, and the expansion of 
distribution networks. 
46
Annual Report 2024-25
Your Bank, as a trusted corporate agent for leading 
insurance companies such as Bajaj Allianz Life, HDFC Life, 
Kotak Life, and Bandhan Life, with whom a corporate-
agency relationship was forged in the last financial 
year, continues to expand access to life insurance. 
Through its well-stitched partnership model, your Bank 
provides a wide range of life insurance products. These 
include protection plans, savings plans, market-linked 
products like Unit Linked Insurance Plans (ULIPs), and 
annuity products with both immediate and deferred 
annuity options. 
These products cater to different customer segments 
and life stages, helping individuals secure their lives and 
achieve their long-term financial goals. These offerings 
further reflect your Bank’s vision of growing with its 
customers, deepening trust and reinforcing the bandhan 
that evolves into lasting financial security.
Mutual Funds
The mutual funds industry has witnessed a year of 
intersecting headwinds and tailwinds as it weathered 
both global and local geopolitical and macroeconomic 
factors. Nevertheless, the industry has remained 
steadfast. Also, steady retail inflows have helped it 
remain largely rangebound, helping see off major 
events. Besides, the mutual fund market has witnessed 
significant participation from retail investors, driven 
by the widespread availability of digital platforms and 
comprehensive data.
Furthermore, your Bank has partnered with leading 
mutual fund companies, including Bandhan, HDFC, ICICI 
Prudential, UTI, Nippon India, SBI, Aditya Birla Sun Life, 
Kotak, Franklin, Axis, and Mirae Asset. Through these 
partnerships, your Bank facilitates a wide variety of 
mutual fund products across asset classes via its Retail 
Internet Banking, Mobile Banking, Branch Banking 
channels. These products are tailored to meet the diverse 
investment needs of customers, providing benefits 
such as asset diversification, disciplined savings, and tax 
advantages in certain products.
Moreover, your Bank focuses on mutual funds to help 
customers build wealth and achieve their financial 
objectives through professional management and 
strategic investment options. With each such offering, 
your Bank builds confidence and loyalty, furthering trust 
that grows and cementing a bandhan that strengthens 
with every step in the customer’s financial journey.
47
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Information Technology
Fortifying Digital Trust 
through Scalable Tech
Information Technology (IT) continues to play a pivotal role in redefining 
the future of banking in the current, dynamic financial landscape. Your 
Bank remains steadfast in leveraging cutting-edge technologies as part 
of its commitment to deliver enhanced customer experiences, drive 
operational excellence, and ensure robust security in an increasingly 
digital ecosystem, thereby strengthening trust with its customers. 
Over the past year, your Bank has made significant strides in its digital 
transformation journey, through focused investments and strategic 
initiatives that have not only bolstered efficiency, innovation, and 
sustainable growth but also reinforced the bandhan with its customers 
and stakeholders.
48
Annual Report 2024-25
Customer-Centric IT Initiatives
Your Bank introduced several customer-focused 
technology solutions in FY25 to improve engagement and 
expand accessibility:
•	 Launched QR code-based EMI collections from 
microfinance customers
•	 Implemented an Enterprise-Wide Loyalty & 
Rewards Management Platform (EWLP) to drive 
customer retention and engagement by centralising 
reward programmes
•	 Secured authorisation to open pension accounts 
for central, civil, and railway retirees, including 
integration with the Jeevan Pramaan portal for life 
certificate submissions
•	 Enabled direct payment of Income Tax and GST through 
net banking, debit cards, and UPI
•	 Rolled out regulatory SMS notifications to inform 
DPD (Days Past Due) customers about credit data 
submission to Credit Information Companies (CICs)
Expansion of Digital Banking Services
Your Bank has continued to enhance its digital offerings, 
ensuring secure and seamless banking experiences for 
its customers.
Noteworthy advancements of FY25 include:
•	 Neo FD: Enabled customers to remotely open Fixed 
Deposit accounts through a video KYC process.
•	 QR-based Loan Repayment: Introduced unique QR 
codes facilitating direct loan EMI payments via any 
UPI app.
•	 Trade Finance CBS Product Processor (FCY): Launched 
a comprehensive platform for handling export/import 
transactions and cross-border remittances.
•	 Contactless Transactions: Enabled contactless payments 
on Bandhan Bank POS terminals using Bandhan Bank 
debit cards.
•	 Transaction Monitoring: Strengthened real-time digital 
transaction monitoring.
Robotic Process Automation (RPA)
To streamline operations and reduce manual 
dependencies, your Bank implemented Robotic Process 
Automation (RPA) across key functions. This initiative 
has resulted in faster processing, improved accuracy, and 
allowed employees to focus on higher-value tasks.
Strengthening Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity remains a top priority for your Bank. Your 
Bank has rendered substantial enhancements to its 
security infrastructure, ensuring greater resilience against 
evolving threats.
Key initiatives undertaken in FY25 included:
•	 Deployment of advanced anti-malware solutions
•	 Strengthened access controls for the Core Banking 
System (CBS) through IDAM (Identity and Access 
Management)
•	 Implementation of an application monitoring tool for 
proactive alerts and issue resolution
•	 Rollout of Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) for 
advanced endpoint protection
•	 On-premise implementation of DDoS protection to 
safeguard perimeter security
49
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Operational Excellence
Cementing Trust Through 
Operational Strength
Your Bank’s operations aim to make it future-ready, aligning with the evolving 
customer preferences and regulatory compliances. By enabling services that are 
accessible, compliant, and efficient — anytime, anywhere — your Bank ensures 
convenience without compromise. Your Bank’s operational excellence reflects its 
core belief: trust that grows, bandhan that strengthens, as it integrates its diverse 
strengths to build deeper connections and deliver trusted experiences to a vast and 
expanding customer base.
Strengthening Credit Operations for 
Sustainable Growth
During FY25, your Bank, in pursuit of operational 
excellence, established the Credit Administration and 
Asset Operations Department (CAD). The department 
is a strategic step to oversee and strengthen 
your Bank’s credit processes and lifecycle, reinforcing 
its commitment to building systems rooted in trust and 
long-term efficiency.
CAD is a blend of governance, risk management, data 
analytics, and operational efficiency. Some of the key 
measures being taken include ensuring regulatory and 
IRAC compliance, introducing workflow automation tools, 
tracking drawdowns and usage, validating collateral 
management systems, utilising EWS to flag deteriorating 
loans, and conducting regular credit reviews and re-
rating exercises. These initiatives collectively reflect your 
Bank’s focus on earning and nurturing trust that grows by 
embedding transparency, discipline, and control into the 
credit ecosystem.
Furthermore, a dedicated team is assessing current 
underwriting policies and procedures for the entire 
lending business across all verticals. At the same time, 
your Bank is redefining the approving authority to 
tighten the approval and delegation framework, thereby 
strengthening internal structures in alignment with the 
spirit of bandhan to grow together.
50
Annual Report 2024-25
Similarly, your Bank believes that CAD will play a 
significant role in achieving sustainable growth, aligning 
with its commitment to building stakeholders’ trust. 
Your Bank achieved key milestones in strengthening 
the operational backbone of the Trade Finance 
division, reinforcing its position as a reliable partner in 
global trade.
Through a combination of process reengineering, system 
upgrades, and strategic investments in technology, 
your Bank ensured that its operations remained agile, 
compliant, and customer-centric. These steps support 
not only operational resilience but also the foundation of 
strong and enduring relationships with clients.
Moreover, your Bank has adapted to the dynamic changes 
influencing the current banking landscape, ensuring its 
operations remained efficient, robust, and customer-
focused. This reinforces a bandhan that deepens through 
innovation and responsiveness. With the application of 
data analytics, there is regular monitoring of portfolio 
movements and trends in secured advances.
Simultaneously, your Bank is continually engaged in 
automation projects with a key focus on the quality and 
accuracy of reporting. Following the migration of the Core 
Banking System, your Bank has leveraged technology 
in every aspect of its value proposition, from designing 
products to streamlining processes that improve delivery 
and monitoring, building further on the foundation of 
trust that grows.
Throughout FY25, your Bank appointed various external 
agencies to evaluate the existing credit processes, 
identify gaps, and provide solutions. Based on these 
solutions and identified needs, your Bank has onboarded 
external vendors and applications to efficiently monitor 
and improve control over critical credit parameters and 
day-to-day account operations. This will also help your 
Bank reduce long-term compliance costs and track asset 
quality on a regular basis, thereby nurturing trust in 
your Bank.
Overall, your Bank is confident that the strategic 
initiatives undertaken through CAD and the related 
automation efforts will yield long-term benefits. 
These include improved credit quality, greater process 
transparency, and enhanced stakeholder confidence.
Operational Excellence: Optimising 
Service Experience 
Operational excellence forms the backbone of any 
organisation, and is, therefore, of paramount importance. 
To strengthen operational resilience and ensure seamless 
management, your Bank is working on many initiatives.
On the strategic front, your Bank is actively pursuing 
various digital initiatives, such as account opening 
with automated customer identification solutions and 
WhatsApp banking services, aimed at delivering a seamless 
and efficient service experience to its customers.
Similarly, the operations team is working on various 
initiatives to integrate Robotic Process Automation 
(RPA) into routine operations as a key step towards 
enhancing efficiency, reducing human dependency, and 
ensuring consistency in service delivery. These initiatives 
are not only pivotal for operational excellence but also 
align with your Bank’s larger goal of contributing to the 
transformation and digital empowerment of India.
Additionally, your Bank is making significant strides 
towards a paperless banking system in its operational 
areas, thereby aligning with its broader ‘Go Green’ initiative 
and commitment to environmental sustainability. Your 
Bank is working on reducing the paper-based processing 
of account servicing requests and adopting system-based 
processing by migrating all email-based and paper-based 
processes to workflow-based systems.
By embedding digital agility and transparency into its 
operations and management, your Bank is stabilising a 
system of trust that grows, bandhan that strengthens.
51
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Customer Experience
Quality in every Interaction 
and Delivering Best-in-Class 
Banking Experience
Your Bank remains steadfast in its commitment to delivering superior customer 
experiences. Your Bank’s Customer Experience Department continues to enhance service 
delivery and processes that are essential to providing seamless, convenient, and secure 
banking experiences. Through structured feedback mechanisms, such as the Voice of the 
Customer and Voice of the Employee, your Bank has actively identified and addressed 
gaps between customer expectations and service delivery. These insights are instrumental 
in shaping its robust ‘Customer-First’ culture and redesigning processes and systems to 
enhance customer trust and banking experience.
52
Annual Report 2024-25
During FY25, your Bank focused on enhancing 
experiences across every customer touchpoint.
Several strategic initiatives were undertaken to 
ensure improved access, convenience, and service 
excellence:
•	 Your Bank’s 24/7 Contact Centre supports multiple 
regional languages in addition to English and 
Hindi, managing a wide range of services, including 
emergency support, grievance resolution, and product-
related queries. Additionally, customers can reach out 
to explore additional products and services. As part of 
your Bank’s omnichannel strategy, the Contact Centre 
is evolving into a multilingual customer engagement 
hub across three locations with a frictionless Self-
Service IVR system that offers profile-based call 
routing, including direct access to agents for EEB 
(Emerging Entrepreneurs Business) customers.
•	 To elevate the in-branch experience, 50 branches have 
been redesigned to offer an enhanced ambience, 
seating arrangements, and visibility of essential 
banking information. Awareness campaigns and visual 
cues further enrich the customer experience. The next 
phase includes upgrading additional 500 branches. 
Concurrently, branch banking transactions and account 
opening journeys are being re-engineered to be 
straight-through and instant, with built-in validations, 
ensuring faster, error-free and hassle-free banking.
•	 Recognising the growing importance of digital 
engagement, your Bank has made digital banking 
secure and user-friendly, with enhancements to 
frequently used features. Insights from customer 
feedback continue to shape your Bank’s security 
roadmap, with particular attention to reducing 
Unauthorised Electronic Banking Transactions (UEBT) 
and reinforcing digital trust. Your Bank is also in the 
process of launching WhatsApp Banking, which will 
carry all the frequently used functionalities for better 
accessibility and convenience.
•	 Your Bank has undertaken an end-to-end revamping 
of the grievance machinery with more convenience 
for customers. Some of the features include a 
comprehensive and well-established policy with 
improved turnaround times and escalation points. 
Simultaneously, your Bank is working on an enhanced 
portal for real-time complaint status tracking, options 
to attach documents, provide feedback on resolution 
quality and more.
Further, your Bank continues to strengthen its ‘Customer-
First’ culture through regular engagement. Customers 
are invited to participate in the Standing Committee on 
Customer Service and the Customer Service Committee 
of the Board, enabling direct feedback to senior 
management. Monthly Branch-Level Customer Service 
Committee meetings are held, inviting customers from 
diverse backgrounds, including senior citizens and 
pensioners, to share their experiences and suggestions.  
Your Bank has also initiated transaction surveys, wherein 
feedback is taken from customers within a week of their 
interaction for the recency effect. In addition, your Bank 
regularly gathers feedback from its frontline employees, 
whose insights are invaluable in refining service delivery.
Moreover, your Bank benchmarks its services against 
industry standards and incorporates findings from 
ongoing feedback and periodic studies. As a result, 
continuous improvements are being made to service 
delivery and customer journeys. Similarly, your Bank’s 
governance framework has been reinforced to monitor 
performance across all service delivery channels through 
service quality audits. Your Bank recently concluded 
a comprehensive Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey 
covering all product lines. The outcomes of this study 
will guide large-scale enhancements in product, process, 
and systems.
Furthermore, your Bank’s Customer Experience 
Department publishes a periodic ‘Customer-First’ internal 
newsletter, which highlights best practices in service 
delivery and features stories of employees exemplifying 
customer-centric values. This initiative builds a shared 
understanding of what it means to deliver excellence in 
every customer interaction.
As part of its broader transformation agenda, your Bank 
is continuously upgrading its IT infrastructure. It is in 
the process of rolling out new customer onboarding 
journeys and have redesigned several transaction 
processing workflows to make them simple, frictionless 
and straight-through.
In essence, your Bank endeavours to build a customer-
centric organisation focusing on quality in every 
interaction, thus delivering a superior banking experience. 
Your Bank acknowledges that customer experience is not 
just about transactions but about building a long-term 
bandhan, grounded in trust and mutual growth.
53
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Transformation Management Office
Transformation
How the drive for survival affects all living beings is 
understood since the days of Charles Darwin. According 
to modern-day economic research, this also applies to the 
corporate world. Your Bank understands that though the 
parallels between natural and economic transformation 
are striking, the pace is significantly different. 
In nature, it can take centuries or millennia for traits 
to impact a species' prospects positively or negatively. 
On the contrary, in a fast-paced economy of the 
Anthropocene, companies often have mere months or 
years to adapt to secure their survival. 
Businesses are never in a state of equilibrium. Instead, 
they are characterised by constant competition among 
companies, products, and systems. As in Darwin's 
observations on natural selection, only those that adapt 
to their environment emerge victorious. 
Companies must, therefore, navigate this challenge 
daily by adapting to new regulations, shifting consumer 
preferences, demographic changes, long-term trends 
like climate change, and above all, digitalisation. This 
is achieved through transformational efforts that 
create new ecosystems or interconnect existing ones, 
benefiting all. 
The Epicentre of Trust-led 
Transformation
Transformation and Trust
Your Bank believes that trust and transformation are 
intrinsically linked, both in personal and professional 
contexts. Since banking is a business built on trust, any 
transformation must be rooted in it. Within relationships, 
a foundation of mutual faith enables vulnerability, open 
communication, transparency, and collaboration, all of 
which are vital for positive change and growth. 
Trust is also essential for creating a shared commitment to 
change, where team members feel valued and empowered 
to contribute their best work. Your Bank's leadership 
prioritises building trust with their teams, creating a sense 
of psychological safety that encourages innovation and 
risk-taking. Your Bank believes in maintaining high ethical 
standards and showing empathy towards others, paying 
attention to others' perspectives and showing genuine 
care to build trust and strengthen relationships. They 
inspire followers by communicating a compelling vision 
and demonstrating genuine care for their well-being. 
In essence, trust acts as the lubricant that allows 
transformation to occur smoothly and effectively. A lack of 
trust can create friction and resistance, while a foundation 
of trust enables individuals and organisations to navigate 
change with greater ease and achieve more impactful 
results. When employees trust their leaders and the 
organisation's intentions, they are more likely to embrace 
new strategies, technologies, and processes. 
It is not the strongest of the 
species that survives, nor the 
most intelligent that survives. 
It is the one that is most 
adaptable to change. 
– Charles Darwin
Wise men put their trust in 
ideas and not in circumstances.
– Ralph Waldo Emerson
54
Annual Report 2024-25
Transformation is an 
ongoing process that 
tends to appear ordinary, 
when, in fact, something 
extraordinary is taking place.
– Suzy Ross 
Transformation at Your Bank
Your Bank is at a pivotal stage of its growth journey, and 
to stay competitive, it has embarked on the Bandhan 
Bank 2.0 transformation journey encompassing business, 
channels, operations, digital, and customer experience. 
To achieve the goal of a syncretic transformation, a 
Transformation Management Office (TMO) has been 
established as an extension of the MD and CEO’s office. 
The TMO oversees and catalyses several transformative 
initiatives being undertaken at your Bank. It operates 
under four I’s - Initiation, Intervention, Innovation, 
and Integration, guiding its comprehensive approach 
to strategic evolution. Presently, TMO is catalysing 
29 projects and initiatives involving 16 departments 
with 129 Bandhanites, reflecting One Bandhan Bank.
Furthermore, your Bank believes that driving 
transformation requires exuberance, experience and 
an amalgamation of diverse skill sets and thinking, and 
the TMO has been staffed accordingly. The TMO has 
already initiated actions associated with technology 
modernisation, process improvements, capability 
evolution, new business model reconfiguration, and more. 
Some of the transformative initiatives currently in the 
pipeline include retail liability sourcing from increased 
catchments through the banking units (BU), modernising 
the credit underwriting process with an integrated 
approach of implementing business rule engines for all 
rule-based products, and using analytical tool-based 
scorecards and technology-based PDs, leading to STP 
digital underwriting. Simultaneously, all digital platforms 
are being upgraded in accordance with Service-Channel-
Customer compatibility mapping to ensure a seamless 
customer journey. 
Moreover, your Bank is working to innovatively utilise 
emerging technologies such as QR codes, WhatsApp 
banking, and facial recognition capabilities in various 
aspects, including customer convenience, operational 
efficiency, recovery efforts, and fraud risk management. 
Besides, a culture of agility and continuous improvement 
underpins these efforts, reflected in workplace 
transformation initiatives and the alignment of new 
technologies, such as AEPS, with business objectives 
aimed at digitalising the working environment.
At its core, the Transformation Management Office 
embodies your Bank's unwavering commitment to its 
future. By championing these strategic imperatives and 
embracing the evolutionary currents of the industry, your 
Bank is not simply reacting to change but actively shaping 
for the future. 
Your Bank is confident in its ability to build  
Bandhan Bank 2.0, an agile, innovative, tech-savvy 
and customer-centric universal bank, ensuring that 
with growing trust, the bandhan with its customers 
strengthens. Together, they symbolify resilience, 
deeper engagement, and sustained financial inclusion, 
reinforcing your Bank’s core values of trust, customer-
centricity, and long-term empowerment.
The best way to predict the 
future is to create it.
– Peter Drucker
55
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Human Capital
Your Bank has been focused on building an organisation in a rapidly evolving 
financial landscape, one that thrives on diversity and inclusivity and builds innovation 
and community connection. With a strong focus on employee engagement, team 
collaboration and business expansion, your Bank has laid a powerful foundation for its 
future growth. Your Bank acknowledges the contribution and importance of Human 
Capital Management in strategising and strengthening the people infrastructure 
essential for sustained growth, continuous innovation and long-term success. 
Embedding a Culture of 
Care, Capability,  
and Collaboration
Human Resources Business Partner (HRBP) 
56
Annual Report 2024-25
FY25 was a transformative year for your Bank, marked 
by key reforms and strategic initiatives aligning 
with its organisation values that prioritise a human-
centric approach.
Your Bank implemented the following strategic 
measures, reinforcing the Bank’s core values 
of trust, customer-centricity and long-term 
empowerment.
•	 In FY25, your Bank promoted 7,767 employees in 
recognition of their performance, initiatives and 
leadership traits demonstrated in their current role 
and elevated more than 2,000 employees in FY25. 
Your Bank’s strategic investments in leadership, 
motivation and continuity ensure it continues to build 
a high-performing and engaged workforce, steadily 
strengthening the bandhan it shares with its people.
•	 Your Bank doubled down on ‘Hire from Within’ this 
year, reflecting its belief that its people are the 
strongest foundation for growth. Your Bank has scaled 
up its Internal Job Posting (IJP) platform, enabling 
staff to apply for new roles and career paths internally. 
By prioritising promotions and transfers from within, 
your Bank reduced external lateral hiring and reaped 
the benefits of employee loyalty and continuity.
•	 Your Bank forged strong campus-to-career pathways 
to onboard new talent into the organisation, ensuring 
a steady influx of skilled individuals. Empowering 
young professionals to build a stable and rewarding 
career in the financial field, your Bank visited 34 
premier institutes and selected 133 young students, 
offering them dynamic career opportunities and 
creating a robust talent pipeline from interns to full-
time bankers, aligning with industry insights critical 
for long-term growth.
•	 In FY25, your Bank has focused on implementing 
strategies that build a sense of community and 
promote a culture of inclusivity with enhanced team 
collaboration, camaraderie, and overall employee 
well-being. Your Bank organised football and cricket 
tournaments engaging more than 2,000 employees 
across locations.
•	 In FY24, your Bank conducted a follow-up survey in 
continuation of the employee engagement survey 
with Gallup in FY22. The survey revealed your Bank’s 
outstanding performance with an improved score 
of 4.56 out of 5, accompanied by higher employee 
participation. Your Bank has also been recognised 
with the Gallup Exceptional Workplace award 2025 
for the second time in a row.
The aforementioned initiatives portray your Bank’s 
commitment to cultivating a resilient, future-ready 
organisation, anchored in an enduring bandhan it 
shares with its people. 
57
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Learning and Development
Learning and Development (L&D)
For FY25, your Bank made a quantum leap in 
strengthening its Learning and Development (L&D) 
proposition for employees. It has developed programmes 
to equip employees with the necessary skillset, mindset 
and knowledge to enable them to meet the challenges of 
a rapidly changing banking industry.
This year, your Bank has focused on building 
employee competencies and key strategic 
imperatives such as:
•	 Initiatives on Compliance Adherence and 
Risk Mitigation
•	 Initiatives on Customer Service Excellence and 
Grievance Redressal Mechanisms
•	 Initiatives on Slippage Control and 
Recovery Management
•	 Initiatives on Cross-selling and Portfolio Growth
Apart from the above, the L&D Team has focused on 
behavioural learning interventions to strengthen the 
leadership pipeline. These include the following:
•	 Bespoke leadership development interventions 
through ISB for its CXO, Senior Management, 
and other critical role holders
•	 Leader as a Coach programme for the 
Senior Management
•	 Women’s Leadership Development journey for DVPs 
and above
•	 Several behavioural interventions based on the needs 
of specific audiences
•	 A Lean Six Sigma green belt intervention for process 
excellence was piloted with an impact on multiple 
ongoing projects
Learning Centres
Human Resources has taken a strategic step to 
evolve the learning centres from a vendor-managed 
to a bank-managed setup. Your Bank offers training 
across 13 locations in the country, which reflects its 
commitment to invest in the learning and development 
of its employees.
Succession Planning and Leadership 
Development
A structured succession planning and leadership 
development process enables your Bank to identify, 
groom and develop the next level leaders. Your Bank 
has a systematic approach to identify the critical role 
holders who require further development to drive 
growth and encourage innovation within their team 
and the organisation at large. Accordingly, your Bank 
has initiated a roadmap for grooming the senior 
leaders in specially curated Leadership Development 
Programmes in collaboration with the Indian School of 
Business, Hyderabad.
Diversity and Women’s Leadership
Your Bank launched the flagship Women’s Leadership 
Development Programme, ‘Bandhan For Her’, to 
strengthen gender diversity initiatives. It was initiated 
with the adoption of a formal DEI Policy. Under 
this initiative, the major interventions are Women’s 
Leadership Training to strengthen and develop the 
45 aspiring senior female leaders over three months. 
A range of programmes and initiatives will follow to 
further your Bank’s investment in diversity, equity, 
and inclusion.
58
Annual Report 2024-25
Capacity Building and External Training 
Programmes
Employee capacity building initiatives are the top 
priorities for your Bank, and during the course of the year, 
5,689 employees participated in various external capacity 
building programmes. These programmes were aimed 
at enhancing functional skills, technical competencies, 
leadership capabilities, and industry-specific knowledge.
Your Bank has ensured that employees remain well-
equipped to adapt to the evolving industry trends, 
such as digital banking and cybersecurity in a changing 
regulatory landscape. Your Bank’s strategy focuses on 
developing talent and empowering its employees for 
long-term organisational growth, which is reflected in 
these initiatives.
Digital Learning Initiatives
Your Bank has invested in a world-class e-learning service 
provider, LinkedIn Learning, to broaden the scope of 
capacity building for its employees. This will provide 
senior managers and above, access to over 24,000 
learning resources anytime, anywhere. Your Bank has 
begun the journey with a focus on building AI (Artificial 
Intelligence) skills, given its significance in the current 
scheme of things.
Key L&D Metrics to drive learning and 
development initiatives in your Bank during FY25 
are enumerated below:
•	 3 million learning hours achieved in FY25, up by 14% 
from FY24
•	 Per-employee learning hours stood at 34 hours of 
training per employee in FY25
•	 99.6% of employees participated in at least one 
training programme in FY25
•	 Total training coverage across all formats (Internal/
External/e-Module) reached 7,67,756 - 71% increase 
from FY24
•	 Digital learning penetration among employees 
grew substantially in FY25. Logins on the Learning 
Management System (Bandhan Edge) reached 
12,60,879 by March 2025, marking a notable increase of 
50% from FY24
Special Initiatives were taken during FY25 to 
augment the regular training strategies aimed at 
skill development for the employees:
•	 Productivity improvement programmes were launched 
for affluent channel, government business, current 
account and other business units.
•	 Multi-faceted training interventions covering 
classroom training, webinars, e-learning courses, 
quizzes, contests, and more were facilitated for 
building operational excellence across business 
functions. Programmes on customer service, First Time 
Right for the account opening process and employees 
in Central Processing Units, and Credit Management 
were also conducted.
•	 Management Development Programmes to upskill 
role-elevated employees and Leadership Development 
Programmes for role-elevated employees from junior 
to senior management across business functions. 
These programmes encourage employees to hone new 
skills and competencies required for the higher role.
•	 Grow with Bandhan Bank: A new initiative was 
launched for all employees to self-nominate for 
continuous learning. These were specially curated, 
bite-sized training sessions to enhance skill, 
behaviour, attitude, and mindset for personal and 
professional growth.
•	 RISE: A culture-building programme was launched as 
a part of the organisational development strategy, 
emphasising areas of Professionalism, Collaboration, 
Transparency and Speed.
•	 Multiple learning measures were implemented to 
improve your Bank’s compliance and risk culture. 
Mandatory training modules on POSH, Information 
Security, KYC-AML/CFT, Fraud Awareness, and 
Business Continuity Plan were used to train the 
majority of employees.
59
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Digitisation in HR
Digitalisation in HR has been a strategic initiative to 
enhance your Bank’s talent acquisition, development, 
and management capabilities. By adopting advanced 
technologies, your Bank has been able to improve 
efficiency, reduce manual administrative tasks, and focus 
more on strategic initiatives to drive organisational 
growth. Technological advancement in the HR domain 
helps your Bank to ensure a better employee experience, 
given the diverse nature of its workforce.
Through the Human Resource Management System 
(HRMS), your Bank hosts all significant HR Domain 
journeys and self-service activities, allowing ease of 
access for routine transactions such as attendance, leave 
management, travel, query resolutions, etc. It is also a 
knowledge base of information related to your Bank’s 
policies, processes and personal records, enabling quick 
access when needed. Regular workflow approvals on the 
app have significantly improved. Additionally, greater 
control and governance could be established.
HR Service Desk
Your Bank has set in place a robust query handling 
mechanism to ensure that it is accessible to all employees. 
The HR Service Desk, a centralised and dedicated team, 
is equipped to handle employee queries and service 
requests, striving to provide a speedy resolution.
Listening to Employees
Your Bank builds a culture of continuous listening and 
feedback from its employees through surveys and 
poll functionalities.
Bandhan Bank Alumni Portal
The Bandhan Bank Alumni Portal is a digital platform that 
provides ex-staff with a seamless offboarding and access 
to important documentation after their exit.
Other HR Initiatives
Your Bank launched an organisation-wide Know Your 
Bank (KYB) and Know Your Customer (KYC), a KYC quiz-
based knowledge series through HRMS with the objective 
of helping employees gain a better understanding of the 
key business units, their products, processes, policies, 
and USPs.
Employee Benefits
Your Bank celebrates the gift of parenthood and 
undertakes several initiatives to support its employees as 
they take on new responsibilities as parents. In line with 
the Maternity Benefit Act, female employees are eligible 
for maternity leave of 26 weeks. Your Bank also provides 
adoption leave to women employees.
Paternity Leave
Paternity leave of five days was introduced, extended 
beyond regular privilege leave, to promote gender 
equality and enable male employees to support their 
families during childbirth.
Employee Health and Wellness
Your Bank considers its employees as its most valuable 
assets. Therefore, your Bank has always remained 
proactive in carefully curating the health and wellness 
quotient. Your Bank has tie-ups with hospitals in key 
locations across the country to facilitate quick medical 
attention for employees in medical emergencies. Your 
Bank also provides comprehensive insurance coverage 
for employees across all grades. The Group Insurance 
facility includes the Group Mediclaim Policy covering 
hospitalisation expenses of employees and their 
enrolled dependents sponsored by your Bank, the Group 
Personal Accidental Insurance Policy and the Group 
Term Life Insurance Policy with terminal illness rider for 
the employees.
Human Resources Operations 
60
Annual Report 2024-25
Employee Health Check-up Policy
As one of the measures to encourage employees to stay 
healthy and identify health issues, if any, your Bank has a 
policy on Employee Health Check-up. Your Bank sponsors 
the health check-up for employees at the senior and 
top management grades. Other employees can avail of 
services at discounted rates.
Health Awareness
Your Bank launched several health awareness initiatives 
to enhance employee wellness. These included regular 
information letters and health tips, communication 
to employees on topics such as stress management, 
promoting mental health, the perils of self-medication, 
and more. Health awareness programmes and sessions 
on ‘Prevention of Diabetes’ and ‘Pain and Palliative 
Care’ were also conducted. Additionally, regular health 
camps and training workshops on first aid and CPR were 
arranged to promote staff safety.
Wellness Platform
B Well Digi Care Plan is a representation of that 
commitment with all health benefits under one roof, 
knit together by state-of-the-art technology and 24/7 
customer support. Through this, your Bank provides free 
online medical consultations and facilitates medicine 
deliveries and diagnostic services, thereby ensuring 
accessible healthcare solutions. Other services include 
discounted dental, eye consultations and procedures, 
discounted gyms and fitness services including yoga, 
zumba, etc., fully sponsored IPD Assist for post-discharge 
online care and doctor consultations, and health 
assessments. A wealth of online wellness resources and 
health articles is also available on the wellness platform.
HR Compliance
Your Bank adheres to all applicable statutory and 
regulatory laws and guidelines in their true spirit and 
stays updated with the changing dynamics of the 
laws. It ensures all statutory payments are timely 
remitted to the respective authorities, and required 
compliance records are meticulously maintained. All 
necessary returns and disclosures are furnished to the 
relevant authorities in a timely manner according to the 
provisions of law.
Discipline and Ethics Management 
The Code of Conduct and Ethics (‘Code’) articulates your 
Bank's commitment to conduct business in accordance 
with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with 
all applicable laws, rules and regulations. At your Bank, 
ethical behaviour is inseparable from honesty, integrity 
and good judgement. Accordingly, all employees are 
required to follow the Code and act with a high degree 
of professional and ethical standards. Employees shall 
be accountable and responsible for their actions and 
decisions while performing their day-to-day activities. 
As long as the employees discharge their duties efficiently 
in accordance with systems and laid down procedures 
and guidelines, policies and regulations in force, they will 
not attract disciplinary action. However, any breach of 
the Code, including deviation from the above-mentioned 
principles, shall be considered a punishable offence and 
attract disciplinary actions against the erring employee. 
In case of gross misconduct, your Bank has a Discipline 
and Ethics Management team, which deals with these 
disciplinary cases and imposes punishment in line with the 
decision of its Disciplinary Committee.
61
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Focusing on what Matters: 
Key Risk Areas
Your Bank prioritises proactive identification and mitigation of potential risks 
through a robust risk management strategy aligned with industry’s best practices. 
This approach ensures resilience and builds growing trust among stakeholders, 
strengthening the long-standing relationship they share with your Bank. 
Your Bank’s holistic approach towards 
managing risks emphasises four key elements:
1.	
Developing a corporate risk profile
2.	
Risk function that manages risk prudently
3.	
Practicing integrated risk management
4.	
Ensuring continuous risk monitoring
These practices protect your Bank’s long-term 
stability and reinforce stakeholder confidence, 
enabling stronger bonds and deeper engagement. 
They continue to differentiate your Bank, empower 
decision-making, protect stakeholder interest, and 
win their trust and loyalty.
The risks managed include credit risk, credit 
concentration risk, market risk, liquidity risk, interest 
rate risk in the banking book, operational risk, fraud 
risk, conduct risk, IT risk, outsourcing risk, compliance 
and legal risk, information security (InfoSec) risk, 
reputational risk, strategic risk, business risk and their 
underlying interlinkages.
Your Bank's strong risk governance strives to nurture 
enduring relationships, upholding the values of trust, 
customer-centricity and long-term empowerment, 
true to the spirit of trust and bandhan.
The essence of risk 
management lies not 
in avoiding risk but 
in understanding and 
preparing for it.
– Peter L. Bernstein
Risk Management
62
Annual Report 2024-25
Success is not final, failure is 
not fatal: It is the COURAGE 
to CONTINUE that counts. 
– Winston S. Churchill
Risk management and resilience are closely 
intertwined. Effective risk management 
practices contribute to resilience by reducing 
the likelihood and severity of adverse events, 
thereby providing stability and building trust.  
In recent years, unexpected global events have 
disrupted businesses across different parts of the 
world. The confluence of a global pandemic, massive 
supply chain disruptions, geopolitical risks, and many 
other challenges has fueled inflation, escalated the 
cost of living, and led to large-scale cyber-attack, 
among other consequences. 
Furthermore, the predominant operational risks faced 
earlier emanated from vulnerabilities related to the 
increasing dependence and rapid adoption of technology 
for the provision of financial services and intermediation. 
However, the growing reliance on third-party providers, 
exacerbated by COVID-19 with a greater reliance on 
virtual working arrangements, has highlighted the 
increasing importance of operational resilience. 
Moreover, the landscape is ever-evolving, with frequent 
changes in regulatory guidelines, technological 
expectations, and shifting consumer preferences.  
To stay one step ahead, your Bank has embarked on 
a forward-looking transformation journey, driving 
innovation within—through a focus on modernising its 
technology, optimising processes, evolving capabilities, 
and innovating its business and operating models. 
This will ultimately enhance customer convenience, 
operational efficiency, and risk management.
Your Bank acknowledges the critical need to shape a 
resilient and robust organisation that can adapt quickly 
and take informed decisions and actions. Therefore, 
uniform measures are in place to assess the immediate 
and potential future effects and proactively map 
probable corrective actions and mitigation plans. 
Accordingly, streamlining of core business is prioritised, 
which supports critical services and products. A 
comprehensive Crisis and Business Continuity Plan 
(BCP), developed in collaboration with key stakeholders, 
has been put in place and can be quickly activated. 
Similarly, stress testing, through various extreme but 
plausible scenarios, is done regularly to prepare your 
Bank for uncertainties, apart from testing for normal 
risk scenarios.
Building a Resilient Risk Management Framework
63
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Approach to Risk Management
Your Bank’s Risk Management framework outlines 
its approach to risk management, encompassing 
provisions for risk governance arrangements, 
appetite and limits for risk exposures, policies for 
the management of various risk types, risk culture 
standards, and risk reporting.  
The key arrangements and standards for risk management 
and internal controls that support your Bank’s compliance 
with statutory and regulatory requirements are also 
clearly defined under this framework. By doing so, your 
Bank establishes a foundation for institutional trust 
and responsible growth practices. Simultaneously, risk 
transparency is built through reporting, disclosure, 
sharing of information and open dialogue on the risks 
arising from various activities across your Bank. 
Your Bank’s risk appetite is dynamic, taking into 
account changing situations. To assess the potential 
levels of stress that your Bank may encounter in the 
current dynamic macroeconomic and microeconomic 
environment, it conducts additional scenario analysis 
prudently, beyond what is required by the regulator.
Furthermore, your Bank’s robust Risk Appetite Framework 
(‘RAF’), set annually by the Board on the recommendation 
of the RMCB, aims to align risk-taking with its strategy, 
business, and capital plans. The RAF is a key governance 
tool. Hence, clarity regarding risk appetite and knowledge 
of operational triggers, which act as internal management 
triggers, is considered essential for risk-aware decision-
making.
Moreover, scenarios and measurement approaches for 
quantifying risk and capital demands are implemented 
across all material risk types. Systems, processes, 
and policies are critical components of your Bank’s 
risk management capability. Meanwhile, continuous 
Risk Management is a more 
realistic term than safety. 
It implies that hazards are 
ever-present, that they must 
be identified, analysed, 
evaluated and controlled or 
rationally accepted. 
– Jerome F. Lederer
monitoring, scenario analysis, stress testing tools, 
and escalation processes safeguard key capital and 
liquidity levels. 
Overall, the lessons from recent uncertainties has helped 
in strengthening the Risk Assessment Framework. 
The learnings were incorporated to regulate industry 
and socio-political risks and conduct risk within the 
framework, taking them into consideration while 
formulating your Bank’s strategy and business 
expansion plan.
Your Bank keeps risk appetite as a guiding document 
while planning for the growth strategy.
64
Annual Report 2024-25
Risk Governance That Guards Trust
Banks need well-defined roles and responsibilities 
for managing risks, with robust mechanisms 
capable of holding individuals and teams 
accountable for their risk management 
decisions and actions. This includes establishing 
risk committees, risk appetite frameworks, and 
efficient escalation mechanisms to ensure the 
risks are identified, assessed, and managed at 
all levels within the organisation. 
Furthermore, your Bank believes that considerations of 
profits or performance evaluation should not influence 
the role of risk management, but rather should align with 
regulatory guidelines and international best practices. 
Accordingly, your Bank’s risk governance framework 
provides guidance on adopting a more holistic approach 
to managing risk. The detailed roles and responsibilities 
within your Bank further support the framework.
Your Bank follows three levels of the Risk 
Governance Framework:
1.	
Board
2.	
Committees of the Board
3.	
Management Committees
Your Bank’s Board, through the Risk Management 
Committee of the Board (RMCB), is regularly updated and 
as necessary, on special developments in its risk situation, 
risk management, and risk mitigation.
The Risk Management Committee of the Board (RMCB) 
deliberates with the Management on the issues of 
aggregate risk disposition and risk strategy. It also 
supports the Board in monitoring the implementation of 
this strategy.
Uncertainty is the only 
certainty there is, and 
knowing how to live with 
insecurity is the only security. 
– John Allen Paulos
Various risk-related committees at Executive Level, 
such as Asset Liability Management Committee 
(ALCO), Credit Risk Management Committee (CRMC), 
Operational Risk Management Committee (ORMC), 
Market Risk Management Committee (MRMC), and 
Information Security Committee (ISC), among others 
serve as formalised decision-making forums, which 
enable the views of risk decision takers and risk 
managers to be taken into account.
The Chief Risk Officer (CRO) is directly responsible 
for all the risk management functions, such as 
Credit Risk Management, Market Risk Management, 
Operational Risk Management, Liquidity Risk Control 
and Information Security. In addition, the CRO is 
responsible for monitoring, analysing, and reporting 
risks on a comprehensive basis.
Meanwhile, the independence of the CRO is ensured 
through a fixed tenure, reporting structure and 
periodic reviews by the Board and RMCB.
65
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Risk Culture
Your Bank believes in the philosophy  
of ‘Setting the Tone from the Top.’  
The Board and the Management build a strong 
risk culture within the organisation, further 
influencing the rest of the employees and driving 
strong risk resilience across all roles and levels, 
thereby safeguarding the key capitals and 
upholding your Bank’s reputation.
 
Risk culture at your Bank is nurtured through:
i. 	
Regular and adequate risk management training for 
employees, tailored to their profiles and roles within 
risk management. Every risk taken needs to be 
approved within the risk management framework.
ii. 	
Issuing weekly or monthly newsletters and 
publications on various areas of risks.
You can’t mandate culture. It 
evolves organically, but it can 
be steered. 
– Satya Nadella
iii. 	 Issuing directions on measures required for 
strengthening risk culture, formulation of policies 
and frameworks, whistle-blower mechanism, risk 
appetite framework, and more.
iv. 	 Placing emphasis on taking risks within the 
defined risk appetite. Also, ensuring that the risk taken 
is adequately compensated in line with risk-adjusted 
performance measures.
Leadership and ‘Tone 
from the Top’
•	 Viable and consistent role modelling from 
senior leadership; core values practised in 
daily actions
•	 Transparent and coordinated  
decision-making
•	 Continuous and constructive challenging of 
preconceptions, decision-making and actions
•	 High standards of analytical insight and 
information-sharing at all levels
•	 Rapid escalation of issues and concerns
•	 Failures used as critical learning opportunities
•	 Incentives that encourage all members to 
 ‘do the right thing’ while considering 
the overall health and operations of 
the organisation
•	 Focus on external stakeholders of risk  
( e.g., customers, markets, societies)
Risk Governance 
Structure
Reward
Decision-making
Recruitment, Training 
and Compliance
Learning Environment
Key Drivers of Risk Culture
Risk  
Culture
Strong Risk Culture Demonstrates
66
Annual Report 2024-25
Your Bank periodically evaluates its existing culture and level of risk awareness through a  
well-defined Risk Culture Management Process, illustrated below:
Risk Culture 
Management 
Process
Monitor 
performance against 
desired risk culture
Underpin the desired 
risk culture with 
appropriate incentives
Create risk 
culture education 
and awareness
Define attributes 
driving risk culture
Evaluate current culture 
and risk awareness
Consistently promote 
risk culture
Embed the desired 
risk culture
67
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Risk Strategy and Capital
Risk Awareness and Communication
Your Bank aims to maintain an adequate capital 
buffer on an ongoing and forward-looking basis, 
i.e., internal capital supply to exceed internal 
capital demand at all times.  
Your Bank maintains compliance with the Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) as required under 
Pillar 2 of Basel III through its robust risk management 
and governance framework, methodologies, processes 
and infrastructure.
Your Bank employs a strategic planning process that 
aligns its risk strategy and appetite with its commercial 
objectives, a continuous monitoring process covering 
approved risk, leverage, and capital. This includes regular 
reporting of these parameters to management and a 
robust stress testing framework.
Your Bank believes that communication plays a 
pivotal role in building enhanced risk awareness 
among stakeholders, especially in matters related 
to risk culture and cybersecurity, and that a risk-
aware employee and customer is, in itself, helps 
mitigate undesired risks. 
Your Bank regularly trains staff on risk management 
through newsletters, circulars, seminars, workshops, and 
desktop screensavers. To enhance customer awareness of 
information security, multilingual text messages, emails, 
and social media posts are also used. 
To win without risk is to 
triumph without glory. 
– Pierre Corneille
In the business world, the 
rear-view mirror is always 
clearer than the windshield. 
– Warren Buffett
The ICAAP, Risk Appetite Framework, and Strategic 
Document are annually approved by the Board and 
reviewed on a periodic basis, ensuring alignment among 
risk, capital, and strategy.
Furthermore, your Bank has a framework in place 
to gauge the effectiveness of Information Security 
Awareness. It also employs a Learning Management 
System (LMS) for employees, featuring curated modules 
in specialised areas such as information security, business 
continuity planning, and risk culture.
68
Annual Report 2024-25
Credit Underwriting
Building a Disciplined 
and Feasible Credit 
Underwriting Framework
Your Bank’s Credit Underwriting oversees credit decision-making across 
various asset portfolios, including EEB, Housing Finance, Retail Assets, 
and Wholesale Banking. The credit underwriting framework is governed 
by a credit policy that aligns with both regulatory guidelines and your 
Bank’s internal risk appetite. 
Your Bank follows a philosophy of rule-based credit 
decision-making for retail and schematic MSME loans, 
and adopts in-depth financial and sectoral analysis for 
corporate loans. Additionally, your Bank is working on 
implementing an API-driven Loan Origination System 
(LOS) for Housing, Retail, and Corporate asset portfolios, 
enabling automated checking and faster processing of 
credit proposals without compromising on credit quality.
By incorporating automation and discipline into its 
underwriting practices, your Bank is reinforcing a well-
governed system of trust and transparency across the 
credit underwriting framework.
69
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Compliance
Compliance First:  
Ensuring Integrity,  
Earning Trust
Your Bank's Compliance Department is a vital component of its corporate 
governance structure. The Department upholds your Bank's unwavering 
adherence to compliance, which covers the entire hierarchy of the organisation. 
This further ensures proactive participation of the Board and the Management 
in nurturing a strong culture of compliance and risk awareness. Such 
commitment underpins your Bank's continuous efforts to build and maintain 
trust with customers, regulators, and the broader public.
70
Annual Report 2024-25
Your Bank has stringent compliance standards 
aligning with regulatory, statutory, and internal 
requirements. A comprehensive compliance policy, 
aligned with your Bank’s philosophy, clearly defines 
roles and responsibilities within the Department. 
With this structured approach, your Bank ensures that 
its operations remain transparent, responsible, and 
trustworthy, thereby building trust and deepening 
bandhan in the relationship engagement it shares with 
all stakeholders.
Additionally, the Compliance Department supports 
the Board and Management in proactively managing 
compliance risks, ensuring that your Bank's activities 
consistently adhere to guidelines issued by the Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) and other regulatory and statutory 
authorities. It also ensures that your Bank complies to 
the various standards and codes set forth by institutions 
such as the Indian Banks' Association (IBA), the Foreign 
Exchange Dealers' Association of India (FEDAI), and the 
Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association 
of India (FIMMDA). 
Moreover, the Department serves as the primary liaison 
with regulatory bodies, staying updated with evolving 
regulations, providing expert interpretation to senior 
management, and actively monitoring for potential 
gaps or deviations.
In line with your Bank's values of collaboration and 
resilience, the Department works closely with other 
departments to ensure a clear understanding and 
implementation of regulatory requirements. It also 
partners with the Risk and Internal Audit departments 
to enhance risk management practices and strengthen 
internal controls.
Further, your Bank has implemented a comprehensive, 
risk-based Anti-Money Laundering (AML) programme 
to address risks associated with money laundering 
and terrorism financing. 
This entails a well-defined AML Policy, comprehensive 
customer due diligence protocols, continual risk 
assessments, and effective monitoring tools for detecting 
and reporting suspicious activities. Simultaneously, 
regular training sessions are conducted to equip staff 
with the knowledge required for ongoing compliance and 
proactive risk mitigation.
Moreover, the Compliance Department submits regular 
updates to the Board, the Audit Committee of the Board 
(ACB), and Senior Leadership regarding your Bank's 
compliance status, particularly in response to regulatory 
changes. Subsequently, the ACB periodically reviews 
the Department's performance and your Bank's overall 
compliance with applicable regulations.
On the whole, your Bank reinforces its core values, 
ensures data security, prevents fraud, and maintains a 
stable and trustworthy financial environment through 
strict adherence to regulatory standards. This not only 
deepens the confidence of customers and stakeholders 
but also strengthens your Bank's foundation.
71
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Data Analytics
Data-Driven Approach: 
Fostering Trust  
Through Analytics
Trust forms the foundation of the banking industry, serving as the cornerstone 
of customer relationships and organisational reputation. Time and again, 
regulators worldwide are working to protect all customers' data.
72
Annual Report 2024-25
With the advent of data science and analytics, your 
Bank has begun transforming its services and building 
greater trust among its customers. It is committed to 
protect its customers' information at all costs. Your 
Bank has heavily invested in Big Data Lake to enable the 
organisation to process vast amounts of information to 
uncover actionable insights. Similarly, it has created a 
comprehensive Data Governance Framework to secure 
data and address vulnerabilities.
Furthermore, one-size-fits-all approaches are rapidly 
becoming obsolete in modern banking. For an improved 
customer experience and customer centricity, your Bank 
has developed several in-house solutions like NEEV (in-
house CRM Solution). 
Based on AI-ML models, your Bank has 
tailored services to meet individual 
customer needs:
•	 Customer Segmentation: Banks use clustering 
techniques to categorise clients based on demographic 
profiles, preferences, and behaviours.
•	 Recommendation Engines: Predictive analytics design 
customised offers for lending products, savings 
plans, etc.
•	 Internal Chatbots and Virtual Assistants: Gen-
AI-based personalised support, ensuring swift 
and accurate responses to customer queries, and 
knowledge institutionalisation.
Further, personalisation not only enhances customer 
satisfaction but also demonstrates your Bank's 
commitment to understanding and meeting individual 
needs. Simultaneously, transparency is crucial for 
building trust. 
With the help of near-real-time data and 
analytics, your Bank has implemented:
•	 Transactions and Operations Monitoring: To prevent 
fraud, regulatory breaches, and revenue losses.
•	 Regulatory Compliance: Utilise algorithms to ensure 
adherence to laws and regulations, minimising errors 
and promoting fairness.
Data-driven risk management is another avenue where 
analytics reinforce trust. Predictive models assess 
the creditworthiness of customers, their income and 
asset wealth, and provide early warning signals for new 
borrowers. Forecasting and stress testing models further 
predict future financial trends.
Data analytics is thus redefining trust in banking 
services. Through enhanced security, transparency, 
personalisation, and predictive management, your Bank 
is strengthening its bandhan with its customers. As 
these technologies evolve, they will continue to play a 
pivotal role in ensuring the reliability and integrity of 
this institution, thereby building trust that grows with 
every transaction.
Enterprise Data Lake (EDL): Centralising 
Data for Smarter Decisions
Your Bank’s Enterprise Data Lake (EDL) acts as a Single 
Source of Truth, centralising data across bank systems 
and breaking down silos to enable seamless access 
and collaboration. It ensures the reusability of data 
across analytical, business, regulatory, and operational 
use cases, thus ensuring trust, consistency, and 
transparency. Privacy and security are enforced through 
encryption, Active Directory (AD) integration, masking, 
and access controls, thereby empowering secure data-
driven analysis.
73
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Marketing
Championing Bandhan: 
Marketing that Connects, 
Messaging that Endures
Your Bank has established itself as a trusted universal Bank, backed by a  
wide-reaching network and guided by the principle of inclusive banking. With a 
presence across 35 out of 36 states and union territories and over 6,300 banking 
outlets, your Bank serves millions across major metros and regional centres, 
supported by more than 75,000 employees.
Your Bank’s performance over these years reflects 
balanced and sustainable growth, underpinned by strong 
governance, sound risk management practices, and the 
continued trust of its stakeholders. With a digital-first, 
customer-centric approach and a growing network, your 
Bank is well-positioned to deliver lasting value through 
products tailored to evolving financial needs. Guided by 
the philosophy of Aapka Bhala, Sabki Bhalai and rooted 
in trust, transparency, and service, your Bank continues 
to empower individuals and strengthen its relationships 
with communities.
Sourav Ganguly has served as the Brand Ambassador 
since 2022, consistently representing the principles of 
dedication, progress, and leadership that resonate with 
your Bank’s foundational values and ongoing vision.
74
Annual Report 2024-25
Campaigns focused on building trust 
with diverse offerings
Your Bank carried out product-centric campaigns with a focus on establishing itself as a universal Bank, 
with its pan-India presence, offering a diverse product portfolio, and a consumer-centric approach. These 
focused marketing initiatives reflected your Bank’s commitment to inclusive growth across the country.
Safe Bhi, Sahi Bhi
Your Bank launched a Fixed Deposits campaign, 
‘Safe Bhi, Sahi Bhi’, as part of its strategic objective of 
promoting the fixed deposit offerings. The campaign 
aimed to highlight the safety, attractive interest rates, 
and assured returns associated with your Bank’s Fixed 
Deposit products, while also enhancing brand awareness. 
It was executed across a vast network of outdoor sites 
in multiple cities, featured prominently on national and 
regional television channels in various other vernacular 
languages, and was further amplified through an 
extensive radio presence across the country, ensuring 
widespread media visibility and impactful outreach. On 
the digital front, the campaign garnered massive traction, 
reaching a vast audience across multiple platforms and 
significantly amplifying its overall impact. 
Your Bank rolled out ‘Har Sapna Possible Hai’, a pan-India 
high-impact product bouquet campaign. The campaign 
embeds your Bank’s positioning as a dependable financial 
partner, empowering individuals to turn their dreams 
into fulfilment through the range of products offered 
by your Bank. It centred around cementing your Bank 
as a universal Bank. This expansive multilingual and 
multimedia campaign was carried out across various 
offline and online mediums. To ensure deeper connection 
with consumers the campaign was also covered in 
different vernacular languages. Simultaneously, the 
digital amplification of the campaign delivered an 
impressive footprint, reaching a vast audience across 
multiple platforms and effectively reinforcing your Bank’s 
message at scale. 
Har Sapna Possible Hai
75
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Product Marketing: Building Trust-Backed Products 
Your Bank’s marketing efforts for the year saw several key launches with business priorities, ranging from cross-
border transactions to convenient post-retirement banking. 
Your Bank places strategic emphasis on promoting its suite of liability products, reinforcing its commitment to a 
strong marketing approach aimed at deepening customer engagement and trust.
These efforts closely align with generating business for on-ground teams through focused 
messaging that fosters customer engagement, deepens trust, and reinforces the bandhan your 
Bank shares with its customers.
And more such initiatives…
Your Bank undertook several on-ground initiatives 
to enhance visibility across key locations and 
platforms through various media. 
These initiatives led to an increase in total 
brand awareness, indicating stronger recall and 
recognition among its target audience. 
Key FY25 launches through Strategic Marketing
An exclusive, tailored savings account for women, 
offering lifestyle benefits
An enterprise-wide Loyalty Rewards Programme
A QR-based solution enabling seamless and secure 
merchant payments
A dedicated account offering stress-free, convenient 
banking for retired government and PSU employees
International Trade Finance products now offer efficient 
global solutions, including Letters of Credit, Collection 
Bills, and enhanced foreign remittance services.
Bharat QR
Pension Savings 
Account 
Transaction 
Banking
76
Annual Report 2024-25
Expanding Digital Reach 
and Engagement
Foundation Day: 
Reaffirming your Bank’s 
Commitment
In FY25, your Bank enhanced its digital footprint through 
targeted and data-driven campaigns to engage a wider 
audience. Extensive awareness was created through 
films, creative social media posts, CGI content, and 
collaborations with illustrators, while product-specific 
visibility was achieved through focused campaigns. 
Efforts in content marketing, search engine optimisation 
(SEO), and performance marketing significantly improved 
both organic and paid reach.
Social media followers grew at a 32% CAGR, 
strengthening connections with existing and prospective 
customers. On YouTube, your Bank reached a significant 
milestone by earning its first Silver Play Button. Website 
performance also improved, with user traffic increasing 
by 23%. Going forward, your Bank remains committed to 
leveraging social media as a key platform to engage users 
and share timely updates and offerings.
Your Bank celebrated its ninth Foundation Day on 
August 23, 2024, at JW Marriott, Kolkata. The occasion 
was graced by Mr. S. S. Mundra, former Deputy 
Governor of the RBI, who delivered a thought-provoking 
Anniversary Lecture on ‘Indian Banks – Path to D-R-I-V-E’ 
(Digitalisation, Risk and Regulation, Innovation and 
Inclusion, Value-based Banking, Environment).
To honour excellence, your Bank recognised its  
top-performing branches, banking outlets, and home loan 
centres, with awards presented by Mr. Sourav Ganguly. 
The celebration concluded with a soulful performance 
by renowned singer Javed Ali, leaving the audience 
captivated. The event marked another milestone in 
your Bank’s journey and reaffirmed its commitment to 
customers and stakeholders.
Fighting Fraud with 
Awareness and Vigilance
Your Bank further strengthened its commitment 
to safeguarding its customers by raising awareness 
about fraud and cybersecurity risks. Through SMS 
alerts, emailers, and social media campaigns, the 
customers were informed about common fraud tactics, 
precautionary measures, and steps to take upon 
encountering suspicious activity. These initiatives 
reinforced the importance of vigilance and safe banking 
practices, helping its customers stay prepared and 
protected against cyber threats and fraud.
77
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Corporate Social Responsibility
Driven by Values, 
Defined by Impact
Your Bank’s journey is a testament to its unwavering commitment to empowering 
communities and building inclusive, sustainable development. Guided by the values 
of trust and strong relationships, your Bank works to uplift marginalised populations 
and drive holistic progress. Through its CSR initiatives, implemented in collaboration 
with multiple partners across India, your Bank has positively impacted approximately 
25.81 lakh families across 82 districts in 14 states. These initiatives make meaningful 
contributions to 14 of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 
reinforcing your Bank's role as a catalyst for long-term change. This mission reflects 
your Bank's expanding reach, lasting bandhan and the strengthening relationships 
built on trust, care, and shared progress with the communities it serves.
78
Annual Report 2024-25
25.81 lakh
Families 
Uplifted
14/17
UN 
SDGs Met
 
The Targeting the Hardcore Poor (THP) programme 
is a flagship CSR initiative implemented by Bandhan 
Konnagar, targeting the most vulnerable women-headed 
households. It adopts a holistic approach, providing not 
only free assets but also enabling them to generate 
income and improve their livelihoods. Over the course of 
24 months, participants undergo a transformative journey 
through continuous counselling and mentoring support, 
lifting themselves out of extreme poverty and integrating 
into the broader community. To ensure that the women's 
basic household needs are met during the initial phase, 
a weekly consumption stipend is also provided, ensuring 
financial stability as they integrate into mainstream socio-
economic activities.
The THP programmes adopt a holistic 360° approach to 
developing the required competencies to run a successful 
enterprise. It starts with confidence-building measures, 
and thereafter, these women undergo a series of training, 
including basic literacy skills, financial literacy, enterprise-
specific skill development, health and sanitation 
awareness, vulnerability mapping, and risk mitigation 
strategies, among others. Such a rigorous approach 
empowers these marginalised women to make informed 
decisions, while education on social issues enhances their 
awareness and well-being. 
Over the years, this intervention has positively impacted 
52,500 women, enabling them to secure a stable monthly 
income, improve their health and education, and better 
support their families. 
Some of the key CSR initiatives undertaken by your Bank during 
FY25 are highlighted below:
Targeting The Hardcore Poor Programme
79
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
100%
The health programme aims to improve access to 
healthcare and enhance the well-being of underprivileged 
women. It focuses on essential maternal and child 
healthcare services, including antenatal care (ANC), 
postnatal care (PNC), institutional deliveries, nutritional 
support, and child health evaluations. The programme 
also emphasises generating awareness on sanitation and 
hygiene, complete nutrition, complete immunisation, 
and periodical health check-ups, especially for children 
under five, pregnant women, lactating mothers, and 
adolescent girls.
As a part of this initiative, local women volunteers are 
trained as Swastha Sahayikas (SS). These volunteers play 
a key role in raising health awareness, organising health 
forums, and providing health education. The programme 
also includes the distribution of kitchen garden seed kits, 
sanitation and health kits, linkage to healthcare services, 
and the establishment of water treatment plants to 
ensure access to safe drinking water.
The programme has had a significant impact, reaching 
over 1.37 million households across various districts. An 
Impact Assessment Study revealed that the programme 
successfully provided 100% access to health services 
for the beneficiaries, compared to just 78% prior to the 
programme. Additionally, it ensured that all adolescent 
girls received menstrual health education and hygiene 
products and that all respondents had access to safe 
drinking water.
In addition to these efforts, your Bank has contributed 
to enhancing healthcare infrastructure. Through the 
donation of 18 advanced life-saving ambulances across 
key regions in India, the programme significantly 
improves access to emergency medical care, providing 
critical, life-saving interventions.
Furthermore, your Bank has supported the Assam 
Cancer Care Foundation, a collaboration between the 
Government of Assam and Tata Trusts, to improve 
cancer care in Assam. This initiative aims to enhance 
cancer treatment, offer medical support, and provide 
vital resources to those affected by cancer, making a 
meaningful impact on the lives of individuals battling 
cancer in the region. 
Health Programme
Access to Health Services 
22% 
 from FY24
80
Annual Report 2024-25
The education programme is committed to providing 
quality education to children from marginalised 
communities, with a special focus on improving 
learning outcomes, particularly in STEM subjects. The 
programme aims to enhance student retention, classroom 
engagement, and overall educational performance while 
also offering comprehensive teacher training in local 
communities, government schools, and schools operated 
by charitable trusts. This training focuses on transforming 
teaching methodologies, integrating innovative learning 
tools, and ensuring continuous, holistic assessment of 
each child's progress.
To further support education in rural areas, Bandhan 
Education Centres and Bandhan Academy have been 
established to provide quality education to pre-primary 
and primary students. These centres prioritise the 
education of girls and offer free reading materials and 
school kits to ensure that children have the necessary 
resources for learning. 
Moreover, the programme adopts a cost-effective and 
unique model that ensures access to education, equipping 
children with the skills and knowledge needed for future 
success. In addition, Bandhan Academy schools focus 
on the holistic development of students by combining 
academic learning with extracurricular activities.
Education Programme
81
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Bandhan Skill Development Centres
The Bandhan Skill Development Centres have been 
established to provide vocational training in a wide 
range of sectors, including sales, hospitality, ITeS-
BPO, computerised accounting, refrigeration and air 
conditioning repair, and more. This programme specifically 
targets unemployment in India by equipping unemployed 
youth with practical, job-ready skills.
Upon completing their training, candidates are given the 
opportunity to either pursue entrepreneurial ventures 
or secure employment with established companies. By 
combining skill development with job placement support, 
the programme empowers youth to become self-sufficient, 
contribute to the economy, and build a brighter future for 
themselves and their communities.
Skill Development and Education 
Programme – Support to Ramakrishna 
Mission Centre For Human Excellence and 
Social Sciences (Viveka Tirtha):
During FY25, your Bank contributed towards the 
Ramakrishna Mission Centre for Human Excellence and 
Social Sciences (Viveka Tirtha) as part of its ongoing 
commitment to education and skill development. This 
initiative aligns with your Bank's vision of fostering human 
development and social well-being.
Skill Development and Education 
Programme – Support to Nivedita 
Institute of Human Advancement and 
Research (NIHAR) Centre Ramakrishna 
Sarada Mission:
During FY25, your Bank contributed towards the Skill 
Development and Education Programme in partnership 
with the Ramakrishna Sarada Mission, aligning with its 
commitment to building growth and empowerment. 
This significant contribution was directed towards 
NIHAR's development. The funds will support initiatives 
aimed at enhancing educational opportunities and skill 
development, ultimately contributing to the overall 
advancement of human potential. By investing in such 
transformative initiatives through the Ramakrishna 
Sarada Mission, your Bank continues to play an active 
role in shaping a brighter future through education, 
skill-building, and research. This partnership highlights 
your Bank's dedication to social responsibility and 
sustainable development.
Financial Literacy Programme
The programme aims to raise financial awareness among 
rural populations, particularly disadvantaged women, and 
empower them to take control of their personal finances. 
By focusing on financial literacy and inclusion, it addresses 
the crucial need for financial knowledge and access to 
services as key drivers for sustainable growth within 
rural communities.
This initiative places a strong emphasis on building 
participants' financial awareness and confidence. It aims 
to equip them with the essential knowledge and skills to 
navigate various banking services, including insurance 
and pension schemes, enabling them to make informed 
financial decisions that promote their well-being and 
future security.
Bandhan Sustainable 
Livelihood Programme
As part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) 
initiatives, your Bank has launched a pioneering 
programme to empower underprivileged entrepreneurs by 
providing them with the tools and knowledge to establish 
and manage small businesses. The programme offers 
professional business incubation, including guidance on 
securing statutory licenses, obtaining business loans, 
and developing key business skills. Participants receive 
comprehensive training in areas such as marketing, 
customer relationship management, financial planning, 
business development, and tax filing.
This initiative is designed to transform job seekers into job 
creators, fostering entrepreneurship within disadvantaged 
communities. Till date, 200 youth have been successfully 
incubated and are now managing their own enterprises, 
with an additional group currently undergoing training to 
launch their own ventures. 
Skill Development Programme
82
Annual Report 2024-25
Recognising the interconnection between climate action 
and Goal 16 of the Sustainable Development Goals, your 
Bank has initiated the Climate Action Programme, which 
contributes to this goal through the following strategies:
Reducing Atmospheric Carbon
•	 Carbon sequestration through plantation 
and agroforestry
•	 Reducing GHG emissions through clean development 
practices and technologies in energy, agriculture and 
allied sectors
Climate Change Adaptation
•	 Building resilience to climate change and extreme 
weather conditions among vulnerable communities by 
addressing the interrelated SDGs
•	 Mitigating climate change impacts
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
2021 states the agricultural sector in India faces high 
vulnerability towards drastic weather events due to 
poor climate-resilient agricultural practices, poor water 
management, over-dependence on conventional sources 
of energy, high chemical dumping destroying soil health, 
loss of soil quality and topsoil, high dependency on 
groundwater, destruction of bio-diversity including 
natural balance with the ecosystem and overall high 
GHG emission.
Considering the vulnerabilities in the agricultural 
sector, this year, your Bank launched a new initiative, 
Climate Smart Villages (CSV), under its Climate Action 
Programme. This programme aims to develop a holistic 
climate action approach for a village to make it climate 
resilient. This includes water security and protection from 
erratic rainfall patterns through water conservation, 
which helps safeguard rain-fed agriculture, as well as the 
adoption of climate-resilient varieties. The Climate Action 
Programme continues to focus on its earlier commitment 
to carbon sequestration through afforestation, especially 
mangrove plantation, and greening of urban spaces.
Your Bank also contributed to biodiversity conservation 
at Jambusar, funding a mangrove biodiversity assessment 
and the development of a Nature Interpretation Centre 
to educate the public about mangrove ecosystems. 
Furthermore, a Nature Education Programme, Mud-
Flat Dhuleti, raised funds and provided 20 participants 
with an immersive learning experience about the local 
ecosystem. In Gujarat's Jambusar Taluka, 25 marginalised 
tribal farmers were supported with solar-powered drip 
irrigation systems.
Furthermore, your Bank has installed solar-powered 
high-mast streetlights in the vicinity of Vittal Temple, 
Pandharpur. The initiative has helped enhance safety 
while contributing to long-term environmental 
sustainability. These initiatives are a testament to your 
Bank's commitment to environmental sustainability and 
community empowerment.
Mangrove Conservation and 
Agroforestry Plantation
Your Bank has undertaken the plantation of 4,34,046 
saplings in 511 hectares through agroforestry plantations 
in Purulia district and mangrove conservation in the 
Sundarbans, West Bengal, and Jambusar, Gujarat. The 
estimated carbon sequestered through the plantation 
initiatives is approximately 3,968 metric tons of CO2 
per year.
4,34,046
Saplings 
Planted 
Water Conservation
Your Bank promotes water conservation in some of the 
highly moisture-stressed regions of India. To date, 72 
rainwater harvesting structures have been constructed 
with a storage capacity of 1,45,318 kilolitres. These 
structures provide critical irrigation support and drinking 
water in the rural areas.
72
Rainwater Harvesting  
Structures Constructed 
Climate Action Programme 
83
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Biodiversity Conservation and Education 
at Jambusar
During FY25, your Bank contributed towards a 
comprehensive Biodiversity Assessment of Mangroves 
and the design proposal for a Nature Interpretation 
Centre at Jambusar, Gujarat. A team of experts, including 
a marine ecologist, an architect, and a social worker, 
conducted a field visit to assess the region's biodiversity. 
This evaluation identified vulnerable species such as the 
Sarus Crane, Lesser Flamingo and Indian Flap Shell Turtle, 
highlighting the ecological importance of the area. As a 
result, the proposal for a Nature Interpretation Centre 
was put forward to educate the public, especially school 
students, about mangroves and their conservation.
Additionally, a pilot Nature Education Programme, Mud-
Flat Dhuleti, was organised in March 2025. The event 
offered 20 participants an immersive and experiential 
learning opportunity to explore the mangrove ecosystem, 
local biodiversity, and coastal life. The event raised 
₹14,500 in donations, supporting the region's ecotourism 
and biodiversity conservation efforts.
Solar Irrigation with Drip and Farm  
Pond for Water Conservation and 
Renewable Energy
Your Bank's commitment to sustainable farming practices 
is reflected in the support of the Solar Irrigation with Drip 
and Farm Pond project in Jambusar Taluka, Gujarat.  
As part of this initiative, 25 marginalised farmers 
were provided with solar-linked drip irrigation 
systems to enhance water conservation and improve 
agricultural productivity. 
The project, implemented through the VIKAS Centre 
for Development, included the establishment of two 
demonstration sites to demonstrate the system's 
effectiveness, with refinements incorporated to improve 
durability and ease of operation.
Solar-powered Streetlights
During FY25, your Bank contributed towards the 
installation of solar-powered high-mast streetlights 
in the vicinity of Vitthal Temple, Pandharpur, as part 
of its Climate Action Programme. This initiative will 
provide sustainable, renewable energy for the temple, 
enhancing lighting throughout the temple complex and 
its surrounding areas. 
The solar-powered streetlights will not only reduce 
the carbon footprint but also enhance safety and 
accessibility for the thousands of devotees and visitors 
who frequent the temple. Additionally, by using clean 
energy, the project will contribute to long-term cost 
savings and promote environmental awareness within 
the community. This initiative reflects your Bank's 
ongoing commitment to environmental sustainability and 
community well-being.
84
Annual Report 2024-25
Stories of Transformation
Bandhan in Action: Lending 
Vision, Transforming Lives
Manjula 
Dairy and floral business owner
Manjula hails from a modest background, where daily life was a constant challenge. She lives 
with her husband, Ningappa, and their son. Until recently, the family’s only source of income 
came from a single cow, and though they owned a small piece of land, they lacked the capital to 
utilise it productively.
Everything began to change when Manjula learned about Bandhan Bank. Recognising an 
opportunity to improve her family’s livelihood, she approached Bandhan Bank for support. A 
year ago, she received her first loan of ₹1,70,000.
With careful planning and determination, Manjula and her husband used the funds to expand 
their dairy business by purchasing two additional cows. They also invested in their farmland to 
increase agricultural output. Within a year, their efforts started yielding results. The family’s 
income grew significantly, enabling them to lead a more secure and dignified life.
What began as a modest 1-acre plot soon transformed into a flourishing 2.5-acre stretch of 
growth and opportunity. The land was thoughtfully segmented. One portion now blooms with a 
variety of flowers, while another is solely dedicated to cultivating roses. To safeguard their crops, 
the family planted 50 coconut trees along the boundary, which have since created an additional 
stream of income.
Today, Manjula and her family are thriving. From once relying solely on dairy farming and 
struggling to make ends meet, they now earn over ₹1,00,000 every month from flower farming 
alone. Their dairy business continues to provide a steady and reliable income too.
With timely financial support from Bandhan Bank, the family has not only improved their 
standard of living but also expanded their livelihood with confidence. Manjula’s journey stands 
as a powerful testament to what determination, the right opportunities, and trusted support 
can achieve.
85
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Biplab grew up in a modest mud house with his mother, Amina, and their family, where each day was 
a battle for survival. Their only asset was a tiny plot of land, barely enough to sustain them. Life was 
uncertain, and opportunities were few. But everything began to change when Bandhan Bank opened 
its first branch in their village.
With courage and unwavering hope, Amina approached Bandhan Bank for a loan of ₹5,000. It may 
have seemed like a small sum to many, but for their family, it was a lifeline and a chance to dream 
again. She invested the amount into farming, planting the first seeds of what would become a story 
of resilience and growth.
Over the years, with every loan repaid and every crop harvested, Amina continued to borrow and 
reinvest, slowly expanding the farm and laying the foundation for something greater. By her side 
stood her son, Biplab, who shared her vision and worked tirelessly to support her efforts.
Their big break came when they discovered the potential of rubber cultivation. Supported once 
again by Bandhan Bank, they turned fallow land into flourishing green stretches. What began as 
subsistence farming slowly transformed into a thriving agri-business. Today, they cultivate nearly 75 
kani, approximately 13,00,000 sq. ft., with over 3,000 rubber trees covering 50 kani, and the remaining 
used for mixed farming.
But Biplab was not content with mere cultivation – he envisioned something greater. With additional 
financial backing from Bandhan Bank, he established his first rubber processing unit, a move that 
significantly boosted their income and expanded their reach. As demand continued to rise, Biplab 
scaled the business further by setting up a second factory. His vision and drive transformed their family 
enterprise into a robust operation that added value at every step, from plantation to production.
Today, Biplab’s business stands as a thriving enterprise. His factories employ 14 permanent staff and 
10 seasonal workers, providing livelihoods to others in the community, something he once struggled 
to secure for himself.
Despite limited formal education, Biplab’s resolve, vision, and the unwavering support of his wife, 
who, alongside serving as a police officer, helps manage the paperwork and logistics, have propelled 
the business to new heights. Together, they are building a secure future for their children, ensuring 
access to quality education and a life of dignity.
From a humble ₹5,000 loan to business loans totalling nearly ₹20,00,000 the journey of Amina 
and Biplab is a powerful example of how access to finance, combined with determination and 
purpose, can transform lives. Their story reflects not just financial progress, but the enduring 
spirit of entrepreneurship and the belief that even the smallest beginning can lead to a future 
beyond imagination.
Biplab 
Rubber plantation and 
manufacturing business
86
Annual Report 2024-25
Hardeep and her husband once ran a modest furniture-making business from a small, rented 
room. With just one worker and limited means, they struggled to grow. Their monthly profit 
barely reached ₹25,000, and despite their hard work, they had little scope to expand. Life was 
tough, and the future felt uncertain.
It was during this time of challenge that Hardeep first heard about Bandhan Bank through a 
friend. Driven by hope and the desire to uplift their business, she and her husband approached 
Bandhan Bank to understand how a loan might help them move forward. That visit marked the 
beginning of a new chapter in their journey.
Around six years ago, Hardeep took her first group loan of ₹30,000. With thoughtful planning, 
they invested the money into their business. The results were encouraging, and over the next 
few years, they continued to take loans, each one used carefully to fuel their steady progress.
Their growth was remarkable. From just one worker, they expanded to a team of six. Their 
services grew beyond furniture-making to include interior design, attracting a wider clientele. 
As their earnings increased, they were able to move out of the cramped rented space and recently 
purchased a 3,000 sq. ft. flat, where they now plan to shift their entire business operations.
Alongside the family venture, Hardeep followed her own passion and opened a boutique, 
supported once again by a loan from Bandhan Bank. With hard work and consistent support, both 
businesses began to thrive. Their children are now enrolled in private English-medium schools, 
once a distant dream, now a reality.
Today, their businesses earn over ₹1,50,000 in monthly profit, a sixfold increase from where they 
began. More than just transforming Hardeep’s family, this success story has positively impacted 
others. Each of their employees now earns ₹12,000 per month, creating stable livelihoods for 
more families in their community.
Bandhan Bank’s support came at a time when it was needed most. For Hardeep and her family, 
it was not just about financial assistance, but about dignity, growth, and belief in their potential. 
Their journey reflects how consistent effort, guided by the right opportunities, can truly change 
the course of life.
Hardeep 
Furniture and boutique business
87
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
To
The Members,
Your Board of Directors present the Eleventh Annual Report on the business and operations of your Bank, together with 
the Audited Financial Statement for the Financial Year (‘FY’) ended March 31, 2025 (‘FY 2025’).
Financial Performance of the Bank
The financial highlights for the FY under review, are presented below:
(Figures in ₹ crore)
Particulars
For the FY ended 
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Deposits:
1,51,212.50
1,35,201.99
- Savings Bank Deposits
39,348.29
40,486.15
- Current Account Deposits
8,088.62
9,664.55
- Term Deposits
1,03,775.59
85,051.29
Advances (Net):
1,31,987.32
1,21,136.78
- Bills Purchased and Discounted
17.27
-
- Cash Credits, Overdrafts and Loans repayable on demand
20,616.16
22,844.68
- Term Loans
1,11,353.89
98,292.10
Total Assets/Liabilities
1,91,476.29
1,77,841.66
Net Interest Income
11,490.58
10,318.84
Non-Interest Income
2,966.60
2,171.42
Less: Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)
6,789.29
5,613.20
Profit before Depreciation, Provisions and Tax
7,667.89
6,877.06
Less: Depreciation
279.20
237.58
Less: Provisions
3,765.41
3,696.57
Profit Before Tax (PBT)
3,623.28
2,942.91
Less: Provision for Tax
877.98
713.35
Profit After Tax (PAT)
2,745.30
2,229.56
Balance in Profit & Loss Account brought forward from previous year
8,679.13
7,453.78
Appropriations:
 
 
Transfer to Statutory Reserves
686.32
557.39
Transfer to Statutory Reserve u/s 36(1)(viii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961
123.66
98.41
Transfer to Capital Reserve
9.80
4.18
Transfer to Investment Reserve
-
153.28
Transfer to Investment Fluctuation Reserve
135.49
-50.68
Dividend pertaining to previous FY paid during the FY
241.65
241.63
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet
10,227.51
8,679.13
EPS (Basic) (in ₹)
17.04
13.84
EPS (Diluted) (in ₹)
17.04
13.84
Board’s Report
State of Affairs of the Bank
While your Bank completed nine years of its operations 
during the FY under review, it has continued to demonstrate 
steady growth both on the liability as well as the assets 
sides. During the FY, total deposits grew from ₹1,35,201.99 
crore as on March 31, 2024 to ₹1,51,212.50 crore as on March 
31, 2025 registering a growth of 11.8 per cent. whereas 
total advances (net) grew from ₹1,21,136.78 crore as on 
March 31, 2024 to ₹1,31,987.32 crore as on March 31, 2025 
registering a growth of 9.0 per cent. Total Business of your 
Bank increased to ₹2,88,207 crore, an increase of 10.9 per 
cent. over ₹2,59,923 crore as on March 31, 2024, whereas 
the size of Balance Sheet reached to ₹1,91,476.29 crore. The 
steady growth of your Bank reflects the trust of millions of 
customers and their continued association over the years 
with your Bank. Your Bank stayed on the path of building 
on faith reposed by its customers, which is reflected in its 
strong customer base of 3.16 crore as on March 31, 2025. 
88
Annual Report 2024-25
Your Bank had continued its focus on rural and unbanked 
population. During the FY under review, your Bank has 
added 12 new banking outlets taking the total count of 
banking outlets to 6,309 as on March 31, 2025 spread across 
35 States and Union Territories. Out of the total banking 
outlets, 34 per cent. are in rural, 37 per cent. in semi-urban, 
18 per cent. in urban and 11 per cent. in metro locations.
During the FY under review, your Bank has been on the course 
with its strategic priorities of portfolio diversification. As 
on March 31, 2025, EEB portfolio comprising of Group Loan 
and SBAL has reduced to 41.3 per cent. of the total loan 
book from 49.9 per cent. as on March 31, 2024 whereas 
Wholesale Banking portfolio was at 26.5 per cent., Housing 
portfolio at 24.2 per cent., Retail portfolio at 8.0 per cent. of 
the total loan book of your Bank as on March 31, 2025. With 
regard to geographical diversification, 61.2 per cent. of the 
portfolio of your Bank was outside of the core markets of 
Eastern India. The secured portfolio of your Bank increased 
to 50.5 per cent. of its total portfolio as on March 31, 2025. 
During the FY under review, the total income (net) of your 
Bank has increased by 15.7 per cent. to ₹14,457.18 crore 
as against the total income (net) of ₹12,490.26 crore for 
FY 2024. Net Interest Income for the FY 2025, stood at 
₹11,490.58 crore compared to ₹10,318.84 crore for FY 2024, 
representing a growth of 11.4 per cent. NIM for the FY 2025 
was 7.1 per cent. The PAT stood at ₹2,745.30 crore for 
the FY 2025, an increase of 23.1 per cent. as compared to 
₹2,229.56 crore for the FY 2024. Consequently, Return on 
Average Equity (‘ROAE’) increased from 10.7 per cent. to 
11.6 per cent. whereas Return on Average Asset (‘ROAA’) 
increased form 1.4 per cent. to 1.5 per cent. Correspondingly, 
basic as well as diluted Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) increased 
from ₹13.84 to ₹17.04 as at the end of FY 2025 in comparison 
to FY 2024. The GNPA as on March 31, 2025 was 4.71 per cent. 
whereas net NPA was 1.28 per cent.
Your Bank continues to focus on financial inclusion by 
providing various financial services to the underserved. 
The Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) has mandated Priority 
Sector Lending (‘PSL’) of a minimum 40 per cent. of 
advances for all banks. Your Bank’s PSL was ₹72,106.54 
crore (net) as on March 31, 2025, and PSL as a proportion 
of preceding year's Adjusted Net Bank Credit (‘ANBC’) of 
₹1,31,191 crore was 54.96 per cent.
Highlights of segment wise performance of your Bank 
during the FY under review are mentioned below:
Emerging Entrepreneurs Business
The Emerging Entrepreneurs Business (‘EEB’) of your 
Bank has been serving borrowers at the bottom of the 
pyramid with affordable and convenient loans to help them 
develop into entrepreneurs and transform their lives. Your 
Bank’s EEB strategy is guided by its long-held philosophy 
of financial inclusion and economic empowerment of the 
disadvantaged sections of the society. The endeavour of 
your Bank is to nurture these entrepreneurs and help them 
move up the socio-economic hierarchy. In their movement 
upwards, your Bank is by them to support with whichever 
financial service they may require in the journey.
Your Bank offers a wide array of loans through its Banking 
Unit (‘BU’) outlets under EEB vertical to benefit small 
business owners in need of financial assistance. Your Bank 
operates its Group Loans and Small Business & Agri Loans 
(‘SBAL’) business channels from its BU outlets.
Each BU is linked to a bank branch for operational 
convenience. BUs are self-sufficient and empowered to 
open deposit accounts using TABs and also open loan 
accounts after necessary credit checks. The highlight of the 
BUs’ operations is the TABs that are connected to the Core 
Banking System (‘CBS’) through cellular data. Relationship 
Officers (‘RO’) carry these TABs to their group meetings, 
and the entire instalment reconciliation for the customer 
happens through these TABs on real-time basis. To ensure 
timely and effective support to the BUs in their day-to-day 
functioning, your Bank has a structure comprising Circles, 
Territories, Divisions, Areas and BU Catchments. A central 
operation team maintains oversight of the quality of the 
operations and adherence to prevalent guidelines at all 
times. Your Bank lays significant emphasis on processes and 
controls to help maintain uniform and consistent standards 
in transaction processing and service delivery, as well as 
compliance with regulatory and statutory guidelines.
During the FY under review, your Bank’s commitment 
towards financial inclusion is also reflected in the fact that 
it offered loans to 15.17 lakhs new borrowers under Group 
Loan and SBAL during the FY 2025. The portfolio for Group 
Loans stood at ₹36,088 crore whereas SBAL portfolio stood 
at ₹20,456 crore respectively, at the end of FY 2025, as your 
Bank worked towards bringing additional measures in credit 
control in order to improve the quality of its portfolio.
Your Bank now has several loan products under its Group 
Loans and SBAL, which are provided from BU outlets to cater 
better to the varied demands and needs of its customers:
Group loans
1.	
Srishti Loan: Timely funds to start a new business 
or grow an existing one. Loan size is from ₹15,000 to 
₹1,50,000.
2.	
Suraksha Loan: Loan size is up to ₹15,000 and is 
sanctioned to help existing customers meet their 
emergency expenses, e.g. medical, drinking water 
and sanitation.
3.	
Sushiksha Loan: Loan size is up to ₹10,000 and is 
sanctioned to help customers meet expenses towards 
the education of their children.
89
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Small Business and Agri Loans
1.	
Sahayata Loan: Loan to fund growing business needs 
of individuals involved in an array of income generation 
activities. Loan amount is from ₹50,001 to ₹5,00,000.
2.	
Baazar Loan: With a loan size from ₹26,000 to 
₹1,50,000, this product is for small entrepreneurs, 
who have an existing super-saver account with your 
Bank. This loan provides financial support to deposit 
customers for their working capital needs.
During the FY under review, your Bank has taken the 
following initiatives:
•	 Your Bank has taken several initiatives to sharpen the 
underwriting process for Group Loans and SBAL loans 
in order to have a better portfolio.
•	 Your Bank has implemented Guardrails for Microfinance 
loans to further strengthen customer selection and 
portfolio quality in the longer run, including: limitations 
in lender cap, limitations in total outstanding per 
borrower and restrictions in lending to customers having 
more than 60 days past due across microfinance lenders.
•	 Your Bank has delved into digital repayment modules 
such as QR based channels to make repayments easier 
and hassle-free.
•	 Your Bank has a dedicated, independent sanctioning 
team to ensure that loans are based on eligibility and 
credit-worthiness.
•	 Your Bank also has a separate Recovery Team aligned 
under EEB vertical to have improved recovery collections 
from delinquent customers where the business team will 
focus on collections from standard accounts to restrict 
slippages while the recovery team will have a focused 
approach to collection from delinquent accounts turned 
into NPA.
•	 Your Bank has deployed several analytics-driven models 
to improve both, sourcing and recovery. Some of the key 
initiatives in this regard are: the identification of good 
borrowers for a higher ticket loan based on a data-driven 
renewal base, identification of potential borrowers 
for graduating to individual loan, categorisation of 
delinquent borrowers based on their propensity to repay 
and prioritising collections accordingly, etc.
•	 Awareness about using digital solutions, like smartphone-
based transactions and use of credit/debit cards for 
online transactions are still persistent issues to the 
customers under the EEB vertical. To overcome these 
challenges, your Bank is imparting training to make the 
customers aware about the benefits of digital payments 
and various other aspects, such as seeding bank accounts 
with mobile number and Aadhaar, using digital mode of 
payments of instalments, etc. Your Bank has also taken 
initiative by informing the customers to pay through 
online transactions.
Wholesale Banking
Mid-Market Group
The Mid-Market Group (‘MMG’) offers loan products to 
Small, Medium & Large Enterprises for meeting their working 
capital and capital expenditure requirements, including 
non-fund based facilities. These are generally secured loans 
extended to businesses involved in manufacturing, trading, 
services, etc. The MMG vertical offers both fund-based and 
non-fund based facilities including term loan, cash credit, 
overdraft, loan against property, construction/project 
finance, lease rental discounting, Letter of Credit (‘LoC’), 
Bank Guarantee (‘BG’), etc. While, the Cash Management 
Services (‘CMS’) and Trade Finance have already been 
launched, the implementation of Supply Chain Finance is 
in process. The MMG vertical has presence Pan India with 
teams sitting across large Business Centres.
The Total Advances of the segment stood at ₹12,243 crore 
as on March 31, 2025 as compared to ₹6,701 crore as on 
March 31, 2024, a growth of 82.7 per cent. during FY 2025.
Financial 
Institution 
Group 
(FIG), 
Healthcare 
and Education
Your Bank continuously strives to meet the diverse credit 
needs across sectors, with a dedicated focus on Institutional 
Lending catering to Non-Banking Financial Companies 
(‘NBFCs’) and Housing Finance Companies (‘HFCs’) to 
Public Financial Institutions. In FY 2025, your Bank has 
forayed into the financial requirements of Education & 
Healthcare Institutions through its existing product suite, 
which includes term loans, working capital limits (fund-
based and non-fund based), cash credit and overdraft 
facilities. Your Bank also has credit exposure through 
Direct Assignments and Investment exposure through 
Pass through Certificates (‘PTCs’) and Non-Convertible 
Debentures (‘NCDs’). In the NBFCs segment, your Bank’s 
primary focus is secured financing through housing loan, 
loan against property, gold loan, business purpose loan, 
commercial & vehicle financing, etc. In the NBFC-MFI 
(Microfinance institutions) segment, the focus is to cater 
primarily for the priority segment funding.
FIG segment has a diverse portfolio with geographical 
presence across the country. The Total Advances of the 
segment (including Financial and Non-financial institutions) 
stood at ₹16,005 crore as on March 31, 2025 as compared 
to ₹12,815 crore as on March 31, 2024, a growth of 24.9 
per cent. during FY 2025, including the Healthcare & 
Education vertical which has built a book of ₹232 crore as 
on March 31, 2025.
Commercial – LAP
This segment caters primarily to proprietorships, 
partnerships and private limited companies for Loans 
Against Property (‘LAP’). This is in line with your Bank’s 
overall objective of increasing the secured lending portfolio. 
The segment is leveraging your Bank’s distribution 
90
Annual Report 2024-25
network of more than 625 branches as of March 2025, 
besides sourcing from the open market, along with an 
objective to meet various financial requirements of your 
Bank’s customers. As we move along, your Bank will use 
technology for better turnaround time that is essential for 
scaling up the business volume in this space. The segment 
offers a bouquet of income-linked programs to cater to 
most of the business segments in the market.
The Total Advances of the segment stood at ₹1,118 crore as 
on March 31, 2025 as compared to ₹516 crore as on March 
31, 2024, a growth of 116.9 per cent. during FY 2025.
Business Banking Group
The Business Banking Group (‘BBG’) offers loan products 
for the needs of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises 
(‘MSMEs’) to meet their working capital and/or capital 
expenditure requirements. These are secured loans 
generally between ₹25 lakh to ₹30 crore extended to 
businesses involved in manufacturing, trading, and services. 
These loans are extended in the form of secured credit 
facilities including term loan, cash credit, overdraft or lease 
rental discounting or as non-fund-based facilities like letter 
of credit or bank guarantee. Some of the schematic loan 
products offered by the segment are as follows:
•	 SME Business Connect
These loans help entrepreneurs in financing their working 
capital and capital expenditure requirements against 
primary security of current and/or fixed assets and 
collateral security including residential or commercial 
property or liquid securities. These loans, ranging from 
₹25 lakh to ₹5 crore, are provided as fund-based facilities 
like overdraft, cash credit, or term loan and non-fund-
based facilities like letter of credit or bank guarantees.
•	 SME GST Connect
These loans, for financing entrepreneurs’ working 
capital needs, are provided as an overdraft or fund-based 
facilities. These loans are offered against collateral 
security, which can be in the form of current assets, 
property and/or liquid securities. The loan quantum 
ranges from ₹25 lakh to ₹3 crore.
•	 Bandhan CGTMSE Loan
Your Bank offers loans to finance the working capital 
and capital expenditure of Micro and Small Enterprises 
(‘MSEs’). These loans are provided as fund-based and 
non-fund-based facilities, without any collateral security 
or third-party guarantee. Collateral security for the 
remaining uncovered portion of the credit facility can 
be obtained under “Hybrid/Partial Collateral Security” 
product, introduced by CGTMSE. The loan quantum 
ranges from ₹25 lakh to ₹5 crore.
The BBG fund-based Advances was at ₹1,703 crore 
as on March 31, 2025 as against ₹1,010 crore as on 
March 31, 2024, registering a growth of 68.7 per cent. 
during FY 2025.
Agri-business Loans
Providing credit for agricultural activities not only helps 
increase crop production but also empowers farmers, 
and supports the backbone of the Indian economy – the 
agricultural sector. Your Bank recognises the importance 
of this sector and offers a wide range of credit facilities 
to provide financial support to all participants in the Agri 
value-chain system. Currently, the segment provides Kisan 
Cash Credit (KCC) loans to borrowers engaged in farming 
& allied activities, including animal husbandry, horticulture, 
pisciculture, etc. with competitive interest rates and 
minimal documentation. By doing so, your Bank is making it 
easier for farmers to access credit and invest in their farms 
to increase productivity.
The segment is expanding its footprint by offering working 
capital and term loan credit facilities (i.e. both fund-based 
and non-fund-based) to entities involved in agri-ancillary 
products and services. The segment also extends its foray 
towards financing of agricultural infrastructure, commodity 
Pledge finance, etc. to various agri-processors, agri-input 
dealers & agri-corporates, etc.
The Total Advances of the segment stood at ₹749 crore as 
on March 31, 2025 as compared to ₹268 crore as on March 
31, 2024, a growth of 179.6 per cent. during FY 2025.
Small Enterprise Loan
Small Enterprise Loan (‘SEL’) offers Term Loan & Working 
Capital products to small enterprises who rely on accessible 
and dependable financial solutions to sustain and expand 
their operations. The SEL vertical stands as a trusted 
financial partner, committed to empowering businesses 
with tailored funding solutions. With SEL, businesses gain 
more than just financial assistance - they build a relationship 
rooted in trust, security, and sustained growth.
Trusted Financial Products Under SEL include:
•	 SEL Term Loans (₹3 lakh to ₹10 lakh): Designed to 
support small businesses in their journey, these term 
loans offer flexible tenures of one to three years, 
ensuring access to working capital and asset creation 
with reliability and ease.
•	 SEL Max Loans (₹10.01 lakh to ₹25 lakh): Built for 
enterprises with greater business aspirations, SEL Max 
Loans extend higher-value funding, offering businesses 
a dependable avenue for expansion.
•	 SEL Cash Credit (₹5 lakh to ₹25 lakh): A trusted revolving 
credit facility that provides businesses the flexibility to 
access funds as needed, with interest applicable only on 
the utilised amount. Limits are renewed yearly, ensuring 
continuous financial support.
91
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
•	 SEL Secured Overdraft Loans (₹10.01 lakh to 
₹25 lakh): Introduced in FY 2023 to cater to MSME 
borrowers, this overdraft solution strengthens financial 
resilience. Businesses can secure working capital while 
pledging assets, reaffirming the foundation of trust in 
financial partnerships.
The Total Advances of the segment stood at ₹4,526 crore 
as on March 31, 2025 supporting over 1.13 lakh valued small 
and growing businesses.
Transaction Banking
During FY 2025, your Bank continued to strengthen its 
transaction banking proposition across Cash Management 
Services (CMS), Trade Finance, and Supply Chain Finance, 
with a focus on product expansion and digital enablement.
During the FY, the cash pick-up offering was further scaled 
and enhanced. Several new initiatives were also undertaken 
to broaden the CMS suite, including eNACH for external 
corporates, a centralised escrow platform, cheque printing 
and collection services, host-to-host integration, API 
banking, and virtual account solutions.
These offerings are currently under development and are 
expected to be launched during the current FY, with the 
objective of building a comprehensive and future-ready 
CMS platform to meet the evolving needs of corporate and 
institutional clients.
On the Trade Finance front, your Bank’s non-fund-based 
trade book crossed ₹2,100 crore. The first foreign currency 
import letter of credit (LC) and the first Letter of Credit Bill 
Discounting (LCBD) transactions were executed, alongside 
steady growth in cross-border remittances averaging over 
USD 2.2 million per month.
Your Bank is also in the process of developing a Supply Chain 
Finance platform to complement its existing trade and CMS 
offerings. CMS and Trade continue to be key pillars within 
the Wholesale Banking business, supported by ongoing 
investments in product development and service delivery.
Housing Finance
During FY 2025, your Bank’s Housing Finance business 
continued to align with its long-term strategic roadmap, 
delivering strong performance despite a challenging 
macro-economic environment. Your Bank's commitment 
to inclusive housing credit, prudent risk management, and 
operational agility had translated into resilient growth 
across disbursements, portfolio size, borrower quality and 
geographic reach.
The total housing loan book expanded by 10.6 per cent. 
reaching ₹33,086 crore, up from ₹29,916 crore in FY 2024. 
Disbursements during the year stood at ₹9,357 crore, 
registering a 26 per cent. year-on-year increase. This 
performance was supported by the introduction of a 
Prime Lending Channel during the said fiscal year. This 
new channel significantly enhanced disbursement volumes 
and contributed to a healthier asset quality by targeting 
stronger borrower profiles and reducing delinquency risk.
The share of the salaried borrower segment in your Bank’s 
Housing Finance portfolio grew to 48 per cent., up from 43 
per cent. during the FY 2024, and 71 per cent. of disbursals 
were made to customers with CIBIL scores above 725, 
reinforcing a strategic shift towards more creditworthy 
borrowers. Disbursal productivity rose 17 per cent. year-
on-year and the average ticket size was ₹21 lakhs.
In line with its financial inclusion goals, your Bank operated 
its housing loan network through over 450 branches 
offering home loans and over 300 banking units delivering 
micro-home loans across 18 states and 3 union territories. 
This expansion enabled deeper market penetration and 
better customer access, particularly in underserved regions.
The portfolio remained predominantly Affordable 
Housing, contributing approximately 80 per cent. of the 
book. Regional diversification continued with strong 
performances across all zones.
Retail Assets
In its pursuit of broadening the product suite, your Bank has 
consistently worked to introduce and strengthen its Retail 
Asset product portfolio. This has ensured the availability 
of a diverse range of loan products designed to address 
varying customer needs. Among these are secured lending 
options such as Gold Loans, Car Loans, Commercial Vehicle 
& Construction Equipment (‘CVCE’) Loans, Two-Wheeler 
Loans as well as unsecured Personal Loans. This strategic 
focus aligns with your Bank's commitment to catering to a 
broader demographic while maintaining a sound risk profile.
•	 Gold Loan: Crafted to meet customers' urgent financial 
needs with efficiency and simplicity. Offering loan 
amounts from ₹10,000 to ₹80,00,000, flexible tenure 
options of up to 3 years, and competitive interest 
rates, this product ensures accessibility and value for 
your Bank’s customers. To further enhance service 
delivery and reach, your Bank is actively expanding its 
branch network, thus enabling greater access to Gold 
Loan facilities. This strategic move underscores your 
Bank’s commitment to strengthening its presence, 
fostering trust, and driving business growth across 
wider geographies.
•	 Car Loan: Designed to meet the needs of a diverse 
customer base, your Bank’s Car Loan product offers 
financing for both new and pre-owned vehicles. Loan 
amounts range from ₹1 lakh to ₹1.5 crore, backed by 
competitive interest rates and flexible repayment plans. 
The emphasis on Used Car Loans reflects your Bank's 
commitment to this expanding market segment. With a 
streamlined digital application process and an extensive 
92
Annual Report 2024-25
dealer network, your Bank continues to deliver value-
driven solutions that make car ownership hassle-free 
and rewarding.
•	 CVCE Loan: Committed to fostering growth in transport 
and construction, your Bank offers Commercial Vehicle 
& Commercial Equipment (CVCE) Loans with flexible 
amounts from ₹1 lakh to ₹25 crore. With a strategic 
segment emphasis on CVCE loans, the single-unit 
loan limit has been enhanced to meet the evolving 
requirements of businesses. Additionally, your Bank 
is expanding its reach into the used CVCE segment, 
delivering customised financial solutions for this 
growing market. Leveraging its branch network and 
collaborations with dealers and manufacturers, your 
Bank continues to ensure a seamless and rewarding 
customer experience.
•	 Two-Wheeler Loans: In its journey to empower mobility, 
your Bank has crossed the noteworthy figure of 190,000 
customers in the Two-Wheeler Loan segment, with 90 per 
cent. being new-to-bank customers. This achievement 
underscores our commitment to providing a seamless 
loan experience with financing options available up to 
₹5,00,000. To meet evolving demands, your Bank has 
introduced loans for electric vehicles (EVs) and super 
bikes, ensuring relevance in emerging niches. Supported 
by a dealer/channel-based distribution framework, your 
Bank is further enhancing accessibility and expanding its 
footprint across wider geographies.
•	 Personal Loan: Your Bank pursued a strategic and 
adaptable approach to Personal Loans during FY 2025, 
ensuring alignment with market shifts and customer 
expectations. Through the efforts of a dedicated sales 
team, your Bank continued to cater to key markets and 
diverse customer needs. Personal Loans, offered at 
competitive interest rates, are available for amounts 
between ₹50,000 and ₹25,00,000 with flexible tenures 
of up to 5 years.
The Total Advances of the segment stood at ₹11,021 crore 
as on March 31, 2025 as compared to ₹5,578 crore as on 
March 31, 2024, a growth of 97.6 per cent. during FY 2025.
Branch Banking
Your Bank provides an array of retail liability products 
designed to promptly and effectively cater to diverse 
banking requirements across various customer segments. 
Prioritising customer satisfaction, your Bank consistently 
innovates and offers convenient banking solutions to meet 
its customers' needs.
During FY 2025, your Bank’s deposit portfolio witnessed 
a growth of 11.8 per cent. with a total deposit base of 
₹1,51,212 crore as of March 31, 2025. The growth in deposits 
was primarily driven by the varied liability products of term, 
savings and current account deposits with the total retail 
deposit book growing by 11.0 per cent.
Your Bank strengthened its Savings product proposition 
through a strategic focus on diverse customer segments. 
In addition to reinforcing the Affluent segment with 
premier offerings like Elite and Premium Savings Accounts, 
your Bank launched four new segment-specific savings 
products: the AVNI Women’s Savings Account, tailored for 
women customers; the Pension Savings Account, designed 
for pensioners; the PMJDY Savings Account, promoting 
financial inclusion; and the Classic Savings Account, 
offering affordable savings solutions to regular customers. 
These introductions reflect your Bank’s commitment to 
deepening financial access and addressing the unique 
needs of customer-centric banking. To complement these 
initiatives, your Bank has enhanced communication efforts 
through targeted, product-focused campaigns aimed at 
informing customers about key features, interest rates, 
and technology-enabled services.
During FY 2025, your Bank introduced new Debit Card 
variants such as Bandhan Bank Platinum Plus, Titanium, 
PMJDY and AVNI Debit Card, thereby remaining committed 
to providing customers better card value proposition, 
features and benefits along with a diverse selection of 
debit card choices. The entire collection of Debit Cards 
had garnered a total card fee income amounting to 
approximately ₹88 crore in FY 2025. The card fee income 
consists of Issuance Fee, Annual Fee and Re-issuance Fee.
The Current Account segment showcased remarkable 
resilience in FY 2025, highlighting the success of well-
executed strategic initiatives. Key growth drivers included 
the launch of the new Collection Account product, increased 
penetration of EDC and QR code solutions, proactive re-
engagement with the existing customer base, and robust 
development of the Current Account Manager channel. 
These achievements were further bolstered by a sharper 
focus on granular customer segmentation, enabling 
more personalised engagement and customised product 
offerings. Additionally, the expansion of digital services, 
combined with process automation, significantly reduced 
turnaround times, enhancing overall customer experience. 
Sustained momentum in opening new branches in high-
potential catchment areas, along with targeted acquisition 
campaigns aimed at key business clusters, further broadened 
market coverage and solidified the segment's performance.
The Merchant Acquiring Business (‘MAB’) continues 
to play a pivotal role in strengthening current account 
relationships. FY 2025 had marked a period of remarkable 
progress, strategic innovation, and consistent growth. Your 
Bank has seen significant traction in merchant acquisition 
through POS/Bharat QR deployments, along with the 
expansion of its Payment Gateway (PG) services across 
diverse merchant categories. Key highlights include:
•	 127 per cent. year-on-year growth in merchant acquisitions
•	 68 per cent. year-on-year increase in 
transaction throughput
•	 21 per cent. year-on-year growth in revenue, driven by 
increased balances in associated current accounts
93
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
These achievements reinforce MAB’s contribution not 
only as a transaction facilitator but also as a strong lever 
for liability growth and income generation for your Bank.
Your Bank's expansive branch network had been 
instrumental in its achievements. Throughout the FY 2025, 
a total of 15 branches were added (including conversion 
of three Housing Finance centres into branches), elevating 
your Bank's overall presence to 1,715 branches, spanning 
diverse locations nationwide.
To fortify its relationship with customers, your Bank is 
engaging in communication through marketing campaigns, 
social media outreach, and branch-level initiatives. Your 
Bank will continue to harness technology to provide 
innovative digital solutions that prioritise security, 
convenience, and user-friendliness. Your Bank is dedicated 
to delivering top-notch banking solutions to its customers 
and eagerly anticipates serving them with unwavering zeal 
and commitment in the years ahead.
Third Party Products
Your Bank currently distributes mutual funds, life insurance 
and general insurance, including health insurance and 3-in-1 
online trading product to its customers. FY 2025 had been a 
year of synergy and aspiration. Your Bank continues to build 
and demonstrate a determined focus on offering a value-
driven, need encompassed, robust and comprehensive 
product proposition to its customers. In the life insurance 
business, your Bank has a proposition offering of a wide 
bouquet of products to cater to the different stories and 
junctions of its customer’s life. Your Bank had also been 
continuously engaged in building a strong distribution 
ecosystem with carefully crafted synergy and partnership 
with analytics and technology functions to offer the best 
in class insurance solutions to its customer base. In the 
General Insurance business, your Bank continued to serve its 
customers as they build a disciplined habit towards healthy 
living and coverage for unforeseen exigencies, by offering 
them a wide variety of health insurance and general insurance 
solution-based product propositions. Your Bank aims to 
extend the benefits of general and health insurance to all its 
customer segments. In mutual funds distribution, your Bank 
continues to focus on a research-driven distribution strategy 
with a vision of providing its customers ease and flexibility 
while planning for investments. Your Bank continues to offer 
a research driven distribution of Mutual Funds through its 
Mobile Banking (‘mBandhan’) platform and the Retail 
Internet Banking (‘RIB’) platform, which demonstrates 
your Bank’s continuous efforts towards offering customers 
further convenience and benefits.
Your Bank had entered into partnerships with Bandhan Life 
Insurance Limited and ICICI Lombard General Insurance 
Company Limited to offer their products to its customers. 
This will further strengthen your Bank’s products 
proposition offering and enhance its commitment towards 
its customers.
Your Bank continues to invest towards building a customer 
value-centred, segment-driven, data-led, analytics and 
research-based, and technology embedded, product 
distribution propositions, across all Third-Party Products 
and continues to seek out opportunities to add new product 
suites to serve customers’ financial needs holistically.
The total mutual fund AUM managed under your Bank’s 
code during the FY under review was ₹1,422.33 crore, on 
which your Bank earned an income of ₹10.94 crore.
A total of ₹135.87 crore and ₹653.17 crore of general and 
retail life insurance business, respectively, were garnered 
through the retail network during the FY 2025, earning a 
fee income of ₹23.56 crore and ₹265.80 crore, respectively. 
During the FY under review, the life insurance business and 
general insurance through all asset verticals amounted 
to ₹456.82 crore and ₹74.61 crore, respectively, earning 
an income of ₹84.64 crore. The insurer wise segmented 
commission income is as follow: Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance: 
₹159.65 crore; HDFC Life Insurance: ₹111.76 crore; Kotak 
Life Insurance: ₹26.68 crore; Bandhan Life Insurance: 
₹43.87 crore; Bajaj Allianz General Insurance: ₹7.12 crore; 
Niva Bupa Health Insurance: ₹20.78 crore; Oriental General 
Insurance: ₹3.98 crore and ICICI Lombard General Insurance: 
₹0.16 crore.
Your Bank had also earned ₹0.72 crore as commission for the 
distribution of Atal Pension Yojana, NPS Lite Swavalamban 
schemes of PFRDA and others during the FY 2025.
Digitising @Bandhan
Bandhan Bank aspires to become a digitally enabled bank 
by continually expanding its offerings focusing on the 
customer’s life cycle. The emphasis on digital adoption has 
helped increase penetration, streamline processes, and 
enhance customer experience. Your Bank is focused on 
building product-led technology solutions to build strong 
value proposition for its micro, retail, wholesale, and 
commercial banking customers.
Your Bank has created a digital and transaction excellence 
unit (‘DTEU’) to enhance focus, efficiency, and expertise. 
This unit will be responsible for Corporate Transactions and 
Solutions, Government Solutions, Payment products and 
Platform, Retail Digital Banking and Fintech partnerships. 
It will also help in augmenting granular deposits and fee-
based income through various capabilities. DTEU team 
will build expertise, combining technical, functional, 
and commercial solutions catering to the corporate and 
consumer segment.
Your Bank stays committed to always delivering customer 
value while ensuring requisite systems and controls are in 
place for a safe and convenient digital banking experience 
for its valued customers.
94
Annual Report 2024-25
Data Science and Analytics
The Data Science and Analytics function is one of the most 
critical areas for your Bank. The Analytics team began 
its journey in FY 2023. All members have trained in data 
science and data engineering from Tier 1 premier institutes. 
The objective of this team is to provide accurate and timely 
intelligence by utilising internal and external data. The 
team develops multiple scorecards using AI-ML capabilities 
to estimate the creditworthiness and payment capabilities 
of borrowers, as well as to identify potentially fraudulent 
accounts and transactions. The team helps to issue 
early warnings about emerging risks and suggests a risk 
mitigation plan. The team continuously works to enhance 
operational efficiency. It also provides a strategic roadmap 
for your Bank to increase its reach to new customers using 
both physical and digital footprints. This team supports 
all business verticals at every stage of customers’ lifecycle 
journey through the right customer contact strategies and 
appropriate product and service offerings.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Your Bank remains deeply committed to fostering 
inclusive growth, a principle that underpins all its 
Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) initiatives. These 
efforts are thoughtfully directed towards empowering 
marginalised communities, particularly those residing in 
areas surrounding your Bank’s operations. Recognising 
the complex and multi-dimensional vulnerabilities these 
communities face most notably, the persistent challenge 
of achieving sustainable livelihoods, your Bank’s CSR 
interventions are strategically designed to enhance their 
capabilities and resilience. By focusing on capacity building 
and long-term empowerment, your Bank aims to create a 
meaningful, lasting impact that contributes to the broader 
goal of social and economic inclusion.
To address its societal commitments, your Bank has 
adopted a comprehensive CSR policy that aligns with 
Schedule VII to the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Companies 
Act’). The Bank’s CSR programmes, guided by this policy, 
are primarily implemented in communities located near its 
operational areas.
To ensure the effective implementation and oversight of its 
CSR programme, your Bank has established the Corporate 
Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee of 
the Board (‘CSR&SCB’), in compliance with Section 135 
of the Companies Act and the Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 (‘CSR Rules’). 
In addition to guiding your Bank’s CSR initiatives, the 
CSR&SCB is also responsible for monitoring the execution 
of Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting 
(‘BRSR’) initiatives. Details regarding the composition of 
the CSR&SCB are provided in the Corporate Governance 
Report, which forms part of this Annual Report.
Total CSR obligation for your Bank for FY 2025 was ₹39.89 
crore, which was allocated towards 14 CSR programmes. 
Out of the total ₹39.89 crore, ₹23.25 crore spent towards 
various CSR programmes during FY 2025 whereas 
₹16.64 crore was transferred to Unspent CSR account 
towards the ongoing projects, in terms of the provisions 
of Sections 135(5) and 135(6) of the Companies Act, 
reasonable justification towards the same is provided in 
the CSR Annual Report forming part of this Report. These 
programmes were implemented through various Project 
Implementing Agencies (‘PIAs’) in alignment with the 
activities outlined under Schedule VII of the Companies Act. 
One of the PIAs, Bandhan Konnagar (‘BK’), promoter group 
entity, is a related party of your Bank. Accordingly, all CSR 
expenditures through BK, being related party transactions, 
were done with the approval of the Audit Committee of the 
Board, in addition to receiving necessary approvals from 
the CSR&SCB and the Board of Directors. During the FY, 
the CSR coverage reached out to 1,33,540 families spread 
across 273 project locations covering 5,240 villages in 47 
districts across seven states of India, thereby taking the 
cumulative reach since inception to 25,80,996 families in 
82 districts across 14 states.
In terms of the provisions of Rule 8(3) of the CSR Rules, your 
Bank appointed Ernst and Young LLP (‘EY’) to carry out an 
independent Impact Assessment of its CSR Programmes. 
Further, in terms of the General Circular No. 14/2021 dated 
August 25, 2021, issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
Government of India, the Impact Assessment Report is 
available at the Bank’s website https://bandhanbank.com/
beyond-banking, and the programme wise summary of the 
same is mentioned in the subsequent sections.
The details of CSR programmes undertaken pursuant to the 
provisions of the Companies Act and in accordance with the 
Annual Action Plan, during the FY under review are given as 
Annex – 1 and forms part of this Report. The CSR Policy of 
your Bank is available on its website: https://bandhanbank.
com/sites/default/files/2025-02/CSR-Policy-03022025.pdf.
Some of the key programmes of your Bank’s CSR 
initiatives are:
Targeting the Hard-Core Poor Programme
During the FY under review, your Bank had contributed 
₹6.26 crore (₹10.90 crore in FY 2024) towards Targeting 
the Hard-Core Poor (‘THP’) programme. The programme 
is designed for ultra-poor women-headed households, 
providing them with a range of gainful micro-enterprises 
in the form of farm, non-farm and mixed assets, along with 
handholding support and training on confidence building, 
enterprise skills, consumer interaction, marketing and 
financial skills. They are also provided with sustenance 
allowance to meet their daily needs until they generate 
substantial income from the provided assets. Within 
a period of 24 months, these ultra-poor women start 
95
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
graduating, uplifting themselves from extreme poverty1 
and getting linked to mainstream society2.
During the FY under review, 2,000 ultra-poor women 
were provided farm, non-farm and mixed assets to sustain 
their livelihoods, thereby cumulatively taking the total 
women-headed households to be impacted through the 
programme since its inception to 52,500 women. In the 
current FY, the programme covered 5 districts of Uttar 
Pradesh and West Bengal.
The Impact Assessment Study carried out by EY indicated 
that 18,000 ultra-poor women-headed households were 
alleviated from below the poverty line to above the 
national poverty line1 (₹1,059.42 for rural and ₹1,286 for 
urban areas1) with a significant increase in their business 
assets and household income having an average monthly 
income of ₹7,200. Additionally, these households had 
improved savings habits and had access to safe sanitation, 
social security schemes and health schemes.
Bandhan Health Programme
During the FY under review, your Bank has contributed 
₹2.51 crore (₹7.01 crore in FY 2024) towards seven health 
programmes covering nine districts across three states 
of India. These health programmes covered 29,052 new 
beneficiaries during the FY, thereby taking the cumulative 
coverage to 13,73,610 beneficiaries.
The Impact Assessment Study conducted by EY indicated 
that the programme contributed to the achieving 100 per 
cent. access to health services after the implementation of 
the programme compared to 78 per cent. respondents who 
did not have access to health services. The health services 
included Antenatal Care (‘ANC’), institutional delivery, 
Postnatal Care (‘PNC’), nutritional support and child health 
evaluation, thereby leading to a change in behavioural 
practices and 100 per cent. of the respondents noticed an 
improvement in their health and health-seeking behaviour.
The Impact Assessment Study indicated that 100 per cent. 
of the adolescent girl respondents have received menstrual 
health and hygiene awareness and access to menstrual 
hygiene products. The study also indicated that 100 per cent. 
of the respondents received access to safe drinking water.
Empowering Cancer Care: Contribution to Assam 
Cancer Care Foundation
As part of its ongoing commitment to improving healthcare 
access and supporting communities in need, your Bank had 
contributed ₹4 crore towards comprehensive cancer care 
in Assam. This initiative is being implemented through the 
Assam Cancer Care Foundation, a strategic partnership 
between the Government of Assam and Tata Trusts. The 
contribution will help enhance cancer treatment and 
provide vital medical care, support, and resources to those 
affected by cancer. By collaborating with this esteemed 
foundation, your Bank reaffirms its dedication to advancing 
healthcare and making a meaningful impact on the lives of 
individuals battling cancer in Assam.
Healthcare Accessibility: Donation of 18 Advanced 
Life-Saving Ambulances
Your Bank remains steadfast in its commitment to 
community development, with healthcare being a central 
focus of its CSR initiatives. As part of this commitment, your 
Bank is enhancing healthcare infrastructure and improving 
emergency medical response across India. This initiative, 
with an investment of ₹6.20 crore, aims to expand access 
to critical care, supporting hospitals and organisations 
dedicated to emergency healthcare and community well-
being. By enabling timely, life-saving interventions, this 
donation significantly contributes to improving healthcare 
accessibility across the country.
Bandhan Education Programme
Your Bank’s education programme provides quality 
education to children belonging to the marginalised section 
of our society in its catchment area. The programme 
also provides training to the teachers belonging to the 
communities, government schools and schools run by the 
various charitable trusts that are providing free education 
to transform their pedagogy and integrate various teaching 
and learning tools in their lesson plans and track the 
comprehensive continuous assessment of each child.
Your Bank contributed ₹4.24 crore (₹9.78 crore in FY 2024) 
towards the education programme enrolling 246 new 
students, thereby taking the cumulative outreach to 
1,14,637 marginalised children across 32 districts of five 
states of India.
The Impact Assessment Study conducted by EY indicated 
that 100 per cent. of the children received free books and 
school kits to facilitate their learning. 100 per cent. of 
the students who completed class 3 were able to identify 
numbers and alphabets, could read text and perform basic 
calculations to meet the learning goals of Foundational 
Literacy and Numeracy3 (‘FLN’).
1Poverty Line benchmarked according to the Suresh Tendulkar Committee Poverty Lines per capita monthly expenditure, 2011-12, Niti Aayog, 
Government of India
2India SDG Index Score for Goal 1 – No Poverty; Goal 2 – Zero Hunger and SGD 5 – Gender Equality
3Foundational Literacy and Numeracy refers to basic skills in reading, writing, and mathematics. It is the ability to read and understand a basic 
text write and perform simple mathematical operations as adopted by Ministry of Education, Government of India.
96
Annual Report 2024-25
Skill Development Programme
Your Bank’s skill development initiatives provide market-
linked and job-ready employable skills to the youths from 
marginalised sections of society in various domains. This 
initiative not only provides on-the-job training and job 
placement facilitation in the organised sector but also a 
follow-up of the placements so that the youths are settled 
in their job post-training.
During the FY under review, your Bank contributed ₹4.08 
crore (₹3.69 crore in FY 2024) towards the skill development 
initiatives in eight districts across three states of India. The 
PIAs operated 12 skill development centres in domains 
like Warehousing and Logistics, Retail and Customer Care, 
Sales and Marketing, ITeS and BPO, Refrigeration and 
Air Conditioning, Computer Accounting, Hardware and 
Networking, BFSI, etc.
During the FY 2025, 2,710 candidates were enrolled, 
thereby taking the total to 19,824 youths who have been 
trained under this programme till date.
The impact assessment indicated that 85 per cent. of the 
respondents secured their first job after the completion of 
the training provided under the Employing the Unemployed 
Programme (‘EUP’). The EUP provided them with job 
readiness skills, career counselling, job placement assistance 
and other resources to enhance their employability.
Skill Development and Education Programme – 
Support to Ramakrishna Mission Centre For Human 
Excellence and Social Sciences (Viveka Tirtha):
During the FY 2025, your Bank has contributed ₹4 crore 
towards Ramakrishna Mission Centre for Human Excellence 
and Social Sciences (Viveka Tirtha) as part of its ongoing 
commitment to education and skill development. This 
initiative is aligned with your Bank’s vision of fostering 
human development and social well-being.
Skill Development and Education Programme 
– 
Support 
to 
Nivedita 
Institute 
of 
Human 
Advancement 
& 
Research 
(NIHAR) 
Centre 
Ramakrishna Sarada Mission:
During the FY 2025, your Bank had contributed ₹1.4 crore 
towards the Skill Development and Education Programme, 
in partnership with the Ramakrishna Sarada Mission in 
line with your Bank’s commitment to fostering growth 
and empowerment. This significant contribution had 
been directed towards the development of the Nivedita 
Institute of Human Advancement & Research Centre. 
The funds will support initiatives aimed at enhancing 
educational opportunities and skill development, 
ultimately contributing to the overall advancement of 
human potential. By investing in such transformative 
initiatives through the Ramakrishna Sarada Mission, your 
Bank continues to play an active role in shaping a brighter 
future through education, skill-building, and research. This 
partnership highlights your Bank’s dedication to social 
responsibility and sustainable development.
Bandhan Financial Literacy Programme
Your Bank has spent ₹3.40 crore to impart financial literacy 
to underprivileged women to raise awareness regarding 
better financial planning and accessing Banking, Financial 
Services and Insurance (‘BFSI’) related products and 
services, including digital banking. Your Bank recognises 
the fact that imparting financial knowledge is vital to the 
financial inclusion agenda and to addressing the sustainable 
development of rural communities.
Through this initiative, your Bank has financially empowered 
5,75,443 women in the states of Assam, Tripura, Bihar, 
Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal 
to improve their savings and access banking services. 
According to the EY Impact Assessment Report, 100 per 
cent. of the women, after completing the training, feel that 
they are more confident in taking independent financial 
decisions and can also do digital banking.
Bandhan Sustainable Livelihood Programme
Your Bank under its CSR initiatives, has piloted a unique 
initiative to empower underprivileged entrepreneurs to set 
up small businesses. These entrepreneurs are imparted with 
professional business incubation training and facilitation 
for accessing statutory licenses and business loans. They 
are also trained in various aspects of marketing, customer 
relationships, financial planning and management, business 
development plans, filing of various tax returns, etc.
Through this initiative, your Bank aims to convert the 
job-seeking to job-creators. To date, 200 youths have 
been successfully incubated to independently manage 
their enterprises.
Climate Action Programme
The Climate Action Programme focuses on climate 
change adaptation and carbon sequestration. The Major 
initiatives under this programme were in the areas of 
Water conservation, Afforestation and Solar energy, as 
mentioned below:
Water Conservation
The water conservation initiative aims at water security 
and drought-proofing in some of the high moisture-
97
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
stressed regions of India, thereby providing a safety net 
to agriculture and livestock-based livelihoods. These 
initiatives facilitate participatory watershed management 
by empowering the communities to participate in the 
planning and implementation of local water resource 
development. Measures such as building, reviving and 
maintaining water-harvesting structures, prioritisation 
and judicious use of water for every community member, 
crop planning and water-efficient farming, use of drought-
resistant varieties, cultivation of high-value crops requiring 
less water, etc., create a multiplier effect in drought-
proofing and climate change adaptation measures and 
higher income generation.
During the FY under review, 22 water harvesting structures, 
with a storage capacity of 11,818 kilolitres, in the form of 
farm ponds, were constructed in the farmers’ fields to 
provide them critical irrigation support.
Cumulatively, the programme has supported the 
construction of 72 water harvesting structures with a 
storage capacity of over 1,45,318 kilolitres of water in three 
states. These structures not only provide drinking water to 
over 1,958 families but also support participatory irrigation 
of various crops.
Afforestation
Your Bank’s afforestation initiatives have contributed 
towards the project of establishing a “Bio-shield” to save 
the mangroves in the Bharuch district of Gujarat. Over 
the years, mangrove plantation of 1,50,000 saplings were 
carried out on 20 Hectares in a stretch of one kilometre 
of coastline along with plantation of other medical plant 
species and fodder species. A fodder bank was created to 
offset the biotic pressure from the mangrove area.
Additionally, during the FY 2025, the plantation of 16,521 
saplings under agroforestry and mangrove plantation was 
done in West Bengal. This took the cumulative plantation 
to 4,34,046 saplings in 41 districts across seven states in 
India. These plantations helped your Bank to off-set 3,968 
MT/year of CO2.
Biodiversity Conservation and Education at Jambusar
During the FY 2025, your Bank contributed ₹25 lakhs towards 
a comprehensive Biodiversity Assessment of Mangroves 
and the design proposal for a Nature Interpretation Centre 
at Jambusar, Gujarat. A field visit was conducted by a team 
of experts, including a marine ecologist, an architect, 
and a social worker, to assess the region’s biodiversity. 
This evaluation identified vulnerable species such as the 
Sarus Crane, Lesser Flamingo and Indian Flap Shell Turtle, 
highlighting the ecological importance of the area. As a 
result, the proposal for a Nature Interpretation Centre 
was put forward to educate the public, especially school 
students, about mangroves and their conservation.
Additionally, a pilot Nature Education Program, Mud-Flat 
Dhuleti, was organised in March 2025. The event provided 
20 participants with an immersive, experiential learning 
opportunity to explore the mangrove ecosystem, local 
biodiversity, and coastal life. The event raised ₹14,500 
in donations, supporting the region’s ecotourism and 
biodiversity conservation efforts.
Solar Irrigation with Drip and Farm Pond for Water 
Conservation and Renewable Energy
Your Bank’s commitment to sustainable farming practices 
is reflected in the support of the Solar Irrigation with Drip 
and Farm Pond project in Jambusar Taluka, Gujarat, with 
an investment of ₹1.38 crore. As part of this initiative, 25 
marginalised farmers were provided with solar-linked drip 
irrigation systems to enhance water conservation and 
improve agricultural productivity. The project, implemented 
through the VIKAS Centre for Development, included the 
establishment of two demo sites to demonstrate the 
system’s effectiveness, with refinements incorporated for 
improved durability and ease of operation.
Solar-powered streetlights
During the FY 2025, your Bank has contributed ₹50 lakh 
towards the installation of solar-powered High mast 
streetlights in the vicinity of Vitthal Temple, Pandharpur 
as part of its Climate Action Programme. This initiative 
will provide sustainable, renewable energy for the temple, 
improving lighting around the temple complex and 
surrounding areas. The solar-powered streetlights will not 
only reduce the carbon footprint but also enhance safety 
and accessibility for the thousands of devotees and visitors 
who visit the temple. Additionally, by using clean energy, 
the project will contribute to long-term cost savings and 
promote environmental awareness within the community. 
This initiative reflects your Bank's ongoing commitment to 
environmental sustainability and community well-being.
Dividend
Pursuant to Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI 
LODR’), the Board of Directors of your Bank has adopted 
a Dividend Distribution Policy that, inter-alia, balances the 
objectives of appropriately rewarding shareholders and 
retaining capital to maintain a healthy capital adequacy ratio. 
In addition to the Dividend Distribution Policy, the dividend 
payout ratio of your Bank is also guided by the Circulars on 
dividend issued by RBI, from time to time. Policies of the 
Bank are reviewed at least once a year and accordingly, 
Dividend Distribution Policy was reviewed by the Board 
during the FY, with certain amendments with regard to 
parameters for dividend distribution including regulatory 
98
Annual Report 2024-25
requirements. The Policy is available on the website at 
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../sites/
default/files/2025-07/Dividend-Distribution-Policy.pdf
In line with this policy and in recognition of the financial 
performance during the FY 2025, while retaining capital to 
maintain a healthy capital adequacy ratio to meet growth 
requirements, your Board of Directors has recommended a 
dividend of ₹1.50 per equity share of ₹10 each fully paid-up 
(15%) for the FY 2025, similar to previous FY, for approval 
of the shareholders at the 11th Annual General Meeting 
(‘AGM’) of the Bank.
Pursuant to the provisions of Income-tax Act, 1961 
(‘IT Act’), dividends paid or distributed by your Bank shall be 
taxable in the hands of the shareholders and your Bank shall 
be required to deduct tax at source (‘TDS’) at the prescribed 
rates from the dividend to be paid to shareholders, subject 
to the approval of dividend by the shareholders in the 
ensuing AGM. Further details are available in the notice of 
the 11th AGM of the Bank. An email communication in this 
regard has also been sent to the shareholders.
Transfer to Reserves
In line with the RBI regulations, your Bank has transferred an 
amount of ₹686.32 crore to the statutory reserve during the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025. Amount transferred to 
other reserves during the FY are provided under the head 
‘Financial Performance of the Bank’ of this Report.
Issuance of Equity Shares & Capital 
Adequacy Ratio
During the FY under review, your Bank has allotted 1,657 
equity shares of ₹10 each fully paid-up, pursuant to exercise 
of stock options by the eligible Employees of your Bank, 
aggregating to ₹16,570.
Post allotment of aforesaid equity shares, the issued, 
subscribed and paid-up equity share capital of your Bank 
stood at ₹16,10,97,14,050, comprising 1,61,09,71,405 equity 
shares of ₹10 each fully paid-up as on March 31, 2025.
Your Bank has not issued any equity shares with differential 
voting rights during the FY under review.
The authorised share capital of your Bank was 
₹32,00,00,00,000, comprising 3,20,00,00,000 equity shares 
of ₹10 each, as on March 31, 2025.
Your Bank’s Capital Adequacy Ratio (‘CAR’), calculated in 
line with the RBI Circular on Capital Adequacy Framework, 
stood at 18.71 per cent. as on March 31, 2025, well above 
the minimum regulatory requirements, out of which Tier 1 
CAR was 17.86 per cent. and Tier 2 CAR was 0.85 per cent.
Performance and Financial Position of the 
Subsidiaries, Associates or Joint Venture
Your Bank did not have any subsidiary, associate or joint 
venture company during the FY 2025. Accordingly, no 
statement is required to be reported in Form AOC-1.
Awards and Recognitions
Your Bank has received several prestigious awards and 
recognitions from various revered institutions during the 
FY under review, which are as under: –
Gallup Exceptional Workplace Award:
Your Bank received the 2025 Gallup Exceptional Workplace 
Award for the second time, recognising its commitment 
to fostering an engaged and high-performing workforce. 
Your Bank was among only 62 organisations worldwide to 
receive this recognition in the Engagement category.
Assam Rising CSR Award:
Your Bank has been awarded the 'Assam Rising CSR Award 
2024-25' for its Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives 
across Assam. The award was presented at the 15th Assam 
Rising Youth Conclave at Dibrugarh University.
BSE Best Performer in Bank Category Award:
Your Bank has been awarded the ‘Best Performer in Bank 
Category’ by the BSE for its outstanding performance in the 
Mutual Funds distribution business. This recognition highlights 
your Bank's customer-centric approach and dedication to 
supporting customers' financial growth and well-being.
DSCI Customer Excellence Award: Best Mobile 
App Security (Large Bank Category)
Your Bank has been awarded the ‘Customer Excellence 
Award’, specifically the ‘Best Practices in Mobile App 
Security Award (Large Bank Category)’. This recognition 
from the Data Security Council of India (DSCI) highlights 
your Bank's commitment to robust mobile app security.
ET Edge and ET Now Award
Your Bank has been honoured with the ET NOW Best BFSI 
Brands Award 2025, recognising its leadership, innovation, 
and commitment to transforming the banking industry. This 
award highlights your Bank's efforts in enhancing customer 
experience, fostering sustainability, and empowering 
underserved communities.
Rating of Various Debt Instruments
Details of rating of various debt instruments of your Bank 
as on March 31, 2025 are as under:
Instruments
Rating
Rating  
Agency
Amount 
(₹ in crore) 
99
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Non-Convertible 
Debentures#
CRISIL AA- / Stable
CRISIL
1,295@
[ICRA] AA- (Stable)
ICRA
Certificate of 
Deposit
CRISIL A1+
CRISIL
6,000*
[ICRA] A1+
ICRA
@Rating of ICRA is for ₹75 crore only
*Rating of ICRA is for ₹3,000 crore only
#Transferred from erstwhile GRUH Finance Ltd pursuant to the 
effectiveness of the Scheme of Amalgamation
During the FY, CRISIL has reaffirmed the rating and outlook 
of both the instruments. ICRA has revised the rating of 
Non-Convertible Debentures to [ICRA]AA- (Stable) from 
[ICRA]AA (Negative) and revised the outlook to Stable 
from Negative; while reaffirming the rating of Certificate 
of Deposit.
Board of Directors
The composition of the Board of Directors of your Bank 
(’Board’) is governed by the provisions of the Companies 
Act, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (the ‘BR Act’), 
the SEBI LODR, other applicable laws and its Articles of 
Association. At the end of March 31, 2025, the Board of 
your Bank had fourteen Directors, out of which nine were 
Independent Directors, two were nominee Directors i.e. one 
Nominee of Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited (‘BFHL’) 
and an Additional Director appointed by the RBI, and the 
Managing Director & CEO and the two Executive Directors.
Appointments
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta (DIN: 08273324)
The Board of your Bank, at its meeting held on October 
25, 2024, on the basis of the recommendation of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee ('NRC') and 
as per the approval granted by the RBI, had approved 
the appointment of Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta as the 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (‘MD&CEO’) 
and Key Managerial Personnel (‘KMP’) of the Bank, for a 
period of three years, not liable to retire by rotation, with 
effect from November 01, 2024, subject to Shareholders’ 
approval. Accordingly, the Shareholders of the Bank, on 
December 26, 2024, have accorded their approval, via 
Postal Ballot process, for appointment of Mr. Sengupta as 
the MD&CEO and KMP, for a period of three years, with 
effect from November 01, 2024 up to October 31, 2027, not 
liable to retire by rotation.
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta is an experienced banker, 
having four decades of experience in the banking industry. 
He has worked in different geographies, across both retail 
and corporate banking. He has been groomed at State Bank 
of India (SBI), where he rose to the role of Deputy Managing 
Director and Chief Credit Officer of the Bank. He then took 
over as Managing Director & CEO of Indian Overseas Bank 
(IOB).
Mr. Sengupta is a resilient and outcome-oriented leader 
who has demonstrated consistent achievement of goals. 
In both his stints, at SBI and at IOB, he has leveraged 
technology and innovation for achieving business results. 
Mr. Sengupta has spent his career in a range of retail and 
corporate branches and business. His postings included 
Branch Manager roles at retail and commercial branches, 
Forex, Trade Finance and Credit Officer roles, Regional 
Manager, Deputy General Manager in Corporate Centre 
Internet Banking Department, General Manager Mid 
Corporate, etc.
Between 2016 to 2018, Mr. Sengupta served as Chief General 
Manager, SBI Kolkata Circle, which included the states of 
West Bengal and Sikkim and also the Union Territory of 
Andaman and Nicobar Islands. In 2018, Mr. Sengupta was 
elevated to the rank of Deputy Managing Director and Chief 
Credit Officer of State Bank of India. He was the Chairman 
of the Corporate Centre Credit Committee, the highest 
sanctioning committee of the Bank just below the Board. 
He was a member of the Investment Committee, Fraud 
Management Committee, NPA Management Committee 
and Operational Risk and Marketing Risk Management 
Committees of the Bank. At SBI, he was a permanent invitee 
in the Board of SBI as DMD & Chief Credit Officer of the 
Bank. He has also been a non-executive director on the 
board of SBI’s investments (YES Bank, ARCIL, among others) 
and IOB’s joint venture (Universal Sompo Life Insurance). In 
2020, Mr. Sengupta was selected as Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer of Indian Overseas Bank and led the 
bank until December, 2022.
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714)
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, former MD&CEO of the 
Bank, vide letter dated April 05, 2024, informed the Board 
that he would retire from the services of the Bank as the 
MD&CEO upon completion of his current tenure on July 
09, 2024, which was noted by the Board at its meeting held 
on April 05, 2024. Accordingly, pursuant to the approval 
of the RBI and on the basis of the recommendation of 
the NRC, the Board, at its meeting held on July 06, 2024, 
had approved the appointment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, 
Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer (‘ED&COO’), 
as Interim MD&CEO and KMP of the Bank, with effect 
from July 10, 2024, for a period of three months or till 
new MD&CEO takes charge, whichever is earlier, subject to 
approval of Shareholders at the ensuing AGM of the Bank. 
Accordingly, the Shareholders of the Bank at the 10th AGM 
held on August 20, 2024 approved the appointment of 
Mr. Kesh as Interim MD&CEO and KMP of the Bank, with 
effect from July 10, 2024, for a period of three months or 
till new MD&CEO takes charge, whichever is earlier. Further, 
pursuant to approval of RBI and recommendation of the 
NRC, the Board at its meeting held on October 05, 2024 
approved the extension of term of Mr. Kesh as the Interim 
MD&CEO and KMP, for a period of one month with effect 
from October 10, 2024 or till a new MD&CEO takes charge, 
whichever is earlier, subject to approval of Shareholders. 
Subsequently, the Shareholders of the Bank on December 
26, 2024, have accorded their approval, via Postal Ballot 
100
Annual Report 2024-25
process, for extension of term of Mr. Kesh as the Interim 
MD&CEO and KMP, with effect from October 10, 2024 up to 
October 31, 2024, not liable to retire by rotation. Effective 
November 01, 2024, Mr. Kesh ceased to be the Interim 
MD&CEO and continued in his role as the ED & COO of the 
Bank, in terms of the previous approvals of the RBI, the 
Board of Directors and the Shareholders of the Bank.
Mr. Arun Kumar Singh (DIN: 09498086)
The RBI vide its letter dated June 24, 2024, had appointed 
Mr. Arun Kumar Singh, Chief General Manager (retired), 
RBI, as an Additional Director on the Board of the Bank, 
in exercise of powers conferred to it under Section 36AB 
of the BR Act, for a period of one year from June 24, 2024 
to June 23, 2025 or till further orders, whichever is earlier. 
Further, the RBI vide its letter dated June 20, 2025 extended 
the term of appointment of Mr. Singh for a further period 
of one year from June 24, 2025 to June 23, 2026 or till 
further orders, whichever is earlier.
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha (DIN: 08249893)
The Shareholders of the Bank, at its 7th AGM held on August 
06, 2021, had approved the re-appointment of Dr. Anup 
Kumar Sinha as an Independent Director as well as Non-
Executive (Independent) Chairman of the Bank, for the 
second term from January 07, 2022 up to July 04, 2026, 
i.e., up to the date of his attaining 75 years of age. However, 
the RBI had approved Dr. Sinha’s re-appointment as Non-
Executive (Independent) Chairman of the Bank for a period 
of three years from January 07, 2022 up to January 06, 
2025. Subsequently, during the FY under review, pursuant 
to the recommendations of the NRC and the Board, the 
RBI has approved the re-appointment of Dr. Sinha as the 
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman on the Board of 
the Bank from January 07, 2025 till July 04, 2026.
Ms. Veni Thapar (DIN: 01811724)
Pursuant to the recommendations of the NRC, the Board 
at its meeting held on June 27, 2025, has approved the 
appointment of Ms. Veni Thapar as an Additional Director 
of the Bank, effective June 27, 2025 and as an Independent 
Director of the Bank, for a term of three consecutive 
years, with effect from June 27, 2025, not liable to retire 
by rotation, subject to approval of Shareholders at the 
ensuing AGM, after ascertaining her fit and proper status 
and independence from the management of your Bank. 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 161 of the Companies 
Act, read with Regulation 17(1C) of the SEBI LODR, she will 
continue to hold office as an Additional Director of the Bank, 
up to the date of the ensuing AGM or upto three months 
from the date of her appointment, whichever is earlier. 
Your Bank has received a notice in writing from a member 
proposing her candidature as Director on the Board of 
the Bank. Further, the Board has also recommended her 
appointment as an Independent Director, not liable to 
retire by rotation, to the Shareholders at the ensuing AGM, 
for a period of three years, effective June 27, 2025, by way 
of Special Resolution.
Ms. Thapar, a qualified Chartered Accountant, has over 29 
years of extensive knowledge and experience in the fields 
of Statutory and Internal Audits, Bank Audits, Government 
Audits, Information Systems Audit, Consultancy in Company 
Law, Indirect Taxes, FEMA and RBI Matters with an ability 
to handle complex and challenging assignments in the field 
of Audit, Taxation and International Taxation as a Senior 
Partner in the firm, M/s. V K Thapar and Company, a well-
recognised Chartered Accountants firm established in 
1965, which she had joined in April 1996, after completing 
her training with Price WaterHouse.
She is also serving as Independent Director on the boards of 
other listed and unlisted companies and is a member on the 
Board of Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority. 
She has been an Independent Director on the Boards of 
Bank of India for two terms, HLS Asia Limited and Yokogawa 
India Limited, both Public Limited Companies and has been 
a member on the Board of Governors of Indian Institute of 
Corporate Affairs also for two terms.
She has excellent communication skills and has been a speaker 
at various forums and a part of various round table and fire 
side deliberations, covering topics related to Indian Banks, 
their challenges, solutions and way forward; Reforming 
Financial Institutions, preparing NBFCs for Future Challenge; 
Employability Matrix and Skilling New India; Roadmap for 
$5 Trillion Economy; Technology & Ease of Living in Urban 
India; Challenges to brick and mortar in an online model; 
Auditors contribution to the financial sector and economy 
as a whole; Chartered Accountants Profession in the Artificial 
Intelligence Era; Role of Independent Directors; Presence and 
upliftment of women in board positions; Work life balance 
for women among other related areas with a firm conviction 
that learning is a continuous process and imagination and 
creativity have no boundaries while endorsing responsible 
adaptability and compliance.
Ms. Thapar is a qualified Chartered Accountant, a Cost 
Accountant from ICMA, a qualified Certified Information 
Systems Auditor from ISACA (USA) and a qualified Diploma 
holder in Information Systems Audit from ICAI. She is a 
certificate holder in International Taxation from ICAI, has 
completed the certificate programme in IT and Cyber 
Security for Board Members from the IDRBT, has successfully 
completed the Online Proficiency Self-Assessment Test for 
Independent Director’s Database from IICA, a certification 
in the IICA Valuation Certificate Programme from IICA, and 
has a certification of successfully completing the Directors 
Development Program from Harvard Business Publishing 
and EgonZehnder.
Re-appointments
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714)
In terms of the provisions of Section 152 of the Companies 
Act, Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, ED&COO, being longest in 
office, shall retire at the ensuing AGM and being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment.
101
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
The resolution(s) in respect of appointment(s) / re-
appointment(s) of the Directors, as aforesaid, have been 
included in the Notice convening the 11th AGM of the 
Bank. Brief profiles of these Directors, together with other 
requisite disclosures/details, have been annexed to the said 
Notice. None of the Directors proposed for appointment/
re-appointment, would attain the age of 75 years (for Non-
Executive Directors) / 70 years (for Executive Directors), during 
the continuation of their tenure on the Board of your Bank.
Shareholders approved appointments/  
re-appointments
During the FY under review, following appointments/ re-
appointments were approved by the Shareholders by Postal 
Ballot process on April 21, 2024, and December 26, 2024, 
and at the 10th AGM of the Bank held on August 20, 2024:
•	 By way of Postal Ballot approved on April 21, 2024:
(i)	
Appointment of Mr. Pankaj Sood (DIN: 05185378) 
as a Non-Executive Non-Independent Director 
(Nominee of Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd.) of 
the Bank, with effect from February 12, 2024, 
liable to retire by rotation.
(ii)	
Appointment of Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar 
(DIN: 10540386) as Director of the Board.
(iii)	 Appointment of Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar 
(DIN: 10540386) as Whole-time Director, 
designated as Executive Director & Chief Business 
Officer (‘ED&CBO’) and KMP of the Bank, for a 
period of three years, with effect from March 
08, 2024 up to March 07, 2027, liable to retire 
by rotation.
•	 At the 10th AGM of the Bank held on August 20, 2024:
(i)	
Re-appointment of Ms. Divya Krishnan 
(DIN: 09276201) as a Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director of the Bank (Nominee of 
BFHL), being longest in office and liable to retire 
by rotation, retired at the 10th AGM of the Bank, 
and who, being eligible, had offered herself for 
re-appointment.
(ii)	
Appointment of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 
10082714) as the Interim MD&CEO, and 
designated KMP of the Bank, not liable to retire 
by rotation, with effect from July 10, 2024, for a 
period of three months or till new MD&CEO takes 
charge, whichever is earlier.
•	 By way of Postal Ballot approved on December 26, 2024:
(i)	
Extension of term of appointment of Mr. Ratan 
Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714) as the Interim 
MD&CEO, and designated KMP of the Bank, 
not liable to retire by rotation, with effect from 
October 10, 2024 till October 31, 2024.
(ii)	
Appointment of Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta 
(DIN: 08273324) as a Director of the Bank.
	
(iii)	 Appointment of Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta (DIN: 
08273324) as the MD&CEO and KMP of the Bank, 
including remuneration, for a period of three (3) 
years, with effect from November 01, 2024 up to 
October 31, 2027, not liable to retire by rotation.
Cessations
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh (DIN: 00342477)
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, former MD&CEO of the Bank, 
vide letter dated April 05, 2024, informed the Board that 
he would retire from the services of the Bank as the 
MD&CEO upon completion of his current tenure on July 
09, 2024, which was noted by the Board at its meeting 
held on April 05, 2024. Accordingly, Mr. Ghosh retired as 
the MD&CEO of the Bank at the close of business hours 
on July 09, 2024.
Mr. Pankaj Sood (DIN: 05185378)
Mr. Pankaj Sood, Non-Executive Non-Independent Director 
(Nominee of Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd.), vide letter 
dated December 13, 2024, informed the Board his decision 
to step down from the position of Non-Executive Nominee 
Director on the Board of the Bank and from any associated 
committees, effective immediately. Accordingly, Mr. Sood 
ceased to be the Director of the Bank with effect from 
December 14, 2024.
Mr. Philip Mathew (DIN: 09638394)
Mr. Philip Mathew, Independent Director, has completed 
his term of three years as an Independent Director of the 
Bank on June 14, 2025. Accordingly, Mr. Mathew ceased to 
be the Director of the Bank with effect from June 15, 2025.
Dr. A S Ramasastri (DIN: 06916673)
Dr. A S Ramasastri, Independent Director, vide email dated 
June 30, 2025, has informed his decision to resign as an 
Independent Director of the Bank, with effect from the 
close of business hours on June 30, 2025. Accordingly, 
Dr. Ramasastri ceased to be the Director of the Bank with 
effect from July 01, 2025. Reason for resignation provided 
by Dr. Ramasastri vide his email dated June 30, 2025, is - ‘As 
activities of our Trust (allamrajutrust.org) are demanding 
more time from me, I will not be able to continue as an 
independent director in the board of Bandhan Bank. I feel 
I am not in a position to devote necessary time to the role 
of independent director.’. He also confirmed that there are 
no other material reasons for his resignation other than 
provided in his email, as mentioned above.
Dr. Aparajita Mitra (DIN: 09484337)
Dr. Aparajita Mitra, Independent Director, has completed 
her term of three years as an Independent Director of the 
102
Annual Report 2024-25
Bank on July 12, 2025. Accordingly, Dr. Mitra ceased to be 
the Director of the Bank with effect from July 13, 2025.
The Board places on record its sincere appreciation for the 
contributions made by Mr. Ghosh, Mr. Sood, Mr. Mathew, 
Dr. Ramasastri and Dr. Mitra during their tenure as Directors 
of the Bank.
Necessary disclosures with regard to the above 
appointments/ re-appointments/ cessations have been 
made to the Stock Exchanges, the RBI and the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs.
Key Managerial Personnel
During the FY under review, Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta 
was appointed as MD&CEO and KMP for a period of three 
years effective November 01, 2024.
Further, Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh ceased to be MD&CEO 
and KMP of the Bank on the close of business hours on 
July 09, 2024, upon completion of his tenure, and Mr. Ratan 
Kumar Kesh, ED&COO, held the office of interim MD&CEO 
and KMP of the Bank from July 10, 2024 till October 
31, 2024.
Accordingly, as on March 31, 2025, Mr. Partha Pratim 
Sengupta, MD&CEO; Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, ED&COO; 
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar, ED&CBO; Mr. Rajeev Mantri, 
Chief Financial Officer; and Mr. Indranil Banerjee, Company 
Secretary of the Bank were the KMPs of the Bank, as per the 
provisions of the Companies Act and rules made thereunder.
Meetings 
of 
the 
Board 
and 
Board Committees
The Board met twenty-three times during the FY under 
review i.e., on April 05, 2024; April 06, 2024; May 15, 2024; 
May 17, 2024; June 26, 2024; July 06, 2024; July 15, 2024; 
July 24, 2024; July 26, 2024; August 23, 2024; September 
20&21, 2024; September 26, 2024; October 05, 2024; 
October 22, 2024; October 23, 2024; October 25, 2024; 
November 19, 2024; December 24, 2024; January 29, 2025; 
January 31, 2025; February 27, 2025; February 28, 2025 and 
March 01, 2025. The details of the Board meetings held 
during the FY, attendance of Directors at the meetings, 
and other details have been provided separately in the 
Report on Corporate Governance forming part of this 
Report, enclosed as Annex - 4.
Your Bank currently has the following ten Board Committees:
1.	
Audit Committee of the Board (ACB);
2.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee of the Board 
(NRC);
3.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of the 
Board (SRCB);
4.	
Risk Management Committee of the Board (RMCB);
5.	
IT Strategy Committee of the Board (ITSCB);
6.	
Customer Service Committee of the Board (CSCB);
7.	
Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability 
Committee of the Board (CSR&SCB);
8.	
Committee of Directors (COD);
9.	
Special Committee of the Board for Monitoring and 
Follow up of cases of Frauds (SCBMF) [formerly named 
Special Committee for Monitoring High-Value Frauds];
10.	 Review Committee of the Board for Declaration of 
Wilful Defaulters.
The details with respect to the composition, terms of 
reference, numbers of meetings held, attendance of 
members, etc., of these Board Committees are provided 
in the Report on Corporate Governance forming part of 
this Report.
Additionally, meeting(s) of Independent Directors, without 
the attendance of non-independent directors and members 
of management, were also held during the FY under 
review. The details of such meeting(s) have been provided 
separately in the Report on Corporate Governance forming 
part of this Report.
Declaration from Independent Directors
The Bank has received necessary declarations from all 
the Independent Directors under Section 149(7) of the 
Companies Act and Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI LODR that 
they meet the criteria of independence laid down under 
Section 149(6) of the Companies Act read with allied Rules, 
and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI LODR, respectively. 
The Board has reviewed the disclosures of independence 
submitted by Independent Directors and is of the opinion 
that the Independent Directors of the Bank fulfil the 
conditions specified in the Companies Act and the SEBI 
LODR, and are independent of the management. In the 
opinion of the Board, all the Independent Directors possess 
requisite expertise, experience, integrity and proficiency as 
required under the applicable laws and policies of the Bank.
Familiarisation 
Programmes 
for 
Independent Directors
The details of the familiarisation programme(s) for the 
Independent Directors of the Bank have been provided 
separately in the Report on Corporate Governance forming 
part of this Report.
Board Evaluation
Pursuant to recommendation of the NRC, the Board has 
framed the ‘Performance Evaluation Policy for the Board, 
Committees, Non-Independent/ Whole-time Directors 
and Independent Directors‘ (the ‘Board PE Policy’), in 
103
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies 
Act, the SEBI LODR and SEBI Guidance Note on Board 
Evaluation. In terms of the Board PE Policy, performance 
evaluation of the Board and its Committees, Chairman 
and individual Directors are done on various parameters. 
Parameters for the Board include various aspects, such as, 
structure, meetings, appointments, agenda, discussions, 
evaluation of risks, strategy, governance and compliance, 
conflict of interest, etc.
Parameters for Board Committees include various aspects, 
such as, meetings, effectiveness, agenda, discussion and 
dissent, minutes, etc.
Parameters for the Directors include various aspects, such 
as, knowledge and competency, integrity, functioning, 
commitment, contribution, attendance, initiative, 
teamwork, communication, corporate governance, updates, 
etc., and in case of Independent Directors, additional 
parameters include fulfilment of the independence criteria 
and their independence from the management.
The evaluation process has been carried out electronically. 
The Board of Directors have undertaken the evaluation of 
Independent Directors, excluding the Independent Director 
being evaluated. Similarly, Independent Directors have 
done the evaluation of the Board as whole, Non-Executive 
Chairman and Non-Independent Directors including the MD 
& CEO and Executive Directors. The members of respective 
Board Committees have done performance evaluation 
of respective Committees. Thereafter, the Independent 
Directors at their meeting held on July 16, 2025, based 
on the performance evaluation carried out electronically, 
reviewed the performance of Non-Independent Directors, 
Non-Executive Chairman, Managing Director & CEO, 
Executive Directors and Board as a whole. Further, the 
Board at its meeting held on July 18, 2025, based on the 
summary report of performance evaluation carried out 
electronically for Directors, assessed the performance 
of the Directors including Chairman, Managing Director 
& CEO, Executive Directors, Board Level Committees and 
Board as a whole and forwarded the summary report of 
evaluation to the NRC for reviewing the implementation 
of performance evaluation.
Based on the feedback from the performance evaluation 
process, Non-Executive Chairman of the Board discusses 
the same with respective Directors whereas the Lead 
Independent Director discusses the same with the Non-
Executive Chairman for necessary action. The Board 
evaluation provides inputs for optimising the roles and 
responsibilities, quality, quantity and timeliness of flow 
of information between the Bank’s management and the 
Board. The Directors have been discharging their roles and 
responsibilities as expected by the Board and as required 
under the applicable regulatory provisions. The Board 
continues to be duly constituted representing various 
expertise, skill sets, knowledge and qualification required 
for the banking business. There was no observation during 
the performance evaluation of the previous years; and so 
is the case with the current year.
In addition to internal evaluation, in terms of the Board 
PE Policy of the Bank and in order to have independent 
assessment, with the concurrence of the Board, the NRC 
has approved the engagement of the Indian Institute of 
Corporate Affairs (‘IICA’), an external agency, to conduct 
a comprehensive performance evaluation of Directors, 
Committees and the Board as a whole. The outcome of 
the overall performance evaluation exercise will be placed 
before the NRC / Board.
Policy on Appointment of Directors
Appointment of Directors on the Board is guided by the 
provisions of the BR Act and the guidelines/ circulars 
issued by the RBI, from time to time, the Companies Act 
and the SEBI LODR. In view of these provisions, your 
Bank has adopted a ‘Policy on Appointment and Fit & 
Proper Criteria for Directors’. In terms of this Policy, while 
appointing directors, the NRC/ Board considers fit and 
proper criteria, various skill sets, professional knowledge, 
practical experience, integrity, gender diversity and 
additionally, status of independence in case of Independent 
Directors. The details of the same have been included in 
the Report on Corporate Governance forming part of 
this Report. The Policy on Appointment and Fit & Proper 
Criteria for Directors is reviewed on an annual basis and 
accordingly, the Policy was reviewed by the Board on the 
recommendations of the NRC during the FY, and certain 
changes with regard to sourcing of candidates has been 
made. The Policy is available on your Bank’s website at: 
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../
sites/default/files/2025-01/Policy-on-Appointment-and-
Fit-Proper-Criteria-for-Directors.pdf.
Remuneration Policy
Your Bank has formulated and adopted a comprehensive 
'Compensation Policy' for its Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and Employees, in terms of Section 178 of 
the Companies Act, read with the relevant Rules made 
thereunder, Regulation 19 of the SEBI LODR and the 
guidelines/ circulars issued by the RBI, in this regard, from 
time to time. The details of the same have been included 
in the Report on Corporate Governance forming part of 
this Report. The Compensation Policy is reviewed on an 
annual basis and accordingly, the Policy was reviewed by 
the Board on the recommendation of the NRC with one 
addition relating to deferred variable cash pay. The updated 
Compensation Policy of your Bank is available on your 
Bank's website at: https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../sites/default/files/2025-01/Compensation-
Policy.pdf.
104
Annual Report 2024-25
Employees Remuneration
As on March 31, 2025, your Bank had 75,032 employees. The 
information with regard to the remuneration of directors and 
employees of the Bank, as required under Section 197(12) 
of the Companies Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014, forms part of this Report as Annex - 2.
The statement containing names of top ten employees 
in terms of remuneration drawn and the particulars 
of employees as required under Section 197(12) of the 
Companies Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014, forming part of this report, is available for 
inspection during business hours up to the date of the 
ensuing AGM in terms of Section 136 of the Companies Act 
and any member interested in obtaining a copy of the same 
may send request to the Company Secretary.
Employee Stock Options
Your Bank has instituted Employees Stock Option Scheme 
('ESOP'), i.e., Bandhan Bank Employee Stock Option 
Plan Series 1 ('ESOP Scheme') to enable its employees 
to participate in your Bank's future growth and financial 
success. Your Bank provides its employees with a platform 
for participating in important decision making and instilling 
long-term commitment towards the future growth of your 
Bank by way of rewarding them through stock options. ESOP 
Scheme of your Bank is in compliance with the provisions 
of the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021 ('SEBI SBEBSE') and no change 
has been made therein during the FY under review. The 
ESOP Scheme is administrated by the NRC. In terms of the 
ESOP Scheme, the Options would vest not earlier than one 
year and not later than four years from the date of grant 
as decided by the NRC/ Board. The Options granted shall 
be equally vested over four years. The exercise period shall 
be a maximum of five years from the date of the respective 
vesting of Options. Since your Bank has been allotting fresh 
equity shares upon exercise of Options, the source of the 
shares is of primary issuance.
In terms of the Compensation Policy of your Bank and the 
Shareholders' approved ESOP Scheme, fresh grants have 
been made during the FY under review to the eligible 
employees. Except the Whole-time Directors, none of 
the Directors were granted stock options under the ESOP 
Scheme during the FY under review. The information 
pertaining to the ESOP Scheme as prescribed under the 
SEBI SBEBSE is available on the website of your Bank at 
https://bandhanbank.com/annual-reports.
Further, as required under the SEBI SBEBSE, a certificate 
from the Secretarial Auditor of the Bank certifying that your 
Bank has implemented the ESOP Scheme in accordance 
with the applicable provisions of the SEBI SBEBSE and 
resolution(s) passed by Shareholders, will be made available 
electronically during the AGM.
Deposits
Being a banking company, the disclosures required as per 
Rule 8(5)(v) & (vi) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, 
read with Sections 73 and 74 of the Companies Act, are 
not applicable to your Bank. The details of the deposits 
received and accepted by your Bank, as a banking company, 
are enumerated in the Financial Statement for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025, and forms part of this Annual 
Report for FY 2025.
Compliance and Audit
Your Bank has put in place extensive internal controls 
and processes that are commensurate with the size and 
scale of the Bank to mitigate Operational and other allied 
risks, including centralised operations and ‘segregation of 
duty’ between the front and back-office. The front office 
units usually act as customer touchpoints and sales and 
service outlets while the back-office carries out the entire 
processing, accounting and settlement of transactions in 
your Bank’s core banking system. The policy framework, 
definition and monitoring of limits is carried out by various 
mid-office and risk management functions.
Your Bank has set up various executive-level committees 
with participation from various business and control 
functions that are designed to review and oversee 
matters pertaining to capital, assets and liabilities, 
business practices and customer service, operational risk, 
information security, business continuity planning and 
internal risk-based supervision among others.
The second line of defence functions set standards and 
lay down policies and procedures by which the business 
functions manage risks, including compliance with 
applicable laws, compliance with regulatory guidelines, 
adherence to operational controls and relevant standards 
of conduct. At the ground level, your Bank has a mix of 
preventive and detective controls implemented through 
systems and processes, ensuring a robust framework in 
your Bank to enable correct and complete accounting, 
identification of outliers (if any) by the management 
on a timely basis for corrective action and mitigating 
operational risks.
Your Bank has a Compliance Department, which 
independently tracks, reviews and ensures compliance 
105
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
with regulatory guidelines and promotes a compliance 
culture in the Bank. The Compliance Department assists 
the Board and Top/ Senior Management in managing the 
compliance risk of your Bank. The Compliance Department 
ensures that overall business of your Bank is conducted in 
strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the RBI and 
other regulators, various statutory provisions, standards 
and codes prescribed by FEDAI, FIMMDA, etc., by evaluating 
the products/ processes, guiding business departments on 
the various regulatory guidelines with a special emphasis 
on better understanding of the perspective. It closely 
works with operational risk and internal audit functions 
and monitors various activities of your Bank with more 
emphasis on active risk management.
As the focal point of contact with the RBI and other 
regulatory entities, the Compliance Department evaluates 
the adequacy of internal controls and examines any 
systemic correction that is required, based on its analysis 
and interpretation of regulatory guidelines and deviations 
observed during monitoring and testing. Your Bank has 
a robust Anti Money Laundering (AML) framework and 
tools to manage the AML risk. It periodically apprises Top/ 
Senior Management, the ACB and the Board on compliance 
levels, based on the changes in the external regulatory 
environment. The Compliance Department submits the 
compliance report to the ACB at regular intervals providing 
the compliance status with the laws/rules and regulations 
applicable to your Bank.
Your Bank has an Internal Audit Department (‘IAD’) 
that acts as a third line of defence and is responsible for 
independently evaluating the adequacy and effectiveness 
of internal controls, risk management, governance systems 
and processes and is manned by appropriately qualified and 
experienced personnel.
This department adopts a risk-based audit approach 
and carries out internal and concurrent audit of various 
functions in your Bank, in order to independently evaluate 
the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls 
on an ongoing basis and proactively recommending 
enhancements thereof. The IAD, during the course of 
audit, also ascertains the extent of adherence to regulatory 
guidelines, legal requirements and operational processes 
and provides timely feedback to the management for 
corrective actions. A strong oversight on the operations is 
also kept through off-site monitoring by use of data analytics 
and to detect outliers (if any) and alert the management for 
due corrective action, wherever warranted.
IAD further ensures that independent checks and balances 
are in place, and that laid down policies and procedures 
are followed and recommendations for improvements in 
processes and systems controls are suitably adhered to.
For review of effectiveness of controls, significant audit 
findings along with corrective and preventive action taken 
by your Bank are placed before the ACB periodically and 
directions, if any, given by the ACB are tracked closely for 
suitable closure in a time bound manner.
The Internal Audit team and the Compliance team undergo 
regular training both in-house and external to equip them 
with the necessary knowhow and expertise to carry out 
the function.
To maintain the independence of these departments, the 
performance evaluation of the Chief Compliance Officer 
(‘CCO’) and the Chief Audit Executive (‘CAE’) are carried out 
by the ACB. The Audit function is also subject to periodic 
external assurance reviews. Your Bank has always adhered 
to the highest standards of compliance and has put in 
place appropriate controls and risk measurement and risk 
management tools to ensure a robust compliance and 
governance structure.
Internal Financial Control
Your Bank also engages external auditors/ firms to carry 
out independent review of internal controls, processes, 
reporting, etc., and accordingly recommendations, if any, 
are made by them to your Bank/ the ACB for improvement. 
Considering the internal financial controls of the Bank, and 
the work performed by the auditors, including the audit of 
internal financial controls over financial reporting by the 
auditors and the reviews performed by management under 
the supervision of the ACB, the Board of Directors is of the 
opinion that the internal financial controls established and 
maintained by your Bank are adequate.
Related Party Transactions
Related Party Transactions that were entered, during the 
FY under review, were on an arm’s length basis and were in 
the ordinary course of business, pursuant to the approval 
of the ACB. There were no materially significant related 
party transactions during the FY, which could lead to 
potential conflicts with the interests of your Bank. Omnibus 
approval is obtained from the ACB for the related party 
transactions, which are of repetitive in nature as well as for 
the normal banking transactions that cannot be foreseen. 
Further, approval of the ACB is sought for all the related 
party transactions, as applicable, except two related party 
transactions for renewal of lease amounting to less than 
₹15 lakhs, which were ratified by the ACB during the FY. The 
quarterly updates on the details of transactions with the 
related parties, are placed before the ACB. In terms of the 
provisions of Regulation 23 of the SEBI LODR, the approval 
of Shareholders was obtained at the 10th AGM of the Bank 
for material related party transactions with the promoter 
entities, i.e., Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited, Bandhan 
Financial Services Limited, Financial Inclusion Trust, and 
North East Financial Inclusion Trust for the FY 2025 and 
up to the 11th AGM of the Bank for banking transactions 
at arm’s length and in the ordinary course of the banking 
business of the Bank. However, in terms of the amended 
provisions of Regulation 23 of the SEBI LODR, acceptance 
106
Annual Report 2024-25
of current account deposits and saving account deposits 
by banks in compliance with the directions issued by the 
RBI has been exempted from related party transactions, in 
addition to acceptance of fixed deposits.
In terms of the definition of Related Party under the SEBI 
LODR, the promoter and members of the promoter group 
of the Bank are considered as Related Parties. Accordingly, 
the following entities forming part of the promoter and 
promoter group, are related parties of the Bank:
(a)	
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited (Promoter entity)
(b)	 Bandhan Financial Services Limited (Promoter entity)
(c)	
Financial Inclusion Trust (Promoter entity)
(d)	 North East Financial Inclusion Trust (Promoter entity)
(e)	
Bandhan Konnagar (Promoter Group)
(f)	
Bandhan Mutual Fund (Promoter Group)*
(g)	 Bandhan AMC Limited (Promoter Group)
(h)	 Bandhan Mutual Fund Trustee Limited (Promoter Group)
(i)	
Bandhan Investment Managers (Mauritius) Limited 
(Promoter Group)
(j)	
Quadra Medical Services Private Limited  
(Promoter Group)
(k)	
Quadra Hospital And Medical Services Private 
Limited (Promoter Group)
(l)	
Gamma Spect - Imaging & Diagnostic Centre Private 
Limited (Promoter Group)
(m)	 Quadramedical Research & Foundation Private 
Limited (Promoter Group)
(n)	
Bandhan Life Insurance Limited (Promoter Group)
(o)	
Genisys Information Systems (India) Private Limited 
(Promoter Group)
(p)	 Genisys Software Ltd, UK (Promoter Group)
(q)	 Genisys Software Ltd., USA (Promoter Group)
(r)	
Unnayan Enterprises Private Limited  
(Promoter Group)**
*The RBI vide letter dated April 15, 2025, advised that Bandhan Mutual 
Fund is considered to be a part of the Promoter Group of the Bank 
and the holding of Bandhan Mutual Fund in the Bank will be part 
of the “aggregate holding” of Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited 
in the Bank.
**Since May 14, 2025.
There were no Related Party Transactions required to be 
reported in Form AOC-2. However, necessary disclosure 
as required under the Accounting Standards (AS 18) read 
with RBI’s Master Direction No.: RBI/DOR/2021-22/83 DOR.
ACC.REC.No.45/21.04.018/2021-22 dated August 30, 2021, 
as may be updated from time to time, has been made in 
the note no. 18.12 to the Annual Financial Statement 
for the FY 2025. Your Bank has a Policy on dealing with 
Related Party Transactions, which is reviewed on an annual 
basis and the Policy was reviewed by the Board on the 
recommendation of the ACB, with certain amendments 
including amendments to align with the regulatory changes 
in SEBI LODR. The Policy is available on your Bank’s website: 
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../
sites/default/files/2025-02/Policy-on-Dealing-With-
Related-Party-Transactions.pdf.
Particulars 
of 
Loans, 
Guarantees 
or Investments
In terms of the provisions of Section 186(11) of the 
Companies Act, nothing contained in Section 186 of the 
Companies Act, except sub-section (1) thereof, shall apply 
to any loan made, any guarantee given or any security 
provided or any investment made by a banking company in 
the ordinary course of its business. However, the particulars 
of investments made by your Bank are disclosed in the 
Financial Statement for the FY 2025, as per the applicable 
provisions of the BR Act.
Whistle Blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism
Your Bank has adopted the Board approved Vigilance Policy 
and Whistle Blower Policy, as required under Section 177 
of the Companies Act, Regulation 22 of the SEBI LODR and 
applicable circulars issued by the RBI. The policies aim at 
putting in place a detailed Protected Disclosure Mechanism 
based on RBI directions ("Protected Disclosures Scheme for 
Private Sector and Foreign Banks").
These Policies aim to provide an avenue to raise concerns on 
Ethical, Legal or Regulatory violations and promptly addressing 
them while assuring the confidentiality and protection of 
the Whistle Blower against any form of retaliation. Your 
Bank is committed to conduct all its business operations and 
transactions by maintaining highest ethical, moral and legal 
standards. The complaints/ disclosures under the Scheme 
covers the areas such as corruption / malpractices, misuse of 
office, criminal offences, suspected/ actual fraud, failure to 
comply with existing rules and regulations, where such acts 
result in financial loss/ operational risk, loss of reputation, 
etc., which may be detrimental to the interest of your Bank, 
its depositors and the public.
Your Bank promotes and makes available at all times, a 
Clean, Open and Transparent workplace, wherein business 
transaction, professionalism and productivity are seen as 
hallmarks of business practice. Your Bank is also committed 
to conduct all its business operations and transactions by 
maintaining highest ethical, moral and legal standards.
Your Bank encourages its employees, all stakeholders and 
members of general public, who have concerns about 
suspected misconduct, to come forward and express these 
concerns without fear of retaliation or unfair treatment. 
The Whistle Blower Policy provides adequate safeguards 
107
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
against the victimisation of the Directors and employees 
who avail this mechanism and ensures that the personnel 
get direct access to the Chairman of the ACB. None of the 
Bank’s personnel has been denied access to the ACB.
The said Policies are available on your Bank’s website 
at 
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/files/2025-07/Whistle-Blower-
Policy-22072025.pdf and https://bandhanbank.com/
pdfViewerJS/index.html#../sites/default/files/2025-07/
Vigilance-Policy-22072025.pdf.
Significant and Material Orders passed 
by Regulators or Courts or Tribunals
During the FY 2025, no significant or material orders were 
passed by any Regulators or Courts or Tribunals against your 
Bank impacting its going concern status and operations 
in future.
Statutory Auditors and their Report
In terms of the ‘Guidelines for Appointment of Statutory 
Central Auditors (SCAs)/Statutory Auditors (SAs) of 
Commercial Banks (excluding RRBs), UCBs and NBFCs 
(including HFCs)’ dated April 27, 2021 (‘RBI Guidelines 
on Auditors’) issued by the RBI, banks shall appoint the 
Statutory Auditors for a continuous period of three years, 
subject to the audit firms satisfying the eligibility norms 
each year and the approval of the RBI on an annual basis. 
Further, in terms of the RBI Guidelines on Auditors and your 
Bank’s Policy for Appointment of Statutory Auditors, it is 
required to appoint two Statutory Auditors. Accordingly, 
the Members of the Bank, at the 10th AGM held on August 
20, 2024, had approved the appointment of M/s. V Sankar 
Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration 
No. 109208W), as the Joint Statutory Auditors of the 
Bank for a period of three years, to hold office from the 
conclusion of the 10th AGM until the conclusion of the 
13th AGM of your Bank to be held in 2027. M/s. V Sankar 
Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants is holding the office of 
Statutory Auditors along with M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered 
Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No. 302049E), who will 
hold office till the conclusion of the 11th AGM.
Therefore, your Bank is required to appoint one more 
audit firm to act as its Joint Statutory Auditors in place of 
retiring auditors, M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered Accountants. 
Accordingly, on the basis of recommendation of the ACB, 
the Board of Directors has recommended the appointment 
of M/s. V. Singhi & Associates, Chartered Accountants (ICAI 
Firm Registration number 0311017E), as Joint Statutory 
Auditors of the Bank, for a period of three years to hold 
office from the conclusion of the 11th AGM until the 
conclusion of the 14th AGM of the Bank, for the approval of 
the shareholders at the ensuing AGM, subject to approval 
of RBI on an annual basis. Approval of RBI has been received 
for appointment of M/s. V Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered 
Accountants and M/s. V. Singhi & Associates, Chartered 
Accountants as the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank for 
the FY 2026 for their second year and first year, respectively.
The Independent Auditor Report, given by the Joint 
Statutory Auditors on the financial statement of your 
Bank for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, forms 
part of this Annual Report. There has been no qualification, 
reservation, adverse remark or disclaimer given by the Joint 
Statutory Auditors in their Report. Also, no offence of fraud 
was reported by the Joint Statutory Auditors of your Bank 
under Section 143(12) of the Companies Act read with Rule 
13(3) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rule, 2014.
Secretarial Auditor and its Report
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Companies 
Act and Regulation 24A(1) of the SEBI LODR, the Board had 
appointed CS Hansraj Jaria, Practising Company Secretary 
(FCS No.: 7703, C.P. No.: 19394), as the Secretarial Auditor 
to conduct Secretarial Audit of the Bank for FY 2025. 
Accordingly, the Secretarial Audit Report for FY 2025 
is enclosed to this Report as Annex – 3. There is no 
qualification, reservation, adverse remark or disclaimer in 
the Secretarial Audit Report. Further, no offence of fraud 
was reported by the Secretarial Auditor of your Bank under 
Section 143(12) of the Companies Act read with Rule 13(3) 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rule, 2014.
Further, pursuant to the recommendation of the ACB, 
the Board of Directors of the Bank has approved and 
recommended the appointment of M/s. Makrand M. Joshi 
& Co., Company Secretaries (ICSI Firm Registration Number: 
P2009MH007000), as Secretarial Auditor of the Bank, for 
a period of five consecutive years, i.e., with effect from 
April 01, 2025 to March 31, 2030 for the approval of the 
shareholders at the ensuing AGM, in terms of the provisions 
of the Regulation 24A of the SEBI LODR and Section 204 of 
the Companies Act.
The resolution in this regard is being proposed at ensuing 
AGM for approval of the Members.
Cost Records
In terms of the provisions of Section 148(1) of the 
Companies Act read with Rule 3 of the Companies (Cost 
Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, your Bank is not required 
to maintain cost records and accordingly, is not required to 
undergo cost audit.
Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance is based on the principles of 
conducting business with integrity, fairness and being 
transparent in all transactions, making necessary 
disclosures. Decisions are made in compliance with the 
laws of the land, with full accountability and responsibility 
towards the stakeholders, and a commitment to conducting 
all business in an ethical manner. Your Bank is committed to 
achieving the highest standards of Corporate Governance 
and adhering to the Corporate Governance requirements 
108
Annual Report 2024-25
set by the regulators. A separate section on Corporate 
Governance standards followed by your Bank and the 
relevant disclosures, as stipulated under the SEBI LODR, 
the Companies Act and rules made thereunder, forms part 
of this Report as Annex – 4.
A Certificate from CS Anjan Kumar Roy, Practising Company 
Secretary (FCS No.: 5684/CP No.: 4557), regarding 
compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance, 
as stipulated in the SEBI LODR, is annexed to the Report 
on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this Report.
Annual Return
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 92(3) read with Section 
134(3)(a) of the Companies Act, the draft Annual Return 
of your Bank, in Form No. MGT-7, as on March 31, 2025, is 
available on your Bank‘s website at https://bandhanbank.com/
annual-reports. Further, the final Annual Return of your Bank, 
as on March 31, 2025, will be available on your Bank’s website 
at the said link, upon filing of the same with the Registrar of 
Companies under Section 92(4) of the Companies Act.
Management Discussion & Analysis
The Management Discussion & Analysis Report for the 
FY 2025, as prescribed under the SEBI LODR, forms part of 
this Report and is enclosed as Annex – 5.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report
In terms of the provisions of Regulation 34(2)(f) of the 
SEBI LODR read with relevant SEBI circular, the Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report (‘BRSR’) of your 
Bank providing its performance against the nine principles 
of the ‘National Guidelines on Responsible Business 
Conduct’ (‘NGRBCs’), formulated by Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, Government of India, forms part of this Report and, 
is enclosed as Annex – 6.
Compliance with Secretarial Standards
The Board of Directors affirms that your Bank has complied 
with the applicable provisions of the Secretarial Standards 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, viz., 
SS-1 relating to Meetings of the Board and its Committees; 
and SS-2 relating to General Meetings.
Information under the Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
Your Bank has adopted zero tolerance towards any action 
on the part of any of its employees, which may fall under 
the ambit of ‘sexual harassment’ at workplace and is fully 
committed to uphold and maintain the dignity of every 
woman constituent associated with your Bank. It takes all 
necessary measures to ensure a harassment free workplace 
and has instituted an Internal Committee for redressal of 
complaints and to prevent/ prohibit sexual harassment, 
in compliance with the guidelines enumerated in the 
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. At the beginning of 
the FY under review, four complaints were pending, which 
were resolved during the FY. Further, thirty-one complaints 
were received during the FY, out of which twenty-three 
complaints had been closed during the FY whereas eight 
complaints were pending at the end of the FY, which have 
since been closed. None of the complaints received during 
the FY were pending for more than 90 days and all statutory 
timelines were duly adhered to for the inquiries conducted 
by the Internal Committee during the FY.
Conservation 
of 
Energy, 
Technology 
Absorption 
and 
Foreign 
Exchange 
Earnings and Outgo
Driven by its commitment to reduce carbon footprints, 
energy conservation is integral to your Bank’s vision and 
operations. Your Bank mandates the use of BEE Standard 
Energy Efficient equipment and promotes Energy Efficient 
Building Design, adhering to the Energy Conservation 
Building Code (ECBC), in all new projects. Some of the steps 
undertaken by your Bank towards conservation of energy 
are as under:
Smart building systems implementing energy-efficient 
glass facades and advanced building management systems 
to optimise energy consumption and enhance sustainability.
At banking outlets, the focus is on strict segregation and 
zoning critical and non-critical areas for improving HVAC 
efficiency, use of high-performance glass reducing glare 
and heat gain, optimised window-to-wall ratios, strategic 
building orientation, and equipment retrofitting.
•	 Tracking of energy usage across all levels, benchmarking 
against international best practices at all levels and 
comparing with the best international benchmarks.
•	 Incorporation of smart meters for energy use 
monitoring and engagement with key stakeholders, at 
regular intervals, to drive energy conservation in the 
organisation culture;
•	 Adoption of cutting-edge technologies in HVAC and 
inductive equipment, such as variable frequency drives 
(VFDs) and systems with improved IKW (input kilowatt 
per ton), to enhance energy efficiency;
•	 Lighting: Incorporation of 100 per cent. LED for lighting, 
daylight harvesting, timed illumination of signage 
through central monitoring system. Natural daylight 
utilisation is encouraged in your Bank’s premises;
•	 Daily operations and usage: Implementing energy-
saving practices through basic hygiene practices on 
energy usage through occupancy sensors, zoning of 
electrical circuits and master switches for premises. 
109
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
In the recent past, your Bank has put up three mega 
Currency Chests with five-star energy ratings;
•	 Water Conservation: Implementing ground water 
recharge through rain water harvesting in upcoming 
projects, volume flow controls at sinks, water recycling 
through STPs;
•	 Employee Awareness: Increased employee training and 
awareness programs related to energy conservation.
Feasibility studies are being done for commencing the 
installation of solar panels on the rooftops of select 
branches and administrative buildings, with a target of 
achieving a significant percentage of your Bank’s energy 
needs from solar power by the end next FY.
Information Technology at the Bank
In today’s rapidly evolving financial landscape, Information 
Technology (IT) continues to play a pivotal role in redefining 
the future of banking. Your Bank remains steadfast in its 
commitment to leverage cutting-edge technologies to 
deliver enhanced customer experiences, drive operational 
excellence, and ensure robust security in an increasingly 
digital ecosystem. Over the past year, your Bank had made 
significant strides in its digital transformation journey, with 
focused investments and strategic initiatives that have 
bolstered efficiency, innovation, and sustainable growth.
Expansion of Digital Banking Services
Your Bank had continued to enhance its digital offerings, 
ensuring secure and seamless banking experiences 
for its customers. Noteworthy advancements during 
the FY include:
•	 Neo FD: Enabled customers to remotely open Fixed 
Deposit accounts through a video KYC process.
•	 QR based Loan Repayment: Introduced unique QR codes 
facilitating direct loan EMI payments for EEB customers 
via any UPI app.
•	 Trade Finance CBS Product Processor (FCY): Launched 
a comprehensive platform for handling export/import 
transactions and cross-border remittances.
•	 Contactless Transactions: Enabled contactless 
payments on Bandhan Bank POS terminals using its 
debit cards.
•	 Transaction Monitoring: Strengthened real time digital 
transaction monitoring.
Robotic Process Automation (RPA)
To streamline operations and reduce manual dependencies, 
your Bank implemented Robotic Process Automation 
across key functions. This initiative had resulted in faster 
processing, improved accuracy, and allowed employees to 
focus on higher-value tasks.
Strengthening Cybersecurity
As cybersecurity remains a top priority, your Bank had made 
substantial enhancements to its security infrastructure, 
ensuring greater resilience against evolving threats. Key 
initiatives included:
•	 Deployment of advanced anti-malware solutions.
•	 Strengthened access controls for the Core Banking 
System (CBS) through Identity and Access Management 
(IDAM).
•	 Implementation of an application monitoring tool for 
proactive alerts and issue resolution.
•	 Rollout of Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) for 
advanced endpoint protection.
•	 On-premise implementation of DDoS protection to 
safeguard perimeter security.
Customer-Centric IT Initiatives
Your Bank introduced several customer-focused technology 
solutions to improve engagement and expand accessibility:
•	 Launched QR code-based EMI collections from 
microfinance customers.
•	 Implemented an Enterprise-Wide Loyalty & 
Rewards Management Platform (EWLP) to drive 
customer retention and engagement by centralising 
reward programs.
•	 Secured authorisation to open pension accounts 
for central civil and railway retirees, including 
integration with the Jeevan Pramaan portal for life 
certificate submissions.
•	 Enabled direct payment of Income Tax and GST through 
net banking, debit cards, and UPI.
•	 Rolled out regulatory SMS notifications to inform DPD 
(Days Past Due) customers about credit data submission 
to credit information companies (CICs).
During the FY 2025, total foreign exchange earned by your 
Bank was ₹33.51 crore (on account of net gains arising on 
all exchange / derivative transactions) and the total foreign 
exchange outgo was ₹9.59 crore towards the operating and 
capital expenditure requirements.
Development in Human Resources
Human Capital Management
In a rapidly evolving financial landscape, your Bank has been 
focused towards building an Organisation that thrives on 
diversity, inclusivity, fostering innovation and community 
connection. This is reflected in the wide base of 75,032 
employees based across 6,351 banking outlets and offices 
as on March 31, 2025.
FY 2025 has been a transformative year for your Bank, 
marked by implementing key reforms and strategic 
initiatives aligned with its Organisation Values that 
prioritise on a human- centric approach.
•	 Your Bank in FY 2025 has promoted 7,767 employees 
in recognition of their performance, initiative and 
110
Annual Report 2024-25
leadership demonstrated in their current role and 
elevated more than 2,000 employees.
•	 Your Bank doubled down on “Hire from within” this year, 
reflecting its belief that its people are the strongest 
foundation for growth. Your Bank scaled up its Internal 
Job Posting (IJP) platform, inviting staff to apply for new 
roles and career paths internally.
•	 Your Bank forged strong campus-to-career pathways to 
bring fresh talent into Bandhan Bank ensuring a steady 
influx of skilled professionals. Empowering young 
professionals to build a stable and rewarding career 
in the financial field, your Bank visited 34 top Premier 
institutes and selected 133 young students offering 
dynamic career opportunities and creating robust talent 
pipeline – from interns to full-time bankers.
•	 Your Bank in FY 2025 has focused in implementing 
strategies fostering a sense of community, promoting a 
culture of inclusivity with enhanced team collaboration, 
camaraderie, and overall employee well-being. During the 
FY under review, your Bank organised Football and Cricket 
tournaments across 10 and 5 states respectively engaging 
2000+ employees who participated across locations.
•	 Your Bank in FY 2025, conducted a follow up survey 
in continuation to the employee engagement survey 
with Gallup in 2022. In 2024 survey, your Bank has 
outperformed with an even better score of 4.56 out 
of 5 with an improved level of employee participation. 
Your Bank has also been recognised with the Gallup 
Exceptional Workplace award 2025.
The above implemented initiatives portray your Bank’s 
commitment to cultivate a resilient, future-ready 
organisation built on strong internal bonds.
Learning and Development
Employees’ Learning and Development (‘L&D’):
For the FY 2025, your Bank has taken a quantum leap in 
building the Learning and Development proposition for 
its employees. Your Bank has developed programs to 
equip employees with the necessary skillset, mindset and 
knowledge to enable them to meet the challenges of a 
rapidly changing banking industry.
This year, your Bank has focused on building employee 
competencies and focused on key strategic imperatives 
such as:
•	 Initiatives on Compliance adherence and risk mitigation
•	 Initiatives on Customer service excellence and grievance 
redressal mechanisms
•	 Initiatives on Slippage control and recovery management
•	 Initiatives on Cross Selling and portfolio growth.
Apart from the above, the L&D team has focused on 
behavioral learning interventions to strengthen the 
Leadership pipeline. These include the following:
•	 Bespoke Leadership development interventions through 
ISB (Indian School of Business) for our CXO’s/ Top and 
Senior management critical role (80) holders.
•	 Leader as a Coach for 85 of Senior management employees
•	 Women Leadership development journey, called 
'Bandhan for Her' for 44 DVPs and above. This is in line 
with our focus on Diversity Equity and Inclusion.
•	 Several behavioral interventions based on the needs of 
specific audiences- Leading Self for Junior management/ 
Leading Others for Middle and Leading Managers for 
Top management.
•	 A lean six sigma green belt intervention for process 
excellence was also piloted with impact on multiple 
ongoing projects.
Capacity Building and External Training Programs:
Employee capacity building initiatives are the top 
priorities for your bank, and during the course of the FY, 
5,689 employees participated in various external capacity 
building programs.
Digital Learning Initiatives
In order to broaden the scope of capacity building for its 
employees, your Bank has invested in a world class E-learning 
service provider called Linkedin Learning. This will provide 
Senior Managers and above access to over 24,000 learning 
resources at the comfort of their workstations.
Key L&D Metrics to drive learning & development 
initiatives in your Bank during the FY under review are 
enumerated below:
•	 3 million learning hours achieved during the FY, a growth 
of 14 per cent. from the previous FY.
•	 Per employee learning hour stood at 34 hours of training 
in this FY.
•	 During FY 2025, 99.6 per cent. employees participated 
in at least one training program
•	 Total training coverage across all formats (Internal/
External/E-Module) reached 7,67,756 hours, which is a 
71 per cent. increase from the previous year.
•	 Digital learning penetration among employees grew 
substantially in FY 2025. Logins on the Learning 
Management System (Bandhan Edge) reached 12,60,879 
by March 2025, marking a notable increase of 50 per 
cent. from the previous year.
Digitisation in HR
Digitalisation in HR has been a strategic initiative aimed 
at enhancing our talent acquisition, development, and 
management capabilities. This has enabled your Bank 
to improve efficiency, reduce manual administrative 
tasks, and focus more on strategic initiatives that drive 
organisational growth.
111
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Through HRMS, your Bank hosts all employee life cycle 
journeys and self-service activities allowing ease of 
access for routine transactions such as attendance, leave 
management, travel, performance management, query 
resolutions, alumni portal, etc. It is also a knowledge 
repository on your Bank’s policies, processes and 
personal records.
Employee Benefits
Employee Health and Wellness
Your Bank considers its employees as its most valuable 
assets and has therefore always remained proactive in 
carefully reviewing the Health & Wellness quotient. To 
facilitate quick medical attention for employees in medical 
emergencies, your Bank has tie-ups with hospitals in key 
locations across the country. Various Health awareness 
programs were planned like Prevention of Diabetes, Pain 
& Palliative Care, etc. Additionally, to promote Staff Safety, 
regular health camps and training workshops on First Aid & 
CPR were also arranged.
Compliance with the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961
Your Bank celebrates the gift of parenthood and 
undertakes several initiatives to support its employees as 
they take on new responsibilities as parents. In line with 
the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961, female employees are 
eligible for maternity leave of 26 weeks. Your Bank also 
provides adoption leave to women employees. Your Bank is 
in compliance with the provisions of the Maternity Benefit 
Act, 1961.
Paternity leave of 5 days was introduced beyond regular 
privilege leave to promote gender equality and enable male 
employees to support during childbirth.
Employee Health Check-up Policy
As one of the measures to encourage employees to stay 
healthy, your Bank has a policy on Employee Health Check-
up. Your Bank sponsors the health check-up for employees 
at senior and top management grades. Other employees 
can avail the services at discounted rates.
Wellness Platform
B Well Digi Care Plan is an assimilation of all health benefits 
offered to employees under one roof, knit together by 
state-of-the-art technology and 24/7 customer support. 
The platform offers free online medical consultations and 
facilitates medicine deliveries, diagnostics services, thereby 
ensuring accessible healthcare solutions. Other services 
include discounted Dental/Eye Consultations & Procedures, 
Discounted Gyms and Fitness Services including Yoga, 
Zumba, etc., fully sponsored IPD Assist - Post Discharge 
online care & doctor consultations and Health Assessment. 
A wealth of online wellness resources & health articles is 
also available in the Wellness Platform.
HR Compliance
Your Bank adhere to all applicable Statutory and Regulatory 
laws and guidelines in their true spirit and stay updated 
with the changing dynamics of the laws. Your Bank 
ensures all statutory payments are timely remitted to the 
respective authorities and required compliance records 
are meticulously maintained. All necessary returns and 
disclosures are furnished to the relevant authorities in a 
timely manner according to the provisions of law.
Discipline & Ethics Management
The Code of Conduct and Ethics (‘Code’) articulates your 
Bank's commitment to conduct business in accordance 
with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with 
all applicable laws, rules and regulations. At Bandhan Bank, 
ethical behaviour is inseparable from honesty, integrity and 
good judgment. Accordingly, all employees are required to 
follow the Code and act with a high degree of professional 
and ethical standards.
Your Bank has a Discipline & Ethics Management team, 
which takes multiple initiatives to foster ethical business 
standards, such as dissemination of circulars sensitising 
employees, awareness on the consequences of indulging 
in misconducts/malpractices, releasing various posters, 
emailers, HRMS campaigns, sharing of case studies, etc.
Risk Management
Your Bank has an independent and robust risk management 
framework which effectively addresses both financial and 
non-financial risks. Risk Management at your Bank includes 
risk identification, risk assessment, risk measurement 
and risk mitigation which stands at its core to create 
maximum value for shareholders, clients, employees, and 
communities. Your Bank has policies and procedures to 
systematically measure, assess, monitor, and manage risks 
across all its portfolios.
Your Bank is committed to creating an environment of risk 
awareness at all levels. Your Bank’s view on risk is dynamic 
and it aims at constantly upgrading controls and security 
measures, including cyber security measures, to avoid or 
mitigate various risks. The ability to manage risk is strongly 
supported by a strong risk conduct and risk aware culture. 
Further, Risk transparency is fostered through reporting, 
disclosure, sharing of information and open dialogue on the 
risks arising from various activities across the Bank.
Your Bank has an independent Risk Governance Structure, 
which is in line with industry best practices, that has been 
put in place to separate duties and ensure the independence 
of Risk Measurement, Monitoring and Control functions. 
This framework visualises the empowerment of Business 
Units at the operating level, with technology being the key 
driver, enabling the identification and management of risk 
at the place of origination. Your Bank’s Risk Management 
Department is responsible for setting up the appropriate 
112
Annual Report 2024-25
risk control mechanism to quantify and monitor risks in 
timely manner.
Risk Appetite
To address various risks that your Bank faces in its business, 
it has established a risk appetite framework which 
defines the levels and types of risk that are acceptable 
and within its defined risk capacity. The framework is 
defined with the goal of aligning risk taking with your 
Bank’s strategy, business and capital plans. Furthermore, 
risk-specific policies, limits and triggers are implemented 
to  operationalise the appetites at enterprise level for 
enabling effective monitoring and providing cushion for 
initiating a timely risk mitigation plan.
The risk appetite framework is approved on an annual 
basis and is a pre-cursor to the strategy of your Bank. A 
comprehensive dashboard that shows all the risks that your 
Bank carries at any given time is provided by the Risk Profile, 
which is a component of the Risk Appetite Framework. It 
links goals and priorities to risk management in a way that 
empowers employees to serve customers well and meet 
financial targets. Your Bank has a quarterly risk appetite and 
annual risk appetite with defined quarterly glidepath for 
effective monitoring along with a well-defined Governance 
framework for better efficacy.
Risk Culture
Risk culture is a set of norms, and behaviours related to 
awareness, management, and controls of risks. In your Bank, 
risk culture is at the centre of both the risk management 
framework and risk management practice. The desired risk 
culture behaviours are aligned to your Bank’s core values 
thus forming an effective basis for risk culture since these 
are used for performance management, recruitment, 
and development.
The Board and Senior Management sets the “tone at the 
top” and has a trickle-down effect on all employees. Thus, 
it supports a strong culture, which is defined by your Bank’s 
expectations, thereby guiding how employees conduct 
themselves, work with colleagues, and make decisions. 
Your Bank has a well-defined Whistle Blower Policy in place.
As part of its awareness campaigns, your Bank circulates 
and promotes information security awareness contents 
and materials through several mediums (SMS, Email, 
Screensaver, Circular, etc.) to cover its Board members, 
employees, customers, and vendors. Your Bank educates 
its staff on risk management through periodic newsletters, 
circulars, floor-level awareness seminars, trainings, 
workshops, and innovative desktop screensavers.
Stress Testing
Your Bank recognises the importance of stress testing as an 
integral risk management tool. Your Bank’s Stress testing 
includes Scenario testing, which examines the impact of a 
hypothetical future state to define changes in risk factors 
as also Sensitivity testing, which examines the impact 
of an incremental change to one or more risk factors. In 
addition to standard stress scenarios, your Bank conducts 
stress testing based on various themes driven by climate, 
macroeconomic, etc. Your Bank carries out reverse stress 
testing, in order to identify circumstances that may lead to 
specific, defined outcomes.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process 
(‘ICAAP’)
Your Bank conducts a comprehensive ICAAP exercise on 
a yearly basis with respect to the adequacy of Capital 
under normal and stressed conditions. The examination of 
capital requirements under normal economic and adverse 
market conditions enables your Bank to determine whether 
its projected business performance meets internal and 
regulatory capital requirements. The assessment is to 
identify, assess, and manage all risks that could potentially 
have a significant negative impact on its business, financial 
position, or capital adequacy.
The ICAAP comprises of a point-in-time assessment of 
exposures and risks at the end of the FY, along with a 
forward-looking stress capital assessment. Your Bank 
also conducts back-testing assessments as part of ICAAP 
process to assess its stress scenarios.
Risk Management Framework
Your Bank’s Risk Management Framework sets forth the 
core principles on how it seeks to manage and govern 
the risk. Your Bank’s comprehensive risk management 
is overseen by its Board of Directors who has the overall 
responsibility for your Bank‘s Risk Management, including 
culture and governance framework. The Risk Management 
Committee of the Board (‘RMCB’) assists the Board in 
discharging these responsibilities effectively. The RMCB 
annually reviews and approves your Bank’s risk management 
framework. The RMCB plays a crucial role in guiding the 
development of policies, procedures, and systems, and 
continuously evaluates their suitability and relevance to 
the evolving business landscape. The RMCB also oversees 
the Risk Management Department (‘RMD’) and the Chief 
Risk Officer (‘CRO’) reports functionally to the RMCB. The 
RMCB meets the CRO on one-to-one basis, without the 
presence of the Whole-time Directors including MD&CEO, 
on quarterly basis.
Major Risks
Your Bank’s risk management approach is to ensure that 
major risks and emerging risks, as they evolve, are identified, 
managed, and incorporated into its existing risk management 
assessment, measurement, monitoring and escalation 
processes. By adhering to these protocols, management 
can be sure of growing the business in a risk-controlled 
manner and fulfilling their ongoing responsibilities for risk 
supervision. The Board and senior management deliberate 
top and emerging risks on a regular basis.
113
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Asset/ Liability Management (ALM)
Asset/ Liability Management involves evaluating, 
monitoring, and managing interest rate risk, market risk, 
liquidity, and funding. Your Bank has a well-defined Asset 
Liability Management policy that outlines the framework 
for liquidity and interest rate risk management. As a part 
of assurance towards sound Risk Management practices, 
your Bank regularly reviews its Internal Policies to adapt to 
changes in market conditions.
Your Bank’s Asset Liability Management Committee 
(‘ALCO’) monitors and manages Liquidity and Interest 
Rate risks. Your Bank actively assesses ALM Risk, which 
involves evaluating, monitoring, and managing interest 
rate risk, market risk, liquidity, and funding, which 
potentially can have a significant earnings impact. Your 
Bank has implemented a robust mechanism to monitor 
critical ratios and has always maintained healthy Liquidity 
ratios; Liquidity Coverage Ratio (‘LCR’), much above the 
regulatory minimum LCR requirement by having significant 
High-Quality Liquid Assets (‘HQLA’) as also the Net Stable 
Funding Ratio (‘NSFR’), which is measured as the proportion 
of long-term assets that are funded by stable sources.
Climate-related Financial Risks
Your Bank has incorporated climate risk in its risk 
management framework. Your Bank has incorporated 
provision in its Credit Policy to support green financing and 
considering proposals from such segments to encourage 
green financing. As part of the stress testing policy, 
scenarios related to climate risk have been incorporated.
Credit Risk
Your Bank defines credit risk as the risk of loss associated 
with a borrower or counterparty default (failure to meet 
obligations with agreed upon terms). Your Bank has 
established robust credit appraisal and risk management 
frameworks for identifying, measuring, monitoring, and 
controlling the risks in credit exposures.
Your Bank balances the risk and return by setting certain 
objectives, e.g., ensuring credit quality is not compromised 
for growth; mitigating credit risk in transactions, 
relationships and portfolios; using its credit risk rating and 
scoring systems or other approved credit risk assessment 
or rating methodologies, policies and tools; appropriate 
pricing based on credit risk taken; systems and controls 
for detecting and preventing inappropriate credit risk; 
applying consistent credit risk exposure measurements; 
ongoing credit risk monitoring and administration; and 
avoiding activities that are inconsistent with its values, 
code of conduct or policies. Your Bank undertakes studies 
to identify trends in the movement of NPAs, SMAs etc., to 
keep track of the asset quality.
Information Security and Cyber Risks
Cyber security in banks has gained paramount importance, 
as banks are investing extensively in IT platforms enabling 
them to move towards digitisation, enhance customer 
experience, reduction of transaction cost, compete 
with peers etc. Across banks in India, large amounts of 
confidential data reside in bank’s Data Centres and flows 
through bank’s servers and various networks and devices. 
To protect your Bank’s IT systems, confidential data of both 
your Bank and its customers, either in rest or in motion, 
and to ensure continuity of business, your Bank has policies 
and frameworks in place for Information security and 
Cyber risks.
Banks are exposed and susceptible to various types of 
cybercrime. Cyber-attacks have become more sophisticated 
and organised and they are continuously carrying attacks 
in volume, frequency, and severity. Malware perpetrators 
are inventing and inflicting various types of malware 
attacks. Distributed Denial of Service (‘DDOS’) activity is 
ever-increasing and evolving as they are using Internet of 
Things (‘IOT’) devices as platform to conduct such attacks. 
Your Bank has not experienced any material loss relating to 
these or other types of cyber-attacks.
Cybersecurity risk is a priority for your Bank, and it continues 
to develop and enhance its controls, processes, and systems 
in order to protect its networks, computers, software, 
and data from attack, damage, or unauthorised access. 
Your Bank has its own independent 24x7 C-SOC (Cyber 
Security Operations Centre) for a state-of-art centralised 
and consolidated cybersecurity incident prevention, 
security event monitoring, detection, and response which 
is backed by data and tools for sound analytics. Your Bank 
is also ISO 27001:2013 certified, for its information security 
management. Your Bank is also proactively involved in 
industry cybersecurity efforts and working with other 
parties, including its third-party service providers and 
governmental agencies, to continue to enhance defences 
and improve resiliency to cybersecurity threats.
Operational Risk & Resilience
Your Bank actively manages the Operational risk, which 
is the risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal 
processes, people and systems, or external events. Your 
Bank has a Board approved Operational Risk Management 
& Operational Resilience Policy, which outlines the 
governance structure and processes for managing 
operational risk as well as Operational Resilience. Your 
Bank has also put in place robust Fraud Risk, Outsourcing 
Risk, Resilience Risk encompassing Business Continuity 
Risk, Compliance Risk and Legal Risk Frameworks within 
its Operational Risk Management. Your Bank also has 
an effective IT Risk, Change Management and Incident 
Management frameworks in place to effectively take 
114
Annual Report 2024-25
care of any incidents resulting in adverse effect on its 
critical operations.
Your Bank is committed to provide uninterrupted services 
to customers. As such, it is essential to protect the critical 
infrastructure in your Bank from natural and man-made 
disasters / events and ensure business continuity of 
the various operational units. Your Bank has a Business 
Continuity Risk Management framework within its 
Operational Risk Management & Operational Resilience 
Policy in place with the objective to recover critical activities 
and systems within defined timelines; safety of people 
and its assets; to communicate with stakeholders during 
emergency, etc. Business continuity risks are reviewed and 
regular updates are given to Operational Risk Management 
Committee (‘ORMC’) and the RMCB.
Outsourcing Risk
Outsourcing risk refers to potential losses from relying on 
third-party service providers for delivering banking operations 
for your Bank, which would be undertaken by it in future, 
with risk factors including service failures, data breaches, 
regulatory non-compliance, and lack of control. Your Bank 
identifies these risks by evaluating outsourced functions and 
vendor reliability at the time of empanelment by assessing 
risk through due diligence and compliance reviews, and 
monitoring performance via regular reviews and audits. 
Your Bank has implemented comprehensive outsourcing risk 
management framework with roles and responsibilities for 
identification, measurement, mitigation, management, and 
reporting of risks associated with Outsourcing activities.
Market Risk
Your Bank’s market risk management consists of identifying 
and measuring risks, control measures, monitoring, and 
reporting systems. Your Bank actively manages Market risk, 
which is the risk of possible economic loss from adverse 
changes in market risk factors, such as, interest rates, credit 
spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity 
prices, and the risk of possible loss due to counterparty 
exposure. This applies to implied volatility risk, basis risk, 
and market liquidity risk. Value at Risk (VaR) is a tool for 
monitoring risk in your Bank’s trading portfolio and is used 
for estimating the potential loss from adverse movements 
in the financial markets.
Regulatory Risk
Your Bank recognises the utmost importance of regulatory 
risk. It closely monitors changes in the regulatory landscape 
and assesses how new regulations might affect its 
business and strategy. In order to take proactive steps to 
identify emerging risks, your Bank regularly examines the 
regulatory environment.
Reputational Risk
Your Bank’s reputation is rooted in the perception of its 
stakeholders, and the trust and loyalty they place in it is 
core to its purpose as a financial services organisation. 
Any adverse stakeholder and public perception about your 
Bank may negatively impact its ability to attract and retain 
customers and may expose it to litigation and regulatory 
actions. In today’s world where communication is a key, your 
Bank maintains regular communication with its internal 
as well as external stakeholders through appropriate 
engagement mechanisms to address their expectations 
and address any concerns they may have.
The Reputational Risk Management Framework of your 
Bank is made up of interconnected characteristics that 
could have an impact on different stakeholders. Your Bank 
is also measuring and tracking the idiosyncratic risks related 
to stock price movement, as also social as well as traditional 
media sentiments, complaints, regulatory action, etc., on 
a periodic basis.
Strategic & Business Risk
Your Bank is monitoring the Strategic Risk by tracking its 
competitive environment as well as any emerging risks, 
which may derail the overall Strategic pursuit so that 
suitable risk mitigation measures are timely taken. As 
part of strategic risk assessments, your Bank conducts 
assessment to review the Business strategy on A/E (Actual 
vs. Estimated) basis and assessments are presented to the 
RMCB. Your Bank has a robust Business Risk Management 
Framework in place, which involves monitoring actionable 
metrics, including various financial indicators, as well as 
your Bank’s competitive position in the industry.
Material Changes and Commitment 
affecting Financial Position of the Bank
There were no material changes and commitments, 
affecting the financial position of your Bank, which have 
occurred between the end of the Financial Year of the 
Bank, i.e., March 31, 2025, to which the financial statement 
relates, and the date of this Board’s Report.
Change in the Nature of Business
During the FY 2025, there has been no change in the nature 
of business of your Bank.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 134(3)(c) read with 
Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, the Board of Directors 
hereby confirms that:
i.	
In the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards have been followed 
115
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
along with proper explanation relating to material 
departures, if any;
ii.	
We have selected such accounting policies and applied 
them consistently and made judgments and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true 
and fair view of the Bank’s state of affairs as on March 
31, 2025, and of its profit for the FY ended on that date;
iii.	
We have taken proper and sufficient care for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act for safeguarding the assets of the Bank and for 
preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
iv.	
We have prepared the annual accounts on a going 
concern basis;
v.	
We have laid down internal financial controls to 
be followed by the Bank and that such internal 
financial controls are adequate and are operating 
effectively; and
vi.	
We have devised proper systems to ensure compliance 
with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such 
systems are adequate and operating effectively.
Acknowledgements and Appreciations
The Board of Directors of your Bank extends its gratitude 
for the invaluable support and guidance received from the 
Reserve Bank of India, other government and regulatory 
authorities, and financial institutions. The Board also thanks 
the correspondent banks for their cooperation and help. 
The Board acknowledges the support of its shareholders, 
and also places on record its sincere thanks to its valued 
clients and customers for their patronage.
The Board also expresses its deep sense of appreciation 
to all the employees for displaying their strong work 
ethics, excellence at work, professionalism, teamwork, 
commitment and initiative, which have led to the Bank 
making good progress. The Board will continue to strive 
for improvements as your Bank continues on its journey 
towards achieving its objectives.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Bandhan Bank Limited
Anup Kumar Sinha
Place: Kolkata
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Date: July 18, 2025
(DIN: 08249893)
116
Annual Report 2024-25
1.	 A Brief Outline on CSR Policy:
Approach – Bandhan Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’) has 
framed its Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) 
Policy in accordance with the provisions of Section 135 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Companies Act’), read 
with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014 (‘CSR Rules’). The CSR Policy of 
the Bank has a strong commitment to contribute to 
social and environmental growth and prosperity and 
is pivotal to its business sustainability.
Purpose – The purpose of the Bank’s CSR philosophy is 
to develop the community in which the Bank operates 
and make a sustainable improvement in the lives of 
economically, physically and socially challenged people 
living at the lower end of society and initiate or support 
programmes that are aimed at creating conditions for 
better livelihoods in these communities. The Bank shall 
also support measures that are aimed at preserving 
and enhancing the environment and natural resources. 
The CSR policy shall act as a mechanism for regulating 
the CSR activities of the Bank and adhere to laws and 
regulations in force and adopt best practices.
Vision – Aligned with the vision of the Bank, the CSR 
initiatives of the Bank shall continue to enhance value 
creation, improve the quality of life and inclusion of 
those who are not adequately and effectively serviced 
by the formal financial sector into the mainstream of 
the society and draw them into the cycle of growth 
by providing products and services and forming 
partnerships and alliances for the fulfilment of its role 
in the society as a responsible corporate.
Annex- 1
Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) activities 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025
CSR Programmes – The focus area of the CSR 
programmes of the Bank shall be the local areas 
served by the Bank and based on the prioritised needs 
of the local communities. The Bank may undertake 
any or all of the activities in the subject or the areas 
as mentioned in Schedule VII to the Companies Act, 
including the following:
a.	
Healthcare: Preventive Health, Nutrition and 
Food Security, Sanitation and Safe Drinking Water
b.	
Education: Financial and Digital Literacy, Skill 
Development and Sustainable Livelihoods for 
underprivileged children, women, youths and 
persons with disabilities
c.	
Reducing Inequalities and Promoting Gender 
Equality: Women empowerment, empowering 
persons with disabilities and such measures 
that reduce inequalities faced by socially and 
economically backward groups
d.	
Environment Protection: Natural Resource 
Management and conservation, and Climate 
Change mitigation and adaptations
e.	
Rural Area and Slum Area Development: 
Improving infrastructure and living conditions, 
and sustainable agriculture.
f.	
Disaster Management and Relief Operations
2.	 Composition of Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee of 
the Board (CSR&SCB): 
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation / Nature  
of Directorship
Number of meetings 
of the CSR&SCB held 
during the year/tenure
Number of meetings 
of CSR&SCB attended 
during the year/tenure
1
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
Chairman, Independent Director 
4
4
2
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh1
Member, Former Managing 
Director & CEO
1
1
3
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta2
Member, Managing Director & CEO 
1
1
4
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh3
Member, Executive Director & COO
2
2
5
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar4
Member, Executive Director & CBO
3
3
6
Dr. Aparajita Mitra
Member, Independent Director
4
4
7
Mr. Vijay N Bhatt5
Member, Independent Director 
1
1
1Ceased to be a member with effect from July 10, 2024.
2Appointed as a member with effect from November 02, 2024.
3Appointed as a member with effect from July 10, 2024 and ceased to be a member with effect from November 02, 2024.
4Appointed as a member with effect from July 10, 2024.
5Ceased to be a member with effect from May 08, 2024 and re-appointed as a member with effect from November 02, 2024.
117
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
3.	 Web-link where the Composition of the CSR&SCB, CSR Policy and CSR projects 
approved by the Board are disclosed on the website of the Bank:
Sl. No. Details of CSR
Web-link
1
Composition of CSR&SCB 
https://www.bandhanbank.com/corporate-governance#rctabone 
2
CSR Policy
https://www.bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2025-02/CSR-Policy-03022025.pdf 
3
CSR Projects
https://www.bandhanbank.com/beyond-banking 
4.	 Executive Summary along with web-link of the Impact Assessment of CSR projects 
carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014:
	
The executive summary of the CSR programmes Impact Assessment is provided in the Board’s Report. The detailed 
Impact Assessment Report is available at the Bank’s website:
	
https://www.bandhanbank.com/beyond-banking.
5.	 CSR Obligation of the Bank for the financial year 2024-25 as per Section 135(5) of 
the Companies Act:
Sl. No. Particulars
Amount (in ₹)
a
Average net profit of the Bank as per sub-section (5) of Section 135
19,88,17,30,701
b
Two percent of the average net profit of the Bank as per sub-section (5) of Section 135
39,76,34,615
c
Surplus arising out of the CSR programmes of the previous financial years
*13,12,572
d
Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any
0
e
Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)].
39,89,47,187
*pursuant to Rule 7(2) of CSR Rules, surplus generated from CSR funds during FY 2024-25 was ploughed back to the same programme 
during FY 2024-25
6.	 Total amount spent on CSR projects for the financial year 2024-25
Sl. No. Particulars
Amount (in ₹)
a.
Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Projects and other than Ongoing Projects)
23,25,29,583
b.
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads
0
c.
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable
*0
d.
Total amount spent for the financial year [(a)+(b)+(c)]
23,25,29,583
*Cost of Impact Assessment Study of ₹41,67,406 including taxes has been booked under Business Expenditure during FY 2024-25
e.	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year 2024-25
Total Amount 
Spent for the 
Financial Year 
(in ₹)
Amount Unspent (in ₹)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per Section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII 
as per the second proviso to Section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
23,25,29,583
16,64,17,989
30.04.2025
NA
NIL
NA
f.	
Excess amount for set-off, if any:
Sl. No. Particulars
Amount (in ₹)
(i)
Two per cent. of the average net profit of the Bank as per sub-section (5) of Section 135
39,76,34,615
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
23,25,29,583
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]
NIL
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial 
years, if any
*13,12,572
(v)
The amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
NIL
*pursuant to Rule 7(2) of CSR Rules, surplus generated from CSR funds during FY 2024-25 was ploughed back to the same programme 
during FY 2024-25
118
Annual Report 2024-25
7.	 Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding 
three Financial Years:
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year(s)
Amount 
transferred to 
the Unspent CSR 
Account under 
subsection (6) of 
section 135 (in ₹)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
subsection (6) 
of section 135 
in FY 2024-25 
(in ₹)
Amount 
Spent 
in the 
Financial 
Year 2024-
25 (in ₹)
Amount transferred to a 
Fund as specified under 
Schedule VII as per 
second proviso to sub-
section (5) of section 
135, if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial 
Years (in ₹)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount 
(in ₹)
Date of 
Transfer
1
FY 2023-24
0
0
0
0
NA
0
0
2
FY 2022-23
0
0
0
0
NA
0
0
3
FY 2021-22
19,91,613
0
0
0
NA
0
0
8.	 Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate 
Social Responsibility amount spent in the Financial Year 2024-25:
×
Yes
√
No
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/ acquired: Not applicable
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount 
spent in the Financial Year 2024-25: Not applicable
9.	 Specify the reason(s), if the Bank has failed to spend two per cent of the average 
net profit as per sub-section (5) of Section 135:
In terms of the provision of Section 135(6) of the Companies Act, 2013, any amount remaining unspent under sub-
section (5), pursuant to any ongoing project, undertaken by a company in pursuance of its CSR Policy, shall be 
transferred by the company within a period of thirty days from the end of the financial year to a special account 
to be called the Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility Account, and such amount shall be spent by the company 
in pursuance of its obligation towards the CSR Policy within a period of three financial years from the date of such 
transfer. Accordingly, the unspent amount of ₹16,64,17,989/- pertaining to FY 2024-25 towards ongoing projects in 
healthcare, education, skill development and environment protection were transferred to the special account in the 
name and manner of “Bandhan Bank Limited Unspent CSR Account FY 2024-25”. As on the date of this report, funds 
from this Unspent CSR Account have been started to be disbursed for these projects and full amount will be utilised 
over the period of three financial years towards these ongoing projects or to the funds prescribed under Schedule 
VII of the Companies Act, as may be applicable.
Partha Pratim Sengupta
Subrata Dutta Gupta
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Chairman 
(DIN: 08273324)
Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability Committee
(DIN: 08767943)
Anup Kumar Sinha
Place: Kolkata
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Date: June 27, 2025
(DIN: 08249893)
119
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
1.	
Ratio of remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the 
Bank for the financial year 2024-25:
Name 
Designation
Ratio
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
20:1
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta1
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
49:1
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh2
Former Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
32:1
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar
Executive Director & Chief Business Officer 
103:1
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh3
Executive Director & Chief Operating Officer
96:1
Dr. A.S Ramasatri
Independent Director
15:1
Dr. Aparajita Mitra
Independent Director
15:1
Mr. Arun Kumar Singh4
RBI (Nominee) Additional Director
12:1
Ms. Divya Krishnan
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director  
(Nominee of Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited)
16:1
Mr. N.V.P Tendulkar
Independent Director
17:1
Mr. Pankaj Sood5
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director  
(Nominee of Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd)
9:1
Mr. Philip Mathew
Independent Director
15:1
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
Independent Director
17:1
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
Independent Director
17:1
Mr. Suhail Chander
Independent Director
19:1
Mr. Vijay N. Bhatt
Independent Director
17:1
1appointed as MD&CEO effective November 01, 2024
2retired as MD&CEO effective July 10, 2024
3held the office of MD&CEO (interim) from July 10, 2024 to October 31, 2024
4appointed by RBI as Additional Director effective June 24, 2024
5ceased as Director effective December 14, 2024
	
Note:
a)	
Fixed pay has been considered for the computation of the ratio. Fixed pay includes basic, allowances, and 
employer contributions to the Provident Fund.
b)	
The above includes all employees of the Bank excluding advisors.
c)	
In the case of Non-Executive Chairman, a fixed remuneration of ₹24 lakh per annum has been paid till January 06, 
2025 and thereafter ₹27 lakh per annum, as approved by RBI and shareholders, and sitting fees paid for attending 
Board, its Committees and Independent Directors’ meetings during FY 2024-25 has been considered.
d)	
In accordance with the RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021, as amended, the Non-Executive Directors, including 
Independent Directors (other than the Part-time Non-Executive Chairman), were each paid fixed remuneration 
of up to ₹12 Lakh per annum, as approved by the Shareholders, and sitting fees for attending the meetings of 
the Board and its Committee, and the meetings of Independent Directors, during FY 2024-25.
Annex - 2
Disclosure on remuneration for FY 2024-25
[As per Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
120
Annual Report 2024-25
2.	
Percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, CFO, CEO, CS or Manager, if any, in the 
financial year 2024-25:
Designation
Percentage Increase
Non-Executive Chairman1
12.5
Managing Director & CEO2
NA
Executive Director & CBO3
NA
Executive Director & COO
10.7
Non-Executive Director
NA
CFO3
NA
CS
11
1RBI approved fixed remuneration has been considered
2appointed during FY 2024-25
3no revision in remuneration during FY 2024-25 since joined at the end of FY 2024
	
Non-Executive/Independent Directors:
During FY 2024-25, the Non-Executive Directors (‘NEDs’), including Independent Directors, of the Bank were paid 
sitting fees of ₹90,000 per meeting for attending the Board meetings, ₹75,000 per meeting for attending meetings 
of the Audit Committee and the Risk Management Committee, and ₹60,000 per meeting for attending meetings of 
other Committees of the Board and the meetings of the Independent Directors.
Further, in accordance with the RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021 and Shareholders approval at 8th AGM held on August 
10, 2022, NEDs, other than the Part-time Non-Executive Chairman of the Bank, are paid compensation in the form 
of fixed remuneration of up to ₹12 Lakh per annum each, with effect from April 01, 2022, for a period of three years.
The Non-Executive Chairman of the Bank was paid fixed remuneration of ₹24 lakh per annum till January 06, 2025 
and thereafter ₹27 lakh per annum, pursuant to approval of RBI and shareholders.
There has not been any change in the fixed remuneration for NEDs other than Non-Executive Chairman, nor there 
has been any change in the siting fees for NEDs for attending meetings during FY 2024-25.
3.	
Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year 2024-25:
Percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year 2024-25 was 7.80 percent.
4.	
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Bank:
As on March 31, 2025, the number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Bank was 75,032.
5.	
Average percentage increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the 
managerial personnel in the last financial year and its comparison with the percentage 
increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any 
exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:
The average percentage increase of remuneration for Key Managerial Personnel: 10.85 percent.
The average percentage increase of remuneration for employees other than Key Managerial Personnel: 6.5 percent.
6.	
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Bank: Yes
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Bandhan Bank Limited
Anup Kumar Sinha
Place: Kolkata 
Non-Executive Part-time Chairman
Date: June 27, 2025
(DIN: 08249893)
121
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
To
The Members
Bandhan Bank Limited
DN-32, Sector-V, Salt Lake
Kolkata – 700 091
1.	
I, CS Hansraj Jaria, have conducted the Secretarial 
Audit of the compliance of applicable statutory 
provisions and the adherence to good corporate 
practices by Bandhan Bank Limited having CIN: 
L67190WB2014PLC204622 (hereinafter referred as 
‘the Bank’) during the financial year ended March 
31, 2025 (hereinafter referred as ‘review period’). 
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that 
provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate conducts/ statutory compliances and 
expressing my opinion thereon.
2.	
Based on my verification of the Bank’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed, and 
other records maintained by the Bank, and also the 
information provided by the Bank, its officers, agents, 
and authorised representatives during the conduct of 
secretarial audit, I hereby report that in my opinion, 
the Bank has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended on March 31, 2025, complied with 
the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that 
the Bank has proper Board processes and compliance 
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and 
subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
3.	
(I)	
I have examined the books, papers, minute 
books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Bank for the review period, 
according to the provisions of the following laws, 
rules and regulations, to the extent applicable on 
the Bank during the review period:
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the 
rules made thereunder;
ii.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules 
made thereunder;
iii.	
The 
Depositories 
Act, 
1996 
and 
the 
Regulations 
and 
Bye-laws 
framed thereunder;
iv.	
The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 
1999 and the rules and regulations made 
thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and 
External Commercial Borrowings;
Annex 3
Secretarial Audit Report
For the financial year ended March 31, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 24A(1) of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended]
v.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines 
prescribed under the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(‘SEBI Act’), as amended from time to time:
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 
and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011, 
as amended;
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended;
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2018, 
as amended;
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, as amended;
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Share Based Employee Benefits 
and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Issue and Listing of Non-
Convertible Securities) Regulations, 
2021, as amended; - Not Applicable for 
review period
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Bankers to an Issue) Regulations, 
1994, as amended;
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Registrars to an Issue and 
Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 
1993 regarding the Act and dealing 
with client;
i.	
The Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) 
Regulations, 2021; - Not Applicable for 
review period
j.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Buy-Back of Securities) Regulations, 
2018. - Not Applicable for review period
122
Annual Report 2024-25
	
(II)	 I have also examined the compliance system 
prevailing in the Bank and the compliance of the 
books, papers, minute books, forms, and returns 
filed and other records maintained by the Bank 
for the review period, according to the provisions 
of the following laws, rules and regulations 
specifically applicable to the Bank and as per 
information and representation provided by the 
officers, agents, and authorised representatives 
of the Bank;
a.	
The Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934;
b.	
The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (‘BR Act’), 
and notifications and circulars issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) from time 
to time;
c.	
The Securitisation and Reconstruction 
of Financial Assets and Enforcement of 
Security Interest Act, 2002;
d.	
The Recovery of Debts and Bankruptcy 
Act, 1993;
e.	
The Credit Information Companies 
(Regulation) Act, 2005;
f.	
The Prevention of Money Laundering 
Act, 2002;
g.	
Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority of India (Registration of Corporate 
Agents) Regulations, 2015.
4.	
I have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the Secretarial Standards issued by The 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India under 
Section 118 of the Act.
5.	
That on the basis of the audit as referred above, to the 
best of my knowledge, understanding and belief, I am 
of the view that during the review period, the Bank 
has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc., as mentioned 
above in Paragraphs 3(I), 3(II) and 4 of this report.
6.	
I further report that,
	
a.	
The Board of Directors of the Bank is duly 
constituted with proper balance of Executive 
Directors, Non-Executive Directors and 
Independent Directors, including Woman 
Directors. The changes in the composition of the 
Board of Directors that took place during the 
review period were carried out in compliance 
with the applicable provisions of the Act.
	
b.	
Adequate notice is given to all directors to 
schedule the Board Meetings. Agenda and 
detailed notes on agenda were sent at least 
seven days in advance, and a system exists for 
seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the 
meeting and for meaningful participation at 
the meeting.
	
c.	
Majority decision is carried through while the 
dissenting members’ views, if any, are captured 
and recorded as part of the minutes.
7.	
I further report that, there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Bank commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Bank to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
8.	
I further report that during the review period:
	
a.	
The Bank has allotted 1,657 equity shares of face 
value of ₹10/- each, pursuant to exercise of stock 
options by the eligible employees of the Bank 
under the Bandhan Bank Employee Stock Option 
Plan - Series 1.
9.	
This Report is to be read with my letter of even date 
which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral 
part of this Report.
HANSRAJ JARIA
(Practicing Company Secretary)
Membership No.: FCS 7703
CP No.: 19394
Place: Kolkata 
Peer Review Certificate No.: 1060/2021
Date: June 27, 2025
UDIN: F007703G000670068
123
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
To
The Members
Bandhan Bank Limited
DN-32, Sector V, Salt Lake
Kolkata - 700 091
My Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Bank. My responsibility is limited to 
expressing an opinion on existence of adequate board process and compliance management system, commensurate 
to the size of the Bank, based on the secretarial records as shown to me during the said audit and also based on the 
information furnished to me by the officers, agents, and authorised representatives of the Bank during the said audit.
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate, to the best of my understanding, to obtain 
reasonable assurance about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on 
test basis to check as to whether correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. I believe that the processes and 
practices, I followed, provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
3.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and books of accounts of the Bank.
4.	
Wherever required, I have obtained the management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events, etc., and I have relied on such representation, in forming my opinion.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations and standards is the 
responsibility of the management. My examination was limited to the verification of compliance procedures on test 
basis. I would not be liable for any business decision or any consequences arising thereof, made on the basis of 
my report.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness or accuracy with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
Annexure A
(To the Secretarial Audit Report of Bandhan Bank Limited for the financial year ended March 31, 2025)
HANSRAJ JARIA
(Practicing Company Secretary)
Membership No.: FCS 7703
CP No.: 19394
Place: Kolkata 
Peer Review Certificate No.: 1060/2021
Date: June 27, 2025
UDIN: F007703G000670068
124
Annual Report 2024-25
Annex 4
Report on Corporate Governance
[Report on Corporate Governance pursuant to the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (the ‘SEBI LODR’) and the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Companies Act’), for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2025, forming part of the Board’s Report]
Bank’s Philosophy on Corporate Governance
Your Bank believes in adopting and adhering to the best 
standards of corporate governance. It unswervingly 
benchmarks itself of such practices. Your Bank understands 
and respects its fiduciary role and responsibilities towards 
its stakeholders and strives hard to meet their expectations. 
Your Bank’s philosophy on corporate governance enshrines 
the goal of achieving the highest levels of transparency, 
accountability and equity in all spheres of its operations and 
in all its engagements with its stakeholders. It acknowledges 
that the best Board practices, transparent disclosures and 
shareholder empowerment are necessary for creating 
stakeholders’ value. The philosophy on corporate 
governance serves as vital instrument safeguarding 
stakeholders interests and enhancing long-term values. 
By embedding transparency, accountability, and ethical 
leadership into every aspect of our operations, your Bank 
ensures that its governance practices not only protect but 
also empower its stakeholders. This commitment enables 
your Bank to build trust, drive sustainable growth, and 
deliver enduring value across all dimensions of its business.
Your Bank is in compliance with the extant corporate 
governance requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 
27 and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation (2) of 
Regulation 46 of the SEBI LODR.
Board of Directors
Your Bank entrusts its Board of Directors (the ‘Board’) with 
the ultimate responsibility for the management and control 
of the business of the Bank including providing strategic 
direction, ensuring financial oversight, and maintaining 
regulatory compliance. To enable the Board to fulfil these 
responsibilities effectively, it is vested with the necessary 
powers, authorities and duties. The Corporate Governance 
philosophy of your Bank underscores that the Board 
independence is fundamental to ensuing objectivity and 
transparency in the Bank’s management and operations. 
An empowered and independent Board is essential for 
fostering accountability, enhancing decision-making, and 
protecting the interests of all stakeholders.
The composition of the Board of your Bank is governed 
by the provisions of the Companies Act and rules made 
thereunder, the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (the ‘BR 
Act’) and the guidelines / circulars / directions issued 
by the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) in this regard, the 
provisions of the SEBI LODR, its Articles of Association 
(‘AOA’), other applicable laws and the best corporate 
governance practices.
Composition of the Board and Tenure on the Board
As on March 31, 2025, the Board of your Bank comprised 
of fourteen Directors, of whom nine were Independent 
Directors including Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman 
and one Woman Independent Director; two Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director, i.e., one Nominee of Bandhan 
Financial Holdings Limited, Promoter of the Bank and Non-
Operative Financial Holding Company (‘BFHL’ or ‘NOFHC’) 
and one RBI Nominee Director; and the Managing Director 
& Chief Executive Officer (‘MD & CEO’) and two Executive 
Directors (‘EDs').
  Independent
9
  Executive
3
  Non-Executive Non-Independent
1
  RBI Nominee
1
64%
21%
7%
7%
Board Composition
Appointments:
(a)	
In terms of Regulation 17(1C) of the SEBI LODR, 
approval of the Shareholders for appointment of 
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar (DIN: 10540386), who was 
appointed by the Board as Executive Director from 
March 08, 2024, was required to be sought at the 
next general meeting or within a time period of three 
months from the date of appointment, whichever is 
earlier. Accordingly, the Shareholders of the Bank, on 
April 21, 2024, accorded their approval, via the Postal 
Ballot process, for the appointment of Mr. Babbar 
as a Whole-time Director, designated as Executive 
Director & Chief Business Officer (‘ED&CBO’) and 
Key Managerial Personnel (‘KMP’) of the Bank, for 
a period of three consecutive years, from March 08, 
2024 up to March 07, 2027, liable to retire by rotation.
(b)	 In terms of Regulation 17(1C) of the SEBI LODR, 
approval of the Shareholders for appointment of 
Mr. Pankaj Sood (DIN: 05185378), who was appointed 
by the Board as Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Director [Nominee of Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd. 
(‘Caladium’)] from February 12, 2024, was required to 
be sought at the next general meeting or within a time 
period of three months from the date of appointment, 
125
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
whichever is earlier. Accordingly, the Shareholders of 
the Bank, on April 21, 2024, accorded their approval, 
via the Postal Ballot process, for the appointment 
of Mr. Sood as the Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Director (Nominee of Caladium), with effect from 
February 12, 2024, liable to retire by rotation.
(c)	
The RBI, vide its letter dated June 24, 2024, in exercise 
of powers conferred under Section 36AB of the BR 
Act, appointed Mr. Arun Kumar Singh (DIN: 09498086), 
Chief General Manager (retired), RBI, as an Additional 
Director on the Board of your Bank, for a period of 
one year from June 24, 2024 to June 23, 2025 or till 
further orders, whichever is earlier. Further, the RBI 
vide its letter dated June 20, 2025 extended the term 
of appointment of Mr. Singh for a further period of 
one year from June 24, 2025 to June 23, 2026 or till 
further orders, whichever is earlier.
(d)	 Consequent to the retirement of Mr. Chandra Shekhar 
Ghosh, former MD&CEO of the Bank and pursuant 
to the approval of the RBI, on the basis of the 
recommendation of the NRC, the Board, at its meeting 
held on July 06, 2024, had approved the appointment 
of Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714), Executive 
Director & Chief Operating Officer (‘ED&COO’), as 
Interim Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 
(‘Interim MD&CEO’) of the Bank, with effect from 
July 10, 2024, for a period of three months or till a new 
MD&CEO takes charge, whichever is earlier, subject 
to approval of Shareholders. In terms of Regulation 
17(1C) of the SEBI LODR, the Shareholders of the 
Bank, at the 10th Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) 
of the Bank held on August 20, 2024, accorded their 
approval for the appointment of Mr. Kesh as the 
Interim MD&CEO and KMP of the Bank, not liable to 
retire by rotation, with effect from July 10, 2024, for 
a period of three months or till new MD&CEO takes 
charge, whichever is earlier, at his remuneration as the 
ED&COO of the Bank. Further, considering that the 
term of Mr. Kesh as the Interim MD&CEO was expiring 
on October 09, 2024 and process for approval of new 
MD&CEO was still underway, the Board, at its meeting 
held on October 05, 2024, pursuant to the approval 
of the RBI and on the basis of the recommendation 
of the NRC, had approved the extension of the term 
of Mr. Kesh, as the Interim MD&CEO of the Bank, for 
a period of one month, with effect from October 10, 
2024 or till a new MD&CEO takes charge, whichever 
is earlier, subject to the approval of the Shareholders 
of the Bank. In terms of Regulation 17(1C) of the SEBI 
LODR, the Shareholders of the Bank, via the Postal 
Ballot process, on December 26, 2024, accorded their 
approval for the extension of Mr. Kesh’s appointment 
as Interim MD&CEO, with effect from October 10, 
2024 till October 31, 2024. Effective November 01, 
2024, Mr. Kesh ceased to be the Interim MD&CEO and 
continued in his role as the ED & COO of the Bank, in 
terms of the previous approvals of the RBI, the Board 
of Directors and the Shareholders of the Bank.
(e)	
The Board of Directors of the Bank, at its meeting 
held on October 25, 2024, on the basis of the 
recommendation of the NRC and approval of the 
RBI, approved the appointment of Mr. Partha Pratim 
Sengupta (DIN: 08273324) as the Managing Director 
[Category: Additional Director], designated as 
MD&CEO, and KMP of the Bank, for a period of three 
years, with effect from November 01, 2024, not liable 
to retire by rotation, subject to Shareholders’ approval. 
Accordingly, in terms of the provisions of Regulation 
17(1C) of the SEBI LODR, Shareholders of the Bank, 
on December 26, 2024, accorded their approval, via 
the Postal Ballot process, for the appointment of 
Mr. Sengupta as the MD&CEO and KMP, for a period 
of three years, from November 01, 2024 up to October 
31, 2027, not liable to retire by rotation.
(f)	
Further, based on the recommendations of the NRC, 
the Board has approved the appointment of Ms. Veni 
Thapar (DIN: 01811724) as an Additional Director 
and Independent Director of the Bank, effective 
June 27, 2025. The appointment of Ms. Thapar as 
an Independent Director of the Bank, for a term of 
three consecutive years, is subject to approval of 
Shareholders of the Bank, by way of Special Resolution, 
at their ensuing AGM.
Re-appointments:
(a)	
The Shareholders, at the 10th AGM of the Bank held 
on August 20, 2024, approved the re-appointment of 
Ms. Divya Krishnan (DIN: 09276201) as a Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director of the Bank (Nominee of 
BFHL), who being longest in office and liable to retire 
by rotation, retired at the 10th AGM of the Bank, and 
being eligible, had offered herself for re-appointment.
(b)	 Pursuant to the recommendations of the NRC and 
the Board, the RBI has approved the re-appointment 
of Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha (DIN: 08249893) as the Non-
Executive (Independent) Chairman on the Board of 
the Bank with effect from January 07, 2025 till July 04, 
2026. Re-appointment of Dr. Sinha as an Independent 
Director as well as Non-Executive (Independent) 
Chairman of the Bank, for the second term from 
January 07, 2022 up to July 04, 2026, i.e., up to the date 
of his attaining 75 years of age, was already approved 
by the Shareholders at the 7th AGM of the Bank held 
on August 06, 2021.
Cessations:
(a)	
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh (DIN: 00342477), former 
MD&CEO of the Bank, vide letter dated April 05, 2024, 
informed the Board of Directors that he would retire 
from the services of the Bank as its MD&CEO upon 
completion of his tenure on July 09, 2024. Accordingly, 
126
Annual Report 2024-25
Mr. Ghosh ceased to be the MD&CEO of the Bank with 
effect from July 10, 2024.
(b)	 Mr. Pankaj Sood (DIN: 05185378), Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director (Nominee of Caladium, Investor 
of the Bank), vide letter dated December 13, 2024, had 
informed his decision to step down from the position 
of Non-Executive Nominee Director on the Board 
of the Bank and from any associated committees, 
effective immediately. Mr. Sood had informed that 
his decision to step down was driven by an increase 
in his professional responsibilities and commitments. 
Accordingly, Mr. Sood ceased to be a Director of the 
Bank with effect from December 14, 2024.
(c)	
Mr. Philip Mathew (DIN: 09638394), Independent 
Director, completed his term of three years as an 
Independent Director of the Bank on June 14, 2025. 
Accordingly, Mr. Mathew ceased to be the Director of 
the Bank with effect from June 15, 2025.
(d)	 Dr. A S Ramasastri (DIN: 06916673), Independent 
Director, vide email dated June 30, 2025, has informed 
his decision to resign as an Independent Director of 
the Bank, with effect from the close of business hours 
on June 30, 2025. Accordingly, Dr. Ramasastri ceased 
to be the Director of the Bank with effect from July 
01, 2025. The reason for the resignation provided by 
Dr. Ramasastri vide his email dated June 30, 2025, 
is - ‘As activities of our Trust (allamrajutrust.org) are 
demanding more time from me, I will not be able to 
continue as an independent director in the board of 
Bandhan Bank. I feel I am not in a position to devote 
necessary time to the role of independent director.’. 
He also confirmed that there are no other material 
reasons for his resignation other than provided in 
email, as mentioned above.
(e)	
Dr. Aparajita Mitra (DIN: 09484337), Independent 
Director, has completed her term of three years as an 
Independent Director of the Bank on July 12, 2025. 
Accordingly, Dr. Mitra ceased to be the Director of the 
Bank with effect from July 13, 2025.
The profiles of the Directors are available on the website 
of the Bank, at https://www.bandhanbank.com/corporate-
governance.
The composition of the Board of your Bank represents 
a balanced blend of skills, special knowledge, practical 
experience, professional qualifications, and diversity, as 
required for the banking business, and prescribed under 
applicable laws and the Bank’s ‘Policy on Appointment and 
Fit & Proper Criteria for Directors’. The Board reviews its 
strength and composition, from time to time, to ensure 
that it remains aligned with the requirements under the 
statutory provisions, aforesaid Policy as well as the business 
requirements of the Bank.
	
The average tenure of the Board Members, in years, as on March 31, 2025, was as follows:
Name of the Director(s)
Original Date of 
Appointment
Completed Tenure 
as on March 31, 2025
Retirement Date/ 
Existing Term 
Ending Date
Average Tenure 
category-wise
Executive Directors
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta
November 01, 2024
5 months
October 31, 2027
1 year 2 months
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh
March 31, 2023
2 years
March 30, 2026
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar
March 08, 2024
1 year 1 month
March 07, 2027
Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director
Ms. Divya Krishnan
May 11, 2022
2 years 11 months
Retire by rotation
2 years 11 months
RBI Nominee Director
Mr. Arun Kumar Singh
June 24, 2024
9 months
June 23, 2026
9 months
Independent Directors
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha
January 07, 2019
6 years 3 months
July 04, 2026
5 years
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri
August 08, 2018
6 years 8 months
August 07, 2026*
Dr. Aparajita Mitra
July 13, 2022
2 years 9 months
July 12, 2025
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar May 08, 2020
4 years 11 months
May 07, 2028
Mr. Philip Mathew
June 15, 2022
2 years 10 months
June 14, 2025
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
January 07, 2019
6 years 3 months
January 06, 2027
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
March 19, 2021
4 years
March 18, 2029
Mr. Suhail Chander
March 19, 2021
4 years
March 18, 2029
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
May 08, 2020
4 years 11 months
May 07, 2028
*Ceased to be a director with effect from July 01, 2025, due to resignation.
127
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Separation of office of the Chairman and the 
Managing Director & CEO
In terms of the provisions of the BR Act, the Companies 
Act and the SEBI LODR, your Bank has separate offices 
for the Chairman and the MD&CEO. Your Bank has a Non-
Executive (Independent) Chairman and an MD&CEO, 
and the appointments of both have been approved by 
the RBI, pursuant to the provisions of the BR Act. The 
Chairman provides overall direction and guidance to the 
Board whereas the MD&CEO is responsible for the overall 
management of the Bank.
The operational and functional heads of your Bank, 
together with the two Executive Directors, plays a 
pivotal role in supporting the MD&CEO in the day-to-day 
functioning, execution, and strategic operations of your 
Bank. This collaborative leadership structure ensures 
seamless coordination across business units, effective 
implementation of strategic initiatives, and robust 
operational governance.
Responsibilities of the Board
The responsibilities of the Board, inter alia, include overseeing 
the functioning of the Bank, financial performance of the 
Bank, monitoring legal & statutory compliance, reviewing 
the efficacy of internal control systems and processes, and 
management of risks associated with the business of the 
Bank, based on the information provided to it. The Board 
is also responsible for approving the strategic direction, 
plans and priorities for the Bank, monitoring corporate 
performance against strategic business plans, reviewing 
and approving the Bank’s financial and operating results 
periodically, overseeing the Bank’s Corporate Governance 
framework and supervising the succession planning process 
for its Directors and Senior Management.
Accordingly, the Board deliberates on matters, such 
as, business strategy, risks, financial results, succession 
planning, compliance, customer service, financial inclusion, 
information technology and human resources in line with 
the seven critical themes prescribed by the RBI and such 
other matters as may be deemed appropriate. The Board 
spends considerable time perusing the information shared 
with them, which facilitates informed decision-making and 
effective participation at its meetings, leading to board 
effectiveness. The Board oversees the actions and results 
of the management to ensure that the long-term objectives 
of enhancing the shareholders’ value is achieved. The Board 
also has the discretion to engage the services of external 
expert(s)/ advisor(s), as may be deemed appropriate, from 
time to time.
The Members of the Board have complete freedom 
to express their opinions and arrive at decisions after 
detailed deliberations.
Board Meetings and Flow of Information
The Board plays an important role in ensuring sound 
Corporate Governance practices, providing strategic 
direction and functioning of the Bank. Notice and agenda 
papers are circulated to the Directors, in advance, before 
each meeting of the Board and Committees to facilitate 
meaningful and focused discussions at the meetings. All 
information, as applicable and specified in Regulation 
17(7) of the SEBI LODR, read with Part A of Schedule 
II thereto, are regularly placed before the Board. The 
Board also periodically reviews the compliance reports 
with regard to the laws applicable to the Bank. In case of 
exigency(ies) or urgency(ies), in compliance with Section 
175 of the Companies Act, proposals are approved by 
passing resolutions through circulation, which are placed 
in the next meeting of the Board/Committee, as the case 
may be, for noting, and forms part of the minutes of such 
meeting. The Board ensures that any direction given by it 
during the course of its meetings form part of the Action 
Taken Report (‘ATR’) for its review and discussion at its 
subsequent meetings.
The Board meets at least once a quarter and at least four 
times a year to review and approve the quarterly/ annual 
financial results and matters relating to the business 
operations of the Bank. Apart from the above, Board 
meetings are also convened, as and when required, by 
giving due notice to the Directors. Further, in order to have 
participation of Directors travelling/residing abroad or at 
other locations in the meetings, video-conferencing (‘VC’) 
facilities are also provided in terms of the provisions of Rule 
3 of the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) 
Rules, 2014. The intervening period between any two 
consecutive Board meetings was well within the maximum 
gap of 120 days as specified in Regulation 17(2) of the SEBI 
LODR and Section 173(1) of the Companies Act.
The Board met twenty three times during the financial 
year under review, i.e., on April 05, 2024; April 06, 2024; 
May 15, 2024; May 17, 2024; June 26, 2024; July 06, 2024; 
July 15, 2024; July 24, 2024; July 26, 2024; August 23, 2024; 
September 20&21, 2024; September 26, 2024; October 05, 
2024; October 22, 2024; October 23, 2024; October 25, 
2024; November 19, 2024; December 24, 2024; January 29, 
2025; January 31, 2025; February 27, 2025; February 28, 
2025 and March 01, 2025.
128
Annual Report 2024-25
Board Attendance and Directorships
The names and categories of the Directors on the Board, their attendance at the Board Meetings and the last AGM 
held during the FY under review, directorship in other companies including names of listed entities and Chairmanship/ 
Membership of the committees of public limited companies, as at the end of March 31, 2025, are given herein below:
Sl. 
No.
Name and DIN of the 
Directors
Category
Attendance during FY 2025
Number of 
Directorships in 
other companies
Number of Committee 
positions held in other 
public companies
No. of Board Meetings
AGM 
held on 
August 
20, 2024
Public
Private
Chairperson
Member*
During 
Tenure
Attended
%
1.
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha 
(Chairman)
[DIN: 08249893]
Independent
23
22
95.65
Yes
-
-
-
-
2.
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta
(MD&CEO) [DIN: 08273324]
Executive
7
7
100.00
NA
-
-
-
-
3.
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar, 
ED&CBO [DIN: 10540386]
Executive
23
23
100.00
Yes
-
-
-
-
4.
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, 
ED&COO [DIN: 10082714]
Executive
23
22
95.65
Yes
-
1
-
-
5.
Dr. A. S. Ramasastri#
[DIN: 06916673]
Independent
23
19
82.61
Yes
1
1
-
-
6.
Dr. Aparajita Mitra@
[DIN: 09484337]
Independent
23
23
100.00
Yes
-
1
-
-
7.
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo 
Prabhutendulkar
[DIN: 00869913]
Independent
23
23
100.00
Yes
11
2
1
1
8.
Mr. Philip Mathew$
[DIN: 09638394]
Independent
23
23
100.00
Yes
-
-
-
-
9.
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
[DIN: 07716452]
Independent
23
23
100.00
Yes
62
1
4
7
10.
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta 
[DIN: 08767943]
Independent
23
23
100.00
Yes
1
-
-
1
11.
Mr. Suhail Chander 
[DIN: 06941577]
Independent
23
23
100.00
Yes
1
-
-
1
12.
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
[DIN: 00751001]
Independent
23
22
95.65
Yes
53
1
4
7
13.
Ms. Divya Krishnan
[DIN: 09276201]
Nominee (Non-
Executive)
23
23
100.00
Yes
24
-
-
2
14.
Mr. Arun Kumar Singh
[DIN: 09498086]
RBI Nominee 
(Non-Executive)
19
18
94.74
Yes
-
-
-
-
*Membership includes chairpersonship.
#ceased to be a director with effect from July 01, 2025, due to resignation.
@ceased to be a director with effect from July 13, 2025, due to retirement.
$ ceased to be a director with effect from June 15, 2025, due to retirement.
1.	
Mr. Tendulkar was holding directorship as Independent Director in one other listed entity, viz., Global Vectra Helicorp Limited. However, Mr. 
Tendulkar has resigned from the board of Global Vectra Helicorp Limited with effect from close of business hours on March 31, 2025, and 
consequently, he also ceased to be the chairman/member of its committees.
2.	
Mr. Mukherjee is holding directorships, as Independent Director, in five other listed entities, viz., Suven Life Sciences Limited; Sumedha Fiscal 
Services Limited; Rainbow Children's Medicare Limited; Aurobindo Pharma Limited and NACL Industries Limited.
3.	
Mr. Bhatt is holding directorships, as Independent Director, in three other listed entities, viz. FDC Limited; IRB Infrastructure Developers 
Limited; and Finolex Industries Limited.
4.	
Ms. Krishnan is holding directorship, as Independent Director, in one other listed entity, viz., Repro India Limited.
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh (DIN: 00342477), former MD&CEO of the Bank, ceased to be a Director of the Bank, effective July 10, 2024. He attended 
all the 6 Board Meetings held during his tenure during the FY 2025.
Mr. Pankaj Sood (DIN: 05185378), Nominee of Caladium, ceased to be a Director of the Bank, effective December 14, 2024. He attended 14 Board 
Meetings out of 17 Board Meetings held during his tenure during the FY 2025. He also attended the 10th AGM of the Bank held on August 20, 2024.
129
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Note:
1.	
Other directorships do not include directorships of 
foreign companies.
2.	
None of the Directors is a member of more than 
ten committees or chairperson of more than five 
committees across all the public companies in which 
he/ she is a director.
3.	
For the purpose of determination of limit of the Board 
Committees, chairpersonship and membership of the 
Audit Committee of the Board and Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee of the Board have been 
considered as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of the SEBI 
LODR. Necessary disclosures regarding Committee 
positions in other public companies, as on March 31, 
2025, have been made by the Directors.
None of the Directors are related to each other. Further, 
none of the Directors on the Board hold directorships in 
more than twenty companies or ten public companies 
or seven listed entities, and none of the Independent 
Directors of the Bank serve as an independent director in 
more than seven listed entities. All Directors of the Bank 
hold directorship in compliance with Regulation 17A of 
the SEBI LODR and Section 165 of the Companies Act. All 
Directors of the Bank have submitted forms / declarations 
/ undertakings / consent as required under the extant 
laws, from time to time. Pursuant to review of the said 
submissions by the directors of your Bank, the NRC and 
the Board have confirmed that all the Directors are in 
compliance with the applicable statutory and regulatory 
norms, and are fit and proper to continue as directors of 
your Bank.
Skills/ Expertise/ Competence of Board 
of Directors
Being a Banking Company, your Bank is regulated by the 
provisions of the BR Act, besides the Companies Act and 
the SEBI LODR. In terms of Section 10A(2)(a) of the BR 
Act and your Bank’s ‘Policy on Appointment and Fit & 
Proper Criteria for Directors’, the members of the Board 
of Directors shall consist of persons, who shall have special 
knowledge or practical experience in respect of one or more 
of the following matters, namely; accountancy, agriculture 
and rural economy, banking, co-operation, economics, 
finance, law, small-scale industry, information technology, 
cyber security, payment and settlement systems, human 
resources, risk management, business management, 
marketing, fin-tech or any other matter the special 
knowledge of, and practical experience, which would, in the 
opinion of the RBI, be useful to the banking company and as 
may be deemed appropriate for the business requirements 
of the Bank. The Board of Directors of your Bank is guided 
by the above, as and when any new Director is appointed 
on the Board. The brief profiles of all the members of the 
Board are available on the website of the Bank at https://
bandhanbank.com/corporate-governance.
The details of the core skills/ expertise/ competence possessed by the Directors of the Bank are given hereunder, along 
with their shareholding in the Bank as on March 31, 2025. None of the Directors is holding shares of the Bank as a beneficial 
owner for any other persons.
Name of the Director(s)
Date of Appointment 
(A)/ Re-appointment (R)
Expertise/ Special Knowledge/ Experience
Number of 
equity shares@
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha
January 07, 2019 (A)
January 07, 2022 (R)
Economics | Agriculture
-
Mr. Partha Pratim 
Sengupta
November 01, 2024 (A)
Banking | Finance | Agricultural Banking | Risk Management | 
Human Resource | Law | Information Technology
-
Mr. Rajinder Kumar 
Babbar
March 08, 2024 (A)
Banking | Small-scale industry | Law | Agriculture | Rural 
Economy
1,700#
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh
March 31, 2023 (A)
Banking | Information Technology | Payment & Settlement 
systems
300
Dr. A. S. Ramasastri1
August 08, 2018 (A)
August 08, 2021 (R)
Information Technology | Payment & Settlement Systems | 
Finance
-
Dr. Aparajita Mitra2
July 13, 2022 (A)
Agriculture and Rural Economy
-
Mr. Arun Kumar Singh
June 24, 2024 (A)
June 24, 2025 (R)
Banking | Economics | Information Technology | Risk 
Management
-
Ms. Divya Krishnan
May 11, 2022 (A)
August 20, 2024 (R)
Finance | Investment Banking
-
Mr. N. V. P. Tendulkar
May 08, 2020 (A)
May 08, 2023 (R)
Accountancy | Finance | Information Technology | Law
-
Mr. Philip Mathew3
June 15, 2022 (A)
Human Resource | Banking
-
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
January 07, 2019 (A)
January 07, 2022 (R)
Banking | Treasury Operations | Risk Management | Finance
-
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
March 19, 2021 (A)
March 19, 2024 (R)
Mortgage finance | Housing | Economics
-
130
Annual Report 2024-25
Name of the Director(s)
Date of Appointment 
(A)/ Re-appointment (R)
Expertise/ Special Knowledge/ Experience
Number of 
equity shares@
Mr. Suhail Chander
March 19, 2021 (A)
March 19, 2024 (R)
Banking | Risk Management | Finance | Accountancy | 
Business Management
-
Mr. Vijay N Bhatt
May 08, 2020 (A)
May 08, 2023 (R)
Audit | Accountancy | Assurance | Finance | Law
-
A stands for Appointment and R stands for Re-appointment/Extension
@The Bank has not issued any convertible instruments.
# Held jointly with spouse
1ceased to be a director with effect from July 01, 2025, due to resignation.
2ceased to be a director with effect from July 13, 2025, due to retirement.
3ceased to be a director with effect from June 15, 2025, due to retirement.
Independent Directors
At the end of March 31, 2025, the Board consisted of the following nine Independent Directors, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, the BR Act and the SEBI LODR:
Sl. No.
Name of the Directors
1.
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
2.
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha
3.
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri (ceased effective July 01, 2025)
4.
Dr. Aparajita Mitra (ceased effective July 13, 2025)
5.
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar
6.
Mr. Philip Mathew (ceased effective June 15, 2025)
7.
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
8.
Mr. Suhail Chander
9.
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
Note: Ms. Veni Thapar has been appointed as an Independent Director effective June 27, 2025, subject to approval of Shareholders at ensuing AGM.
Meeting of Independent Directors
During the FY under review, the Independent Directors met 
twice without the presence of management, i.e., on May 13, 
2024 for performance evaluation of the Board, Chairman 
and Non-Independent Directors, and on December 24, 
2024 to assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of the 
flow of information between the management and the 
Board, and other governance related matters. Further, 
in accordance with Regulation 25(4) of the SEBI LODR 
and Clause VII of Schedule IV to the Companies Act, the 
Independent Directors met exclusively on July 16, 2025, 
without the presence of the Managing Director & CEO, 
Executive Directors, Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Directors or management, to review the performance of 
Non-Independent Directors, Non-Executive Chairman and 
the Board as a whole for the FY 2025.
Independence of Directors
All Independent Directors have given necessary 
declarations of independence under Section 149(7) of the 
Companies Act and Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI LODR, 
and have also confirmed that they are not aware of any 
circumstance or situation that exists or may be reasonably 
anticipated that could impair or impact their ability to 
discharge their duties. Based on the declarations received 
from the Independent Directors, the Board of Directors 
has confirmed that they meet the criteria of independence 
as prescribed under Section 149(6) of the Companies Act 
and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI LODR, and that they 
are independent of the management. A formal letter of 
appointment has been issued to the Independent Directors 
at the time of their appointment(s)/ reappointment(s). 
The terms and conditions of appointment of Independent 
Directors are available on the website of the Bank at 
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../
sites/default/files/2024-07/Terms-and-Conditions-of-
Appointment-of-Independent-Director.pdf.
Independent Director Databank Registration
In terms of Rule 6(3) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Qualifications of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended, 
Independent Directors of the Bank have confirmed that 
they have registered themselves with the databank 
maintained by the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs 
(‘Institute’) as well as renewed the registration wherever 
required. Further, the Independent Directors, who were 
required to pass an online proficiency self-assessment test 
conducted by the Institute, have appeared for and passed 
such test.
Familiarisation Programme
The ‘Policy on Appointment and Fit & Proper Criteria for 
Directors’ sets out the familiarisation programme for the 
Non-Executive Directors (‘NEDs’) of the Bank. In order 
to familiarise the Bank’s NEDs, including Independent 
Directors, with the functioning of the Bank and their roles, 
131
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
responsibilities, etc., the newly appointed Directors are 
provided with a comprehensive Induction Kit, including the 
business, operations and financials of the Bank, history of 
the Bank, organisational structure, composition and roles 
of the Board and Committees, core management team 
of the Bank, rights, responsibilities and liabilities as an 
Independent Director, copies of the applicable Policies and 
Codes of the Bank, along with the Bank’s Memorandum 
of Association (‘MOA’) & Articles of Association (‘AOA’). 
The Bank also nominates the Directors to attend relevant 
external programs at reputed forums and/or internally 
provide deep-dives/presentations on subjects relevant 
from your Bank’s perspective, as may be necessary from 
time to time. The details of the familiarisation programmes 
conducted for the Independent Directors of your Bank 
are available on its website at https://bandhanbank.com/
familiarisation-programmes.
Performance Evaluation Criteria for 
Independent Directors
The performance evaluation of Independent Directors 
is conducted in terms of the provisions of ‘Performance 
Evaluation Policy for the Board, Committees, Non-
independent / Whole-time Directors and Independent 
Directors’ (the ‘Board PE Policy’) as recommended by the 
NRC and approved by the Board, pursuant to the relevant 
provisions of the Companies Act, the SEBI LODR and SEBI 
Guidance Note on Board Evaluation. In terms of the Board 
PE Policy, an indicative list of factors on which evaluation 
of the Independent Directors was carried out includes 
commitment, contribution, competency, attendance, 
initiative, teamwork, communication, adherence to 
code of conduct, corporate governance, fulfilment of 
the independence criteria and their independence from 
the Management. Further details of the evaluation on 
Independent Directors are provided in the Board’s Report.
Policy on Appointment of Directors
Your Bank has in place a ‘Policy on Appointment and Fit 
& Proper Criteria for Directors’. This Policy lays down the 
criteria for identification of persons who are qualified 
and ‘fit and proper’ to become Directors on the Board, 
such as, academic qualifications, special knowledge 
or practical experience, competence, track record, 
integrity, etc., which shall be considered by the NRC 
while recommending appointment/re-appointment of a 
Director. The Policy is available on the website of the Bank 
at https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../
sites/default/files/2025-01/Policy-on-Appointment-and-
Fit-Proper-Criteria-for-Directors.pdf. This Policy is guided 
by the provisions of the BR Act and the rules framed 
thereunder, the Companies Act and the SEBI LODR and the 
circulars or guidelines issued by the RBI, from time to time, 
in this regard. While appointing a Director on its Board, your 
Bank follows the direction(s) of the RBI with regard to ‘fit 
and proper’ criteria, as applicable to private sector banks, 
and obtains the ‘Declaration and Undertaking’ from the 
candidate and executes Deed of Covenants, which includes 
the requirement for Directors to discharge their duties and 
responsibilities to the best of their abilities, individually and 
collectively. The NRC ascertains the fit and proper status 
of the candidate for the office of director, fulfilment 
of criteria of independence as prescribed under the 
Companies Act and the SEBI LODR in case of independent 
directors, and thereafter, recommends their appointment/
reappointment to the Board for approval. The Board also 
ensures that the Directors have the requisite skill sets, 
practical experience, special knowledge required for the 
banking business and as prescribed under Section 10A(2)
(a) of the BR Act. The Board is duly constituted, including 
gender diversity. The appointments of the Chairman, the 
Managing Director and Executive Director(s) on the Board 
are made with the prior approval of the RBI. The Board also 
takes into account the outcome of performance evaluation 
while considering the re-appointment/continuation of 
appointment of Independent Directors.
The NRC evaluates whether the members of the Board, 
excluding NRC members, adhere to the ‘fit and proper’ 
criteria as prescribed by the RBI and the adherence to 
the ‘fit and proper’ criteria by the members of the NRC is 
evaluated by the Board of Directors annually, in addition 
to evaluation of fit and proper status at the time of 
appointment/re-appointment of Directors.
Remuneration Policy
Your Bank has formulated and adopted a Compensation 
Policy for Directors, KMP and Employees of the Bank, in 
terms of Section 178 of the Companies Act, read with the 
relevant Rules made thereunder, Regulation 19 of the 
SEBI LODR and the Guidelines or Circulars or directions 
issued by the RBI, in this regard, from time to time. Your 
Bank’s Compensation Policy is aligned to its business 
strategy, market dynamics, internal characteristics and 
complexities within the Bank. Your Bank‘s remuneration 
framework aims to attract, motivate and retain people 
with the requisite skills, experience and ability to deliver 
its strategy; create an alignment and balance between the 
rewards and risk exposure of shareholders and interests 
of employees; promote responsible growth and create 
long term sustainable shareholders’ value consistent 
with strategic goals and appropriate risk management; 
reinforce behaviour consistent with its values, principles 
and objectives, and support appropriate conduct and 
meritocratic culture through differentiated performance 
rewards. The Compensation Policy of your Bank is reviewed 
by the NRC and the Board on an annual basis to align the 
provisions with regulatory changes as well as to meet the 
organisational requirements. The Compensation Policy 
of your Bank was reviewed by the Board during the year 
and one change was made relating to receipt of unvested 
deferred variable pay, post-retirement of an employee. 
The updated Policy is available on the website of the Bank 
at https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../
sites/default/files/2025-01/Compensation-Policy.pdf.
132
Annual Report 2024-25
RBI, vide its circular no. RBI/2019-20/89 DOR.Appt.
BC.No.23/29.67.001/2019-20 dated November 04, 2019, 
has issued ‘Guidelines on Compensation of Whole-time 
Directors/Chief Executive Officers/Material Risk takers and 
Control function staff’ for implementation by private sector 
banks and foreign banks from April 01, 2020. Your Bank’s 
Compensation Policy is in line with this RBI circular. In terms 
of the Compensation Policy, the total compensation shall 
be a prudent mix of fixed pay (including basic salary, fixed 
allowances, retirals and perquisites) and performance-
based variable pay (comprising cash component and share-
linked instruments, which includes employee stock options 
and cash settled stock appreciation rights) whereas variable 
pay shall not exceed three times the annual fixed pay for 
MD&CEO/ Whole-time Director(s). Annual increments for 
the senior management are recommended by the NRC 
and approved by the Board. The annual increments for 
the MD&CEO/ Whole-time Director(s) are recommended 
by the NRC and the Board for the approval of RBI and 
the Members of the Bank. The Board of Directors, on 
the recommendation of the NRC and on the basis of the 
evaluation process considering the criteria, such as, the 
performance of the Bank as well as that of the MD&CEO/ 
Whole-time Director(s), recommends to the RBI for approval 
of the variable pay payable to the MD&CEO/ Whole-time 
Director(s) for the FY. The remunerations of the MD&CEO/ 
Whole-time Director(s) are subject to prior approval of RBI 
and the approval of the Members of the Bank.
Non-Executive Directors’ Compensation and 
Disclosures
In terms of the provisions of the Companies Act, the SEBI 
LODR and the Compensation Policy of the Bank, the 
Non-Executive Directors (‘NED’), including Independent 
Directors, of your Bank are paid sitting fees of ₹90,000 per 
meeting for attending the meetings of the Board, ₹75,000 
per meeting for attending meetings of the Audit Committee 
of the Board and the Risk Management Committee of the 
Board, and ₹60,000 per meeting for attending meetings 
of other Committees of the Board as well as meetings 
of Independent Directors, subject to applicable taxes, 
and reimbursement of expenses for participation in such 
meetings. Additionally, pursuant to the RBI Circular dated 
April 26, 2021, as amended, the Compensation Policy of your 
Bank provides for payment of compensation in the form 
of a fixed remuneration commensurate with an individual 
director’s responsibilities and demands on time and which 
are considered sufficient to attract qualified competent 
individuals, for NEDs, other than the Chairperson of the 
Board. Accordingly, pursuant to approval of Members of 
the Bank, at their 8th AGM held on August 10, 2022, the 
NEDs, excluding Non‑Executive Chairman, were paid fixed 
remuneration of ₹12 lakh per annum per NEDs, with effect 
from April 01, 2022, for a period of three years. Further, 
on the recommendations of the NRC, the Board has 
recommended for an increase in the fixed remuneration 
of NEDs from ₹12 lakh per annum to ₹18 lakh per annum 
per NEDs, for the approval of the Shareholders at the 
ensuing AGM. In addition to sitting fees, the Non‑Executive 
Chairman of the Bank is also paid fixed remuneration with 
prior approval of the RBI pursuant to the provisions of the 
BR Act and approval of the Members of the Bank. During 
the FY under review, the RBI has granted its approval for 
increase in the fixed remuneration of the Non-Executive 
Chairman of the Bank from ₹24 lakh per annum to ₹27 lakh 
per annum with effect from January 07, 2025. Details of 
sitting fees paid to the NEDs and the fixed remuneration 
paid to the NEDs, excluding Non‑Executive Chairman, and 
the remuneration paid to Non-Executive Chairman are 
given hereinafter. The Compensation Policy of your Bank 
is available on its website and the link for the same has been 
provided above. No stock options were/are granted to any 
of the NEDs of the Bank.
Remuneration to Directors
Details of the total remuneration paid to all the Directors of your Bank for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, are, 
as follows:
a.	
Non-Executive Directors
(Amount in ₹)
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Directors
Remuneration
Sitting fees
Total
1.
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha
24,70,161
31,80,000
56,50,161
2.
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri
12,00,000
29,85,000
41,85,000
3.
Dr. Aparajita Mitra
12,00,000
31,95,000
43,95,000
4.
Mr. Arun Kumar Singh (appointed w.e.f. June 24, 2024)
9,23,333
25,20,000
34,43,333
5.
Ms. Divya Krishnan
12,00,000
33,60,000
45,60,000
6.
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar
12,00,000
37,05,000
49,05,000
7.
Mr. Pankaj Sood (ceased w.e.f. December 14, 2024)
8,43,333
18,60,000
27,03,333
8.
Mr. Philip Mathew
12,00,000
29,70,000
41,70,000
9.
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
12,00,000
36,60,000
48,60,000
10.
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
12,00,000
36,90,000
48,90,000
133
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
(Amount in ₹)
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Directors
Remuneration
Sitting fees
Total
11.
Mr. Suhail Chander
12,00,000
43,05,000
55,05,000
12.
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
12,00,000
35,70,000
47,70,000
	
During the FY under review, apart from the aforesaid, there was no pecuniary relationship or significant/ material 
transactions of the NEDs vis-à-vis the Bank (except banking transactions in the ordinary course of business and at an 
arm’s length basis).
b.	
Former Managing Director & CEO, Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh (upto July 09, 2024)
Particulars
(Amt. in ₹) till 
July 09, 2024
Basic
53,46,774
House Rent Allowance
19,36,493
Retirals (Gratuity)
2,57,057
Other allowance and Perquisites*
19,19,354
Total Fixed Pay and Perquisites
94,59,678
Variable Pay#
NA
*Includes Medical Allowance, Child Education Allowance, Conveyance Allowance, Car fuel and driver allowances, Club Membership, Insurance 
Valuation (Group Term Life, Group Mediclaim & Accidental Disability) & Health Check-up, mobile handset & usage, broadband charges, 
residential telephone connection & usage, expenses relating to personal travel with family in India or abroad. All hospitalisation and medical 
expenses for self, spouse, and dependents (max self+4) shall be reimbursed on actuals.
#variable pay amounting to ₹64,75,000 for FY 2024 and deferred variable pay amounting to ₹30,71,600 was paid during FY 2025.
	
a.	
As approved by the RBI and the Shareholders, Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh had been the MD & CEO of the Bank 
till July 09, 2024.
	
b.	
On the basis of recommendations of the NRC and the Board, and approval of the RBI for fixed pay of ₹3.45 crore 
per annum, Shareholders, at the 10th AGM of the Bank, had approved the total remuneration (including variable 
pay comprising non-cash component only) of Mr. Ghosh, as MD & CEO from April 01, 2023 to July 09, 2024, 
subject to approval of the RBI for the variable pay. Subsequently, the approval of the RBI was also received for 
the variable pay of Mr. Ghosh for FY 2023-24. No sitting fees were paid to Mr. Ghosh for attending meetings of 
the Board and Board Committees. The notice period applicable to Mr. Ghosh was three months. Mr. Ghosh was 
not eligible for any severance fee.
	
c.	
Upon retirement of Mr. Ghosh as MD&CEO of the Bank on July 09, 2024, all the unvested Options vested 
immediately on the first vesting date relating to the said grant, following the date of superannuation/retirement. 
The exercise period for the Options which got vested at one go after the retirement date, will be five years from 
the date of vesting.
	
d.	
Pursuant to approval of RBI and the Shareholders, for performance year FY 2023-24, Mr. Ghosh has been granted 
variable pay (cash component) of ₹129.50 lakh, 50% of which was paid during FY 2025 and the balance will be 
paid in three equal instalments over the next three years. Mr. Ghosh was also granted 2,87,267 cash settled 
stock appreciation rights (CSARs) against the non-cash component of variable pay, amounting to ₹129.50 lakh. 
The CSARs will be vested over a period of 4 years pro-rated as per the Bank's ESOP Plan, i.e., prorated over a 
period of 4 years with the first vesting after 1 year from grant and shall be eligible for settlement once vested 
with no exercise period. The deferred compensation would be subject to malus and clawback arrangements in 
the event of subdued or negative financial performance of the Bank and/or the relevant line of business in any 
year. Further, the representative set of situations provided in the Bank's Compensation Policy for invocation of 
malus and clawback clauses shall be applicable on the entire variable pay.
134
Annual Report 2024-25
c.	
Managing Director & CEO, Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta (w.e.f. November 01, 2024)
Particulars
(Amt. in ₹) w.e.f. 
November 01, 2024
Basic
41,66,665
House Rent Allowance
20,83,335
Retirals (Gratuity)
2,00,417
Other allowance and Perquisites*
76,79,260
Total Fixed Pay and Perquisites
1,41,29,677
*include Club Membership, Company Provided Car, Staff Loans at concessional rates, Insurance Valuation (Group Term Life, Group Mediclaim 
& Accidental Disability) & Health Check-up, mobile usage and broadband charges. All hospitalisation and medical expenses for self, spouse, 
and dependents (max self+4) shall be reimbursed on actuals.
	
a.	
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta had been appointed as the MD & CEO of the Bank for a period of three years, with 
effect from November 01, 2024 including fixed remuneration of ₹3.40 crores per annum, pursuant to approval 
by the RBI and the Shareholders, on the basis of recommendation of the NRC and the Board.
	
b.	
No sitting fees were paid to Mr. Sengupta for attending meetings of the Board and Board Committees. The notice 
period applicable to Mr. Sengupta is three months. Mr. Sengupta is not eligible for any severance fee.
	
c.	
For the overall performance assessment of the MD & CEO, a Balanced Score Card ('BSC’) is used. The BSC 
is a performance evaluation technique that takes into consideration a number of financial and non-financial 
performance indicators aligned to the long-term strategy of the organisation. The performance goals are 
organised to address four perspectives, viz., financial, customer, internal process and people, the latter three 
being drivers of future performance. As per the RBI guidelines dated November 04, 2019, the performance based 
variable pay is subject to in year adjustment, malus or clawback. The deferred compensation would be subject to 
malus and clawback arrangements in the event of subdued or negative financial performance of the Bank and/
or the relevant line of business in any year. Further, the representative set of situations provided in the Bank's 
Compensation Policy for invocation of malus and clawback clauses shall be applicable on the entire variable pay.
	
d.	
Further details regarding the compensation of the MD&CEO as well as other disclosures as required to be made 
pursuant to the RBI Guidelines on compensation of the WTD/ CEO/ Material Risk Takers and Control Function 
Staff dated November 04, 2019, are made available as notes to the Financial Statement forming part of this 
Annual Report.
C.	 Executive Directors (EDs)
(Amount in ₹)
Particulars
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, ED&COO
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar, ED&CBO
Basic
93,00,000
71,49,944
House Rent Allowance
46,50,000
35,74,972
Retirals (Provident Fund & Gratuity)
15,63,336
12,01,740
Other allowance and Perquisites*
1,54,86,664
180,73,344
Total Fixed Pay and Perquisites
3,10,00,000
3,00,00,000
Variable Pay
Variable pay for FY 2025 will be paid in FY 2026 after RBI approval
*Includes Special Allowance, Medical Allowance, Leave Travel Allowance, Child Education Allowance, Conveyance Allowance, Car Fuel and 
Driver Allowances, Club Membership, Insurance Valuation (Group Term Life, Group Mediclaim & Accidental Disability) & Health Check-up, 
Payment/ reimbursement of the charges towards mobile connection and Broadband/ Landline charges on actual basis, etc. Company 
provided car and staff housing loan at concessional rate has been availed by Mr. Kesh. All hospitalisation and medical expenses for self, 
spouse, and dependents (max 1+4) shall be reimbursed on actuals.
	
a.	
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh has been appointed as the ED&COO of the Bank and KMP, for a period of three years, 
from March 31, 2023, pursuant to RBI approval and approval of the Shareholders of the Bank. On the basis of 
recommendations of the NRC and the Board, the proposal for remuneration of the ED&COO for FY 2025 is being 
placed for the approval of Shareholders at the ensuing AGM of the Bank. Approval of RBI has been received for 
the fixed pay of the ED&COO for FY 2025, whereas variable pay for FY 2025 is subject to RBI approval. Pursuant 
to approval of Shareholders at 10th AGM and approval of RBI, Mr. Kesh was paid variable pay of ₹2.80 crore 
for FY 2024 including cash component of ₹64,61,000 (50% of which was paid during FY 2025 and the balance 
will be paid in three equal instalments over the next three years) and non-cash component of ₹2,15,39,000 
against which 2,96,353 stock options were granted on December 24, 2024 to Mr. Kesh. These options would 
135
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
vest not earlier than one year and not later than 
four years from the date of grant and shall be 
equally vested over four years with a gap of one 
year between each vesting. The exercise period 
for these stock options will be five years from the 
date of vesting. The said stock options were not 
issued at any discount.
	
b.	
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar has been appointed as 
the ED&CBO of the Bank and KMP, for a period 
of three years, from March 08, 2024, pursuant 
to RBI approval and subsequent approval by the 
Shareholders of the Bank. The remuneration 
of the ED&CBO effective March 08, 2024, was 
also approved by the Shareholders of the Bank. 
Approval of RBI has been received for the fixed 
pay of the ED&COO for FY 2025, whereas variable 
pay for FY 2025 is subject to RBI approval.
	
c.	
In terms of the approval of the RBI and 
Shareholders, Mr. Babbar was granted 10,12,373 
stock options within one month of his joining the 
Bank i.e. on March 13, 2024, whereas the second 
tranche of 3,29,091 stock options was granted on 
September 13, 2024, i.e. upon completion of six 
months of Mr. Babbar with the Bank, as joining 
stock options. These options would vest not 
earlier than one year and not later than four years 
from the date of grant and shall be equally vested 
over four years with a gap of one year between 
each vesting. Vesting of Options will be subject 
to achievement of a minimum performance 
rating of ‘4’ in the year of vesting, failing which, 
the Options to be vested in that year of vesting 
will be cancelled. The exercise period for these 
stock options will be five years from the date of 
vesting. The said stock options were not issued at 
any discount.
	
d.	
No sitting fees are paid to EDs for attending 
meetings of the Board and Board Committees. The 
notice period applicable for EDs is three months. 
EDs are not eligible for any severance fees.
	
e.	
For the overall performance assessment of the 
EDs, a Balanced Score Card (‘BSC’) is used. The 
BSC is a performance evaluation technique that 
takes into consideration a number of financial 
and non-financial performance indicators aligned 
to the long-term strategy of the organisation. 
The performance goals are organised to address 
four perspectives, viz., financial, customer, 
internal process and people, the latter three 
being drivers of future performance. As per 
the RBI guidelines dated November 04, 2019, 
the performance based variable pay is subject 
to in year adjustment, malus or clawback. The 
deferred compensation would be subject to 
malus and clawback arrangements in the event of 
subdued or negative financial performance of the 
Bank and/or the relevant line of business in any 
year. Further, the representative set of situations 
provided in the Bank's Compensation Policy for 
invocation of malus and clawback clauses shall be 
applicable on the entire variable pay.
	
f.	
Further details regarding the compensation of 
the EDs as well as other disclosures as required 
to be made pursuant to the RBI Guidelines 
on compensation of the WTD/ CEO/ Material 
Risk Takers and Control Function Staff dated 
November 04, 2019 are made available as notes 
to the Financial Statement forming part of this 
Annual Report.
Senior Management
Particulars of Senior Management of your Bank is provided 
under the section ‘Corporate Overview’. There were certain 
changes in Senior Management of your Bank during FY 2025. 
Mr. Satish Kumar has been appointed as Head - Wholesale 
Banking effective April 10, 2024. Mr. Manoj Kumar Mauni 
ceased to be the Chief Technology Officer effective 
January 07, 2025. Mr. Biswajit Das ceased to be the Chief 
Risk Officer (‘CRO’), pursuant to completion of his tenure as 
CRO on January 26, 2025. Consequently, Mr. Sundeep Bhan 
was appointed as the Interim CRO of the Bank effective 
January 29, 2025, for a period of six months or till the date 
the new CRO joins the Bank, whichever is earlier, who 
relinquished the said office effective July 14, 2025 upon 
appointment and joining of Mr. Biju E Punnachalil as the 
CRO, from the said date. Further, Mr. Ravi Lahoti ceased to 
be the Chief Audit Executive ('CAE') effective February 05, 
2025. Consequently, Mr. Mayank Ghoshal was appointed as 
Interim CAE effective February 05, 2025, who relinquished 
the said office effective May 19, 2025, upon appointment 
and joining of Mr. Navin Sharma as the CAE of the Bank, 
from the said date.
Board Committees
The Board has also been conducting its businesses through 
various Committees constituted to deal with specific 
matters as may be delegated by the Board and as mandated 
under the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, the 
SEBI LODR, the BR Act, Guidelines and Circulars issued by 
the RBI, in this regard, from time to time, and the AOA of 
the Bank.
The agenda for the meetings of the Board Committees 
is finalised in consultation with the Chairperson of the 
respective Committees. The Committees ensure that any 
direction given by them during the course of the meetings 
forms part of the Action Taken Report (‘ATR’) for their 
review and discussion at the subsequent meetings. The 
Chairperson of the Committees brief the Board on the key 
decisions taken at respective meetings. In case of business 
exigency(ies) or urgency(ies) of matters, proposals are 
136
Annual Report 2024-25
approved through circulation by the Board Committees 
in the form of ‘Resolution(s) by Circulation’, which are 
subsequently submitted in the forthcoming meeting for 
its noting, as required under the Companies Act.
All the recommendations made by the Committees of the 
Board which are mandatorily required, were accepted by 
the Board.
The Board has constituted the following Committees to 
oversee specific areas:
1.	
Audit Committee
2.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
3.	
Risk Management Committee
4.	
IT Strategy Committee
5.	
Customer Service Committee
6.	
Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Sustainability Committee
7.	
Special Committee of the Board for Monitoring and 
Follow-up of Cases of Frauds
8.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
9.	
Committee of Directors
10.	 Review Committee of the Board for Declaration of 
Wilful Defaulters
Audit Committee
Qualified and Independent Audit Committee
Your Bank has a qualified and independent Audit Committee 
of the Board (‘ACB’), with the powers and roles that are 
in accordance with Section 177 of the Companies Act and 
rules made thereunder, Regulation 18 of the SEBI LODR, 
read with Part C of Schedule II thereto, circulars / guidelines 
issued by the RBI in this regard, from time to time, which 
acts as a link between the Management, the Statutory 
Auditors, Internal Auditors and the Board of Directors and 
inter alia, oversees the financial reporting process, internal 
control and compliance matters of the Bank.
The ACB provides direction to the audit function and 
monitors the quality of internal and statutory audits. Its 
responsibilities, inter alia, include examining the financial 
statement and auditors’ reports and overseeing the 
financial reporting process to ensure fairness, sufficiency 
and credibility of financial statements, recommending 
appointment of auditors and terms of such appointment, 
and reviewing and monitoring the internal audit and 
compliance function of the Bank.
Meetings of the ACB
As on March 31, 2025, the ACB comprised of five Directors 
including three Independent Directors, one Non-Executive 
Non-Independent Director and one RBI Nominee 
Additional Director, chaired by Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt, 
an Independent Director, who is a Chartered Accountant. 
Further, the RBI, vide its letter dated June 24, 2024, 
appointed Mr. Arun Kumar Singh as Additional Director 
on the Board of the Bank, for a period of one year, under 
the provisions of Section 36AB of the BR Act, and also on 
the ACB. During FY 2025, the ACB met fourteen times, 
i.e., on April 30, 2024, May 16, 2024, June 25, 2024, July 
25, 2024, August 22, 2024, October 03, 2024, October 04, 
2024, October 24, 2024, December 03, 2024, December 23, 
2024, January 30, 2025, February 17&18, 2025, March 10, 
2025 and March 19, 2025, and the gap between any two 
consecutive meetings did not exceed one hundred and 
twenty days.
In terms of the SEBI LODR, Mr. Indranil Banerjee, the 
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of your Bank, 
acts as the Secretary to the ACB. He also acts as the 
Compliance Officer to ensure compliance and effective 
implementation of your Bank’s Code of Conduct for 
Prevention of Insider Trading (‘PIT Code’) and submitting 
the reports on the matter relating to the PIT Code to the 
ACB/ Board at regular intervals.
Further, Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt, Chairman of the ACB, 
attended the last AGM of the Bank held on August 20, 2024.
Composition (as on March 31, 2025) and Attendance - ACB
Name of Member
Category
Number of Meetings during the 
FY 2025 (Fourteen meetings)
% of 
Attendance
Gross Amount 
of Sitting Fees 
paid (in ₹)
During Tenure
Attended
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt, Chairman
Independent
14
14
100
10,50,000
Mr. Arun Kumar Singh1
Non-Executive  
Non-Independent
12
12
100
9,00,000
Ms. Divya Krishnan
Non-Executive  
Non-Independent
14
14
100
10,50,000
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar2
Independent
13
13
100
9,75,000
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee3
Independent
7
7
100
5,25,000
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta4
Independent
8
8
100
6,00,000
Mr. Suhail Chander5
Independent
1
1
100
75,000
1Appointed as a member of the ACB, effective June 24, 2024.
2Appointed as a member of the ACB, effective May 08, 2024.
3Ceased to be a member of the ACB, effective May 08, 2024, and re-appointed as a member effective November 02, 2024.
4Ceased to be a member of the ACB, effective November 02, 2024.
5Ceased to be a member of the ACB, effective May 08, 2024.
137
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Note: As on July 18, 2025, the ACB comprised of Mr. Vijay 
Nautamlal Bhatt (Chairman), Independent Director, Mr. Arun 
Kumar Singh, RBI (Nominee) Additional Director, Ms. Divya 
Krishnan, Non-Executive Non-Independent, Mr. Santanu 
Mukherjee, Independent Director and Ms. Veni Thapar, 
Independent Director (Additional). RBI vide its letter dated 
June 20, 2025, extended the term of Mr. Arun Kumar Singh 
as Additional Director for a further period of one year, 
effective from June 24, 2025, on the Board and the ACB of 
your Bank under the provisions of Section 36AB of the BR 
Act. Further, the ACB was re-constituted effective July 13, 
2025, replacing Mr. N V P Tendulkar with Ms. Veni Thapar 
as member of the ACB.
60%
20%
20%
ACB Composition - (as on date)
  Independent
3
  Non-Executive Non-Independent
1
  RBI Nominee Director
1
(As per Section 36AB of the BR Act, for the purpose of reckoning any 
proportion of the total number of Directors of the banking company, 
any additional Director appointed under this section shall not be taken 
into account. Accordingly, though Mr. Singh has been appointed as a 
member of the ACB, he has not been considered in determining the 
constitution of the ACB.)
Terms of reference of the ACB
•	 Oversight of the Bank's financial reporting process, 
examination of the financial statement and the auditors' 
report thereon and the disclosure of its financial 
information to ensure that its financial statements are 
correct, sufficient and credible;
•	 Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly / half-
yearly financial statement before submission to the 
Board of Directors for approval; and review of the annual 
financial statements and auditor's report thereon before 
submission to the Board for approval, with particular 
reference to:
	
a.	Matters required to be included in the Director's 
Responsibility Statement to be included in the Board's 
report in terms of clause (c) of sub-section 3 of Section 
134 of the Companies Act, 2013, as amended;
	
b.	Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices 
and reasons for the same;
	
c.	Major accounting entries involving estimates based on 
the exercise of judgment by management;
	
d.	Significant adjustments made in the financial 
statements arising out of audit findings;
	
e.	Compliance with listing and other legal requirements 
relating to financial statements;
	
f.	Disclosure of any related party transactions; and
	
g.	Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report;
•	 Reviewing, with the management, the statement of 
uses/ application of funds raised through an issue (public 
issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the statement 
of funds utilised for purposes other than those stated in 
the offer document/ prospectus/ notice and the report 
submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring the 
utilisation of proceeds of a public or rights issue, and 
making appropriate recommendations to the Board to 
take up steps in this matter;
•	 Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
•	 Monitoring the end use of funds raised through public 
offers and related matters;
•	 Approval or any subsequent modifications of transactions 
of the Bank with related parties (Provided that only those 
members of the audit committee, who are independent 
directors, shall approve related party transactions.);
•	 Review of the Bank's Audit Policy and Policy of 
Appointment of Statutory Auditors.
•	 Recommendation for appointment, re-appointment and 
replacement, remuneration and terms of appointment 
of Statutory auditors of the Bank;
•	 Approval of payment of statutory auditors for any other 
services rendered by the statutory auditors;
•	 Reviewing and monitoring the statutory auditor's 
independence and performance, and effectiveness of 
audit process;
•	 Discussion with the statutory auditors before the audit 
commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well 
as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern
•	 Reviewing with the management, the performance 
of statutory auditors and adequacy of the internal 
control systems;
•	 Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, 
including the reporting structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official 
heading the department, coverage and frequency of 
internal audits;
•	 To review the effectiveness of Concurrent Audit system;
•	 To review the Long form Audit Report (LFAR) along with 
Management's response before submission to RBI within 
the stipulated timeline
•	 Discussion with the internal auditors on significant audit 
findings from various audits and follow up thereon;
•	 Overseeing the Information Systems (IS) Audit of 
the Bank;
•	 Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations 
by the internal auditors into matters where there is 
suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal 
138
Annual Report 2024-25
control systems of a material nature and reporting the 
matter to the Board;
•	 Reviewing the instances brought by the Auditors / 
Internal Audit Department found during the audit 
where the transactions in the account or the documents 
point to the possibility of fraudulent transactions in the 
account for appropriate action.
•	 To review the appointment, transfer or removal of the 
Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) and Head of Internal 
Audit (HIA) in compliance with the regulatory guidelines 
and to review the performance appraisal of CCO and HIA;
•	 To conduct one-to-one meeting(s) with the HIA and CCO 
on a quarterly basis, without the presence of the senior 
management including MD & CEO;
•	 To review the Compliance Function of the Bank on a 
quarterly basis to manage compliance risk and ensure 
that compliance issues are resolved effectively and 
expeditiously by top/ senior management with the 
assistance of compliance staff;
•	 To conduct a detailed annual review of the Compliance 
Function (including organisational structure, activities 
and qualifications of Compliance staff) and recommend 
changes, if any, to the Compliance Policy of the Bank;
•	 To monitor and review reporting requirements by the 
Compliance Function including reporting of Compliance 
Testing results, compliance breaches/ failures, 
Compliance Risk Assessment, change in the compliance 
risk profile, etc.;
•	 To review instances of all material compliance failures 
which may attract significant risk of legal or regulatory 
sanctions, financial loss or loss of reputation promptly;
•	 To ensure timely and sustainable compliance to all 
observations of Risk Assessment Report (RAR) / Risk 
Mitigation Plan (RMP) and the regulatory and supervisory 
guidelines/ directions in letter and spirit;
•	 To review the functioning of the whistle blower 
mechanism including examination of complaints on 
possible fraud cases / suspicious activities in account(s) 
and conclusion of the same appropriately under their 
Whistle Blower Policy;
•	 To examine the accountability of very senior executives of 
the Bank viz. MD&CEO, Executive Director(s), Executives 
of equivalent rank in case of fraud involving them and to 
place a report to the Board in this regard;
•	 To review the compliance with the Code of Conduct 
for Prevention of Insider Trading and shall verify that 
the systems for internal control are adequate and 
are operating effectively, as required under the SEBI 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
•	 Approving the appointment of the Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO) or any other person heading the finance 
function or discharging that function after assessing 
the qualifications, experience and background, etc. of 
the candidate;
•	 To review the cases of wilful default and recommend 
steps to be taken to prevent such occurrences and their 
early detection should these occur; such review shall 
focus on identifying root causes of wilful default and 
addressing deficiencies, if any, in the wilful defaulter 
classification process adopted by the Bank.
•	 Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Bank, 
wherever it is necessary;
•	 Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems;
•	 To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in 
the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors;
•	 Reviewing of (1) management discussion and analysis 
of financial condition and results of operations; (2) 
the status of long-term (more than one year) or 
recurring Related Party Transactions, on an annual 
basis; (3) management letters/letters of internal 
control weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors; 
(4) internal audit reports relating to internal control 
weaknesses; (5) the appointment, removal and terms 
of remuneration of the Head of Internal Audit and (6) 
statement of deviations including (a) quarterly statement 
of deviation(s) including report of monitoring agency, if 
applicable, submitted to stock exchange(s) in terms of 
Regulation 32(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended; (b) annual statement 
of funds utilised for purposes other than those stated 
in the offer document/prospectus/notice in terms of 
Regulation 32(7) of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
•	 Reviewing incidents of fraud on quarterly basis;
•	 Consider and comment on rationale, cost-benefits 
and impact of schemes involving merger, demerger, 
amalgamation, etc., on the Bank and its shareholders; and
•	 Carrying out any other terms of reference as may be 
decided by the Board or specified/ provided under the 
Companies Act, 2013 or the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 or by any 
other regulatory authority.
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Your Bank has a Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
of the Board (‘NRC’), with the powers and the roles that 
are in accordance with Section 178 of the Companies Act 
and rules made thereunder, Regulation 19 of SEBI LODR, 
read with Part D of Schedule II thereto, and the circulars/ 
guidelines issued by the RBI in this regard, from time to 
time, which, inter alia, deals with the matters relating to 
139
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
appointments on the Board and Senior Management, 
performance appraisal and compensation related matters 
of the Bank.
The NRC evaluates fit and proper criteria of persons who 
are qualified to become directors in accordance with the 
criteria laid down, recommends to the Board for their 
appointment and removal, and specifies the manner for 
effective evaluation of the performance of the Board, its 
committees and individual directors. The NRC formulates 
the criteria for determining qualifications, positive 
attributes and independence of a director and recommends 
to the Board, a policy relating to the Compensation for the 
Directors, KMP and Employees of the Bank. Criteria for 
performance evaluation for Independent Directors are 
provided in the Board’s Report.
Meetings of the NRC
As on March 31, 2025, the NRC comprised of three Directors, 
all three being Independent Directors, chaired by Mr. Suhail 
Chander, an Independent Director. During FY 2025, the 
NRC met nine times, i.e., on May 03, 2024, May 28, 2024, 
June 25, 2024, July 06, 2024, July 15, 2024, September 13, 
2024, October 23, 2024, December 18, 2024 and February 
27, 2025.
Mr. Suhail Chander, Chairman of the NRC, attended the last 
AGM of the Bank held on August 20, 2024.
Composition (as on March 31, 2025) and Attendance – NRC
Name of Member
Category
Number of Meetings during FY 2025 
(Nine meetings)
% of Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid
(in ₹)
During Tenure
Attended
Mr. Suhail Chander, Chairman
Independent
9
9
100
5,40,000
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya 
Ramasastri
Independent
9
9
100
5,40,000
Mr. Pankaj Sood1
Non-Executive
Non-Independent
6
5
83.33
3,00,000
Mr. Philip Mathew
Independent
9
9
100
5,40,000
1Appointed as a member of the NRC, effective May 08, 2024 and ceased to be a member effective December 14, 2024.
Note: As on July 18, 2025, the NRC comprised of Mr. Suhail 
Chander (Chairman), Independent Director, Mr. N V P 
Tendulkar, Independent Director and Mr. Vijay N Bhatt, 
Independent Director. Post March 31, 2025, Mr. Philip 
Mathew, Independent Director completed his tenure on 
June 14, 2025 and accordingly, Mr. Tendulkar was inducted 
as a member of the NRC effective June 15, 2025. Further, the 
NRC was re-constituted effective July 13, 2025, inducting 
Mr. Vijay N Bhatt, Independent Director, as member in place 
of Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri, Independent 
Director, who resigned as director effective July 01, 2025.
  Independent
3
100%
NRC Composition - (as on date)
Succession Planning for the Board of Directors 
and key officials of the Bank
The NRC and the Board, periodically, review succession 
planning and transitions at the Board and Senior 
Management levels. The NRC considers the composition 
of the Board and the profile, skill set, experience, expertise, 
functional capabilities, disqualifications, adherence to 
the regulator's fit and proper norms and other relevant 
information of the Directors before making appropriate 
recommendations to the Board with regard to their 
appointment / re-appointment. This is designed to provide 
the Board with members who have diverse knowledge, 
practical experience and requisite set of skills to serve the 
business interests of the Bank and enhance the overall 
effectiveness of the Board. Wherever necessary, the NRC 
engages the services of an external consultant / expert, 
to identify and assess the suitability of candidates for the 
post of Director of your Bank. Succession planning at Senior 
Management levels, including business and assurance 
functions, is reviewed to ensure continuity and depth 
of leadership.
Terms of reference of the NRC
•	 Framing suitable policies and systems to ensure that 
there is no violation by an employee of any applicable 
laws in India or overseas, including:
	– The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	– The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to the Securities Market) Regulations, 2003;
	– RBI circular dated April 26, 2021 on 'Corporate 
Governance in Banks - Appointment of Directors and 
Constitution of Committees of the Board';
140
Annual Report 2024-25
	– RBI circular on 'Guidelines on Compensation of Whole 
Time Directors/ Chief Executive Officers/ Material 
Risk Takers and Control Function staff'
•	 To review the HR strategy and policy including the 
conduct and ethics of the employees and Directors of 
the Bank and review any fundamental change in the 
organisation structure which could have wide ranging 
and high risk implications;
•	 Analysing, monitoring and reviewing various human 
resource and compensation matters;
•	 To review and recommend to the Board, the succession 
policy at the level of Managing Director & CEO, other 
whole-time Directors (WTDs), senior management one 
level below the Board and key roles;
•	 Recommending to the Board of Directors a policy, 
relating to the remuneration of the directors, key 
managerial personnel and other employees;
•	 Determining the Bank's policy on remuneration and 
any compensation payment, for the chief executive 
officer, the executive directors, key managerial 
personnel including pension rights and determination 
of remuneration packages of such personnel;
•	 Shall work in close coordination with Risk Management 
Committee of the Bank, to achieve effective alignment 
between compensation and risks;
•	 Shall ensure that the cost/income ratio of the Bank 
supports the compensation package consistent with 
maintenance of sound capital adequacy ratio;
•	 To oversee the framing, review and implementation of 
compensation policy of the Bank and recommend to the 
Board the overall remuneration philosophy and policy 
including the compensation levels and structure of fixed 
pay, variable pay, perquisites, bonus pool, stock based 
remuneration to senior management personnel and 
employees, which shall be market-related;
•	 Reviewing and approving compensation strategy from 
time to time in the context of the prevailing Indian 
market in accordance with applicable laws;
•	 Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever 
form, payable to Senior Management;
•	 Formulating of criteria for evaluation of the performance 
of the Independent Directors and the Board of Directors;
•	 Devising a policy on Board of Director's diversity;
•	 Identifying persons who qualify to become directors 
and who may be appointed in senior management in 
accordance with the criteria laid down, recommending to 
the Board of Directors their appointment and removal, 
and specifying the manner for effective evaluation of 
performance of Board, its committees and individual 
directors to be carried out either by the Board, by 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee or 
by an independent external agency and review its 
implementation and compliance;
•	 Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
on the Board and on the basis of such evaluation, prepare 
a description of the role and capabilities required of an 
independent director. The person recommended to the 
Board for appointment as an independent director shall 
have the capabilities identified in such description. For 
the purpose of identifying appropriate candidates, the 
Committee may:
	– consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, 
having due regard to diversity;
	– consider the time commitments of the candidates; 
and
	– use the services of an external agencies, if required.
•	 Determining whether to extend or continue the term 
of appointment of an Independent Director, on the 
basis of the report of performance evaluation of 
Independent Directors;
•	 Formulating the criteria for determining qualifications, 
positive attributes and independence of a director and 
to decide their 'fit and proper' status;
•	 To report on the systems and on the amount of the annual 
remuneration of Directors and senior management;
•	 Carrying out any other terms of reference as may be 
decided by the Board or specified/ provided under the 
Companies Act, 2013 or the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 or by any 
other regulatory authority.
Risk Management Committee
Your Bank has a Risk Management Committee of the 
Board (‘RMCB’), with the power and roles that are in 
accordance with the circulars / guidelines of the RBI on Risk 
Management Systems and Regulation 21 of the SEBI LODR, 
read with Part D of Schedule II thereto. The functions of the 
RMCB, inter alia, are to review the Bank’s risk management 
framework and policies pertaining various risks including 
credit, market, liquidity, operational and cybersecurity risks.
The Bank has laid down a procedure to inform the RMCB 
and the Board, on a periodic basis, about the identified risks 
and the steps taken to mitigate and minimise the same. 
The Bank has already identified and assessed the major 
elements of risks, which may adversely affect the various 
divisions of the Bank. The RMCB reviews the identified 
risks, including assessment of the said risks and procedures, 
which are being implemented for monitoring, mitigating 
and minimising the said risks.
141
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Meetings of the RMCB
As on March 31, 2025, the RMCB comprised of four 
Directors, including three Independent Directors and 
the MD&CEO, chaired by Mr. Santanu Mukherjee, an 
Independent Director. During FY 2025, RMCB met seven 
times, i.e., on May 14, 2024, June 20, 2024, August 22, 
2024, October 04, 2024, November 06, 2024, November 
29, 2024 and February 19, 2025, and the gap between any 
two consecutive meetings did not exceed two hundred and 
ten days. The RMCB meets on a quarterly basis.
Composition (as on March 31, 2025) and Attendance – RMCB
Name of Member
Category
Number of Meetings during FY 2025
(Seven meetings)
% of Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid
(in ₹)
During Tenure
Attended
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee, 
Chairman
Independent
7
7
100
5,25,000
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya 
Ramasastri
Independent
7
5
71.43
3,75,000
Dr. Aparajita Mitra1
Independent
7
7
100
5,25,000
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh2
Executive
2
2
100
N. A.
Mr. Pankaj Sood3
Non-Executive Non-
Independent
6
4
66.67
3,00,000
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta4
Executive
3
3
100
N. A.
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar5
Executive
2
2
100
N. A.
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh6
Executive
4
4
100
N. A.
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta7
Independent
-
-
-
-
1Appointed as a member of the RMCB, effective May 08, 2024.
2Ceased to be a member of the RMCB, effective July 10, 2024.
3Appointed as a member of the RMCB, effective May 08, 2024 and ceased to be a member effective December 14, 2024.
4Appointed as a member of the RMCB, effective November 02, 2024.
5Appointed as a member of the RMCB, effective July 10, 2024 and ceased to be a member effective November 02, 2024.
6Ceased to be a member of the RMCB, effective November 02, 2024.
7Ceased to be a member of the RMCB, effective May 08, 2024.
Note: As on July 18, 2025, the RMCB comprised of 
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee (Chairman), Independent Director, 
Mr. N V P Tendulkar, Independent Director, Mr. Partha Pratim 
Sengupta, MD&CEO and Ms. Veni Thapar, Independent 
Director (Additional). Post March 31, 2025, the RMCB was 
re-constituted effective July 13, 2025, inducting Mr. N V P 
Tendulkar and Ms. Veni Thapar, Independent Directors, as 
members in place of Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri, 
Independent Director, who resigned as director effective 
July 01, 2025, and Dr. Aparajita Mitra, Independent Director, 
whose term completed on July 12, 2025.
75%
  Independent
3
  Executive
1
25%
RMCB Composition - (as on date)
Terms of reference of the RMCB
•	 To oversee risk management function and obtain 
assurance from the respective committees and Risk 
Department that the risk faced by the Bank including 
cyber security related risks have been properly identified 
and are being appropriately managed;
•	 To define the risk appetite of the Bank within overall 
parameters set by the Board in terms of business 
strategy and growth;
•	 To ensure effectiveness in the conduct of the overall 
risk governance;
•	 To approve risk limits at the Bank-wide level for 
various portfolios such as product, industry, geography, 
risk types, etc.;
•	 To approve risk management and measurement policy/
policies, framework, guidelines and procedures before 
submission to the Board which shall include:
	– A framework for identification of internal and external 
risks specifically faced by the Bank, in particular 
including financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability 
(particularly, ESG related risks), information, cyber 
security risks or any other risk as may be determined 
by the Committee;
	– Measures for risk mitigation including systems and 
processes for internal control of identified risks;
	– Business continuity plan;
	– Appropriate methodology, processes and systems are 
in place to monitor and evaluate risks associated with 
the business of the Bank;
	– Monitor and overseeing implementation of the risk 
management policy/policies, including evaluating the 
adequacy of risk management systems;
142
Annual Report 2024-25
	– Reviewing the risk management policy/policies, at 
least on annual basis, including by considering the 
changing industry dynamics and evolving complexity;
•	 To ensure effectiveness and performance of risk rating 
system and associated processes and controls through 
pre-approval validation, periodical review or as a part of 
annual validation exercise;
•	 To conduct one-to-one meeting(s) with the Chief Risk 
Officer on a quarterly basis, without the presence of MD 
& CEO;
•	 To review the cyber security risks/arrangements/
preparedness of the Bank, as placed by the Chief 
Information Security Officer, at least on a quarterly basis;
•	 To oversee the effectiveness of the framework for Early 
Warning Signals (EWS) and Red Flagging of Accounts 
(RFA) under the overall Fraud Risk Management Policy 
approved by the Board;
•	 To prescribe frequent of validation of EWS / 
RFA framework;
•	 To ensure its integrity, robustness and consistency of 
outcomes of the EWS/ RFA framework;
•	 To review the status of RFAs, including the EWS alerts / 
triggers, remedial actions initiated by the bank, etc. at 
periodic intervals as approved by the Board;
•	 To approve the EWS indicators identified for 
monitoring credit facilities / loan accounts and other 
banking transactions;
•	 To prescribe appropriate Turnaround Time (TAT), 
preferably not more than 30 days, for examination of 
EWS alerts / triggers;
•	 To oversee allocation and maintenance of sufficient 
resources (including IT support) for risk identification, 
measurement, monitoring and reporting;
•	 To approve risk capital computation and place it to the 
Board for approval;
•	 To reinforce the culture and awareness of risk 
management throughout the organisation;
•	 To keep the Board of Directors informed about the 
nature and content of its discussions, recommendations 
and actions to be taken;
•	 The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of 
the Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall be subject to review 
by the Risk Management Committee;
•	 Approve development, implementation and modification 
of credit and operational risk measurement/ assessment, 
methodologies, models, tools and frameworks as 
well as framework for periodic validation of any risk 
measurement/ management model implemented in 
the Bank;
•	 Review risk capital charge calculation methodology 
(ICAAP) and impact on Bank's capital;
•	 Provide guidance / directives on the matters raised 
by ALCO;
•	 To ensure that all the current and future material 
risk exposures of the Bank are assessed, identified, 
quantified, appropriately mitigated and managed; and
•	 Carrying out any other terms of reference as may be 
decided by the Board or specified/ provided under the 
provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 or by any other 
regulatory authority.
Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) 
and Sustainability Committee
Your Bank has a CSR and Sustainability Committee of the 
Board (‘CSR&SCB’), with the powers and roles that are in 
accordance with Section 135 of the Companies Act and 
rules made thereunder. The function of the CSR&SCB 
includes a review of CSR initiatives undertaken by the Bank 
for inclusive growth, formulation and recommendation 
to the Board of a CSR Policy, indicating the activities 
to be undertaken by the Bank, and the amount of 
expenditure to be incurred on such activities. It also 
makes recommendations to the Board with respect to the 
CSR initiatives, annual action plan, policies and practices 
of the Bank, monitor CSR activities, implementation 
and compliance with the CSR Policy, and reviews and 
implements, if required, any other matter relating to CSR 
initiatives as recommended/ suggested by any statutory or 
regulatory body. Further, the CSR&SCB is also vested with 
the responsibility of overseeing the implementation and 
reporting requirements of the Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Reporting (‘BRSR’) Policies of the Bank and 
reviewing the BRSR of the Bank.
The CSR Policy of the Bank, duly aligned with the provisions 
of Section 135 of the Companies Act and the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, is 
available on the Bank’s website at https://bandhanbank.
com/sites/default/files/2025-02/CSR-Policy-03022025.pdf.
The Report on CSR activities, including the details of the 
CSR programme and activities carried out by the Bank 
during FY 2025, is enclosed as Annex – 1 to the Board’s 
Report and is forming part of this Annual Report.
Meetings of the CSR&SCB
As on March 31, 2025, the CSR&SCB comprised of five 
Directors, including three Independent Directors and two 
Executive Directors, including the MD&CEO, chaired by 
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta, Independent Director. During 
FY 2025, the CSR&SCB met four times, i.e., on May 24, 2024, 
August 14, 2024, September 27, 2024 and January 28, 2025.
143
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Composition (as on March 31, 2025) and Attendance – CSR&SCB
Name of Member
Category
Number of Meetings during FY 2025
(Four meetings)
% of Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid
(in ₹)
During Tenure
Attended
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta, 
Chairman
Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
Dr. Aparajita Mitra
Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh1
Executive
1
1
100
N. A.
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta2
Executive
1
1
100
N. A.
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar3
Executive
3
3
100
N. A.
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh4
Executive
2
2
100
N. A.
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt5
Independent
1
1
100
60,000
1Ceased to be a member of the CSR&SCB, effective July 10, 2024.
2Appointed as a member of the CSR&SCB, effective November 02, 2024.
3Appointed as a member of the CSR&SCB, effective July 10, 2024.
4Appointed as a member of the CSR&SCB, effective July 10, 2024 and ceased to be a member effective November 02, 2024.
5Ceased to be a member of the CSR&SCB, effective May 08, 2024 and re-appointed as a member effective November 02, 2024.
Note: As on July 18, 2025, the CSR&SCB comprised of 
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta (Chairman), Independent Director, 
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta, MD&CEO and Mr. Vijay 
Nautamlal Bhatt, Independent Director. Dr. Aparajita 
Mitra, Independent Director, ceased to be member of the 
CSR&SCB, upon completion of her term as an Independent 
Director on July 12, 2025, whereas Mr. Rajinder Kumar 
Babbar, ED&CBO moved out of the CSR&SCB as member 
effective July 13, 2025.
67%
  Independent
2
  Executive
1
33%
CSR&SCB Composition - (as on date)
Terms of reference of the CSR&SCB
•	 To formulate and recommend to the Board, a CSR policy 
which shall indicate the activities to be undertaken by 
the Bank as per the Companies Act, 2013;
•	 Identifying corporate social responsibility policy partners 
and corporate social responsibility policy programmes;
•	 To institute a transparent monitoring mechanism for 
implementation of the CSR Projects or programs or 
activities undertaken by the Bank;
•	 Recommending the amount of expenditure to be 
incurred, amount to be at least 2% of the average net 
profit of the Bank in the three immediately preceding 
financial years;
•	 To review and recommend to the Board, the CSR 
Annual Action Plan covering financial outlays, 
manner of execution, implementation schedules, 
modalities of utilisation of funds, and monitoring & 
reporting mechanism;
•	 Delegating responsibilities to the corporate social 
responsibility team and supervise proper execution of 
all delegated responsibilities;
•	 To monitor the CSR policy and Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Reporting ('BRSR') related policies of 
the Bank from time to time;
•	 To oversee the implementation of the BRSR related 
initiatives of the Bank;
•	 To review and recommend to the Board, the Annual 
Report on CSR, BRSR Report;
•	 Any other matter as the CSR&SCB may deem appropriate 
after approval of the Board of Directors or as may be 
directed by the Board of Directors from time to time; and
•	 Carrying out any other terms of reference as may be 
decided by the Board or specified/ provided under the 
Companies Act, 2013 or by any other regulatory authority.
Information Technology (‘IT’) Strategy 
Committee
Your Bank has an IT Strategy Committee of the Board 
(‘ITSCB’), with the power and roles that are in accordance 
with the Master Direction on Information Technology 
Governance, Risk, Controls and Assurance Practices 
dated November 07, 2023, and other applicable circulars/ 
guidelines issued by the RBI from time to time. It deals 
with the information technology, information security, 
cybersecurity, etc., aspects of the Bank. It reviews and 
recommends the strategy and policy for IT related-matters 
to the Board, ensures that the IT strategy is aligned with 
the business strategy, reviews IT risks, ensures proper 
balance of IT investments for sustaining the Bank’s growth, 
oversees the aggregate funding of IT at the Bank-level, 
ascertains if the management has adequate resources to 
ensure proper administration of IT risks and reviews the 
contribution of IT.
144
Annual Report 2024-25
Meetings of the ITSCB
As on March 31, 2025, the ITSCB comprised of five Directors, including three Independent Directors and two Executive 
Directors, including the MD&CEO, chaired by Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri, Independent Director. During FY 2025, 
the ITSCB met five times, i.e., on April 22, 2024, June 19, 2024, August 21, 2024, November 05, 2024, and February 10, 2025. 
ITSCB meets on a quarterly basis.
Composition (as on March 31, 2025) and Attendance - ITSCB
Name of Member
Category
Number of Meetings during FY 2025 
(Five meetings)
% of Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(in ₹)
During Tenure
Attended
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya 
Ramasastri, Chairman
Independent
5
5
100
3,00,000
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha1
Independent
2
1
50
60,000
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh2
Executive
2
2
100
N. A.
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo 
Prabhutendulkar3
Independent
3
3
100
1,80,000
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta1
Executive
2
2
100
N. A.
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar4
Executive
1
1
100
N. A.
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh
Executive
5
5
100
N. A.
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee5
Independent
2
2
100
1,20,000
Mr. Suhail Chander6
Independent
2
2
100
1,20,000
1Appointed as a member of the ITSCB, effective November 02, 2024.
2Ceased to be a member of the ITSCB, effective July 10, 2024.
3Ceased to be a member of the ITSCB, effective May 08, 2024 and re-appointed as a member effective November 02, 2024.
4Appointed as a member of the ITSCB, effective May 08, 2024, ceased as member effective May 17, 2024, re-appointed as a member effective 
July 10, 2024 and again ceased as a member effective November 02, 2024.
5Appointed as a member of the ITSCB, effective May 17, 2024 and ceased to be a member effective November 02, 2024.
6Appointed as a member of the ITSCB, effective May 08, 2024 and ceased to be a member effective November 02, 2024.
Note: As on July 18, 2025, the ITSCB comprised of 
Mr. N V P Tendulkar (Chairman), Independent Director, 
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha, Independent Director, Mr. Partha 
Pratim Sengupta, MD&CEO, Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, ED&COO 
and Ms. Veni Thapar, Independent Director (Additional). 
Post March 31, 2025, the ITSCB was re-constituted effective 
July 13, 2025, inducting Ms. Veni Thapar, Independent 
Director, as member, and designating Mr. N V P Tendulkar, 
Independent Director, as Chairman in place of Dr. Allamraju 
Subramanya Ramasastri, Independent Director, who 
resigned as director effective July 01, 2025.
60%
  Independent
3
  Executive
2
40%
ITSCB Composition - (as on date)
Terms of reference of the ITSCB
•	 To guide in preparation of IT Strategy and recommend IT 
Strategy and Policy documents to the Board; 
•	 To ensure that:
	– the Bank has put an effective IT strategic planning 
process in place;
	– the IT Strategy aligns with the overall strategy of 
the Bank towards accomplishment of its business 
objectives;
•	 To satisfy itself that the IT Governance and Information 
Security Governance structure fosters accountability, is 
effective and efficient, has adequate skilled resources, 
well defined objectives and unambiguous responsibilities 
for each level in the Bank;
•	 To ensure that the Bank has put in place, processes for 
assessing and managing IT and cybersecurity risks;
•	 To ensure that the budgetary allocations for the IT 
function (including for IT security), cyber security are 
commensurate with the Bank's IT maturity, digital 
depth, threat environment and industry standards 
and are utilised in a manner intended for meeting the 
stated objectives;
•	 To review, at least on annual basis, the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the Business Continuity Planning and 
Disaster Recovery Management of the Bank;
•	 To approve the minimal Recovery Time Objective ('RTO');
•	 To review the assessment of IT capacity requirements 
and measures taken to address the issues;
•	 To approve documented standards and procedures for 
administering need-based access to information system/
assets;
145
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
•	 To provide consultation to the Risk Management 
Committee of the Board for periodical review and 
update in IT related risks, including the Cyber Security 
related risks, in the risk management policy of the Bank;
•	 To oversee the constitution and functioning of 
Information Security Committee of the Bank;
•	 To review the cyber security risks/arrangements/
preparedness of the Bank, as placed by the Chief 
Information Security Officer, at least on a quarterly basis;
•	 Ensuring that the IT and Information Security 
organisational structure complements the business 
model and its direction;
•	 Ensuring IT investments represent a balance of risks and 
benefits and that budgets are acceptable;
•	 To review & monitor the mechanism of the digital 
transactions as follows: 
	– Progress on implementation of new Digital Products;
	– Number of Digital Transactions on existing digital 
channels;
	– Increasing the number of Digital Transactions in 
existing digital channels
•	 Assessing Senior Management's performance in 
implementing IT strategies; and
•	 Carrying out any other terms of reference as may be 
decided by the Board or specified/ provided under the 
Rules/ Regulations/ Guidelines / Circulars / Directions 
issued by RBI or by any other regulatory authority.
Customer Service Committee
Your Bank has a Customer Service Committee of the Board 
(‘CSCB’), with the power and roles that are in accordance 
with the Master Circular on Customer Service in Banks 
issued by the RBI. The functions of CSCB, inter alia, 
include reviewing customer service initiatives, overseeing 
the functioning of grievance redressal mechanisms for 
customers, evolving innovative measures for enhancing 
the quality of customer service and improving the overall 
satisfaction level of customers of the Bank.
Enhanced disclosures on complaints received by the 
Bank from customers and from the Offices of Banking 
Ombudsman (‘OBOs’) and grievance redress as prescribed 
under Circular dated January 27, 2021 on Strengthening 
of Grievance Redress Mechanism in Banks issued by the 
RBI, are made available as part of Notes to the Financial 
Statement forming part of this Annual Report.
Meetings of the CSCB
As on March 31, 2025, the CSCB comprised of three 
Directors, including two Independent Directors and the 
MD&CEO, chaired by Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar, 
Independent Director. During FY 2025, the CSCB met four 
times, i.e., on June 18, 2024, August 13, 2024, December 23, 
2024 and February 17, 2025. CSCB meets on a quarterly basis.
Composition (as on March 31, 2025) and Attendance - CSCB
Name of Member
Category
Number of Meetings during FY 2025
(Four meetings)
% of Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(in ₹)
During Tenure
Attended
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo 
Prabhutendulkar, Chairman
Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh1
Executive
1
1
100
N. A.
Ms. Divya Krishnan2
Non-Executive Non-
Independent
-
-
-
-
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta3
Executive
2
2
100
N. A.
Mr. Philip Mathew4
Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar5
Executive
2
1
50
N. A.
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh6
Executive
1
1
100
N. A.
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee2
Independent
-
-
-
-
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt5
Independent
2
2
100
1,20,000
1Ceased to be a member of the CSCB, effective July 10, 2024.
2Ceased to be a member of the CSCB, effective May 08, 2024.
3Appointed as members of the CSCB, effective November 02, 2024.
4Appointed as members of the CSCB, effective May 17, 2024.
5Appointed as members of the CSCB, effective May 08, 2024 and ceased to be a member effective November 02, 2024.
6Ceased to be a member of the CSCB, effective May 17, 2024, re-appointed as a member effective July 10, 2024 and again ceased as a member 
effective November 02, 2024.
Note: As on July 18, 2025, the CSCB comprised of Mr. Narayan 
Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar (Chairman), Independent 
Director, Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta, MD&CEO and 
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta, Independent Director. Mr. Philip 
Mathew, Independent Director, completed his tenure as an 
Independent Director on June 14, 2025 and accordingly, 
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta, Independent Director, was 
inducted as a member of the CSCB effective June 15, 2025.
146
Annual Report 2024-25
67%
  Independent
2
  Executive
1
33%
CSCB Composition - (as on date)
Terms of reference of the CSCB
•	 To approve various policies that relate to customer 
service; including but not limited to:
	– Comprehensive Deposit Policy;
	– Cheque Collection Policy;
	– Customer Compensation Policy;
	– Customer Grievance Redressal Policy;
•	 To review that a comprehensive deposit policy deals with 
issues such as death of a depositor for operations of his/
her accounts;
•	 To monitor product approval process with a view to 
suitability and appropriateness;
•	 To conduct annual survey of depositor satisfaction and 
reviewing results of the surveys conducted that provide 
quantitative and qualitative information on the state of 
customer experience;
•	 To conduct triennial audit of such services;
•	 To oversee issues such as the treatment of death of a 
depositor for operations of his account;
•	 To review, on a periodic basis, the achievement of 
nomination coverage of various accounts;
•	 To review grievance redressal mechanism for the Bank 
to handle customer complaints;
•	 Reviewing metrics and indicators that provide 
information on the state of customer service in the Bank 
and providing direction to the management of the Bank 
on actions to be taken to improve the metrics;
•	 Reviewing the actions taken/ being taken by the Bank to 
standardise the delivery of customer experience across 
all branches;
•	 To monitor and follow up complaints / grievances 
escalated to be resolved by Banking Ombudsmen of the 
various States;
•	 Review the decision of the Internal Ombudsman rejected 
by the Bank;
•	 To review Internal Ombudsman mechanism and implement 
awards under the Banking Ombudsman Scheme;
•	 To determine the structure of emoluments, facilities and 
benefits accorded to the Internal Ombudsman / Deputy 
or Additional Internal Ombudsman, which should be 
appropriate keeping in view the stature and position of 
the Internal Ombudsman / Deputy or Additional Internal 
Ombudsman being at the apex of the grievance redress 
mechanism of the regulated entity as also the need to 
attract experienced persons with requisite expertise;
•	 To address issues of systemic deficiencies, if any, brought 
out by the awards;
•	 To monitor awards remaining unimplemented for more 
than three months with the reasons (for report to 
the Board) for such delays in implementation and for 
initiating necessary remedial action;
•	 To review customer service / customer care aspects in 
the Bank and submit a detailed memorandum in this 
regard to the Board of Directors, once every six months 
and initiate prompt corrective action wherever service 
quality / skill gaps have been noticed;
•	 To oversee and review root cause analysis of complaint 
and corrective measures taken by Bank;
•	 To review the minutes / reports / activities of the Standing 
Committee of the Customer Service on quarterly basis;
•	 To address any other issues having a bearing on the 
quality of customer service rendered, such as examining 
reports on number and nature of complaints received 
and status of resolution thereof, etc. and
•	 Carrying out any other terms of reference as may be 
decided by the Board or specified/ provided under the 
Rules/ Regulations/ Guidelines / Circulars / Directions 
issued by RBI or by any other regulatory authority.
Special Committee of the Board for 
Monitoring and Follow-up of Cases of 
Frauds (Formerly, Special Committee for 
Monitoring High Value Frauds)
Your Bank’s Special Committee for Monitoring High Value 
Frauds (‘SCMHVF’), which was constituted as per Master 
Directions on Frauds issued by the RBI for commercial 
banks, has been re-named to ‘Special Committee of the 
Board for Monitoring and Follow-up of Cases of Frauds’ 
(‘SCBMF’), in terms of the ‘Master Directions on Fraud Risk 
Management in Commercial Banks (including Regional Rural 
Banks) and All India Financial Institutions’ dated July 15, 
2024, issued by the RBI. Further, in terms of the said Master 
Directions, the terms of reference of the said Committee 
have been broadened to include, inter alia, overseeing 
the effectiveness of the fraud risk management in the 
Bank; review and monitoring of cases of frauds, including 
root cause analysis; suggesting mitigating measures for 
strengthening the internal controls, risk management 
framework and minimising the incidence of frauds; and 
review of cases remaining in red-flagged status beyond 
180 days.
147
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Meetings of the SCBMF
As on March 31, 2025, the SCBMF comprised of five 
Directors, including four Independent Directors and the 
MD&CEO, chaired by Mr. Suhail Chander, Independent 
Director. Two of the members of the Committee are also 
members of the ACB. During FY 2025, the SCBMF met 
three times, i.e., on August 13, 2024, October 22, 2024 and 
February 01, 2025.
Composition (as on March 31, 2025) and Attendance - SCBMF
Name of Member
Category
Number of Meetings during FY 2025 
(Three meetings)
% of Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(in ₹)
During Tenure
Attended
Mr. Suhail Chander, Chairman
Independent
3
3
100
1,80,000
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh1
Executive
-
-
-
N. A.
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta2
Executive
1
1
100
N. A.
Mr. Philip Mathew3
Independent
-
-
-
-
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh4
Executive
2
2
100
N. A.
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee5
Independent
3
3
100
1,80,000
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
Independent
3
3
100
1,80,000
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
Independent
3
3
100
1,80,000
1Ceased to be a member of the SCBMF, effective July 10, 2024.
2Appointed as a member of the SCBMF, effective November 02, 2024.
3Ceased to be a member of the SCBMF, effective May 08, 2024.
4Appointed as a member of the SCBMF, effective July 10, 2024 and ceased as a member effective November 02, 2024.
5Appointed as a member of the SCBMF, effective May 08, 2024.
Note: As on July 18, 2025, the SCBMF comprised of 
Mr. Suhail Chander (Chairman), Independent Director, 
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta, MD&CEO, Mr. Rajinder Kumar 
Babbar, ED&CBO, Mr. Santanu Mukherjee, Independent 
Director, Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta, Independent Director 
and Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt, Independent Director. 
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar, ED&CBO, was inducted to the 
SCBMF effective July 13, 2025.
67%
  Independent
2
  Executive
1
33%
SCBMF Composition - (as on date)
Terms of reference of the SCBMF
•	 To monitor and review all the frauds as per coverage 
approved by the Board from time to time including 
any other incidents referred to it and direct concerned 
departments for necessary actions;
•	 To oversee the effectiveness of the fraud risk 
management in the Bank including prevention, early 
detection, investigation, staff accountability, monitoring, 
recovery, analysis and reporting of frauds;
•	 To review and monitor cases of frauds based on 
categories/trends of frauds, industry/sectoral/ 
geographical concentration of frauds, delay in detection/
classification of frauds and delay in examination/
conclusion of staff accountability, etc;
•	 To review the root cause analysis and suggest mitigating 
measures for strengthening the internal controls, risk 
management framework and minimising the incidence 
of frauds;
•	 To review the cases remaining in red-flagged status 
beyond one hundred and eighty days with adequate 
reasoning / justification thereof; and
•	 Carrying out any other terms of reference as may be 
decided by the Board or specified/ provided under the 
Rules/ Regulations/ Guidelines / Circulars / Directions 
issued by RBI or by any other regulatory authority.
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
Your Bank has a Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of 
the Board (‘SRCB’), with the power and roles that are in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 178(5) of the 
Companies Act and Regulation 20 of the SEBI LODR, read 
with Part D of the Schedule II thereto, to specifically look 
into various matters relating to Shareholders, including 
the transfer and transmission of shares, issue of share 
certificates (including the issue of renewed or duplicate 
share certificates / Letter of Confirmation), claims of 
unclaimed dividend and shares lying in the suspense 
account as well as with the IEPF Authority, non-receipt 
of Annual Report and so on. Additionally, SRCB also looks 
into other issues, such as, the status of dematerialisation 
of shares as well as systems and procedures followed to 
track investors’ complaints and suggests measures for 
improvement, from time to time, and the matters related 
to unsecured debentures issued by the Bank.
148
Annual Report 2024-25
Meetings of the SRCB
As on March 31, 2025, the SRCB comprised of four 
Directors, including three Independent Directors and 
one Non-Executive Non-Independent Director, chaired 
by Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar, Independent 
Director. During FY 2025, the SRCB met four times, i.e., 
on June 18, 2024, August 13, 2024, December 02, 2024 
and February 10, 2025. The SRCB meets on a quarterly 
basis. Mr. Indranil Banerjee is the Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer of the Bank in terms of the SEBI LODR.
Ms. Divya Krishnan, Chairperson of the SRCB, attended the 
last AGM of the Bank held on August 20, 2024.
Composition (as on March 31, 2025) and Attendance - SRCB
Name of Member
Category
Number of Meetings during FY 2025 
(Four meetings)
% of Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(in ₹)
During Tenure
Attended
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo 
Prabhutendulkar, Chairman1
Independent
2
2
100
1,20,000
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha2
Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
Dr. Aparajita Mitra
Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
Ms. Divya Krishnan3
Non-Executive  
Non-Independent
4
4
100
2,40,000
Mr. Philip Mathew4
Independent
-
-
-
-
1Ceased to be member (and Chairman) of the SRCB, effective May 08, 2024 and re-appointed as member (and Chairman) effective 
November 02, 2024.
2Appointed as a member of the SRCB, effective May 08, 2024.
3Designated as the Chairperson of the SRCB, effective May 08, 2024 and re-designated as a member of the SRCB effective November 02, 2024.
4Ceased to be a member of the SRCB, effective May 08, 2024.
Note: As on July 18, 2025, the SRCB comprised of Ms. Divya 
Krishnan (Chairperson), Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Director, Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha, Independent Director 
and Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar, Independent 
Director. Post March 31, 2025, the SRCB was re-constituted, 
effective June 15, 2025, inducting Dr. A S Ramasastri, 
Independent Director as a member whereas Mr. N V P 
Tendulkar, ceased to be the Chairman and member of 
the SRCB and Ms. Divya Krishnan, Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director, was designated as Chairperson. 
The SRCB was further re-constituted effective July 13, 
2025, inducting Mr. N V P Tendulkar, Independent Director 
as a member in place of Dr. Aparajita Mitra, Independent 
Director, whose term as an Independent Director was 
completed on July 12, 2025, whereas Dr. A S Ramasastri 
resigned as an Independent Director of the Bank effective 
July 01, 2025.
67%
  Independent
2
  Non-Executive Non-Independent
1
33%
SRCB Composition - (as on date
Terms of reference of the SRCB
•	 Review the various aspects of interest of shareholders, 
debenture holders and other security holders;
•	 Considering and resolving the grievances of the security 
holders of the Bank including complaints related to 
transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt of annual 
report, non-receipt of declared dividends, general 
meetings, etc.;
•	 Investigating complaints relating to allotment of 
shares, approval of transfer or transmission of shares, 
debentures or any other securities;
•	 Issuing duplicate certificates and new certificates 
on split/ consolidation/ renewal/ dematerialisation/ 
rematerialisation of shares/ transfer/ transmission of 
shares and their redressal;
•	 Monitoring and supervision of the Registrar and Transfer 
Agent (RTA) and review of adherence to the service 
standards adopted by the Bank in respect of various 
services being rendered by the RTA;
•	 Review of the activities of the services provided to the 
security holders relating to the various services rendered 
by the Secretarial Department, Investor Services 
Department, various initiatives taken to inter alia to 
reduce quantum of unclaimed dividends, status of claims 
received, ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/
annual reports/statutory notices by the shareholders of 
the Bank and processed for unclaimed shares, uploading 
of data relating to unclaimed dividends on the website 
of Investor Education & Protection Fund and the Bank;
•	 Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting 
rights by shareholders;
•	 Review the Action Taken Report in respect of 
recommendations made by the Committee;
149
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
•	 Review the status of the litigation(s) filed by/ against the 
security holders of the Bank; and
•	 Carrying out any other terms of reference as may be 
decided by the Board or specified/ provided under the 
Companies Act, 2013 or the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 or by any 
other regulatory authority.
Status of Shareholders' Complaints as on March 
31, 2025
Particulars
Total
Number of Shareholders' complaints 
pending at the beginning of the FY 2025
3
Number of Shareholders' complaints 
received during the FY 2025
117
Number of Shareholders' complaints 
disposed of during the FY 2025
120
Number of Shareholders' complaints 
unresolved at the end of the FY 2025
0
There was no complaint pending against the Bank 
on the Online Dispute Resolution (ODR) portal as on 
March 31, 2025.
Pursuant to the authorisation by the Board and/ or the 
SRCB, the Company Secretary is authorised to approve 
Transmission/ Subdivision/ Consolidation/ Renewal/ Issue 
of Duplicate Share Certificate(s)/ Deletion of Name(s) and 
Dematerialisation of shares of the Bank. A summary of 
transfer/ transmission, etc., of securities of the Bank so 
approved by the Company Secretary, along with details 
of issuance of Letter of Confirmation/ Entitlement Letter 
issued, are placed at the meetings of the SRCB.
As an ongoing measure to enhance the ease of dealing 
in the securities market by investors, the SEBI has issued 
various circulars in recent times. One such circular no. SEBI/
HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 
25, 2022, has mandated the listed entities to issue securities 
in dematerialised form only while processing specified 
service requests made by the physical security holders. 
The circular specifies the manner in which such requests 
are required to be entertained by the listed entities and 
the manner in which the dematerialisation of securities is 
to be completed. The Bank encourages the shareholders 
to hold the shares in dematerialised mode and necessary 
details about this are provided on the website of the Bank.
Committee of Directors
The Committee of Directors (‘COD’) is a Board constituted 
committee that considers and sanctions various types 
of fund and non-fund based credit facilities, borrowings 
including refinancing and any other terms of reference as 
may be decided by the Board including Policies of the Bank, 
from time to time.
Meetings of the COD
As on March 31, 2025, the COD comprised of four Directors, 
including two Independent Directors and two Executive 
Directors, chaired by the MD&CEO. During FY 2025, the 
COD met twenty times, i.e., on April 12, 2024, April 23, 2024, 
May 27, 2024, May 30, 2024, June 14, 2024, June 24, 2024, 
June 28, 2024, July 08, 2024, July 19, 2024, August 14, 2024, 
September 12, 2024, September 18, 2024, September 26, 
2024, October 19, 2024, November 12, 2024, December 13, 
2024, December 23, 2024, January 27, 2025, March 17, 2025 
and March 25, 2025.
Composition (as on March 31, 2025) and Attendance - COD
Name of Member
Category
Number of Meetings during FY 2025 
(Twenty meetings)
% of Attendance
Gross Amount of 
Sitting Fees paid 
(in ₹)
During Tenure
Attended
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta, 
Chairman1
Executive
6
6
100
N. A.
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha2
Independent
14
14
100
8,40,000
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh3
Executive
8
8
100
N. A.
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar4
Executive
12
12
100
N. A.
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh5
Executive
18
18
100
N. A.
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee6
Independent
2
2
100
1,20,000
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta7
Independent
8
8
100
4,80,000
Mr. Suhail Chander
Independent
20
20
100
12,00,000
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt8
Independent
2
1
50
60,000
1Appointed as a member (and Chairman) of the COD, effective November 02, 2024.
2Appointed as a member of the COD, effective April 06, 2024 and ceased to be a member effective November 02, 2024.
3Ceased to be a member (and Chairman) of the COD, effective July 10, 2024.
4Appointed as a member of the COD, effective May 08, 2024 and ceased to be a member effective November 02, 2024.
5Appointed as a member of the COD, effective April 25, 2024 and designated as the Chairman effective July 10, 2024 and again designated as 
member effective November 02, 2024.
6Ceased to be a member of the COD, effective May 08, 2024.
7Ceased to be a member of the COD, effective May 08, 2024 and re-appointed as a member effective November 02, 2024.
8Appointed as a member of the COD, effective April 06, 2024 and ceased to be a member effective April 25, 2024.
150
Annual Report 2024-25
Note: As on July 18, 2025, the COD comprised of 
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta, MD&CEO, Mr. Suhail Chander, 
Independent Director and Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta, 
Independent Director. Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh, ceased to be 
member of the Committee effective May 30, 2025.
67%
  Independent
2
  Executive
1
33%
COD Composition - (as on date)
Review Committee of the Board for 
Declaration of Wilful Defaulters
During the FY under review, in terms of the Master 
Direction dated July 30, 2024, issued by the RBI on 
‘Treatment of Wilful Defaulters and Large Defaulters’, the 
‘Review Committee of the Board for Declaration of Wilful 
Defaulters’ (‘RCBDWD’) has been constituted, comprising 
of four Directors, including three Independent Directors, 
and the MD&CEO, with the MD&CEO being its Chairman. 
The power and roles of RCBWD shall be in accordance with 
the requirements under the said Master Direction, which, 
inter alia, includes classification of borrower as Wilful 
Defaulter, after assessing the facts or material on record, 
including written representation, if any, on the proposal of 
the Identification Committee.
During FY 2025, no meeting of the RCBDWD was held.
Note: As on July 18, 2025, the RCBDWD comprised 
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta, MD&CEO, Dr. Anup Kumar 
Sinha, Independent Director and Mr. Santanu Mukherjee, 
Independent Director. Dr. Aparajita Mitra, Independent 
Director, ceased to be a member of the RCBDWD upon 
completion of her tenure as an Independent Director 
effective July 13, 2025.
67%
  Independent
2
  Executive
1
33%
RCBDWD Composition - (as on date)
Annual General Meetings
Details of AGMs of the Bank, for the previous three (3) financial years are, as under:
Sl.
No.
Particulars of 
meeting
Location
Date & Time
Special Resolutions
passed, if any
1.
10th AGM
14th Floor, Adventz Infinity@5, BN-5, Sector V, Salt 
Lake City, Kolkata - 700 091 (through VC)
August 20, 2024 at 
11:00 A.M. (IST)
Nil
2.
9th AGM
14th Floor, Adventz Infinity@5, BN-5, Sector V, Salt 
Lake City, Kolkata - 700 091 (through VC)
August 18, 2023 at 
11:00 A.M. (IST)
Two Special Resolutions 
were passed
3.
8th AGM
14th Floor, Adventz Infinity@5, BN-5, Sector V, Salt 
Lake City, Kolkata - 700 091 (through VC)
August 10, 2022 at 
11:00 A.M. (IST)
Four Special Resolutions 
were passed
151
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Postal Ballot
During the FY under review, the Bank had sought approval of its Members, for the following resolutions, vide Postal Ballot, 
through electronic voting (‘remote e-voting’):
Sr. No. Date of 
Postal 
Ballot 
Notice
Item of Businesses
Type of 
Resolution
% of the total 
number of valid 
votes cast, in 
favour
% of total 
number of valid 
votes cast, 
against
Result
1
March 19, 
2024
Appointment of Mr. Pankaj Sood (DIN: 
05185378) as a Non-Executive Non-
Independent Director (Nominee of 
Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd.)
Ordinary 
Resolution
99.515
0.485
Passed with 
requisite 
majority on  
April 21, 2024, 
i.e., the last date 
of e-voting
2
Appointment of Mr. Rajinder Kumar 
Babbar (DIN: 10540386) as a Director of 
the Bank
Ordinary 
Resolution
99.553
0.447
3
Appointment of Mr. Rajinder Kumar 
Babbar (DIN: 10540386) as a Whole-
time Director, designated as Executive 
Director and Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Bank, including remuneration
Ordinary 
Resolution
99.032
0.968
4
November 
19, 2024
Extension of term of appointment of 
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (DIN: 10082714) 
as the Interim Managing Director & 
Chief Executive Officer, Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Bank
Ordinary 
Resolution
99.9907
0.0093
Passed with 
requisite 
majority on 
December 26, 
2024, i.e., the 
last date of 
e-voting
5
Appointment of Mr. Partha Pratim 
Sengupta (DIN: 08273324) as a Director 
of the Bank
Ordinary 
Resolution
99.9516
0.0484
6
Appointment of Mr. Partha Pratim 
Sengupta (DIN: 08273324) as the 
Managing Director & Chief Executive 
Officer and Key Managerial Personnel of 
the Bank, including remuneration
Ordinary 
Resolution
99.9913
0.0087
Procedure for Postal Ballot:
In compliance with the provisions of Section 110 and 
other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies 
Act, read with Rule 22 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014, Regulation 44 and 
other applicable provisions, if any, of the SEBI LODR, 
the Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (‘SS-2’) 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, 
guidelines prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
(the ‘MCA’) for holding general meetings/ conducting 
postal ballot process through electronic voting only vide 
various General Circulars, including General Circular Nos. 
09/2023 dated September 25, 2023 and 09/2024 dated 
September 19, 2024, as applicable (the ‘MCA Circulars’) 
and any other applicable laws and regulations, the Bank 
had sent the Postal Ballot Notices, as aforesaid, along with 
the Explanatory Statements thereto, to the Members 
of the Bank, whose names appeared in the Register of 
Members/ list of Beneficial Owners as received from the 
Depositories as on Cut-off Date(s), and whose e-mail IDs 
were registered with the Bank/ the Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent (‘RTA’) [in respect of shares held in physical 
form] or with the Depositories / Depository Participants 
[in respect of shares held in dematerialised form], for 
obtaining the consent of the Members to the aforesaid 
item of businesses, via Ordinary Resolution(s), by electronic 
means only. The Cut-off Date for the notice dated March 
19, 2024 was Friday, March 15, 2024 whereas for the notice 
dated November 19, 2024, the Cut-off Date was Friday, 
November 22, 2024.
The Bank had engaged the services of KFin Technologies 
Limited (‘KFin’), the Registrars and Share Transfer Agent 
(‘RTA’) of the Bank, as the agency for facilitating remote 
e-voting. For the Postal Ballot conducted vide notice dated 
March 19, 2024, the Board had appointed CS Hansraj Jaria, 
Practicing Company Secretary (FCS No.: 7703 / CP No.: 
19394) failing him, CS Rakesh Agrawal, Practicing Company 
Secretary (FCS No.: 8792 / CP No.: 9014) as the Scrutiniser to 
ensure that the Postal Ballot (via remote e-voting) process 
is conducted in a fair and transparent manner. The remote 
e-voting period commenced from Saturday, March 23, 2024 
at 9:00 A.M. (IST) and ended on Sunday, April 21, 2024 at 
5:00 P.M. (IST).
Whereas, for the Postal Ballot conducted vide notice 
dated November 19, 2024, the Board had appointed CS 
Anjan Kumar Roy, Practicing Company Secretary (FCS No.: 
5684/ CP No.: 4557) failing him, CS Sandip Paul, Practicing 
Company Secretary (ACS No.: 60607/ CP No.: 22688) as the 
Scrutiniser to ensure that the Postal Ballot (via remote 
e-voting) process is conducted in a fair and transparent 
manner. The remote e-voting period commenced from 
152
Annual Report 2024-25
Wednesday, November 27, 2024 at 9:00 A.M. (IST) and 
ended on Thursday, December 26, 2024 at 5:00 P.M. (IST).
Upon completion of the scrutiny of votes cast by Postal 
Ballot (via remote e-voting), the Scrutinizers submitted their 
respective Reports to the Chairman who countersigned the 
same and declared the Results of the Postal Ballots. The 
Results of the Postal Ballots, along with the Scrutinizers’ 
Reports, were made available on the website of the Bank 
and KFin, the remote e-voting service provider, and were 
also displayed on the Notice Boards of the Bank at its 
Registered Office and Head Office. The Results of the 
Postal Ballots were simultaneously communicated to all 
the Stock Exchanges, where the equity shares of the Bank 
are listed.
None of the businesses proposed to be transacted at the 
ensuing AGM of the Bank require passing a resolution 
through Postal Ballot.
Other Disclosures
Management Discussion & Analysis Report
The Management Discussion & Analysis Report, giving 
an overview of the industry, the Bank’s business and its 
financials, is provided separately as Annex - 5 to the Board’s 
Report and forms part of this Annual Report.
Disclosure on Material Subsidiary
The Bank does not have a subsidiary, at present. Therefore, 
the requirement to formulate a policy for determining 
‘material’ subsidiary does not apply to the Bank.
Commodity Price Risk, Foreign Exchange Risk 
and Hedging Activities
Your Bank has not traded in any commodity. Your Bank 
has foreign currency liability with regard to its FCNR(B) 
portfolio and inter-bank borrowings, however, your 
Bank does not have foreign currency bonds, bilateral or 
syndicated loans liability. Your Bank has a Board approved 
Market Risk Management Policy, which defines a risk 
control framework for undertaking any foreign exchange 
transaction. The Board approved Market Risk Policy of your 
Bank has defined an overall Net Overnight Open Position 
(NOOP) Limit, Stop Loss Limit, Aggregate Gap Limit (AGL), 
Value at Risk (VaR) Limit to control the foreign exchange 
risk within its risk control framework.
Your Bank uses Forwards & FX Swaps for hedging its 
currency risk in its balance sheet and proprietary trading 
in compliance with overall risk limit and control framework. 
The management of these products and businesses is 
governed by the Board approved Market Risk Management 
Policy, Investment Policy and ALM Policy of the Bank.
Accounting Treatment
The Financial Statement has been prepared under the 
historical cost convention and on the accrual basis of 
accounting, unless otherwise stated and in compliance with 
the requirements prescribed under the Third Schedule (Form 
A and Form B) to the BR Act. The accounting and reporting 
policies of your Bank used in the preparation of the Financial 
Statement conform to Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles in India (‘Indian GAAP’), the guidelines issued 
by the RBI, from time to time, the accounting standards 
notified under Section 133 and other relevant provisions 
of the Companies Act, read together with the Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, as amended from time 
to time, to the extent applicable, and practices generally 
prevalent in the banking industry in India.
Indian Accounting Standard (IND AS) 
implementation
RBI had issued a circular in February, 2016, requiring banks 
to implement the Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) 
and prepare Ind AS financial statement with effect from 
April 01, 2018.
Further, as advised by the RBI, the Bank has also been 
submitting Proforma Ind AS Financial Statements, every 
half year, to the RBI.
However, the RBI, in its press release issued on March 22, 
2019, has deferred the applicability of Ind AS till further 
notice for Scheduled Commercial Banks.
Your Bank has made a diagnostic study to identify the gaps, 
process and system changes required to implement Ind AS 
and is in the process of implementing necessary changes 
in its IT system and other processes. Your Bank is regularly 
holding workshops and training for its staff.
Related Party Transactions
Related Party Transactions that were entered, during the FY 
under review, were on an arm’s length basis and were in the 
ordinary course of business, pursuant to the approval of the 
ACB. Approval of Members of the Bank had been obtained 
at 10th AGM held on August 20, 2024, for material related 
party transactions, primarily, with respect to acceptance 
of Current/ Savings Account Deposits transactions, with 
promoter entities of the Bank, in terms of Regulation 23 
of the SEBI LODR. However, pursuant to amendments to 
the SEBI LODR dated December 12, 2024, acceptance of 
Current/ Savings Account deposits by the Bank, including 
payment of interest thereon, in compliance with the 
directions issued by the Reserve Bank of India or any other 
central bank in the relevant jurisdiction from time to time, 
are no longer considered as related party transaction 
under the provisions of the SEBI LODR. Further details are 
provided in the Board’s Report. Weblink for your Bank’s 
Policy on dealing with Related Party Transactions is https://
bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../sites/
default/files/2025-02/Policy-on-Dealing-With-Related-
Party-Transactions.pdf.
153
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Penalties and Strictures for last three financial 
years
With regard to the matters related to the capital market, 
there was no non-compliance neither penalties nor 
strictures imposed on your Bank by the Stock Exchanges 
and/ or the SEBI and/ or any other statutory authorities 
during the last three financial years.
Whistle Blower Policy & Vigilance Policy
The Bank had adopted the Board approved Vigilance Policy 
and Whistle Blower Policy, as required under Section 177 
of the Companies Act, Regulation 22 of the SEBI LODR 
and applicable circulars issued by RBI, in this regard. The 
said Policies are available on the Bank’s website at https://
bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../sites/
default/files/2025-07/Whistle-Blower-Policy-22072025.pdf 
and https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../
sites/default/files/2025-07/Vigilance-Policy-22072025.
pdf. Further details on the Whistle Blower Mechanism are 
provided in the Board’s Report.
Code of Conduct
Your Bank has in place a Code of Conduct for Directors 
and also a Code of Conduct for its Senior Management, 
which are approved by the Board. The Code of Conduct 
for Senior Management attempts to set forth the guiding 
principles on which your Bank shall operate and, conduct 
its daily business with its multitudinous stakeholders, 
viz., shareholders, customers, employees, and regulators. 
This Code is available on the Bank’s website at https://
bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2020-12/Code-
Conduct-for-Senior-Management.pdf. The Code of Conduct 
for Directors also contains a reference to the duties of 
the Independent Directors as laid down in Schedule IV 
of the Companies Act. This Code is also available on the 
Bank’s website at https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/
files/2020-12/Code-Conduct-for-Directors.pdf. As required 
under Regulation 26(3) of the SEBI LODR, all Directors and 
Senior Management personnel have affirmed compliance 
with the Code of Conduct, as approved and adopted by the 
Board, for the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
Declaration, as required under Para D of Schedule V to 
the SEBI LODR, with respect to the financial year ended 
March 31, 2025, duly signed by the MD&CEO, is annexed 
to this Report.
Policy on the Preservation of Documents
In accordance with Regulation 9 of the SEBI LODR, 
your Bank has in place a Policy on the Preservation of 
Documents, which has been approved by the Board of 
Directors of the Bank. This Policy is intended to guide your 
Bank and its officers on the maintenance of documents, 
their preservation and disposal. During the year under 
review, as part of its annual review, the Policy has been 
reviewed and amended by the Board, in order to update 
and align the retentions schedule with the applicable 
regulatory requirements. The said policy can be accessed 
on the Bank’s website at https://bandhanbank.com/
sites/default/files/2025-06/Policy-on-Preservation-of-
Documents-FY-25-26.pdf.
Policy for Determination of Material Event/ 
Information and Archival Policy
In accordance with Regulation 30 of the SEBI LODR, your 
Bank has in place a Policy for Determination of Material 
Events/ Information, which provides guidance to the 
Board, management and staff on the assessment of the 
materiality of events/ information, which will have bearing 
on the performance/ operations of your Bank. The Policy 
has been reviewed and amended by the Board, during the 
FY under review, primarily, to align it with the amendments 
to the SEBI LODR. The Policy is available on the Bank’s 
website at https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/files/2025-02/Materiality-Policy.pdf.
Further, your Bank has a Board approved Archival Policy in 
line with the requirements of the SEBI LODR to ensure that 
information relating to your Bank is adequately disclosed on 
its website as required by law. The Policy has been reviewed 
by the Board, during the FY under review, as part of annual 
review process with no changes. The Policy is available 
on the Bank’s website at https://bandhanbank.com/
pdfViewerJS/index.html#../sites/default/files/2025-04/
Archival-Policy-24-25-280425.pdf.
Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading
Your Bank has in place a Code of Conduct for Prevention 
of Insider Trading in its securities (‘PIT Code’), adopted in 
line with the provisions of the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015 (‘PIT Regulations’). The PIT 
Code, inter alia, prohibits trading in the securities of your 
Bank or any securities forming part of grey list securities 
by insiders, while in possession of any Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information (‘UPSI’) in relation to such securities/ 
entities. Your Bank has also adopted a Board approved 
Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of 
UPSI, which is available on the website of the Bank at 
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../
sites/default/files/2024-09/Code-for-Fair-Disclosure-of-
UPSI-website.pdf. The Board reviews the PIT Code on an 
annual basis and whenever required. The PIT Code has been 
reviewed by the ACB and the Board, as part of annual review 
process, during the FY under review and certain changes 
are made therein in order to provide more clarity in certain 
clauses and to align the code with the recent amendments 
to the PIT Regulations. The Company Secretary of your Bank 
acts as the ‘Compliance Officer’ in terms of the PIT Code 
and PIT Regulations, and is responsible for implementation 
and overseeing compliance with the PIT Code across your 
Bank. Cases of violations observed during the FY were 
submitted to the Disciplinary Committee of the Bank 
and accordingly, the intimation, with regard to the action 
taken by your Bank, along with the details of the penalty 
amount, if any, remitted to the Investor Protection and 
154
Annual Report 2024-25
Education Fund maintained by the SEBI, were submitted 
to the Stock Exchanges from time to time. Your Bank has 
also undertaken various initiatives during the FY to spread 
awareness amongst its employees about the provisions of 
the PIT Code and PIT Regulations. Your Bank has automated 
the process for submission of declarations and disclosures 
by designated persons through software. Further, your 
Bank has maintained the Structured Digital Database 
(‘SDD’) electronically, with adequate internal controls, in 
compliance with the provisions of Regulation 3(5) of the 
PIT Regulations. The reports on compliance with the PIT 
Code and the PIT Regulations are also submitted to the 
ACB/ Board, periodically.
Dividend Distribution Policy
In accordance with Regulation 43A of the SEBI LODR, your 
Bank has adopted the Dividend Distribution Policy, which 
outlines various parameters based on which the Board may 
recommend or declare Dividend, in accordance with the 
provisions of applicable laws. The details of the same are 
provided in the Board’s Report.
Directors and Officers Insurance (D & O Policy)
Your Bank has in place a Directors and Officers Liability Policy 
(D&O Policy) for all its directors, with the quantum and risks 
determined by its Board of Directors. The Policy covers 
management liability, company securities, investigation 
cost, Non-Executive Directors’ protection, investigation, 
extradition, outside directorship, bodily injury and property 
damage defence costs, assets and liberty, etc.
Complaints pertaining to Sexual Harassment
The details of complaints filed and disposed of during the 
FY as well as pending cases pertaining to sexual harassment 
are provided in the Board’s Report.
Details of utilisation of funds raised through 
preferential allotment or qualified institutions 
placement as specified under Regulation 32(7A) 
of the SEBI LODR
During the FY under review, your Bank has not raised 
any fund through Preferential Allotment or Qualified 
Institutions Placement as specified under Regulation 
32(7A) of the SEBI LODR.
Compliance with Mandatory Requirements
Your Bank has complied with all the applicable mandatory 
requirements of Corporate Governance as prescribed 
under the SEBI LODR.
Tentative calendar of Board Meetings for the financial year ending March 31, 2026
The tentative calendar of the meetings of the Board of Directors for the consideration of quarterly / annual financial results 
for the financial year ending on March 31, 2026 are, as follows:
Quarter/Year
Tentative calendar of Board Meetings
First quarter ending on June 30, 2025
Within 45 days from the end of quarter
Second quarter ending on September 30, 2025
Within 45 days from the end of quarter
Third quarter ending on December 31, 2025
Within 45 days from the end of quarter
Fourth quarter and year ending on March 31, 2026
Within 60 days from the end of quarter/ year
Compliance with Non-Mandatory Requirements
a)	
The Board
	
The expenses pertaining to the office of the Non-
Executive Chairman is maintained by the Bank, along 
with the reimbursement of all the expenses incurred 
by the Non-Executive Chairman while performing 
his duties.
b)	
Shareholder Rights
	
Your Bank publishes its financial results every quarter 
on its website at www.bandhanbank.com, which 
is accessible to the public at large. The same is also 
available on the websites of the Stock Exchanges, 
i.e., BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited. Along with the quarterly results, detailed 
earnings updates are also hosted on the website of 
the Bank. Further, a quarterly investors’/ analysts’ 
conference call is made to discuss the financial results 
and performance of the Bank, the audio recording and 
transcripts of which are hosted on the website of the 
Bank as well as Stock Exchanges. The Bank’s results 
for each quarter are published in English newspaper 
having nationwide circulation and in Bengali 
newspaper (viz., The Financial Express/ Business 
Standard and Bartaman/ Ei Samay). The quarterly 
results of the Bank are also sent to the shareholders 
through email.
c)	
Modified Opinion(s) in Audit Report
	
The Independent Audit Report issued by the Joint 
Statutory Auditors of your Bank on the Financial 
Statement for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, 
is with unmodified audit opinion. The Bank continues 
to adopt the best practices to ensure a regime of 
financial statement with unmodified audit opinion.
d)	
Separate posts of Chairperson and the Managing 
Director or the Chief Executive Officer
	
Your Bank has separate offices for the Non-Executive 
Chairman and the MD&CEO. The Non-Executive 
Chairman of your Bank is not related to any directors 
of your Bank, including the MD&CEO.
155
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
e)	
Reporting of Internal Auditor
	
The Reporting of the Chief Audit Executive of the Bank is as per the extant RBI Circular.
Means of Communication
The Board of your Bank has been approving the quarterly financial results well within the stipulated time of 45 days 
from the end of respective quarters and the audited annual financial results for the quarter and year ending on March 31 
within 60 days from the end of the financial year. The financial results are promptly submitted to the Stock Exchanges and 
are published in English and Bengali (regional language) newspapers (viz., The Financial Express/ Business Standard and 
Bartaman/ Ei Samay), within 48 hours of the conclusion of the respective Board meetings at which such financial results 
are approved. The financial results, as well as press release, are simultaneously hosted on the Bank’s website accessible 
at https://bandhanbank.com/quarterly-report. Earnings calls with analysts and their transcripts are also published on 
the website at https://bandhanbank.com/corporate-governance#rctabtwofour. The Bank also shares the highlights of 
quarterly financial results with all shareholders whose e-mail IDs are registered with Depositories /the Bank. All disclosures 
made to Stock Exchanges by your Bank are available on its website, along with the earnings updates and presentations 
made to investors and analysts.
Corporate Policies
Sl.
No.
Name of the Policy
Brief Description
Web link
1
Policy on Appointment 
and Fit & Proper Criteria 
for Directors
Your Bank has adopted the policy for appointment 
of Directors on the Board considering their fit and 
proper criteria, including special knowledge or 
practical experience required for banking business.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../sites/default/files/2025-01/
Policy-on-Appointment-and-Fit-Proper-
Criteria-for-Directors.pdf
2
Vigilance Policy
Your Bank has adopted Vigilance Policy for 
monitoring of concerns about unethical behavior, 
actual or suspected fraud.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../sites/default/files/2025-07/
Vigilance-Policy-22072025.pdf
3
Whistle Blower Policy
Your Bank has adopted whistle blower mechanism 
for Directors and employees to report concerns 
about unethical behavior, actual or suspected fraud.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../sites/default/files/2025-07/
Whistle-Blower-Policy-22072025.pdf
4
Policy on Dealing 
with Related Party 
Transactions
This Policy regulates all transactions between the 
Bank and its related parties.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../sites/default/files/2025-02/
Policy-on-Dealing-With-Related-Party-
Transactions.pdf
5
Policy for Determination 
of Material Event/ 
Information
This Policy applies to the determination and 
disclosure of material information/events for your 
Bank.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../sites/default/files/2025-02/
Materiality-Policy.pdf
6
Dividend Distribution 
Policy
Your Bank has adopted the Dividend Distribution 
Policy to determine the distribution of dividends in 
accordance with the provisions of circulars issued by 
RBI, from time to time, and applicable laws.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../sites/default/files/2025-07/
Dividend-Distribution-Policy.pdf
7
CSR Policy
This Policy outlines your Bank’s strategy to bring 
about a positive impact on society through 
programs relating to skill development, poverty 
alleviation, education, healthcare, sanitation, water 
conservation, afforestation, etc.
https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/
files/2025-02/CSR-Policy-03022025.pdf
8
Compensation Policy
This Policy formulates the criteria for determining 
the remuneration of the Directors, KMP and 
Employees of the Bank.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../sites/default/files/2025-01/
Compensation-Policy.pdf
9
Policy on Preservation of 
Documents
This Policy formulates categories of documents to 
be preserved as per regulatory requirements.
https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/
files/2025-06/Policy-on-Preservation-of-
Documents-FY-25-26.pdf
10
Archival Policy
This Policy deals with the disclosure and archival of 
disclosure of material events/information on the 
website of your Bank.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../sites/default/files/2025-04/
Archival-Policy-24-25-280425.pdf
11
Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability 
Reporting Policies
The BRSR Policy has been framed by your Bank 
based on the National Guidelines for Responsible 
Business Conduct (NGRBC), which aims to establish 
links between the financial results of a business with 
its ESG performance.
https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/
index.html#../sites/default/files/2023-01/
Business-Responsibility-and-Sustainability-
Reporting-policy-210123.pdf
156
Annual Report 2024-25
The Board has been reviewing the above policies on an annual basis and whenever required to align with the regulatory 
and/or business requirements.
General Shareholder Information:
1)
Corporate Identity Number 
(‘CIN’)
L67190WB2014PLC204622
Address for Correspondence
Registered Office: DN-32, Sector - V, Salt Lake, Kolkata - 700 091
Head Office: Floors 12th to 14th, Adventz Infinity@5, BN 5, Sector V, Salt Lake City, Kolkata 
- 700 091
Contact: Mr. Indranil Banerjee, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer (Nodal Officer 
for IEPF related matters)
Phone Number: 033 6609 0909
E-mail ID: investors@bandhanbank.com
Website: www.bandhanbank.com
2)
Date, Time and Venue of the 
Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’)
11th AGM of the Bank will be held on Thursday, August 21, 2025, at 11:00 A.M.
Since the AGM will be conducted through VC/ OAVM pursuant to the MCA General 
Circular No. 20/2020 dated May 05, 2020, read with General Circular No. 09/2024 dated 
September 19, 2024, as such, there is no requirement to arrange a venue for the 11th AGM 
of the Bank. For details, please refer to the Notice of the 11th AGM.
3)
AGM Webcast link
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/
4)
Financial Year
April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025
5)
Record Date
Thursday, August 14, 2025
6)
Dividend Payment Date
Dividend, if declared by the Members, will be paid within 30 days of the AGM
7)
Listing on Stock Exchanges
i)	
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (‘NSE’)
	
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai - 400 051
ii)	 BSE Limited (‘BSE’)
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400 001
The Bank has duly paid the Annual Listing Fees to NSE & BSE for the FY 2026. During the 
FY under review, the equity shares of the Bank were not suspended from trading on the 
said Stock Exchanges, where the shares of the Bank are listed or by any Regulatory Body/ 
Statutory Authority.
8)
Registrars & Share Transfer 
Agent (both Physical & Demat 
Segments) (Equity & Debentures)
KFin Technologies Limited
Registered Address: 301, The Centrium, 3rd Floor, 57, Lal Bahadur Shastri Road, 
Nav Pada, Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070, Maharashtra.
CIN: L72400MH2017PLC444072
Address for Correspondence / Operations Centre: Selenium Building, Tower-B, Plot 
No. 31 & 32, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally, Hyderabad, Rangareddy, 
Telangana, India - 500 032
Toll Free Number: 1800 309 4001
WhatsApp Number: (+91) 910 009 4099
E-mail ID: meinward.ris@kfintech.com
Investor Support Centre: https://kprism.kfintech.com/
Corporate Website: www.kfintech.com
RTA Website: https://ris.kfintech.com
Name of the Contact Person: Mr. Bhaskar Roy, Deputy Vice President
Web-based Query Redressal System:
Pursuant to the provisions of the SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/
CIR/2023/72 dated June 08, 2023, rescinded vide SEBI Master Circular dated June 23, 
2025, the Bank’s RTA, KFin, has launched an online application which can be accessed 
under ‘Investor Support’ under ‘Investor Services’ at https://ris.kfintech.com. Members 
are requested to register/ signup, using the Name, PAN, Mobile and email ID. Post 
registration, user can login via OTP and execute activities like, raising Service Request, 
Query, Complaints, check for status, KYC details, Dividend, Interest, Redemptions, 
e-Meeting and e-Voting details.
157
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
9)
Share Transfer System
Your Bank's shares which are in dematerialised (demat) mode are transferable through 
the depository system.
With regard to shares held in physical mode, SEBI vide amendment to Regulation 40(1) 
of the SEBI LODR, with effect from April 01, 2019, mandated that except in case of 
transmission or transposition of securities, requests for effecting transfer of securities 
shall not be processed unless the securities are held in the dematerialised form with a 
depository. Further, vide amendment dated January 24, 2022 to Regulation 40(1) of the 
SEBI LODR, SEBI has mandated that transmission or transposition of securities held in 
physical or dematerialised form shall be effected only in dematerialised form. Moreover, 
SEBI vide Circular dated January 25, 2022, has mandated that the listed companies shall 
henceforth issue the securities in dematerialised form only while processing certain 
service requests as explained in subsequent section of this Report.
In view of the above, Shareholders holding shares in physical form are requested to consider 
converting their holdings to dematerialised form. Transfers of equity shares in electronic 
mode are affected through the depositories with no involvement of your Bank. Further, 
your Bank has also sent individual letters to the Shareholders holding shares in physical 
form to update their KYC, bank details and nomination details with the RTA/ the Bank. 
Your Bank has also implemented the process to issue ‘letter of confirmation’ pursuant to 
receipt of duly filled in form ISR-4 by the Shareholders holding shares in physical mode.
Therefore, Shareholders, holding shares in physical mode, are requested to get in touch 
with any Depository Participant registered with SEBI to open a Demat Account or may also 
visit website of depositories, viz., National Securities Depository Limited (‘NSDL’) at https://
nsdl.co.in/services/demat.php or Central Depository Services (India) Limited (‘CDSL’), at 
https://www.cdslindia.com/investors/open-demat.html, for further understanding of the 
dematerialisation procedure.
SPECIAL WINDOW FOR RE-LODGEMENT OF TRANSFER REQUESTS OF PHYSICAL 
SHARES
SEBI, vide Circular dated July 02, 2025 on ‘Ease of Doing Investment – Special Window 
for Re-lodgement of Transfer Requests of Physical Shares’, advised that,  in order to 
facilitate ease of investing for investors and to secure the rights of investors in the 
securities purchased, transfer deeds which were lodged prior to April 01, 2019 by the 
Shareholders holding shares  in physical mode, and rejected/ returned due to deficiency 
in the documents may be re-lodged with requisite documents with the RTA of the Bank, 
during the special window from July 07, 2025 to January 06, 2026.
10)
Dematerialisation of Shares and 
Liquidity
The shares of your Bank are available for trading in the dematerialised form only under 
both the Depositories in India, viz., NSDL and CDSL. The annual custodian fees for the FY 
2026 have been paid to NSDL and CDSL.
As on March 31, 2025, 1,60,99,01,793 Shares representing 99.93 per cent. of the total 
Share Capital of the Bank were held in dematerialised form. The International Securities 
Identification Number (‘ISIN’) of the equity shares of the Bank is INE545U01014.
89.20%
0.07%
  Demat (NSDL)
1,43,69,55,714
  Demat (CDSL)
17,29,46,079
  Physical
10,69,612
10.74%
Modes of Shares Held
11)
Outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ 
Warrants or any Convertible 
Instruments, Conversion Date 
and Likely Impact on Equity
Not applicable
158
Annual Report 2024-25
12)
Reconciliation of Share Capital 
Audit
Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit in terms of Regulation 76 of the SEBI (Depositories 
and Participants) Regulations, 2018, read with SEBI Circular No. D&CC/FITTC/CIR/-16/2002 
dated December 31, 2002, as amended, has been carried out by Company Secretary in 
Practice on quarterly basis, who reports on the reconciliation of total issued and listed 
capital with that of total share capital admitted/ held in dematerialised form with NSDL 
and CDSL and those held in physical form. The audit report confirms that the total issued/ 
paid-up/ listed capital is in agreement with the total number of shares in physical form and 
the total number of dematerialised shares held through NSDL and CDSL.
The quarterly reports in this regard have been submitted to Stock Exchanges, viz., BSE and 
NSE, and were placed before the Board of Directors of the Bank for its review.
Shareholders holding 1% and above as on March 31, 2025
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Shareholder
No. of Shares held
% of Total Holdings
1.
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
64,41,15,857
39.98
2.
Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd.
10,93,16,486
6.79
3.
Life Insurance Corporation of India
5,94,55,863
3.69
4.
Government Pension Fund Global
2,39,27,724
1.49
5.
Tata Large and Mid-Cap Fund
2,15,51,915
1.34
6.
Matthews Emerging Markets Small Companies Fund
1,98,80,957
1.23
7.
Aditya Birla Sun Life Trustee Private Limited A/C
1,73,82,571
1.08
8.
MFS Emerging Markets Equity Fund
1,67,73,344
1.04
9.
TATA AIA Life Insurance Company Limited A/C
1,66,74,698
1.04
Note: Shareholding is consolidated based on Permanent Account Number of the shareholder.
Distribution Schedule as on March 31, 2025
Category (Paid up value of shares held)
No. of 
Shareholders*
% of 
Shareholders
No. of Shares
% of Total 
Holdings
1- 5,000
7,94,701
89.80
7,32,44,048
4.55
5,001 – 10,000
44,695
5.05
3,35,14,312
2.08
10,001 – 20,000
23,605
2.67
3,42,53,925
2.13
20,001 – 30,000
8,581
0.97
2,18,12,688
1.35
30,001 – 40,000
3,689
0.42
1,30,75,594
0.81
40,001 – 50,000
2,454
0.28
1,13,79,604
0.71
50,001 – 1,00,000
4,103
0.46
2,89,73,607
1.79
1,00,001 and above
3,124
0.35
1,39,47,17,627
86.58
Total
8,84,952
100.00
1,61,09,71,405
100.00
Note: Number of Shareholders on the basis of folios
Top ten Shareholders as on March 31, 2025
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Shareholder
No. of Shares held
% of Total Holdings
1.
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
64,41,15,857
39.98
2.
Caladium Investment Pte. Ltd.
10,93,16,486
6.79
3.
Life Insurance Corporation of India
5,94,55,863
3.69
4.
Government Pension Fund Global
2,39,27,724
1.49
5.
Tata Large and Mid-Cap Fund
2,15,51,915
1.34
6.
Matthews Emerging Markets Small Companies Fund
1,98,80,957
1.23
7.
Aditya Birla Sun Life Trustee Private Limited A/C
1,73,82,571
1.08
8.
MFS Emerging Markets Equity Fund
1,67,73,344
1.04
9.
TATA AIA Life Insurance Company Limited A/C
1,66,74,698
1.04
10.
Bandhan Sterling Value Fund
1,60,60,542
0.99
*Shareholding is consolidated based on Permanent Account Number of the shareholder.
159
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Categories of Shareholders as on March 31, 2025
Sl.
No.
Category of Shareholder
No. of  
Shares held
% of Total 
Holdings
(A)
Promoter and Promoter Group1
(a)
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited (Promoter)2
64,41,15,857
39.98
(b)
Bandhan Financial Services Limited (Promoter)
0
0.00
(c)
Financial Inclusion Trust (Promoter)
0
0.00
(d)
North East Financial Inclusion Trust (Promoter)
0
0.00
(e)
Bandhan Konnagar (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(f)
Bandhan AMC Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(g)
Bandhan Mutual Fund Trustee Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(h)
Bandhan Investment Managers (Mauritius) Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(i)
Quadra Medical Services Private Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(j)
Quadra Hospital And Medical Services Private Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(k)
Gamma Spect - Imaging & Diagnostic Centre Private Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(l)
Quadramedical Research & Foundation Private Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(m)
Bandhan Life Insurance Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(n)
Genisys Information Systems (India) Private Limited (Promoter Group)
0
0.00
(o)
Genisys Software Limited, UK
0
0.00
(p)
Genisys Software Limited, USA
0
0.00
Sub-Total
64,41,15,857
39.98
(B)
Public Shareholding
(1)
Institutions
(a)
Mutual Funds
14,44,02,455
8.96
(b)
Alternative Investment Fund
1,43,06,597
0.89
(c)
Banks
18,658
0.00
(d)
Insurance Companies
10,48,13,702
6.51
(e)
NBFCs registered with RBI
16,093
0.00
(f)
Foreign Direct Investment
5,47,77,522
3.40
(g)
Foreign Portfolio Investors (Category I)
30,17,04,768
18.73
(h)
Foreign Portfolio Investors (Category II)
97,30,905
0.60
(2)
Central Government/ State Government(s)/ President of India
(a)
Shareholding by Companies or Bodies Corporate where Central / State 
Government is a promoter
11,36,000
0.07
(3)
Non-Institutions
(a)
Directors and their relatives (excluding independent directors and nominee 
directors)
2,000
0.00
(b)
Key Managerial Personnel
3,600
0.00
(c)
Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF)
12,74,436
0.08
(d)
Resident Individuals holding nominal share capital up to ₹2 lakhs
21,89,42,190
13.59
(e)
Resident Individuals holding nominal share capital in excess of ₹2 lakhs
6,23,75,233
3.87
(f)
Non Resident Indians (NRI)
1,17,41,030
0.73
(g)
Bodies Corporate
2,32,87,645
1.45
(h)
Clearing Members
6,090
0.00
(i)
HUF
80,20,723
0.50
(j)
Trusts
1,02,95,901
0.64
Sub-Total
96,68,55,548
60.02
GRAND TOTAL (A+B)
1,61,09,71,405
100.00
1The RBI vide letter dated April 15, 2025, advised that Bandhan Mutual Fund is considered to be a part of the Promoter Group of the Bank and 
the holding of Bandhan Mutual Fund in the Bank will be part of the “aggregate holding” of Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited in the Bank.
2Equity Shares held by the Promoter are neither under pledge nor under lock-in.
160
Annual Report 2024-25
39.98%
20.85%
0.07%
39.09%
Category-wise Shareholding
  Promoter & Promoter Group
64,41,15,857
  Institutions
62,97,70,700
  Central/State Government
11,36,000
  Non-Institutions
33,59,48,848
Debenture Trustee
The SEBI LODR requires companies, which have listed their 
debt securities, to disclose the names of their debenture 
trustees, with contact details, in their Annual Reports. 
Your Bank did not have any listed debt securities during 
the FY 2025. However, the details of the Debenture Trustee 
for unlisted NCDs are, as under:
IDBI Trusteeship Services Limited
Universal Insurance Building, Ground Floor, Sir P.M. Road, 
Fort, Mumbai - 400001, India
Contact Nos.: 022-40807005, 022-40807000, 
(+91) 8097474605
Email ID: gauri@idbitrustee.com
Website: https://idbitrustee.com
Plant Locations
Being in the banking business, your Bank does not have 
any plant. However, your Bank had 4,594 Banking Units and 
1,715 Branches as on March 31, 2025. The total number of 
ATMs as on March 31, 2025 was 438. The locations of the 
banking outlets are displayed on your Bank’s website.
Rating of Various Debt Instruments  
(As on March 31, 2025)
Details of rating of various debt instruments of your Bank 
for the FY 2025 have been provided in the Board’s Report 
forming part of this Annual Report.
CEO and CFO Certification
The MD&CEO and the CFO of the Bank give annual 
certification on financial reporting and internal controls to 
the ACB/ Board in terms of Regulation 17(8) of the SEBI 
LODR. The quarterly/ annual certificate(s) on the financial 
results for all the quarters/ year were also placed before the 
ACB/ Board in terms of Regulation 33(2) of the SEBI LODR.
Secretarial Audit Report
The Bank has obtained a Secretarial Audit Report for the 
FY 2025, in Form MR-3, in terms of Section 204 of the 
Companies Act and Regulation 24A(1) of the SEBI LODR, 
from CS Hansraj Jaria, Practicing Company Secretary (FCS 
No.: 7703/CP No.: 19394). The details of the same have been 
provided in the Board’s Report, which forms part of this 
Annual Report.
Annual Secretarial Compliance Report
The Bank has obtained an Annual Secretarial Compliance 
Report for the FY 2025, in the format prescribed by the 
SEBI, in terms of Regulation 24A(2) of the SEBI LODR, read 
with the SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/
CIR/P/2023/120 dated July 11, 2023, from CS Hansraj Jaria, 
Practicing Company Secretary (FCS No.: 7703/ CP No.: 
19394). The said Report has been duly filed with the Stock 
Exchanges and has been uploaded to the website of the 
Bank at https://bandhanbank.com/corporate-governance/
secretarial-compliance-report.
Compliance Certificate
A Certificate from CS Anjan Kumar Roy, Practicing Company 
Secretary (FCS No.: 5684/ CP No.: 4557), regarding 
compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance, 
as stipulated in the SEBI LODR, is annexed to this Report 
and forms part of the Annual Report.
Certificate on Non-Disqualification of Directors
None of the Directors of the Bank has been debarred 
or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as 
directors of companies by the SEBI or the MCA or any such 
statutory authority. A Certificate to this effect from CS 
Anjan Kumar Roy, Practicing Company Secretary (FCS No.: 
5684/ CP No.: 4557) is annexed to this Report forming part 
of the Annual Report.
Directors E-KYC
The MCA, vide the Companies (Appointment and 
Qualifications of Directors) Rules, 2014, has mandated 
KYC of all the Directors through the e-form DIR-3 KYC / 
web-form DIR-3 KYC-WEB. All Directors of the Bank have 
complied with the aforesaid requirement.
Other Useful Information for Shareholders
1)	
Unpaid/ Unclaimed Dividends
	
Pursuant to provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of the 
Companies Act, read with the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer 
and Refund) Rules, 2016 (‘IEPF Rules’), any dividend 
declared by the Bank, which remains unclaimed or 
unpaid for a period of seven years from the date of 
transfer to the respective Unpaid Dividend Account 
of the Bank, is liable to be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (‘IEPF’).
	
Further, all the shares in respect of which dividend has 
not been paid or claimed for seven consecutive years 
or more shall also be transferred to the IEPF Authority. 
However, the said requirement does not apply to 
shares in respect of which there is a specific order of 
161
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Court, Tribunal or Statutory Authority, restraining 
any transfer of such shares or where such shares are 
pledged or hypothecated under the provisions of the 
Depositories Act, 1996.
	
Your Bank was incorporated on December 23, 2014. 
Since inception, your Bank has declared dividend in its 
4th, 5th, 7th, 9th and 10th AGMs held in the years 2018, 
2019, 2021, 2023 and 2024, respectively. Hence, up 
till now, your Bank was not required to transfer any 
unclaimed dividend amount to the IEPF Authority. 
However, during the FY 2026, your Bank would 
transfer the unpaid/ unclaimed dividends declared 
by it in the year 2018 to the IEPF Authority. Further, 
GRUH Finance Limited (‘GRUH’) amalgamated into 
and with your Bank with effect from October 17, 
2019, and in light of the aforesaid provisions, the 
equity shares issued by your Bank as against the 
equity shares held by the shareholders of erstwhile 
GRUH and unclaimed dividend pertaining to such 
equity shares not claimed for seven consecutive years 
were required to be transferred to the IEPF during the 
FY 2025. Accordingly, the dividends that remained 
unclaimed for seven years, have been transferred 
to the IEPF during the FY 2025. Further, such equity 
shares, in respect of which dividend has not been 
claimed for seven consecutive years or more from 
the date of transfer to unpaid dividend account, have 
also been transferred to the demat account of the 
IEPF Authority.
	
The details of unclaimed dividends and shares 
transferred to IEPF Authority during FY 2025 are, 
as follows: 
Relevant FY
Amount of 
unclaimed dividend 
transferred (in ₹)
Number of shares 
transferred
2016-17
39,92,205
61,150
	
The concerned shareholder/ claimant, who has a 
legitimate claim on the transferred dividends/ shares, 
may claim the same from the IEPF Authority by 
following the below-mentioned process:
	
1.	
Make a request to the Bank/ RTA, along with 
physical copy of the requisite documents as 
enumerated in the web based Form IEPF – 5 and 
IEPF Rules, duly signed, in original, for issuance of 
‘Entitlement Letter’, addressed to Nodal Officer, 
at the Head Office of the Bank or the address 
of RTA’.
	
	
(In terms of IEPF Circulars, the Bank is required 
to verify all the documents before issuing 
Entitlement Letter. Accordingly, you are 
requested to submit the original documents 
complete in all respects pertaining to the claim 
to the Bank or its RTA.)
	
2.	
After due verification of documents by RTA/ the 
Bank, an Entitlement Letter would be issued. 
On receipt of the Entitlement Letter, make an 
application in web based Form IEPF-5 available 
at https://iepf.gov.in/IEPF/corporates.html, along 
with the Entitlement Letter; and
	
3.	
Thereafter, send the self-certified copy of Form 
IEPF-5, along with acknowledgement generated 
on filing of Form IEPF-5, and a signed copy of the 
Indemnity Bond, to the Bank/ RTA. Additionally, 
the shareholders/ claimants may scan the whole 
set of documents and send the same to the Bank 
by e-mail at companysecretary@bandhanbank.
com to enable quick processing, followed by 
original physical copy.
	
Further, in terms of the provisions of the IEPF Rules, 
the Bank is required to submit the e-verification report 
to the IEPF Authority within 30 days from the date of 
filing of web-based e-form IEPF-5. In case the original 
documents complete in all respect are not received 
by the Bank well within 30 days from the date of 
filing of web-based e-form IEPF-5, the Bank would be 
bound to file e-verification report for rejection of such 
claims. Upon submission of e-verification report by the 
Bank, the IEPF Authority shall verify the documents 
as submitted by such shareholder and may approve/ 
reject such claim.
	
In the interest of the shareholders, your Bank has 
sent reminders to the shareholders to claim their 
dividends/ equity shares, three months before the 
due date for transfer to IEPF Authority. Notices in this 
regard were also published in the newspapers, and 
the details of unclaimed dividends and shareholders 
whose shares were liable to be transferred to the IEPF 
Authority are available on the Bank’s website under 
the investor relations section https://bandhanbank.
com/unclaimed-dividend.
	
The following tables give information relating to 
unclaimed dividends and the dates by which they can 
be claimed by the Shareholders from the Bank. The 
unclaimed dividends, thereafter, shall be transferred 
to the IEPF as stated above.
162
Annual Report 2024-25
	
a.	
For Shareholders of the Bank:
Financial Year
Date of Declaration of Dividend
Last date for claiming Dividend
2017-18
July 19, 2018
August 19, 2025
2018-19
June 28, 2019
July 29, 2026
2019-20
No dividend declared
Not Applicable
2020-21
August 06, 2021
September 06, 2028
2021-22
No dividend declared
Not Applicable
2022-23
August 18, 2023
September 17, 2030
2023-24
August 20, 2024
September 19, 2031
	
b.	
For Shareholders of erstwhile GRUH which has merged with the Bank:
Financial Year
Date of Declaration of Dividend
Last date for claiming Dividend
2017-2018
May 30, 2018
June 27, 2025
2018-2019
July 19, 2019
August 20, 2026
2)	
Payment of Dividend through Electronic mode
	
In terms of Regulation 12 of the SEBI LODR, read 
with Schedule I thereto, every listed entity is required 
to mandatorily make all payments to shareholders, 
including Dividend, through any RBI approved 
electronic mode of payments, viz., Direct Credit, Real 
Time Gross Settlement (RTGS), National Electronic 
Fund Transfer (NEFT), Electronic Clearing Service 
(ECS), National Automated Clearing House (NACH), 
etc. Your Bank is entitled to use the bank account 
details of the shareholders available with the Bank/ 
Depository Participant to facilitate payment through 
electronic mode.
	
Therefore, all Shareholders of the Bank are requested 
to update details relating to their respective bank 
account numbers, including 9-digit MICR codes and 
11-digit IFSC codes, email addresses and mobile 
numbers with their respective Depository Participants 
(in case shares are held in dematerialised mode) or 
with the Bank’s RTA (in case shares are held in physical 
mode), by submission of form ISR-1 to RTA, along with 
relevant supporting documents.
3)	
Information for Physical Shareholders
	
Compulsory Furnishing of Documents/ Details:
	
As an on-going measure to enhance the ease of 
doing business for investors in the securities market, 
the SEBI had issued various circulars from time to 
time, which were rescinded vide its Master Circular 
for Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents 
(RTAs) dated June 23, 2025 (‘SEBI Master Circular’). 
The SEBI Master Circular has mandated furnishing of 
PAN, Choice of Nomination, Contact details (Postal 
Address with PIN and Mobile Number), Bank Account 
details and Specimen Signature for corresponding 
folio by all holders of physical securities.
	
The SEBI Master Circular, read with SEBI Circular dated 
June 10, 2024, further mandated that the security 
holder(s) whose folio(s) do not have PAN, KYC details 
including Contact Details, Bank Account Details and 
Specimen Signature updated, shall be eligible:
•	 to lodge grievance or avail any service request from 
the RTA, only after furnishing PAN and KYC details.
•	 for any payment including dividend, interest or 
redemption payment in respect of such folios, only 
through electronic mode with effect from April 01, 
2024, only after furnishing PAN and KYC details.
163
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
	
Actionable:
Subject Matter
Action to be taken by Physical Shareholders
Compulsory furnishing of the 
following:
In case any of below-mentioned information/ documents are not provided earlier, the 
holders of physical shares of the Bank are required to furnish the same to the Bank’s RTA, 
KFin, in the manner as provided herein below:
Details to be provided
Documents required
Form for furnishing details
•	 PAN
Valid PAN
Self-certified copy of PAN duly 
linked with AADHAAR
Form No. ISR - 1
•	 Contact details (Postal 
address with PIN, Mobile 
number, E-mail address)
Contact Details:
Postal Address with PIN;
Mobile Number;
E-mail Address
In case of change in address, 
self-certified copy of the Postal 
address proof as per point 
no. C (3) of Form ISR -1. It is 
compulsory to provide Mobile 
number and E-mail ID.
•	 Demat account details
Demat Account details, if 
available
Client Master List (‘CML’) of 
your Demat Account, duly 
signed by the Depository 
Participant with stamp.
•	 Bank account details 
(bank name and branch, 
bank account number, IFS 
code); and
Bank Account Details:
Name of Bank & Branch;
Account Number;
IFS Code
Self-certified copy of Bank 
passbook; or
Bank Statement attested by 
Bank, in original; or
Original cancelled cheque 
leaf, bearing the name of the 
shareholder printed on it
•	 Specimen signature
Specimen Signature
(for shareholder whose 
specimen signature is not 
available with the RTA or who 
wish to update their existing 
signature in the records of 
the RTA)
Banker’s attestation of the 
signature of the holder(s); 
along with:
Original cancelled cheque, 
bearing the name of the 
shareholder printed on it; or
Self-certified copy of Bank 
Passbook/ Bank Statement;
Form No. ISR-1 
Form No. ISR - 2
•	 Nomination
Nomination details
(for shareholders who have 
not registered any nominee)
Original copy of Nomination 
Form as provided in the Rule 
19(1) of the Companies (Share 
Capital and Debentures)  
Rules, 2014
Form No. SH-13
Change in Nomination
(for shareholders who have 
registered nominee(s), but, 
they wish to change/alter the 
same)
Original copy of Variation of 
Nomination Form as provided 
in the Rule 19(9) of the 
Companies (Share Capital and 
Debentures) Rules, 2014
Form No. SH-14
Declaration to opt-out 
nomination
(for shareholders who have 
not registered any nominee 
and who do not wish to have 
any nominee)
In case the holder does not 
wish to nominate any person, 
then the ‘Declaration to 
Opt-out’, shall be furnished in 
original
Form No. ISR - 3
Cancellation of nomination
(for shareholders who have 
registered nominee(s), but, 
who no longer wish to have 
any nominee)
Original copy of Cancellation of 
Nomination Form as provided 
in Rule 19(9) of the Companies 
(Share Capital and Debentures) 
Rules, 2014; and
Form for ‘Declaration to  
Opt-out’ is also required to 
be submitted
Form No. SH-14 
Form No. ISR - 3
164
Annual Report 2024-25
	
Issue of Securities in DEMAT Form Only:
	
As an ongoing measure to enhance the ease of dealing in securities market by the investors, the SEBI, vide its 
Master Circular dated June 23, 2025, has mandated that the listed companies shall henceforth issue the securities in 
dematerialised form only while processing the following service request:
Nature/Details of Request
Required Form
Issue of duplicate securities certificate
Form No. ISR - 4
(along with relevant 
documents)
Claim from Unclaimed Suspense Account
Renewal/ Exchange of securities certificate
Endorsement
Sub-division/ Splitting of securities certificate
Consolidation of securities certificates/folios
Transposition
Transmission
Form Nos. ISR - 4 & ISR - 5
(along with relevant 
documents)
	
Note:
•	 The SEBI has mandated that request for effecting transfer of securities shall not be processed unless the securities 
are held in dematerialised form with a depository;
•	 Similarly, transmission or transposition of securities held in physical or dematerialised form and other service 
requests, as aforesaid, shall be effected only in dematerialised form.	

4)	
Total fees for all services paid by your Bank to the statutory auditor and all entities in the network firm/network entity 
of which the statutory auditor is a part
	
Your Bank did not have any subsidiary as on March 31, 2025. The details of the fees paid to M. M. Nissim & Co LLP, 
Chartered Accountants (till conclusion of the 10th AGM), M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered Accountants, and M/s. V Sankar 
Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants (from the date of 10th AGM), Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank, for FY 2025, 
are, as under:
 Nature of Services
Amount 
in ₹ Crore
Audit Fees
1.65
Certification and Other Fees to Auditors
1.17
Tax Audit Fees
0.10
Others (Out of Pocket Expences & Taxes)
0.68
Total
3.60
	
At the 10th AGM of the Bank, the Shareholders have 
approved for increase in the remuneration of the 
Joint Statutory Auditors from ₹1.50 crore to ₹1.65 
crore for FY 2025 and onwards, as may be allocated 
by the Bank between the Joint Statutory Auditors 
and as may be mutually agreed by them, depending 
upon their respective scope of work. It also approved 
that additionally, the Joint Statutory Auditors would 
be paid certification and other fees, out-of-pocket 
expenses, outlays and taxes, as applicable, with the 
Board/ACB having the power to alter and vary the 
terms and conditions of remuneration, including 
allocation of overall audit fees between the Joint 
Statutory Auditors depending upon their respective 
scope of works and/ or by reason of necessity, on 
account of conditions as may be stipulated by the RBI 
and/ or any other authority, in such manner and to 
such extent as may be mutually agreed between the 
Bank and the said Joint Statutory Auditors. Further, 
it was also mentioned that the remuneration paid to 
the Joint Statutory Auditors will be disclosed in the 
Report on Corporate Governance as well as the Annual 
Financial Statement of the Bank.
	
Accordingly, the fees paid to the Joint Statutory 
Auditors, duly approved by the ACB and the Board 
under the power given by the Shareholders, are 
disclosed hereinabove as well as in the notes to the 
Annual Financial Statement forming part of this 
Annual Report.
165
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
5)	
Equity Shares in the Unclaimed Suspense Account
	
In terms of Regulation 39(4) of the SEBI LODR, read with Schedule VI thereto, the details of Equity shares lying in the 
Unclaimed Suspense Account are given below, which include the equity shares issued by the Bank, pursuant to the 
amalgamation of GRUH into and with the Bank, against shares lying in the suspense account of erstwhile GRUH:
Particulars
No. of Cases
No. of Shares
Aggregate number of Shareholders and the outstanding shares as on April 01, 2024
115
1,69,815
Shareholders who approached the Bank for transfer of shares during the FY
11
24,446
Shareholders to whom shares were transferred during the FY
11
24,446
Shareholders whose shares were transferred to the demat account of the IEPF 
Authority as per Section 124 of the Companies Act
23
34,034
Shareholders whose shares got transferred to the Unclaimed Suspense Account 
during the FY 2025
-
-
Aggregate number of Shareholders and the outstanding shares as on March 31, 2025
81
1,11,335
	
The voting rights on the equity shares lying in the suspense account as on March 31, 2025 shall remain frozen until 
the rightful owner claims such shares.
6)	
Equity Shares in the Suspense Escrow Demat Account
	
As per the requirements of various circulars issued by SEBI from time to time, which were consolidated vide its 
Master Circular for Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents (RTAs) dated May 07, 2024 (‘SEBI Master 
Circular’), in case the securities holder/ claimant fails to submit the demat request within 120 days of issue of Letter 
of Confirmation, the Bank is required to credit the said securities to a Suspense Escrow Demat Account, held purely 
on behalf of the securities holders who are entitled to the securities and such securities shall not be transferred in 
any manner whatsoever except for the purpose of moving the securities from Suspense Escrow Demat Account to the 
security holder's/ claimant's demat account as and when the security holder/ claimant approaches the Bank. Further, 
corporate benefits in terms of securities, viz., bonus, split, etc., accruing on such securities shall be credited to the 
Suspense Escrow Demat Account. Accordingly, the Bank has a Suspense Escrow Demat Account. The details of Equity 
shares lying in the Unclaimed Escrow Demat Account is given below:
Particulars
No. of Cases
No. of Shares
Aggregate number of Shareholders and the outstanding shares as on April 01, 2024
1
7,384
Shareholders whose shares were transferred due to non-submission of demat request 
within specified timeline of 120 days
-
-
Shareholders to whom shares were transferred during the FY
-
-
Shareholders whose shares were transferred to the demat account of the IEPF 
Authority as per Section 124 of the Companies Act, if any
-
-
Aggregate number of Shareholders and the outstanding shares as on March 31, 2025
1
7,384
7)	
Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding the Bank
	
Neither the Bank has entered into any agreement nor the Bank has been informed about any agreement, which is 
binding on the Bank, by any of its Shareholders, Promoters, Promoter Group Entities, related parties, Directors, KMP 
and employees, requiring disclosure under Clause 5A of Para A of Schedule III to the SEBI LODR.
166
Annual Report 2024-25
Declaration as prescribed under Para D of Schedule V to the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015
I confirm that for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, the members of the Board of Directors and the Senior 
Management Personnel of the Bank have affirmed compliance with the provisions of the Bank’s Code of Conduct for 
Board of Directors and the Code of Conduct for Senior Management, respectively.
Partha Pratim Sengupta
Place: Kolkata
Managing Director & CEO
Date: June 27, 2025
(DIN: 08273324)
8)	
Green Initiative in Corporate Governance
	
In furtherance of the ‘Green Initiative in Corporate Governance’ initiated by the MCA, the Bank once again requests 
all the shareholders, holding shares in dematerialised form and who have not yet registered their e-mail address, 
to register their respective e-mail addresses with their concerned Depository Participants for receiving notice/ 
documents, including Annual Report, in electronic mode. Shareholders who hold shares in physical form and who 
have not yet registered their e-mail address are requested to register their e-mail address by submitting details in 
form ISR - 1 as explained above, with KFin, RTA of the Bank.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Bandhan Bank Limited
Anup Kumar Sinha
Place: Kolkata
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Date: July 18, 2025
(DIN: 08249893)
167
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
To,
The Members
Bandhan Bank Limited
Floors 12-14, Adventz Infinity @5,
BN-5, Sector-V, Salt Lake
Kolkata – 700 091
A.	
We have conducted an audit of compliance of corporate governance norms and procedures by Bandhan Bank Limited 
(CIN: L67190WB2014PLC204622), having its registered office at DN-32, Sector-V, Salt Lake, Kolkata – 700 091 and 
maintaining its books of account and papers at its Head Office at Floors 12-14, Adventz Infinity @5, BN-5, Sector V, 
Salt Lake City, Kolkata - 700 091 (herein after referred as ‘the Bank’), during the financial year ended March 31, 2025, 
pursuant to the applicable provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulation, 2015 
(‘SEBI LODR’).
B.	
That our audit is an independent audit of compliance of corporate governance norms and procedures as maintained 
by the Bank in accordance with the applicable provisions and requirements of the SEBI LODR. That compliance of 
corporate governance norms and procedures is the responsibility of the Bank. That our audit and certificate is neither 
an opinion on financial statements of the Bank nor on future viability of the Bank or on effective management of 
the Bank.
C.	
In our opinion and to the best of our understanding, based on the records, documents, books and other information 
examined by us, during the aforesaid audit, as furnished by the Bank and its officers, we confirm that the Bank has 
complied with the corporate governance norms and procedures as per the provisions and requirements of the SEBI 
LODR, to the extent applicable to the Bank, during the aforesaid period under scrutiny.
CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
[Pursuant to Para E of SCHEDULE V of Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
FOR, ANJAN KUMAR ROY & CO.
Company Secretaries
ANJAN KUMAR ROY
Proprietor
FCS No.: 5684
C.O.P. No.: 4557
C.O.P. Unique Code: I2002WB282300
UDIN: F005684G000657368
Place: Kolkata
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6872/2025
Date: June 27, 2025
Firm Unique Code: S2002WB051400
168
Annual Report 2024-25
FOR, ANJAN KUMAR ROY & CO.
Company Secretaries
ANJAN KUMAR ROY
Proprietor
FCS No.: 5684
C.O.P. No.: 4557
C.O.P. Unique Code: I2002WB282300
UDIN: F005684G000657423
Place: Kolkata
Peer Review Certificate No.: 6872/2025
Date: June 27, 2025
Firm Unique Code: S2002WB051400
To,
The Members,
Bandhan Bank Limited
Floors 12-14, Adventz Infinity @5,
BN-5, Sector-V
Salt Lake
Kolkata - 700 091
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of 
Bandhan Bank Limited, having CIN: L67190WB2014PLC204622 and having registered office at DN-32, Sector-V, Salt Lake, 
Kolkata – 700 091 and Head Office at 12th to 14th Floor, Adventz Infinity @5, BN-5, Sector V, Salt Lake City, Kolkata - 700 
091 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Bank’), produced before us by the Bank for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in 
accordance with Regulation 34(3), read with clause 10(i) of Para C of Schedule V, of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications [including Director Identification 
Number (‘DIN’) status at the portal, www.mca.gov.in], as considered necessary, and explanations furnished to us by the 
Bank & its officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Bank, as stated below, for the Financial 
Year ended on March 31, 2025, have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of the 
Bank by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority:
Sl. No.
Name of Director
DIN
Date of appointment in the Bank
1.
Dr. Anup Kumar Sinha
08249893
January 07, 2019
2.
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh*
00342477
December 23, 2014
3.
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta
08273324
November 01, 2024
4.
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar
10540386
March 08, 2024
5.
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh
10082714
March 31, 2023
6.
Dr. Allamraju Subramanya Ramasastri
06916673
August 08, 2018
7.
Dr. Aparajita Mitra 
09484337
July 13, 2022
8.
Ms. Divya Krishnan
09276201
May 11, 2022
9.
Mr. Arun Kumar Singh
09498086
June 24, 2024
10.
Mr. Narayan Vasudeo Prabhutendulkar
00869913
May 08, 2020
11.
Mr. Pankaj Sood**
05185378
February 12, 2024
12.
Mr. Philip Mathew
09638394
June 15, 2022
13.
Mr. Santanu Mukherjee
07716452
January 07, 2019
14.
Mr. Subrata Dutta Gupta
08767943
March 19, 2021
15.
Mr. Suhail Chander
06941577
March 19, 2021
16.
Mr. Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
00751001
May 08, 2020
*Ceased to be a Director of the Bank, with effect from July 10, 2024
**Ceased to be a Director of the Bank, with effect from December 14, 2024
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/ continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the 
management of the Bank. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is 
neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Bank nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management 
has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and clause (10)(i) of Para C of Schedule V to the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
169
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Annex 5
Management Discussion & Analysis Report
A.	 Global and Indian Economic Scenario
	
Global economy – slow recovery amid 
heightened uncertainty
The global landscape over the past year has remained 
fluid, shaped by geopolitical tensions, uneven inflation, 
varied market sentiments across the globe, and policy 
related uncertainties. According to the International 
Monetary Fund (‘IMF’), global GDP growth is projected 
at 2.8 percent for 2025, lower than the previous year’s 
projection of 3.3 per cent.1, and is expected to remain 
rangebound for the foreseeable future, signalling a 
slow and steady recovery.
Regional divergences in inflation have become 
prominent over the past year. While United States’s 
(‘US’) core inflation was forecasted at 2.8 per cent.2 
for 2025, a rise of 30 bps from previous forecast due 
to recent changes in the tariff landscape, Eurozone’s 
inflation has eased out3 and is expected to stabilise.
While US exhibited resiliency in its growth story, China, 
traditionally a growth engine, experienced hiccups due 
to internal structural challenges such as a declining 
workforce and a real estate slump. China’s GDP 
estimates were revised downwards to 4.0 per cent4, 
for both – 2025 and 2026 – from previous projections 
of 4.6 percent and 4.5 percent for 2025 and 20265, 
respectively. Additionally, Eurozone’s growth forecast 
at 0.8 per cent6. in 2025 faced challenges from 
uncertain global trade policies. Similarly, emerging 
economies have also experienced downgrades due to 
intensifying downside risks such as currency volatility, 
geopolitical risks, among others. India, while remaining 
a major growth driver globally, also hit a four-year low 
of 6.5 per cent growth in FY 2024-25, slowed down 
from 9.2 per cent.7, growth recorded in FY 2023-24.
Global economic and trade policies are in a period of 
transition, shaped by competing priorities: national 
security vs. globalisation, sustainability vs. growth, 
and inflation control vs. economic stimulus. The 
trajectory of global growth in the coming years will 
depend on how effectively policymakers balance 
these competing priorities. Economies are increasingly 
expected to realign themselves towards bilateral 
treaties from multilateral arrangements to balance 
growth objectives and policy uncertainties.
In addition, driven by Artificial intelligence (‘AI’), 
global technology landscape has undergone a tectonic 
shift. Advancements in AI, quantum computing and 
the rise of decentralised technologies have created 
a new digital paradigm that is redefining industries, 
economies, and societies at an unprecedented pace. 
Large scale adoption of Generative AI, in particular, is 
reshaping how businesses operate and differentiate 
themselves. As innovation cycles shorten and 
disruption becomes the norm, economies that identify 
and adopt these emerging technologies early, are 
expected to be at the centre of global influence.
	
Climate change poses significant threats to the 
global economy, with major institutions highlighting 
escalating risks. The Organisation for Economic 
Co-operation and Development (‘OECD’) warned 
that without intensified climate action, global GDP 
could decline by up to 4 per cent. annually by 2100 
due to sea-level rise and extreme weather events. 
The World Bank highlighted that 1.2 billion people 
are at high risk from climate hazards. Collectively, 
these findings underscore the urgent need for 
coordinated global action to mitigate climate risks 
and invest in adaptation strategies to safeguard 
economic stability.
	
Indian economy – continues to remain steady 
amid heightened uncertainty elsewhere
	
India's economy has demonstrated resilience amid 
global uncertainties and is expected to maintain 
steady growth in the future. As per the recent 
estimates, India’s GDP growth for FY 2024-25 was at 
6.5 per cent. with Q4 FY 2024-25 exhibiting a growth 
of 7.4 per cent8. amid global uncertainties. The steady 
growth has been supported by robust domestic 
consumption, industrial activity, rural demand and 
government spending.
	
Consumer price index (‘CPI’) inflation is expected to 
moderate from 4.9 per cent9., in FY 2024-25 to below 
4.5 per cent. over the next year, aided by prudent 
monetary policy. Favourable monsoon forecasts, 
better kharif sowing and healthy reservoir levels are 
expected to boost agricultural output and stabilise 
inflation further.
1IMF World Economic Outlook, April 2025
2Federal Open Market Committee meeting minutes, March 2025
3European Central Bank Economic Bulletin, April 2025
4IMF World Economic Outlook, April 2025
5IMF World Economic Outlook, January 2025
6IMF World Economic Outlook, April 2025
7Press Information Bureau, May 30, 2025
8Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation (MOSPI) release, 
May 30, 2025
9Press Information Bureau, January 31, 2025
170
Annual Report 2024-25
Despite external challenges, India's macroeconomic 
fundamentals 
remain 
strong. 
Government 
infrastructure spending and a robust services sector 
continue to underpin economic stability, positioning 
India favourably compared to other major economies.
Rural sector rebounds after a period 
of softness
India’s rural economy rebounded in FY 2024-25, with 
agricultural growth estimated at 4.6 per cent., up 
from 2.7 per cent.10, in previous year, and is expected 
to exhibit similar growth in the coming year, aided by 
above-average monsoon forecasts and increased rural 
spending. Rural consumption has recovered from the 
Covid shock and is likely to stay resilient due to wage 
growth and subsequently the rising demand. Rural 
wage growth, adjusted for inflation, is at its highest 
in the past few years. Being the largest contributor to 
the overall consumption, rural sector continues to play 
pivotal role in India’s economic growth story.
Consumption 
and 
investments 
remained steady
India's economy has maintained steady consumption 
and investment levels in FY 2024-25, as estimated during 
the year showing economic resiliency. Private final 
consumption expenditure accounts for 56.5 per cent. 
of GDP, while gross fixed capital formation contributes 
33.7 per cent.11, reflecting robust domestic demand 
and investment activity. Additionally, the Government's 
capital expenditure is set at a record ₹11.21 lakh crore12, 
for FY 2025-26, underscoring a strong commitment to 
consumption growth and infrastructure development.
B.	 Indian Banking Sector:  
Key Developments
	
Indian Banking Sector: Robust and healthy
	
During FY 2024-25, deposits grew at 10.7 percent. year-
on-year, tad behind the credit offtake which grew at 
11 per cent. The gap between yearly growth of credit 
and deposits in a financial year narrowed down from 
approx. 340 bps in FY 2023-24 to 30 bps in FY 2024-
25. Consequently, the credit-to-deposit (‘CD’) ratio 
remained elevated above 80 per cent. from 79.7 per 
cent. in the previous year for all Scheduled Commercial 
Banks ('SCB')13.
	
Overall credit growth decelerated in FY 2024-25 as 
compared to the previous year. The growth drivers 
in the credit changed from previous year with loans 
to medium industries growing at the highest rate, 
followed by micro & small14 :
a.	
Personal Loans (Retail Loans incl. Housing Loans) 
growth decelerated to 14.0 per cent. in the 
FY 2024-25 from 17.6 per cent. in the previous 
financial year, due to concerns of over-leveraging 
in unsecured lending i.e. Other Personal Loans, 
Credit Cards, Education Loans and Consumer 
Durables. On the other hand, growth in secured 
personals loans i.e., Housing and Gold Loans 
remained robust at 15.3 per cent. and 103.5 per 
cent., respectively against 17.1 per cent. and 14.8 
per cent., respectively in the previous year.
b.	
Credit growth to services sector fell to 13.4 
per cent. in FY 2024-25 from 20.8 per cent. in 
the previous year, due to drag in the credit to 
Commercial Real Estates, NBFCs and Aviation.
c.	
Credit to Agriculture and allied activities halved 
in the FY 2024-25 from previous year.
d.	
Industry credit growth remained consistent at 8.0 
per cent., in FY 2024-25. Credit growth to micro 
and small industries decelerated to 9.0 per cent. 
while credit to medium industries accelerated to 
18.6 per cent. and remained at constant level for 
large industries at 6.2 per cent.
Sector
Growth (year-on-year)
FY24-25
FY23-24
Agriculture  
& allied activities
10.4%
20.0%
Industries
8.0%
8.0%
I.	
Micro and Small
9.0%
14.7%
II.	 Medium
18.6%
13.3%
III.	 Large
6.2%
6.4%
Services
13.4%
20.8%
e.	
As per the Financial Stability Report (‘FSR’) of RBI 
(June 2025), Gross Non-Performing Asset (‘GNPA’) 
ratio of SCBs fell to a twelve-year low of 2.3 per cent. 
in March 2025 whereas the Net Non-Performing 
Assets (‘NNPA’) improved to 0.5 per cent.
f.	
The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (‘LCR’) was 
comfortably at 132.6 per cent. as on March 2025 
above minimum requirement of 100 per cent. 
across bank groups. It was the highest among 
foreign banks followed by public sector banks and 
private banks.
10Press Information Bureau, May 30, 2025
11Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation (MOSPI) release, May 30, 2025
12Indian Budget 2025
13Financial Stability Report (June 2025)
14RBI Sectoral Deployment of Bank Credit – April 2025
171
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
g.	
Profit after tax (‘PAT’) of SCBs increased by 
16.9 per cent. year-on-year in FY 2024-25. Public 
sector banks showed highest jump in PAT of 31.8 
per cent. year-on-year followed by private banks 
at 9.2 per cent.
	
Potential threats
Cybersecurity and Digital Fraud – The cybersecurity 
threats are evolving, driven by rapid technological 
change and increasing sophistication of the 
participants. Simple phishing attacks are now evolving 
into highly coordinated attacks involving deepfakes 
and AI, among others. At the same time, the growing 
sophistication of AI-driven fraud and cyberattacks 
exposes vulnerabilities in banks’ traditional security 
frameworks. The targets broadened from only 
customers previously to also include banking 
infrastructure and digital channels now, leading to 
financial and reputational risks. Banks, thus need to 
invest in advanced security measures and collaborate 
with regulatory bodies to strengthen their cyber 
defences and protect against these evolving threats.
Credit Risk and Household Debt – The surge in 
unsecured lending and the delinquencies in the 
segment raised concerns about borrowers' repayment 
capacities. RBI’s intervention to increase the risk 
weight of the unsecured loans hints at the wider 
concern. Banks need to closely monitor credit risk 
and implement stricter lending criteria to mitigate 
potential defaults and maintain financial stability 
within the sector.
Disruptive Technologies – The rapid evolution of AI 
and Machine Learning (‘ML’) is fundamentally altering 
the financial services landscape, posing a significant 
threat to traditional banking. These technologies 
enable new entrants—often leaner, digital-native, 
and more agile—to deliver financial products 
with unprecedented speed, personalisation, and 
efficiency. As customer expectations shift towards 
real-time, intuitive services, conventional banks risk 
falling behind due to legacy infrastructure, rigid 
processes, and slower innovation cycles. Traditional 
banks need to adapt quickly and redefine their role in 
a tech-first financial environment to avoid the risk of 
losing control.
Climate Risks – Events related to climate change 
are no longer isolated. Rather, they have increasingly 
become a systemic threat to the stability and 
resiliency of the banking industry. These pose threat 
to the borrowers’ credit worthiness, which puts 
pressure on banks’ asset quality and provisioning 
norms. Banks with high exposure to carbon-intensive 
industries may suffer from loss of asset value and 
credit related challenges. Additionally, regulatory 
push towards climate-related financial disclosures and 
ESG integration may add to the operational cost for 
banks in the near term. It is thus imperative for banks 
to integrate climate resilience into their strategy, 
underwriting, and governance practices to maintain 
sustainable business operations.
Absence of Diversity Equity and Inclusion (DEI) 
initiatives – The banking sector, while showing 
progress in DEI initiatives, still lags in equitable 
representation of communities and genders. Lack of 
diversity may result in homogeneous decision-making, 
limiting the industry's ability to innovate and respond 
effectively to rapidly evolving business environment. 
Failure to do so could result in a loss of competitive 
advantage, talent attrition, and diminished trust 
among increasingly socially conscious consumers.
C.	 Strategy
Your Bank has been undergoing a significant 
transformation over the last few years to position 
itself as a diversified, digitally advanced and customer-
centric financial institution. Over the last decade of 
service, your Bank has built a strong foundation of 
trust, resilience and customer-centric growth. Looking 
ahead, it’s committed to expand its reach both – in 
geography and in relationships. Your Bank aims to 
bring more individuals, businesses and communities 
in its fold while strengthening its presence across the 
country. It remains relentlessly focused on identifying 
growth opportunities and aims to achieve the same 
by increasing its share of business from non-eastern 
geographies, and enhancing its presence and outreach 
capabilities through its branches and ATMs. Your Bank 
aims to improve its presence among Metro and Urban 
population groups, notwithstanding its continued 
focus on rural and semi-urban areas.
Your Bank is poised well to scale up its businesses 
with strong emphasis on strengthening its internal 
capabilities, especially in terms of risk management 
and governance. It has further enhanced its credit 
appraisal and recovery mechanisms to improve 
its loan book resilience and repayment discipline. 
Simultaneously, your Bank remains committed to 
best-in-class compliance and governance practices 
that form the core of its risk management strategy.
Your Bank is embracing digital transformation to 
redefine the customer experience and enhance 
operational efficiency. It has been focusing on 
upgrading its digital infrastructure, integrating 
advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence 
and machine learning, and streamlining customer 
172
Annual Report 2024-25
journeys across platforms. Setting up of two new 
functions – Digital and Transaction Excellence Unit 
(DTEU) and Customer Experience (CX) is testimonial to 
our unwavering focus. By leveraging advanced digital 
technologies, your Bank continues to align its services 
with the evolving preferences of digitally inclined and 
next-generation customers.
Your Bank also recognises that a skilled and motivated 
workforce is essential for executing its ambitious 
plans. To this end, it is investing in training, leadership 
development, and employee engagement initiatives. 
These programs are designed to cultivate a high-
performance culture, a more productive workforce 
that aligns with your Bank’s broader strategic goals 
and fosters a sense of ownership and accountability 
among all the employees.
Your Bank’s performance is truly aligned to its defined 
strategy of quality, stability and diversification, across 
its business franchise. Your Bank is implementing 
systemic and systematic overhaul across people, 
process and technology, to further the Bandhan 2.0 
journey. Your Bank has taken giant leaps in the business 
since inception and is focused at scaling it further in 
a rapid and sustainable manner through vertical and 
horizontal expansions.
Beyond banking, your Bank has consistently 
demonstrated a strong commitment to socio-
developmental programs through its CSR initiative 
– Empower. These initiatives are designed to address 
various aspects of community development, including 
education, health, livelihood promotion, sustainable 
development, climate action, financial literacy, 
skill enhancement, and job creation. Your Bank is 
committed to contribute to the society through 
various targeted interventions in a strategic manner.
Your Bank’s forward-looking strategy represents 
a thoughtful blend of modernisation and mission 
continuity. While it embraces innovation and 
diversification to stay competitive, it also remains 
committed to its founding principles of inclusive finance. 
Through strategic investments in digital technology, 
geographic outreach, risk governance and human 
capital, your Bank is preparing itself for a future defined 
by resilience, agility, and long-term value creation.
D.	 Financial Performance of the Bank
	
The financial highlights for the financial year under review are presented below:
	
Summary of Financial Performance
(₹ in Crore)
Particulars
For the financial year ended
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Deposits:
1,51,212.50
1,35,201.99
Advances (Net):
1,31,987.32
1,21,136.78
Total Assets/Liabilities
1,91,476.29
1,77,841.66
Net Interest Income
11,490.58
10,318.84
Non-Interest Income
2,966.60
2,171.42
Less: Operating Expenses (excluding depreciation)
6,789.29
5,613.20
Profit before Depreciation, Provisions and Tax
7,667.89
6,877.06
Less: Depreciation
279.20
237.58
Less: Provisions
3,765.41
3,696.57
Profit Before Tax (PBT)
3,623.28
2,942.91
Less: Provision for Tax
877.98
713.35
Profit After Tax (PAT)
2,745.30
2,229.56
Balance in Profit & Loss Account brought forward from previous year
8,679.13
7,453.78
Amount available for appropriations
11,424.43
9,683.34
Less: Appropriations
1,196.92
1,004.21
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet
10,227.51
8,679.13
EPS (Basic) (in ₹)
17.04
13.84
EPS (Diluted) (in ₹)
17.04
13.84
173
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
The financial performance of your Bank during the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025, remained healthy 
with the Total Net Revenue (Net Interest Income Plus 
Other Income) rising by 15.7 per cent. to ₹14,457.18 
crore from ₹12,490.26 crore during the previous 
financial year. Net Interest Income grew by 11.4 per 
cent. to ₹11,490.58 crore. The Net Interest Margin 
(‘NIM’) was 7.1 per cent. during FY 2024-25 against 
7.3 per cent during the FY 2023-24.
Operating (Non-Interest) Expenses increased to 
₹7,068.50 crore from ₹5,850.78 crore during FY 2024-
25. During the FY under review, your Bank has set up 
15 new branches. Employee strength stood at 75,032 
at the end of March 31, 2025. The cost to income ratio 
increased to 48.9 per cent. for FY 2024-25 from 46.8 
per cent. for FY 2023-24, primarily driven by cost to 
support the business growth, regulatory cost like 
PSLC and strategic investment in manpower and 
technology. The Total Provisions and Contingencies 
(including tax provisions) was ₹4,643.39 crore as 
compared to ₹4,409.92 crore in FY 2023-24.
The Profit After Tax (‘PAT’) for FY 2024-25 stood at 
₹2,745.30 crore, an increase of 23.1 per cent. over 
the previous financial year. Consequently, the Return 
on Average Equity (‘ROAE’) was 11.6 per cent. for 
FY 2024-25 against 10.7 per cent. for FY 2023-24. 
Return on Average Asset (‘ROAA’) was 1.5 per cent. 
for FY 2024-25 against 1.4 per cent for FY 2023-24. 
Your Bank’s basic as well as diluted Earnings Per Share 
(‘EPS’) increased from ₹13.84 for FY 2023-24 to ₹17.04 
for FY 2024-25.
Reflecting on steady growth in the balance sheet, Total 
Liabilities (including capital and reserves) increased 
by 7.7 per cent. from ₹1,77,841.66 crore as on March 
31, 2024 to ₹1,91,476.29 crore as on March 31, 2025 
whereas Total Advances (Net) stood at ₹1,31,987.32 
crore, a growth of 9.0 per cent. over FY 2023-24. Total 
Business of your Bank increased by 10.9 percent to 
₹2,88,207 crore (Gross Advances: ₹1,36,995 crore and 
Deposits: ₹1,51,212 crore as on March 31, 2025) from 
previous year of ₹2,59,923 crore (Gross Advances: 
₹1,24,721 crore and Deposits: ₹1,35,202 crore) as on 
March 31, 2024.
	
Priority Sector Lending and Investment
RBI has mandated Priority Sector Lending (‘PSL’) of 
40 per cent. of advances for all the banks. Your Bank 
continues to focus on financial inclusion by providing 
various financial services to the underserved. Your 
Bank's PSL was ₹72,106.54 crore (net) as on March 
31, 2025, and PSL as a proportion of preceding year's 
Adjusted Net Bank Credit (‘ANBC’) of ₹1,31,991 crore 
was 54.96 per cent.
	
Key Ratios
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Fee to total income
11.91%
10.32%
Cost to income
48.89%
46.84%
Earnings per share
₹17.04
₹13.84
Book value per share
₹145.32
₹126.42
Return on average assets
1.53%
1.44%
Return on average net worth
11.57%
10.65%
Operating Profit to  
Average Total Assets
4.13%
4.29%
Net Interest Margin
7.07%
7.35%
E.	 Internal Financial Control
Your Bank engages external firms to carry out 
independent reviews of internal controls, processes, 
reporting, etc., and recommendations, if any, are made 
by them to the Bank/ Audit Committee of the Board of 
Directors of the Bank('ACB') for improvement.
Considering the internal financial controls of the Bank, 
and the work performed by the auditors, including 
the audit of internal financial controls over financial 
reporting by the auditors and the reviews performed 
by management under the supervision of the ACB, the 
Board of Directors is of the opinion that the internal 
financial controls established and maintained by the 
Bank are adequate.
F.	 Business Segment Wise Performance
Segment wise business Performance of the Bank 
during FY 2024-25 forms part of the Board’s Report.
G.	 Risk and Concerns
Your Bank is exposed to various risks by the very 
nature of its business. Your Bank has put in place a 
comprehensive Enterprise-wide Integrated Risk 
Management Framework supported by detailed 
policies and processes for the management of Credit 
Risk, Market Risk, Liquidity Risk, Operational Risk and 
various other risks. Please refer to the section ‘Risk 
Management’ of the Board’s Report for details.
174
Annual Report 2024-25
H.	 Development in Human Resources
Details regarding developments in Human Resources 
including number of people employed by the Bank 
during FY 2024-25 forms part of the Board’s Report.
I.	
Disclosure of Accounting Treatment
The Financial Statement has been prepared under the 
historical cost convention and on the accrual basis of 
accounting, unless otherwise stated and in compliance 
with the requirements prescribed under the Third 
Schedule (Form A and Form B) to the BR Act. The 
accounting and reporting policies of your Bank used 
in the preparation of the Financial Statement conform 
to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in India 
(‘Indian GAAP’), the guidelines issued by the RBI, 
from time to time, the accounting standards notified 
under Section 133 and other relevant provisions of the 
Companies Act, read together with the Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, as amended from 
time to time, to the extent applicable, and practices 
generally prevalent in the banking industry in India.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Bandhan Bank Limited
Anup Kumar Sinha
Place: Kolkata 
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Date: July 18, 2025
(DIN: 08249893)
175
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Dear Shareholders,
It is with great pride and purpose that we are presenting 
the third edition of your Bank’s Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report (BRSR) for the Financial Year 2024–25. 
This report reaffirms our ongoing commitment to driving 
long-term value creation for all stakeholders through 
ethical governance, inclusive growth, and sustainable 
environmental management. Since inception, your Bank 
has remained rooted in its mission of delivering innovative, 
inclusive, and customer-centric banking solutions.
Your Bank’s performance during the year reflects 
the strength of its sustainable and balanced growth 
strategy, supported by robust governance, prudent risk 
management, and the continued trust of its stakeholders. 
The total deposits stood at ₹1.51 Lakh crore, with over 
12 percent YoY growth whereas, advances (Net) reached 
1.37 Lakh crore, with over 10 percent YoY growth.
As environmental and social challenges intensify globally, 
we believe that while adherence to regulatory requirements 
is essential, businesses must also actively foster meaningful 
change beyond compliance. Your Bank has taken significant 
steps to reduce its ecological footprint while embracing a 
future-ready, digital-first banking model.
Leveraging advanced technologies such as Artificial 
Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning (ML), and Data Analytics, 
your Bank is designing products and services that respond 
to the evolving needs of customers. To institutionalise this 
transformation, a dedicated Transformation Management 
Team has been established to drive innovation and 
efficiency. In parallel, the Digital & Transaction Excellence 
Unit is focused on enhancing transaction banking and 
elevating the overall digital experience.
Through sustained digitalisation, we have significantly 
reduced paper usage, improved energy efficiency, and 
minimised operational waste. This strategic shift is reflected 
in key achievements—93% of savings accounts were 
opened digitally, 98% of retail transactions were conducted 
through digital platforms, and digital deposit volumes grew 
by 99% year-on-year. These milestones represent a decisive 
move toward a low-carbon, tech-enabled operating model 
and contribute meaningfully to India’s net-zero ambitions.
Beyond internal efficiencies, we have implemented on-
ground environmental initiatives to promote ecosystem 
regeneration and climate resilience. To date, we have planted 
over 4.34 lakh saplings and constructed 72 water harvesting 
structures. These initiatives have led to the sequestration 
of CO2 and rainwater harvesting that partially offsets the 
carbon footprint and water consumption of your Bank.
Message from the MD&CEO on Sustainability
In line with our commitment to clean energy, climate 
resilience, and rural empowerment, the Bank has 
implemented targeted solar initiatives that deliver 
tangible environmental and socio-economic benefits. 
Your Bank installed high-mast solar lighting systems in 
Pandharpur and provided solar-powered irrigation pumps 
equipped with drip systems to tribal farmers in Gujarat. 
These interventions have not only strengthened rural 
infrastructure and improved agricultural productivity but 
also achieved a remarkable 90%+ reduction in water usage. 
These efforts are focused on promoting decentralised 
renewable energy solutions in underserved and energy-
deficient geographies, helping bridge infrastructure gaps 
while fostering community resilience.
We recognise that responsible capital allocation is a 
powerful lever for sustainable development. As part of 
our commitment to aligning our portfolio with global 
climate targets, we have adopted a disciplined approach 
to managing financed emissions. Our credit exposure to 
carbon-intensive sectors such as mining, petroleum, and coal 
has been consciously limited to just 0.12%. Simultaneously, 
we are promoting the clean energy transition by allocating 
4% of our outstanding credit portfolio to renewable energy 
projects, predominantly solar. This strategy of divesting 
from carbon-heavy industries while scaling up investments 
in green energy not only aligns our portfolio with evolving 
regulatory expectations and climate commitments but also 
strengthens our resilience against long-term environmental 
and reputational risks. These choices reflect a risk-aware 
financing strategy that supports India’s green growth 
agenda while safeguarding our portfolio against climate-
related risks.
Guided by the principle of “Aapka Bhala, Sabki Bhalai,” your 
Bank remains deeply committed to the collective well-
being of its stakeholders and the broader mission of social 
upliftment across India. With a customer base of 31.6 million 
and a network of 6,309 banking outlets, predominantly in 
underserved semi-urban and rural areas, Bandhan Bank 
is a leader in driving financial inclusion at scale. Through 
our flagship women-centric group loan model (EEB), we 
serve 13.2 million active women customers, who account 
for 26.2% of our overall portfolio—the highest proportion 
among Indian banks.
Our CSR programmes are designed to deliver holistic 
and measurable impact. In FY 2024-25, these initiatives 
reached 25.81 lakh families through strategic interventions 
in health, education, skill development, financial literacy, 
business incubation, and climate action, all mapped to the 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). 
Annex 6
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (BRSR)-FY 2024-25
176
Annual Report 2024-25
Notably, 2.0 million women benefited from our community 
initiatives this year—1.3 million through healthcare services 
and 0.6 million through financial literacy programmes.
A signature programme, Targeting the Hard-core Poor 
(THP), enabled the upliftment of 52,932 ultra-poor, women-
led households, empowering them to achieve economic 
self-reliance. Additionally, we supported over 2,000 farmers 
in adopting climate-smart agriculture, strengthening their 
adaptive capacity against climate variability. To nurture 
India’s future workforce, we provided free supplementary 
education to more than 0.1 million children and delivered 
skill training to over 19,000 youth, 68% of whom secured 
employment across diverse sectors.
Internally, our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Policy 
continues to foster a workplace culture anchored in fairness, 
opportunity, and representation. We remain committed to 
building an inclusive organisation that reflects the diverse 
communities we serve.
Governance continues to be at the heart of your Bank’s 
operations. Since inception, your Bank has upheld the 
highest standards of corporate governance, led by a Board 
comprising a majority of Independent Directors and a clear 
demarcation of responsibilities between the Non-Executive 
Chairman and the Managing Director & CEO. This structure 
ensures effective checks and balances, independent 
oversight, and strategic accountability.
Our governance framework is anchored in a strong risk 
management architecture, well-defined compliance 
protocols, and a zero-tolerance stance toward unethical 
practices. Under the leadership of your Bank’s core 
management team, our 75,032 employees remain 
dedicated to upholding the highest standards of integrity 
and accountability, delivering banking services through a 
balanced “High-tech and High-touch” approach.
In an increasingly digital financial environment, we are 
investing significantly in cybersecurity infrastructure and 
digital risk mitigation systems. Guided by a clear roadmap 
that embeds risk management and compliance into every 
facet of our operations, we remain optimistic about 
unlocking greater value for all our stakeholders.
Transparency and stakeholder engagement are integral to 
our ethos. We communicate proactively through multiple 
channels and ensure compliance with all disclosure 
norms. Our ESG practices are codified in a comprehensive 
compendium of Board-approved BRSR policies, which 
guide our conduct across all verticals and geographies.
The Bank’s performance in FY 2024-25 reflects the strength 
of its integrated sustainability strategy. Total deposits rose 
by over 12% to ₹1.51 lakh crore, while net advances grew 
by over 10% to ₹1.37 lakh crore. These figures validate the 
trust placed in us by millions of customers, investors, and 
partners—and reaffirm our ability to grow responsibly 
and sustainably.
As we look to the future, Bandhan Bank remains resolute 
in its commitment to delivering financial services that 
are not only inclusive and innovative but also aligned 
with the imperatives of sustainability and social good. 
Our leadership is dedicated to responsible growth, 
promoting environmental responsibility, and empowering 
communities. Our strategic focus on green financing, clean 
energy, and social upliftment reflects our long-term vision of 
driving India’s transformation into a resilient, equitable, and 
climate-conscious economy. With the continued trust and 
support of our stakeholders, we will remain steadfast in our 
mission to create lasting value, foster inclusive prosperity, 
and contribute meaningfully to a sustainable future.
We thank all our stakeholders for their unwavering trust 
and partnership. Together, we will continue to chart a path 
of responsible growth and shared prosperity.
Warm regards,
Partha Pratim Sengupta
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
(DIN: 08273324)
177
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L67190WB2014PLC204622
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
Bandhan Bank Limited
3.
Year of Incorporation
2014
4.
Registered office address
DN-32, Sector – V, Salt Lake, Kolkata – 700 091, West 
Bengal
5.
Corporate address
Floors 12-14, Adventz Infinity@5, BN-5, Sector V, Salt Lake 
City, Kolkata - 700 091, West Bengal
6.
E-mail
investors@bandhanbank.com
7.
Telephone
+91 33 6609 0909
8.
Website
www.bandhanbank.com
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
April 1, 2024 – March 31, 2025
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
•	 National Stock Exchange of India Limited (‘NSE’)
•	 BSE Limited (‘BSE’)
11.
Paid-up Capital
₹16,10,97,14,050
12.
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of 
the person who may be contacted in case of any queries 
on the BRSR Report
Mr. Siddhartha Sanyal, Executive Vice President
Telephone: 033-66090909 / 033-40456456
Email: info@bandhanbank.com
13.
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this 
report made on a standalone basis (i.e., only for the 
entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e., for the entity and 
all the entities which form a part of its consolidated 
financial statements, taken together)
Since the Bank does not have any subsidiary or associate 
companies, this report is made on a standalone basis.
14.
Name of assurance provider
Not Applicable
15.
Type of assurance obtained
Not Applicable
II.	
Products/services
	
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
Sl. 
No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of  
the Entity
1.
Banking Products & Services
The banking products and services include treasury, 
retail banking, microfinance, corporate/wholesale 
banking and other third-party product distribution.
100%
	
17.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover):
Sl. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover 
Contributed
1.
Banking products & services of 
commercial banks and savings banks
64191
100%
III.	 Operations
	
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
Not applicable
6,747*
6,747*
International
0
0
*Includes 4,594 banking units; 1,715 Branches and, 438 ATMs
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
178
Annual Report 2024-25
	
19.	 Markets served by the entity:
a.
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States & UTs)
Presence in all 35 states and 7 Union 
Territories (except Lakshadweep)
International  
(No. of Countries)
Not applicable
b.
What is the contribution of 
exports as a percentage of total 
turnover of the entity?
The Bank provides Banking services, including deposits and lending services 
within India. Therefore, given the nature of banking services, exports of any 
nature do not apply to banking companies.
c.
A brief on types of customers 
The Bank has 33.6 million customers, of which more than 75% (25.3 million) 
customers are Emerging Entrepreneurs Business (‘EEB’) customers. The 
customers of the Bank, can typically be categorised into the following 
categories based on the business segments:
Retail Banking: The retail banking services cater to individuals, salaried 
professionals, self-employed professionals, farmers, students, micro and 
small businesses, trusts, women groups, entrepreneurs etc., in metropolitan, 
urban, semi-urban and rural areas. The services entail loans, deposits and 
other products and services.
Wholesale / Commercial Banking: The wholesale banking services cater 
to corporates, government, financial institutions, education institutions, 
MSMEs, public sector units etc. The services entail commercial and 
transactional banking services.
IV.	 Employees
	
20.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year – 2024-25
	
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Sl. No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
75,032
66,672
88.86%
8,360
11.14%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
-
-
-
-
-
3.
Total employees (D + E)
75,032
66,672
88.86%
8,360
11.14%
WORKERS
4. 
Permanent (F)
Not Applicable
5. 
Other than Permanent (G)
6. 
Total workers (F + G)
	
	
	
	
Note: 	 	
	
	
1.	
All the employees of the Bank are on-rolls and there are no employees that are not on the rolls of the 
Bank. Accordingly, KPIs related to other than permanent are nil in any of the tables of the prescribed 
BRSR format.
	
	
	
	
2.	
The Bank does not employ any workers. Accordingly, KPIs related to workers are nil in any of the tables of the prescribed 
BRSR format.
179
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
	
	
b.	
Differently abled employees and workers
Sl. No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
5*
5*
100%
0
0%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
-
-
-
-
-
3.
Total differently abled 
employees (D+E)
5*
5*
100%
0
0%
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4. 
Permanent (F)
Not Applicable
5. 
Other than Permanent (G)
6. 
Total differently-abled 
workers (F+G)
*Based on voluntary disclosure by the employees
	
21.	 Participation/inclusion/representation of women (As at March 31, 2025)
Total (A)
No. and the percentage of females
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
14
2
14.29%
Key Management Personnel*
5
-
-
*Includes the MD&CEO and two Whole-time Directors, the CFO and the Company Secretary
	
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
23.43%
31.20%
24.38%
21.45%
27.27%
22.14%
31.60%
43.43%
32.78%
Permanent Workers
Not applicable
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
	
23.	 a. Name of the holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
Sl.
No.
Name of the holding /
subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint ventures 
(A)
Indicate whether holding 
/ Subsidiary/ Associate / 
Joint Venture (B)
% of shares held  
by the listed entity  
(C)
Does the entity indicated in 
column A, participate in the 
Business Responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/No) (D)
The Bank does not have any holdings/subsidiaries/ associate company / joint ventures.
VI.	 CSR details
	
24.	 i.	
Whether CSR is applicable as per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (Yes/No): 
	
	
	
Yes
	
	
ii.	
Turnover:
	
₹2,49,14,82,87,054 (FY 2024-25)
	
	
iii.	 Net worth:
	
₹2,34,10,75,24,430 (FY 2024-25)
180
Annual Report 2024-25
VII.	Transparency and Disclosures Compliances 
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC)
Stakeholder 
group
from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanisms in Place (Yes/
No) (If yes, then provide 
web-link for grievance 
redressal policy)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during
the year
Number of 
complaints pending 
resolution at the 
close of the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints filed 
during the year
Number of 
complaints pending 
resolution at the 
close of the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
https://bandhanbank.
com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/
files/2023-01/Business-
Responsibility-and-
Sustainability-Reporting-
policy-210123.pdf
0
1
A case was filed by the 
pro-Bengali advocacy 
organisation Bangla 
Pokkho entailing all 
banking documents 
published by the Bank 
should be in English, Hindi 
and Bengali.
0
1
A case was filed by the 
pro-Bengali advocacy 
organisation Bangla Pokkho 
entailing all banking 
documents published 
by the Bank should be in 
English, Hindi and Bengali.
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Not Applicable
0
0
Not Applicable
0
0
-
Shareholders
Yes- Policies on Principle 4-
https://bandhanbank.
com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/
files/2023-01/Business-
Responsibility-and-
Sustainability-Reporting-
policy-210123.pdf
117
30
The communications from 
shareholders pertain to 
dividends-related queries, 
transfer/ transition of 
shares, Annual Reports etc.
201
3
The pending 3 complaints 
have since been closed.
The communications from 
shareholders pertain to 
dividends-related queries, 
transfer/ transition of 
shares, Annual Reports etc.
Employees
Yes-
https://bandhanbank.
com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/
files/2023-01/Business-
Responsibility-and-
Sustainability-Reporting-
policy-210123.pdf
Cases - 11
POSH - 31
Cases - 44
POSH - 08
11 cases have been filed in 
the FY 24-25 and 44 cases 
in total including the old 
cases, were pending as of 
March 31, 2025
Whistleblower – 40
POSH - 21
Court Cases by  
ex-employees -35
Whistleblower - 7
POSH - 04
court cases by  
ex-employees – 61
All pending cases of 
whistleblowers and POSH  
have since been closed.
Out of 70 court cases 61 
are pending as of  
March 31, 2024.
The nature of employees' 
complaints varies from 
breach of code of conduct, 
POSH, breach of ethical 
behaviour and practices and 
other behavioural issues.
181
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Stakeholder 
group
from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanisms in Place (Yes/
No) (If yes, then provide 
web-link for grievance 
redressal policy)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during
the year
Number of 
complaints pending 
resolution at the 
close of the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints filed 
during the year
Number of 
complaints pending 
resolution at the 
close of the year
Remarks
Customers
Yes-
https://bandhanbank.
com/sites/default/
files/2024-02/Customer-
Policy-010224.pdf
1,55,931
6,802
Out of 6,116 pending 
complaints, 3,609 stand 
closed as on date.
273 cases have been filed 
in FY 24-25 and 686 cases 
in total including the old 
cases, were pending as of 
March 31, 2025
60,672 
1,774
Out of 1,150 pending 
complaints, 1,110 have 
since been closed.
Out of 60,672 complaints, 
342 are court cases that 
have been filed in the  
FY 23-24.
As of March 31, 2024,  
624 court cases were 
pending which includes 
cases from previous years
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes-
https://bandhanbank.
com/pdfViewerJS/index.
html#../sites/default/
files/2023-01/Business-
Responsibility-and-
Sustainability-Reporting-
policy-210123.pdf
0
0
No complaints have been 
received from value  
chain partners
0
0
No complaints have been 
received from value  
chain partners
Other - 
Regulators/
Govt. Agencies
Yes
-
-
10
0
10 instances are pertaining 
to penalties imposed by RBI 
on account of cash outage 
and service deficiency
182
Annual Report 2024-25
	
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues:
	
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining 
to environmental and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, 
rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk, along with its financial 
implications, as per the following format:
Materiality assessment is the process of determining topics (issues) that can impact economic, environmental, 
social and governance attributes in banking operations. It has the potential to influence the decisions of 
stakeholders, who are willing to partner like customers, shareholders, lenders and investors. The preliminary 
step in materiality assessment is to identify and consult with the right set of stakeholders (or representatives) 
who can provide useful insights. The materiality assessment process includes –
a)	
Identification of sector-specific material topics: The process involves identifying relevant peer 
companies across the banking sector and mapping standards like the Global Reporting Initiative (‘GRI’), 
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (‘UN SDGs’), International Integrated Reporting Council 
(‘IIRC’) requirements, to understand the appropriate material topics.
b)	
Identification of external stakeholders: The Bank assesses the impact of its banking operations on its 
investors, customers, employees, community, regulatory bodies, value chain partners, media, civil and 
societies to evaluate ways to further improve stakeholder value creation.
c)	
External stakeholder consultation: The Bank liaisons with external stakeholders and seeks their 
perception and comments on the identified material topics. Such material topics are further prioritised 
basis of the importance they hold to each stakeholder group and their feedback.
d)	
Prioritisation of material topics relevant to the Bank: External stakeholder responses are first assessed 
and collated. The collated material topics are categorised into low, medium and high categories and 
finally, the materiality map is finalised post consultation with the decision-making committee and senior 
leadership team.
The Bank remains committed to implementing relevant policies to ensure responsible banking conduct and 
undertake required sustainability initiatives. Based on the prioritised material topics, the Bank has identified 
relevant risks and opportunities that are mentioned below. This report includes information, which is material to 
all stakeholders of the Bank, and it presents an overview of the Bank’s businesses and associated activities. The 
Bank discloses matters that substantially impact or affect the Bank’s ability to create value. To ensure effective 
mitigation of identified risks, the Bank carries out a materiality analysis, to identify topics material to the Bank 
and its stakeholders. The sensitivity of an issue to stakeholders and the Bank, in terms of importance, forms 
the basis of the materiality analysis, which in turn guides the processes for identifying, managing, and devising 
specific action plans for addressing these material aspects. Every material topic is taken into account, and the 
Bank has policies and procedures in place to address these topics in order to create sustainable growth and 
long-term value.
183
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Sl. 
No.
Material issue
Identified
Indicate 
whether risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate positive or negative 
implications)
1.
Climate Change-
Related Risks
Risk
•	
Climate-related risks refer to the potential risks 
that may arise from climate change or from efforts 
to mitigate climate change, its impact and the 
economic and financial consequences.
•	
It can impact the financial sector through two 
broad channels - physical risks and transition risks.
•	
Physical Risk: The physical impacts from climate 
change will feed through to an economy in various 
ways, including damages to physical assets 
through extreme weather, reduced agricultural 
productivity, heat-related health and medical 
issues, and loss of biodiversity.
•	
Transition Risk: It refers to the risks arising from 
the process of adjustment towards a low-carbon 
economy. A range of factors influences this 
adjustment, including changes in climate-related 
policies and regulations, the emergence of newer 
technologies, shifting sentiments and behaviour of 
customers. The process of transition, i.e., reducing 
carbon emissions may have a significant impact on 
the economy.
•	
The uncertainty about the timing and severity of 
climate-related risks like physical risk and transition 
risk threatens the safety, soundness and resilience 
of regulated entities (REs) and in turn, it affects the 
overall stability of the financial system.
•	
Financial, reputational, regulatory and market 
risk implications are becoming increasingly 
prominent with increased threats of climate 
change such as but not limited to floods, droughts, 
erratic rainfall, supply chain disruptions, change 
in market perception and shift towards more 
environmentally friendly products and services.
•	
The Bank has a robust governance structure to 
develop climate-related risk mitigation strategies, 
ensure effective implementation of the identified 
levers and monitor performance against such risks 
at regular intervals.
•	
The Bank ensures that climate-related risks like 
floods, cyclones and external rating impact on 
industries with CO2 emissions are properly reflected 
in the Bank's short-term and long-term capital 
planning under the Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (ICAAP)* through stress testing 
and impact analysis.
	
*(ICAAP under BASEL accord – a mechanism to 
ensure the institution's strategic focus, business 
plan and internal procedures for ensuring adequate 
possession of long-term capital resources to cover 
all material risks.)
•	
The Bank is deliberating to embark on a journey 
of advocating sustainability in its value chain, such 
as assessment of the GHG emission footprint of 
its lending portfolio, lender’s customer targets 
and commitments on ESG resource optimisation, 
evaluating the quantum of collateral positioned in 
high-risk flood/drought-prone areas, checking green 
building certifications of real estate portfolios, social 
inclusivity of corporates, SME & MSME customers.
•	
Within its operation, the Bank is considering 
greening the branches and data centres, eliminating 
the use of paper in the operations, introducing the 
option of e-receipts on registered mobile numbers 
at their ATMs, evaluating options of switching 
over to renewable energy for sourcing power 
gradually and future-proofing operations against 
regulatory requirements.
•	
Negative financial implications:
•	
Financial/Credit risk: Rising frequency and 
severity of extreme weather events can 
impair the value of assets held by the Banks’ 
customers, or impact supply chains affecting 
customers’ operations and profitability and 
leading to higher loan defaults and NPAs.
•	
Market risk: Increased volatility in 
investments because of shifts in investor 
preferences or climate-induced adverse 
effects might lead to a decline in lending 
portfolio valuation.
•	
Reputational risk: Failure to address the 
challenging climate change vulnerabilities 
will affect stakeholders’ trust resulting in 
loss of customer base.
184
Annual Report 2024-25
Sl. 
No.
Material issue
Identified
Indicate 
whether risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate positive or negative 
implications)
2.
Employee 
Engagement
Opportunity
•	
People transformation is one of the agenda for 
the Bank’s Vision. People are at the forefront of 
customer interactions and the strongest brand 
ambassadors on the ground.
•	
The Bank’s Human Resources (HR) policies and 
practices are designed to empower people and 
provide them with an environment where they 
can deliver their best every day.
•	
Building an innovative work environment to foster 
employee well-being, enhance relationships and 
sustain long-term productivity by providing work-
life balance, better career progression, healthy 
& safe working environment and aim towards 
becoming an appealing employer.
-
Positive financial implication:
Employee welfare initiatives might lead to 
higher talent retention, improve the Bank’s 
brand image and impact the performance of 
the employees.
Our human resources management strategy is 
centered on creating a supportive, interesting, 
and collaborative workplace while continuing to 
be customer-centric, performance-driven, and 
future-ready. The Bank has received the ‘Gallup 
Exceptional Workplace Award’ in recognition of 
its efforts in the area of employee engagement.
The Bank ranks among the most 
prestigious companies that are genuinely 
altering how people perceive work and life as 
award winners.
3.
Customer Value
Opportunity
•	
Customer-Centric Approach: We prioritise a 
customer-first strategy, designing each service 
and process to build meaningful relationships 
that go beyond simple transactions. Our focus is 
on enhancing customer engagement, fostering 
loyalty, and improving retention through 
personalised experiences.
•	
Building a Strong Financial Foundation: We 
are dedicated to developing a solid financial 
framework that helps our customers achieve their 
financial objectives. By offering tailored products 
and solutions, we aim to address their financial 
concerns and guide them toward sustained 
progress and success.
Approach to adapt or mitigate is provided in case of risk 
only. Hence, not applicable.
Positive financial implication:
A delightful customer experience shall improve 
customer retention which shall lead to business 
advancement. This shall also enhance our 
brand value and bring in a positive word of 
mouth marketing from the existing satisfied 
customers.
185
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Sl. 
No.
Material issue
Identified
Indicate 
whether risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate positive or negative 
implications)
4.
Community 
Engagement and 
Development
Opportunity
•	
Facilitating socio-economic development of the 
disadvantaged communities through programmes 
on health, education, livelihood and environment.
The Bank has a holistic model of development under its 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, which 
targets the underprivileged section of the society. 
The Bank’s CSR initiatives are aligned with the Bank’s 
operational areas. The CSR programme includes:
•	
Targeting the Hard-core Poor – A programme 
uniquely crafted for ultra-poor women-headed 
families to move them out of the vicious cycle of 
extreme poverty and ensure a life of dignity and 
stable income.
•	
Education Programme – Provides supplementary 
and 
pre-primar y 
quality 
learning 
to 
underprivileged children.
•	
Skill Development Programme – Aims to provide 
vocational training across various sectors, offering 
job placement support, and empowering youth with 
practical skills for entrepreneurship or employment, 
while also supporting educational institutions focused 
on skill development and women's empowerment.
•	
Health Programme – Targets reducing maternal and 
infant mortality, preventing malnutrition among 
children under five and adolescent girls, enhancing 
healthcare infrastructure through the provision of life 
saving ambulances, and offering medical support and 
vital resources for cancer care.
•	
Employing the Unemployed – The programme 
provides skills and gainful employment to 
underprivileged youths.
•	
Financial Literacy – Imparts financial management 
knowledge to underprivileged women and 
mainstream them with digital banking services.
•	
Climate Action Programme – Helps carbon 
sequestration through afforestation and agroforestry 
and mitigates climate-related risks through climate-
resilient agriculture and supporting biodiversity, 
renewable energy, and community initiatives.
•	
Water conservation – Promotes water harvesting 
structures for providing critical irrigation in moisture-
stressed areas. 
Positive financial implication:
The Bank can acquire the benefits of promoting 
social equality and reap significant rewards in 
terms of value creation.
186
Annual Report 2024-25
Sl. 
No.
Material issue
Identified
Indicate 
whether risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate positive or negative 
implications)
5.
Human Rights
Opportunity
•	
The Bank plays a vital role in building the economy, 
as it has substantial leverage over a range of 
sectors and business activities.
•	
The Bank advocates for safeguarding the 
fundamental human rights of its people and works 
towards developing a diverse workforce.
-
Positive financial implication:
Protecting human rights across the value chain 
is an affirmative action, it creates a competitive 
advantage and enhances brand reputation.
6.
Regulatory 
& Statutory 
Compliance
Risk
•	
Financial institutions face expanding regulatory 
and reporting requirements to ensure transparency 
in their operations for building stakeholder 
confidence and benchmarking themselves against 
the best practices in Corporate Governance.
•	
With growing footprint, there is a risk of unintended 
slippages resulting in non-compliance.
•	
The Bank has a robust due diligence mechanism 
for monitoring transactions, performing customer 
background checks and evaluating all lending 
decisions for tackling litigation matters timely.
•	
Similarly, the Bank’s processes, policies, procedures, 
systems and tools ensure that if in case any regulatory 
non-compliances arises in its operations, they are 
mitigated promptly and thereby promote a healthy 
compliance culture.
•	
The Bank also obliges with all statutory 
reporting requirements.
Negative financial implication:
Failure to comply with regulatory laws may 
result in substantial fines, penalties and cause 
damage to the Bank's reputation.
7.
Business Ethics & 
Governance
Risk
Corporate conduct and ethical practices are central 
to safeguard the reputation and business success of 
financial institutions.
•	
By adopting a strong ethical culture, the 
Bank maintains its reputation as a trusted 
financial institution.
•	
Effective governance practices help in minimising 
its exposure to business and ethics-related risks 
like fund embezzlement, insider trading and 
money laundering. The Bank has robust compliance 
mechanisms and controls, to monitor its performance 
diligently and periodically.
Negative financial implication:
•	
The Bank may incur legal expense resulting 
from breach of maintaining ethical and 
governance standards.
•	
Customer preference might be influenced 
if they perceive that the Bank is not 
governed effectively, leading to reduced 
business scope.
•	
Failure to conduct proper customer due 
diligence may result in higher fraud funding 
and greater loan defaults.
187
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Sl. 
No.
Material issue
Identified
Indicate 
whether risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate positive or negative 
implications)
8.
Risk & Crisis 
Management
Risk
Integration of ESG risks in banking operations is a must 
for building resilient organisations. These risks are 
increasingly becoming uncertain and volatile.
•	
Physical risk is assessed considering scenarios like 
'Impact Study of Cyclones Leading to Business 
Disruption in Micro Banking in Coastal Areas’, 'Impact 
study of River Floods leading to Business Disruption 
in Micro Banking’, ‘Impact study of rating downgrade 
of companies falling under industries with High CO2 
emission for commercial banking portfolio’ and ‘Impact 
study of unfavourable climate condition on agricultural 
districts’.
•	
Transition risk is also assessed by way of an impact 
study on business disruption in agricultural districts 
for the EEB segment, and incorporation of the 
Pollution Index (PI) score in Credit Proposal Vetting 
and Industry Outlook framework for the commercial 
banking segment.
Negative financial implication:
The absence of proactive crisis management 
practices might lead to unanticipated losses on 
account of market disruptions, policy changes, 
and data service disruptions.
9.
Data Privacy & 
Digitalisation
Risk
Owing to regulatory requirements, the Bank must 
comply with data protection and privacy regulations 
to ensure that customer data is kept secured and 
confidential to avoid any penal measures such as fines, 
and penalties.
•	
The Bank ensures implementation of robust 
cybersecurity measures and data protection 
policies and procedures to prevent data breaches, 
cybercrimes and provides guaranteed confidentiality 
of customer information.
•	
The Bank ensures that customers’ data is treated 
sensitively & sensibly across the entire value chain 
of its business. The Bank ensures that the customer 
data used for various assessment processes follow 
the required regulatory guidelines.
Negative financial implication:
Failure to ensure the protection of customer 
data, and prevention of cyber-attacks can result 
in reputational damage, regulatory action, loss 
of business and incur legal liability.
188
Annual Report 2024-25
Sl. 
No.
Material issue
Identified
Indicate 
whether risk or 
opportunity
Rationale for identifying the risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial implications of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate positive or negative 
implications)
10.
Financial Inclusion
Opportunity
•	
Financial inclusion and serving the underserved 
is a hallmark of the Bank. In terms of its banking 
operations and customer base, the Bank is highly 
invested in addressing financial inclusion.
•	
The Bank’s unique high-tech and high-touch 
approach enables much deeper last-mile doorstep 
delivery of banking services.
•	
The Bank recognises the initiatives taken by the 
government to fulfil the financial inclusion drive 
and has allied itself with various government 
schemes to achieve the goals of financial inclusion.
•	
The Bank has customised several products and 
services catering to underserved sections across all 
income groups, including a wide range of micro and 
retail loans and deposit products that are flexible and 
delivered at the doorstep even to customers that are 
in rural and remote areas.
•	
The Bank has immense potential to expand its 
banking operation across the country and has been 
diversifying its operations to non-east states.
•	
More than 75 per cent. (25.3 million) of the customers 
are EEB customers. The Bank has more than 70 per 
cent. of its banking outlets in rural and semi-urban 
areas, which is in alignment with the Bank’s vision of 
catering for the underbanked.
•	
Affordable 
housing 
is 
another 
hallmark 
that provides micro-home loan solutions to 
underbanked customers.
•	
The Bank has promoted various government schemes 
related to the agri sector, social security schemes, etc.
•	
The Bank actively supports small businesses, artists, 
farmers, women groups and underprivileged 
sections for holistic development and helps create 
employment and livelihood opportunities.
Positive financial implication:
Providing innovative financial products to 
individuals and businesses to those who are 
currently excluded from the traditional banking 
system will provide deeper market penetration 
and will unleash the Bank’s true growth 
potential.
189
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards 
adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
The National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (‘NGRBC’) as prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
advocates nine principles referred to as P1-P9 as given below:
P1
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is ethical, transparent and accountable
P2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3
Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
P4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all its stakeholders
P5
Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6
Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
P7
Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent
P8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9
Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Disclosure Questions
P 1
P 2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1.	 a.	 Whether your entity’s policy/ policies cover each 
principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Y/N)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
b.	 Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Y/N)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
c.	 Web link of the policies, if available
https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2023-01/Business-
Responsibility-and-Sustainability-Reporting-policy-210123.pdf
2.	 Whether the entity has translated the policy into 
procedures? (Y/N)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3.	 Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain 
partners? (Y/N)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
4.	 Name 
of 
the 
national 
and 
international 
codes/ 
certifications/ labels/standards (e.g., Forest Stewardship 
Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards 
(e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity 
and mapped to each principle.
•	 National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct, 
2019, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India
•	 P – 6 : IGBC Gold rated green building
5.	 Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity 
with defined timelines, if any.
Nil
6.	 Performance 
of 
the 
entity 
against 
the 
specific 
commitments, goals, and targets along-with reasons in 
case the same are not met.
Not applicable
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	 Statement by director responsible for the business 
responsibility report, highlighting ESG-related challenges, 
targets, and achievements
The statement by the MD & CEO on the BRSR is mentioned at the 
beginning of this report.
8.	 Details of the highest authority responsible for 
implementation 
and 
oversight 
of 
the 
Business 
Responsibility policy(ies).
Board of Directors
9.	 Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/
Director responsible for decision-making on sustainability-
related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details
Yes.
The Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability Committee 
of the Board (‘CSR&SCB’) is responsible for the oversight of 
sustainability-related matters. The Committee is Chaired by a 
non-executive independent director and meets at least once in 
every quarter.
190
Annual Report 2024-25
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director / 
Committee of the Board / Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Any other – please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against 
above policies and 
follow-up action
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
Annually
The CSR&SCB reviewed the Compendium of the 
BRSR policies that are based on the 9 principles of the 
NGRBC guidelines and based on the recommendation 
of the CSR&SCB, the Board of the Bank approved 
the same. The BRSR disclosures are reviewed by the 
CSR&SCB and approved by the Board.
Compliance with 
statutory requirements 
of relevance to 
the principles, and 
rectification of any  
non-compliances
The Bank operates in compliance with applicable 
laws and regulations. All statutory requirements 
are complied with across all banking operations. 
The compliance department and the Internal Audit 
department independently monitor the compliance 
of all statutory requirements at the management 
level. The Audit Committee of the Board and the 
Board review the compliances.
Quarterly
11.	Has the entity 
carried out an 
independent 
assessment/
evaluation of 
the working of 
its policies by an 
external agency? 
(Yes/No). If yes, 
provide the name 
of the agency.
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
-
Yes. The policies, their processes and their compliances are evaluated by the compliance 
department, internal audit department, external auditors appointed for management audit, 
concurrent auditors appointed for auditing branch operations, statutory auditors, and risk 
management, as applicable. The Bank is subjected to various audits including internal, compliance, 
and regulatory. As part of the audit process, the assessment/evaluation of the working of its 
policies is included. The policies are annually reviewed/evaluated by various department heads and 
Board Committees and approved by the Board.
12.	 If the answer to question (1) above is ‘No’ i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to 
be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its 
business (Yes/No)
Not applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
191
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE 
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that 
is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year.
Segment
Total number 
of training 
and awareness 
programmes held
Topics/principles covered under  
the training and its impact
% of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of Directors
9
Principle – 1:
•	
Governance and Assurance for Directors on Board of Banks
•	
Climate Change Risk
Principle – 4:
•	
Banking Annual Conference FIBAC 2024
Principle – 7:
•	
KYC / AML – Regulatory Perspective
Principle – 9:
•	
IT & Cyber Security
21.40%
Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP)*
10
Principle – 1:
•	
Code of Conduct
•	
Corporate Governance Capital Market Regulation
•	
Secretarial Standards: Implementation Challenges
•	
Digital Transformation in Board Meetings Governance Functions
•	
Secretarial Audit Compliance
•	
Building Organisational Resilience: Governance Challenges
Principle – 4:
•	
Banking Annual Conference FIBAC 2024
Principle – 5:
•	
POSH
Principle – 7:
•	
KYC / AML – Regulatory Perspective
Principle – 9:
•	
IT & Cyber Security
100%
Employees other 
than the Board of 
Directors or KMPs
340
Principle – 1:
•	
Induction Training
•	
Business Ethics and Politics
•	
Code of Conduct
•	
Anti-Money Laundering / Countering Financing of Terrorism
•	
Zero Tolerance
Principle – 2:
•	
Compliance in Banking
•	
KYC-AML & CFT
•	
Risk Culture 
•	
Risk Management
Principle – 3:
•	
Employment Laws
•	
Women Empowerment
•	
Health Bytes
Principle – 5:
•	
Gender Sensitivity 
•	
POSH
•	
Health and Safety
Principle – 9:
•	
Consumer Protection & Grievance Redressal
Workers
NA
-
NA
*Other than Board members
192
Annual Report 2024-25
2.	
Details of fines/penalties/punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the 
entity or by directors/KMPs) with regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, in the financial year, in 
the following format [Note: The entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 
of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website]:
Monetary
Segment
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory / 
enforcement agencies / 
judicial institutions
Amount  
(₹)
Brief of the Case
Has an 
appeal 
been 
preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/Fine
1
Commercial Tax Officer, 
State Tax, Tamil Nadu
20,000
Order passed under Section 73 of the Tamil 
Nadu Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 / 
Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 
for alleged excess Input Tax Credit claimed.
The Order has been passed on the 
contention of excess Input Tax Credit 
claimed by the Bank for FY 2019-20
Yes
Penalty/Fine
1
Deputy Commissioner, 
State Tax, Jaipur, 
Raj`asthan
1,50,292
Order passed under Section 73 of the 
Rajasthan Goods and Services Tax Act, 
2017 / Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 
2017 for alleged Input Tax Credit wrongly 
claimed and availed.
The Order has been passed on the 
contention of Input Tax Credit wrongly 
claimed and availed by the Bank for FY 
2019-20.
Yes
Penalty/Fine
1
Superintendent of 
CGST, Range-III, Shibpur 
Division, Howrah,  
West Bengal
30,000
Order passed under Section 73 of the 
CGST Act, 2017, alleging Input Tax Credit 
wrongly claimed and availed.
The Order has been passed on the 
contention of Input Tax Credit wrongly 
claimed and availed by erstwhile GRUH 
Finance Limited (now, merged into the 
Bank) for FY 2019-20.
Yes
Penalty/Fine
1
Superintendent, 
Range-V, CGST & CX,
Bidhannagar Division, 
Kolkata North
Commissionerate, West 
Bengal
91,256
Order passed under Section 73 of the 
CGST Act, 2017, alleging excess/irregular 
availment of Input Tax Credit.
The Order has been passed on the 
contention of excess/irregular availment of 
Input Tax Credit by the Bank for FY 2019-20.
Penalty/Fine
1
Assistant Commissioner, 
State Tax, Ahmedabad, 
Gujarat
31,368
Order passed under Section 73 of the 
CGST Act, 2017, alleging excess Input Tax 
Credit availed / utilised.
Yes
Penalty/Fine
1
Income Tax Department, 
Faceless Assessment 
Unit
119.38 crore
Income Tax Department has completed 
the regular assessment under Section 
143(3) and passed assessment order 
pertaining to AY: 2023-24 (FY: 2022-23), 
wherein there is a tax demand including 
applicable interest amounting to ₹119.38 
crore on account of disallowances of 
certain expenditure/deductions claimed 
under various provision of the Income 
Tax Act.
Yes
Settlement
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Compounding 
Fee
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
193
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory / 
enforcement agencies / judicial 
institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Imprisonment
NIL
Punishment
NIL
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/Revision preferred in cases where monetary or 
non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a 
web-link to the policy.
Yes.
Link: - https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2023-01/Business-Responsibility-and-Sustainability-Reporting-
policy-210123.pdf
The Bank has an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy embedded in the Code of Conduct section of the HR Policy and 
is also available on the website as part of the Compendium of BRSR Policies. Every new joinee signed the hard copy and 
also digitally in the HRMS portal for the first time use. Subsequently, every year in the month of April, all employees 
including KMP and senior management digitally undertake the annual code of conduct declaration, containing the 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption provisions of the Bank.
Additionally, the Bank has a Vigilance Policy and Whistleblower Policy, which aim to effectively implement systems 
and procedures to prevent corruption, serving as a deterrent for any wrongdoing. The Bank has established a 
two-tier system, viz., (i) the Chief of Internal Vigilance (‘CIV’) and (ii) the Disciplinary Committee which bears the 
responsibility of (a) investigating any alleged or proven misconduct by an employee and (b) taking necessary punitive 
actions, respectively.
The Bank is extremely strict in taking measures against wrongdoings, misconduct and cases of bribery and corruption, 
adhering to its zero-tolerance practice. Furthermore, the CIV takes measures to prevent bribery by conducting 
periodic reviews and checks on high-value purchases made by the Bank, scrutinising assets held or declared by senior 
management and employees and probing into any reported cases of conflicts of interest involving employees. These 
measures ensure 100% compliance from all employees, as the Bank strives towards zero cases of non-compliance. 
The CIV apprises the MD&CEO about the monthly vigilance activities and submits the report to the Audit Committee 
of the Board.
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement 
agency for the charges of bribery/corruption:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directors
NIL
NIL
KMPs
NIL
NIL
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NA
NA
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of conflict of  
interest of directors
NIL
NA
NIL
NA
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of conflict of  
interest of KMPs
NIL
NA
NIL
NA
194
Annual Report 2024-25
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by 
regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
NIL.
The Bank’s internal robust mechanism, controls, checks and balances ensure that there have been no such cases of 
non-compliance and hence, no corrective actions were required.
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables
36
14
Note: Bills payable has been considered for ‘accounts payable’, whereas ‘expenses’ as Schedule 16 and additions to fixed assets as per Schedule 10 
of the Audited Financial Statements of the Bank for FY 2025 have been considered for ‘cost for goods/services procured’ 
9.	
Open-ness of business
Provide details of the concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along 
with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Concentration  
of Purchases
a. Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
-
-
b. Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
-
-
c.
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of  
total purchases from trading houses
-
-
Concentration  
of Sales
a. Sales to dealers/ distributors as % of total sales
-
-
b. Number of dealers/distributors to whom sales are made
-
-
c.
Sales to top 10 dealers/distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers/distributors
-
-
Share of RPTs in
a. Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total Purchases)
-
-
a. Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
-
-
b. Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related 
parties / Total loans & advances)
0.007% Note
0.008% Note
c.
Investments (Investments in related parties / Total 
Investments made)
-
-
	
Note:
	
1.	
In the absence of any definition in the prescribed BRSR format in the SEBI Circular, the Bank has interpreted, a trading house as an entity 
that acts as an intermediary that facilitates trade between countries, i.e., linking a home country’s buyers and sellers with other foreign 
country’s buyers and sellers. Therefore, given the nature of the Bank’s operation, there were no sales or purchases done that involved 
any trading house.
	
2.	
The Bank does not appoint any dealers or distributors to provide its products and services to customers. All the customers are direct 
customers of the Bank. Therefore, there was nil sales to any dealers or distributors.
	
3.	
The Bank is a service-oriented company and is not involved in any purchases or sales in its operations. Therefore, there are nil purchases 
from related parties. However, certain services including rent, accommodation/venue charges for the training of employees and interest 
paid are provided in the related party transaction schedule of the financial statement of the Bank.
	
4.	
There is nil investment in any related parties. The Bank has, as per its Policy, extended housing loans to KMPs, the percentage of which 
is derived on the closing balance of the outstanding loan at the end of the FY. Further details regarding related party transactions are 
provided in the schedule of the Financial Statement for FY 2025.
195
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year.
	
The Bank has undertaken various training and awareness programmes for value chain partners including call centre 
and direct sales agents partners that are related to principle 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6.
	
The Bank also undertakes awareness workshop on customer relations, financial literacy, digital banking and prevention 
of online frauds, which is detailed in relevant section of Principle 9 of this report.
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/
No) If yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes.
	
The Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors of the Bank is laid down with an aim to ensure transparency and high 
ethical standards in managing the affairs and operations. At the time of appointment and any time during tenure, 
the Board members have to disclose any actual/potential conflict of interest, if any, whenever such situation arises. 
Non-disclosure of conflict of interest by any Board member would be treated as a non-compliance.
	
During the year under review, the Bank has not entered into any materially significant transactions with its Directors 
or Relatives of the Directors, which could lead to a potential conflict of interest between the Bank and these parties, 
other than transactions entered into the ordinary course of its business.
	
All the members of the Board of Directors of the Bank have affirmed compliance with the said Codes as applicable 
to them.
	
Weblink: https://bandhanbank.com/pdfViewerJS/index.html#../sites/default/files/2020-12/Code-Conduct-for-
Directors.pdf
196
Annual Report 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental 
and social impacts of products and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D 
NA
NA
-
Capex 
NA
NA
The Bank is a service provider and a regulated entity and 
operates as per the Banking Regulations. Therefore, the scope 
of Capex to improve the environmental and social impacts of 
products and processes is not material to the Bank. However, 
the Bank has taken several environmental and social initiatives, 
as mentioned below.
Environmental – The Bank has transitioned effectively into a 
digital banking ecosystem. This has helped the Bank in reducing 
its usage of paper across its branches and operations. The Bank 
has also invested in various innovative technologies and IT 
transformations across all its branches.
The 
energy-efficient 
lighting 
system 
and 
water-saving 
technology have led to a reduction in power and water usage. 
The seamless transactions through mobile and net banking have 
led to a reduction in commuting time to the branches, thereby 
considerably reducing vehicular emissions and costs from 
commutation and energy consumption.
Social – The Bank has established EEB banking units catering to 
the underbanked rural and semi-urban areas leading to greater 
financial inclusion in the remote areas. The Bank has brought 
banking to the doorsteps of marginalised and economically 
backward communities through these Business Units. The Bank 
has taken several initiatives of financial literacy and financial 
empowerment amongst vulnerable groups such as rural 
housewives, and women entrepreneurs, ensuring inclusivity and 
ease of access for all sections of society, to banking services.
During the pandemic and post-pandemic restrictions, many of 
the customers of your Bank lost their livelihoods, which made 
them financially vulnerable. To strengthen the customers, your 
Bank came up with products specifically designed for these 
situations and ensured that the customers get the maximum 
financial assistance during the toughest time in their lives.
To overcome digital-based challenges, the Bank is providing 
training to enhance customer awareness of the benefits of 
digital payments and various other aspects, such as seeding bank 
accounts with mobile numbers and Aadhaar.
The Bank scaled up the first of its kind ‘Android PoS’, a testament 
to the commitment to providing innovative and customer-
centric solutions to merchants and promoting digital payments 
in remote areas.
2.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
Owing to the nature of the banking products and services offered, sustainable sourcing may not be a significant 
material topic for the Bank. However, the Bank endeavours to integrate sustainability in the supply chain(s) for its 
products and services across its operations. Wherever feasible, the Bank tries to incorporate sustainable sourcing in its 
operations. For procurement of equipment, the Bank ensures that energy efficiency standards are considered during 
the purchase of electronic equipment such as computers, laptops, lighting devices, ACs amongst others.
The Bank’s supply chain includes outsourced agencies, third-party service providers, transporters, suppliers of 
materials and capital goods, franchisees, dealers and distributors. The Bank recognises the need to work closely with 
the suppliers to reduce waste, improve efficiency, reduce carbon footprint and continuously work towards ensuring 
greater integration of environmental factors in its procurement practices.
197
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
In line with the Bank's sustainability commitment, it has prioritised several key actions, as mentioned below:
Partnering for Good: The Bank actively seeks suppliers who demonstrate ethical labour practices, environmental 
responsibility, and high-quality standards. Transparency and minimising environmental impact are key factors in 
supplier selection.
Sustainable Procurement Policies: Formalised procurement policies guide sourcing decisions, ensuring suppliers 
align with the Bank's values of environmental and social accountability.
Minimising Environmental Footprint: The Bank is mindful of the environmental impact of its procurement activities. 
We actively work to reduce waste, promote energy efficiency, and encourage the use of renewable resources 
throughout their operations and supply chain.
Social Impact: Beyond environmental considerations, the Bank prioritises social impact. We choose suppliers who 
uphold human rights, provide safe working conditions, and contribute positively to their communities.
Continuous Improvement: The Bank remains dedicated to ongoing improvement in its sustainable sourcing practices. 
Regular reviews and updates to procurement policies ensure they incorporate emerging sustainability trends and 
best practices.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling, and disposing at the end of life, for:
(a)	 Plastics (including packaging),
(b)	 E-waste,
(c)	
Hazardous waste, and
(d)	 Other waste.
The Bank does not have physical product offerings in its normal course of operations. Therefore, there is an insignificant 
footprint of waste generation for the reclamation for reusing and recycling of such wastes.
a)	
Plastics – The plastic usage in the products is minimal, hence, reclamation of plastics is not applicable. However, 
in its day-to-day usage, there are plastic usage recycling bins for designated plastics like water bottles and other 
plastic containers. These are collected by a recycling service and processed according to local regulations.
b)	
E-waste - E-waste generated from the banking operations across all offices and branches is responsibly disposed 
of by third-party service providers.
c)	
Hazardous Waste – Owing to the nature of the operations as a banking facility, there isn’t much scope for 
the generation of hazardous waste from the Bank’s branches and offices that are owned and controlled by 
third parties.
d)	
Other Waste – Paper waste is disposed of for recycling by third-party service providers.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the 
waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control 
Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
No. As the Bank does not have any physical product offering or has any major plastics usage in its products and services, 
the Bank does not qualify for any EPR obligation.
198
Annual Report 2024-25
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) 
or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
NIC Code
Name of 
Product /
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the 
Life Cycle Perspective / 
Assessment was conducted
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes/No) If 
yes, provide the web-link
Not applicable
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your 
products/services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly 
describe the same along with action taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product / Service
Description of the risk/concern
Action Taken
Not applicable
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Not applicable
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at the end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled and 
safely disposed.
Bandhan Bank Limited is a service provider and the Bank’s services do not include any significant packaging material, 
except for the new account opening kits.
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as a percentage of products sold) for each product category
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products sold in the respective category
Not applicable
199
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those 
in their value chains
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS 
1.	
a.	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total (A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity benefits
Daycare facilities
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
No. (E)
% (E/A)
No. (F)
% (F/A)
Permanent employees
Male
66,672
66,672
100%
66,672
100%
NA
NA
66,672
100%
-
-
Female
8,360
8,360
100%
8,360
100%
8,360
100%
NA
NA
-
-
Total
75,032
75,032
100%
75,032
100%
8,360
100%
66,672
100%
-
-
Other than Permanent employees
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
Note: From April 2023 onwards, 100% of male employees are eligible for paternity benefits.
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of workers covered by
Total (A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity benefits
Daycare facilities
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (D)
% (D/A)
No. (E)
% (E/A)
No. (F)
% (F/A)
Permanent workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
Other than Permanent workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
	
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the company
0.39%
0.47%
2.	
Details of retirement benefits for the current and previous financial years:
Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100%
NA
Y
100%
NA
Y
Gratuity
100%
NA
N.A.*
100%
NA
NA*
ESI
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Others – please 
Specify
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
*Gratuity is deposited with the Bandhan Bank Gratuity Fund Trust
200
Annual Report 2024-25
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces: Are the premises/offices accessible to differently-abled employees and workers as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity 
in this regard.
Yes, the Bank has developed a dedicated policy on Human Rights as part of the commitment to BRSR Principle 5 and 
ensures non-discrimination and fair treatment for all its employees. The Bank’s branches and offices have appropriate 
systems and processes in place to ensure compliance with the policy and statutory provisions.
As per RBI circulars DBOD. No. Leg BC. 91 /09.07.005/2007-08 dated June 04, 2008; DBOD.No.Leg.
BC.123/09.07.005/2008-09 dated April 13, 2009, DBOD.No.Leg.BC.38 /09.07.005/2012-13 dated September 05, 
2012, DBOD.No.Leg.BC.113 09.07.005/ 2013-14 dated May 21, 2014 and DBR.No.Leg.BC.96/09.07.005/2017-18 dated 
November 09, 2017 all banking services are being provided to persons with disabilities.
Bandhan Bank is committed to providing all its services to Differently Abled Customers without Discrimination. 
The RBI guidelines have been upheld by the internal circular number - RB/PSNs/CIR/4153. These circulars uphold the 
Bank's commitment to offer all its banking services and products to Differently Abled Customers without discrimination.
The Bank’s websites, net banking and mobile banking are compliant with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG).
The Bank has accessible ATMs set up as per the ‘IBA Standards on Accessible ATM’. Details about talking ATM locations 
can be seen here.
In case of a differently abled customer facing any difficulty in receiving any services of the Bank, please write to 
pno@bandhanbank.com or call us at 033-66090909 for redressal. The details are available on the Bank’s website: 
https://bandhanbank.com/services-for-differently-abled-customer
For the employees and the customers, the Bank has taken several measures to create an inclusive environment such 
as installing ramps, signage and elevators for ease of movement of people with locomotive disability. The Bank 
ensures that doorways and corridors are wide enough for wheelchair users. Additionally, we have made the restrooms, 
workstations, and common areas accessible and equipped with the necessary accommodations. The Bank is also 
committed to promoting digital accessibility where information and communication technology is accessible to all 
and/or compatible with assistive technology devices.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide 
a web-link to the policy.
Yes, the Bank has an equal opportunity statement in its HR policy and the extract of the same is also available in the 
Compendium of BRSR policies under Principle 5.
Web-link: https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2023-01/Business-Responsibility-and-Sustainability-
Reporting-policy-210123.pdf
The Bank believes that promoting equal opportunity in the workplace based on merit and ability can create an 
environment conducive to higher engagement and productivity. The Bank has achieved this by communicating 
the coverage of the policy to all employees in an appropriate and meaningful manner. In line with the sustainable 
development ethos of non-discrimination and inclusive growth, the hiring and performance evaluation, compensation, 
training and employee benefits, are devoid of any discrimination based on caste, religion, disability, gender, sexual 
orientation, race, colour, ancestry, marital status or affiliation with a political, religious or union organisation or 
majority/minority group.
5.	
Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees who took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
88.22%
81.54%
NA
NA
Female
81.48%*
78.92%
NA
NA
Total
87.47%
89.76%
NA
NA
*Includes employees that are scheduled to return to work post March 31, 2024
201
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and workers? 
If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent  
Workers
Not applicable
Other than  
Permanent  
Workers
Not applicable
Permanent  
Employees
Yes.
The HR policy of the Bank incorporates the Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) for addressing 
issues related to sexual harassment. An Internal Committee (IC) consisting of one Presiding Officer and 
three members is constituted at the head office to enquire into and provide redressal of Sexual Harassment 
complaints. The composition of the IC consists of at least one external member and one-half of the total 
member are women officials. In addition to POSH, the Bank has also built an in-house grievance redressal 
system which is available in the HRMS portal of the Bank. The grievance redressal mechanism lays down 
guidelines that need to be followed by the organisation, which include the following:
Conflict Resolution
An employee who feels that he or she is being subjected to harassment should first, where possible, make his 
/ her disapproval clearly known to the individual(s) concerned and ask that the behaviour be stopped. If there 
is no apparent change in the behaviour of the respondent, the employee concerned can make use of either 
an informal or formal resolution process for redressing their complaint.
Freedom from Retaliation
A person who in good faith brings a complaint of harassment against another person, shall not be subjected 
to any form of retaliation. The Bank prohibits retaliation against anyone who files a complaint in good faith, 
and retaliation in itself constitutes misconduct subject to disciplinary action. Discriminating against an 
employee who has made a complaint of harassment or deleteriously affecting the terms and conditions of 
employment or work environment of the employee will be construed as retaliation.
Confidentiality
All employees who are aware of a harassment complaint, or involved in its resolution, must recognise the 
seriousness of the situation and respect the sensitivity and confidentiality that must be accorded to the 
matter. The employees must refrain from discussing the complaint amongst themselves or with anyone who 
does not have a ‘need to know.’ Every effort will be made to preserve the dignity and self-respect of the 
parties to the complaint.
Action against false complaints
False or malicious complaints can seriously damage a person’s reputation, career, and relationships. If anyone 
makes a false or malicious complaint of harassment and it is so established after a thorough and proper 
investigation, the complainant will face disciplinary action, depending on the situation.
Other than  
Permanent  
Employees
Not applicable
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
The Bank promotes freedom of association; however, the employees are not part of any trade union and the Bank 
does not engage in any collective bargaining agreements. The Bank ensures that all employee grievances are reported 
anonymously and addressed by the management after conducting a detailed investigation.
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees/
workers in respective 
category, who are part 
of association(s) or 
Union (B)
% (B / A)
Total 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees/
workers in respective 
category, who are part 
of association(s) or 
Union (D)
% (D / C)
Total  
Permanent 
Employees
75,032
-
-
75,748
-
-
Male
66,672
-
-
67,308
-
-
Female
8,360
-
-
8,440
-
-
Total  
Permanent 
Workers
Not Applicable
Male
Female
202
Annual Report 2024-25
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
On Health and 
safety measures*
On Skill 
upgradation
Total (A)
On Health and 
safety measures*
On Skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (B)
% B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
Employees
Male
66,672
66,672
100%
63,792
95.68%
67,308
67,308
100%
64,774
96%
Female
8,360
8,360
100%
7,853
93.94%
8,440
8,440
100%
7,774
92%
Total
75,032
75,032
100%
71,645
95.49%
75,748
75,748
100%
72,548
96%
Workers
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
*Includes induction, classroom training, fire drills, digital campaign, mailers and online learning platforms
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Male
66,672
 60,682
91%
67,308
55,819
83%
Female
8,360
7,238 
87%
8,440
6,201
73%
Total
75,032
 67,920
91%
75,748
62,020
82%
Workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
*The performance management system is available to all employees and new joiners who have joined before September. The new joiners 
after September are considered for the next year's performance management cycle.
	
The policy on performance management is provided in the HR Policy and is available in the HRMS portal of the 
Bank for all employees. The Bank has a dedicated learning and development wing that provides ample learning 
opportunities to all employees. The learning management system provides online training to all employees. The 
performance appraisal system of the Bank provides career development opportunities and feedback for continuous 
improvement. The performance appraisal process starts with the employee conducting self-appraisal followed by the 
assessment of the supervisor via appraisal feedback and discussion. The performance appraisal ratings are reviewed/ 
calibrated by a committee. Once the ratings are finalised, promotion and recognition announcements are initiated 
and key performance areas (KRA) for the next year are set.
10.	
Health and safety management system:
	
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/No). If yes, the 
coverage of such system?
	
	
Yes. The Bank is cognizant of the responsibility towards providing a healthy and safe work environment to the 
employees and has developed a dedicated policy as part of the commitment to BRSR Principle 3. The Bank is in 
the process of evaluating the scope of the occupational health and safety management system to outline safety 
standards for the employees and customers to ensure regulatory compliance and promotion of public health 
and safety. The Bank organises regular training, such as mock drills on its premises for its employees on matters 
of fire safety, emergency response, and basic first aid.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the entity?
	
	
The Bank in collaboration with the building management team of the office premises organises and participates 
in mock fire drill sessions to create awareness amongst employees on how to evacuate in the event of fire or any 
other unforeseen contingency. Fire Marshalls and Fire Warden are nominated and trained to ensure adequate 
support if any such event occurs.
203
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
	
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks? (Yes/No)
	
	
Not applicable as there are no workers associated with the Bank’s operations.
	
d.	
Do the employees/workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/No)
	
	
Yes. The Bank continuously reviews human resource development and evaluates the best practices offered in the 
banking sector, to gain competitive advantage within the industry. The Bank offers extended insurance coverage 
to the employees in the form of top-ups, flexibility to pay monthly premiums to spread the payment over a year 
and aim for higher cover and enhanced coverage of dependents to encompass parents-in-law. It also provides 
for digital medical services/tele medication by way of tying up with leaders like Practo in this field thereby not 
only catering to its employees but their dependent family members also. The Bank also has introduced a Medical 
Assistance rider to cater to Accident cases for its employees.
11.	
Details of safety-related incidents
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)  
(per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
NIL
0.03
Workers
Not applicable
Not applicable
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
NIL
5
Workers
Not applicable
Not applicable
No. of fatalities (safety incident)
Employees
NIL
5
Workers
Not applicable
Not applicable
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health  
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
NIL
Workers
Not applicable
Not applicable
12.	
Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
The Bank has developed a dedicated policy on Workplace Health and Safety, as part of its commitment to BRSR 
Principle 3 and is committed to conducting its operations with due regard for the environment and ensuring a safe 
and healthy workplace for its employees. The good health and safety of employees are of great importance to the 
Bank. While the Bank has put in place internal systems and procedures for the creation and maintenance of a safe and 
healthy environment at the workplace, employees are required to follow safety guidelines and internal processes.
The Bank has formulated its Security Policy, Procedures and guidelines in line with recommendations of the Indian 
Banks’ Association, directives issued by RBI, advisories issued by Govt. authorities and industry best practices. All the 
Banking outlets, ATMs and offices are equipped with the latest security & safety gadgets required to create a safe 
working environment for customers and employees of the Bank and protect the assets of the Bank by creating viable 
deterrence to miscreants. Some of the measures taken to ensure safety are as follows:
•	 Installation of electronic surveillance system at all the ATMs. All Banking outlets and ATMs across the country have 
complied with adequate physical security measures as per the advisory issued by RBI.
•	 Implementation of all the Physical Security measures at Currency Chests of the Bank as per RBI guidelines.
•	 Full Compliance with all regulatory and statutory norms pertaining to the security & safety of the units.
•	 Conducting regular security & safety awareness training programmes to promote and sustain the security culture 
across the Bank.
13.	
Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during  
the year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Filed during  
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Working 
Conditions
NIL
NIL
-
NIL
NIL
-
Health and Safety
NIL
NIL
--
NIL
NIL
-
14.	
Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and Safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
204
Annual Report 2024-25
15.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant 
risks/concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions.
Fire Audits and Electrical Audits of all the Branches and Offices are conducted annually. Fire extinguishers placed in 
every branch/office are checked and refilled as per the required periodicity.
The Audit may be categorised as High risk, Medium risk and Low risk based on the condition of the Electrical system. 
High-risk Branches / Offices are to be audited first. The timeline to carry out the remedial measures for the closure 
of the Audit Report is as prescribed in the risk categorisation matrix.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of?
Particulars
(Y/N)
Employees
Y
Workers
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the 
value chain partners.
	
The Bank conducts periodic review meetings with value chain partners such as vendors and service providers to assess 
their performance and adherence to statutory norms. The Bank inculcate in its agreement a sense of accountability 
and transparency in all operations across the supply chain partners. Invoices of value chain partners are cleared subject 
to the deduction of any applicable TDS. The Bank also takes confirmation of the GST deposited by the vendors on the 
payments made by the Bank.
3.	
Provide the number of employees/workers having suffered high-consequence work-related injury / ill-health / fatalities 
(as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or 
whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/workers
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated 
and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees
-
5
-
-
Workers
Not Applicable
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programmes to facilitate continued employability and the management 
of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/No)
Yes. The Bank offers transition assistance support to facilitate continued employability to people attaining retirement 
age. Requisite approvals are sought to evaluate the competency of the candidate based on the performance showcased 
during his/her service tenure and requisite retention terms are reviewed before advancing an extended employment 
offer. Retired personnel may be rehired to act as consultants or strategic advisors to the Bank and are eligible for all 
employee benefits except Provident Fund contribution and gratuity.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and Safety practices
None
Working Conditions
None
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
Not applicable
205
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
The Bank’s stakeholder identification approach takes into consideration the dependency, spontaneity, responsibility, 
vulnerability, and influence while identifying key stakeholder groups, taking into consideration all entities who have 
a direct and indirect influence on the business operations, such as:
•	 Shareholders and Investors
•	 Customers
•	 Regulatory bodies
•	 Suppliers
•	 Communities
•	 Employees
•	 Media
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group
Key Stakeholders Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalised 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication (Email, 
SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community 
Meetings, Notice Board,  
Website), Others
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/Half Yearly/ 
Quarterly / Others – 
please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including  
key topics and concerns  
raised during such engagement
Shareholders  
and Investors
No
•	
Annual General Meeting
•	
Emails
•	
Investors meet
•	
Press releases
•	
Newspaper  
advertisements
•	
Website
•	
Yearly
•	
Quarterly
•	
Periodically
•	
Improved profitability and 
growth of the organisation
•	
Corporate 
governance mechanisms
•	
Compliance
•	
Transparent and 
effective communication
•	
Investor servicing
Customers
No
•	
Surveys
•	
Print, digital and social media
•	
24X7 toll-free number
•	
Direct interaction with 
bank employees
•	
Doorstep banking centres and 
home visits
•	
Financial Literacy programme and 
customer meets
•	
Ongoing  
Activity
•	
Convenience and Ease 
of Transaction
•	
Quick response to issues 
raised through grievance 
redressal mechanisms
•	
Innovative technology
•	
Applications
•	
Transparent communication
•	
Product/service availability
•	
On-time delivery of  
product/service
Employees
No
•	
Induction programmes/ trainings /
workshops
•	
Individual performance appraisal
•	
Periodic communication meetings 
anchored by leadership
•	
Employee engagement, 
wellness, team building and 
celebration events
•	
Need Basis
•	
Periodically
•	
Caring and empowering 
work environment
•	
Personal development 
and growth
•	
Health and safety
•	
Responsive grievance
•	
handling process
•	
Employee benefits and 
Competitive compensation
•	
Employee welfare and 
social security
•	
Employee alignment to 
common organisation goals
Local communities
Some members 
of the local 
communities 
belong to SHGs, 
low income 
groups.
•	
Collaboration with independent 
parties/civil society organisations
•	
Formation of village
•	
institutions and regular
•	
meetings thereon
•	
Need Basis
•	
Strengthening of 
livelihood opportunities
•	
Improvement of social 
infrastructure for a hygienic 
and healthy living environment
•	
Economic and 
social empowerment
•	
Financial literacy and 
improving access to 
financial services
206
Annual Report 2024-25
Key Stakeholders Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalised 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication (Email, 
SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community 
Meetings, Notice Board,  
Website), Others
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/Half Yearly/ 
Quarterly / Others – 
please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including  
key topics and concerns  
raised during such engagement
Vendors and 
suppliers
Some of the 
vendors are 
identified 
as a part of 
vulnerable/ 
marginalised 
group (Women 
entrepreneur)
•	
Vendor meets
•	
Pre-agreement negotiations
•	
Procurement agreements
•	
Need Basis
•	
Regular communication and 
updates on business plans
•	
Inclusion of local medium and 
small-scale enterprises in the 
vendor base
•	
Competency development of 
local vendors
•	
Stability/ tenure of relationship
•	
Ordering and 
payment routines
•	
Purchase prices
Central and State 
Government
No
•	
Government circulars
•	
Formal notifications
•	
Weekly
•	
Ongoing
•	
Need basis
•	
Annually
•	
New financial regulations
Regulatory bodies
No
•	
Periodic meetings /interactions 
with regulatory bodies
•	
Mandatory filings with regulators 
including RBI, SEBI, Stock 
Exchanges, and MCA
•	
Participation in policy forums
•	
Ongoing
•	
Need basis
•	
Compliance with rules 
and regulations
•	
Know the customer
•	
Fair treatment of customers
•	
Role in the development of the 
financial system
•	
Banks act as the first 
line of defence against 
financial crimes
Media
No
•	
One-on-one media interaction
•	
Press conferences/press releases
•	
Advertisements/ promotions
•	
Interviews with 
senior management
•	
Dedicated corporate 
communication team
•	
Media section on the 
Bank’s website
•	
Dedicated email and contact 
for media
•	
Ongoing
•	
Need basis
•	
Disclosure to stakeholders
•	
Responsible 
corporate citizenship
•	
Corporate reputation
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social 
topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
The Bank believes that an effective stakeholder engagement process is necessary for achieving its sustainability goal of 
inclusive growth. The Bank accordingly anchors its stakeholder engagement on the principles of the following features:
•	 Materiality - taking prioritised consideration of the economic, environmental and social impacts identified to be 
important to the organisation as well as its stakeholders.
•	 Completeness - understanding the stakeholders' key concerns and expectations.
•	 Responsiveness - responding coherently and speedily to such issues and concerns.
	
The key stakeholder groups include the Central and State Governments, regulatory/statutory agencies, media, 
shareholders, clients, employees, local communities, channel partners, and suppliers. Attributes including dependency, 
accountability, immediacy and influence are used to identify stakeholders. The engagement strategy recognises the 
individuality and distinct set of priorities of each stakeholder group. Stakeholder engagement insights support the 
Bank's performance and help to create fresh viewpoints.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social 
topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics 
were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
	
Yes. The management representatives of the Bank analyse the impact of the material topics and how it affects the 
day-to-day business and operations of the Bank. In view of the Bank’s sustainability objectives, business strategies, 
operational policies, and global market trends, the responses and feedback gathered during stakeholder engagement 
are reviewed by top management to understand stakeholders’ perspectives. The Board and senior management are 
informed of the feedback from a wide variety of stakeholders in order to get their advice and take appropriate action. 
207
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Through its various committees, the Board is provided regular updates on feedback received from stakeholders on 
economic, environmental, and social topics - which serves as inputs for decision-making by the Board. The inputs are 
provided but not limited to the following committees:
•	 Risk Management Committee
•	 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Committee
•	 Stakeholder Relationship Committee
•	 Customer Service Committee
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/marginalised 
stakeholder groups.
	
The Bank has an appropriate mechanism to engage with its stakeholders, especially marginal and weaker sections 
of the society and it is covered in the Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) policy of the Bank. The CSR initiatives 
undertaken by the Bank are firmly embedded in its vision and mission to improve the quality of life of the communities. 
Having understood the prevailing social needs within the communities, interventions and strategies are formulated 
by the CSR&SCB. The CSR&SCB has carefully reviewed and recommended CSR programmes targeting societal 
development by conducting studies on CSR intervention area identification. Based on these studies, the curated 
CSR programmes are run by various CSR Project Implementing Agencies (‘PIA’).
	
Each programme of the PIA has been devised to bring about far-reaching effects in the fields of education, health, 
livelihood promotion, sustainable livelihood development, climate action, financial literacy, skill development and 
employment generation. The Bank’s CSR Programmes are in alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals and 
Schedule VII to the Companies Act, 2013, details of which are provided below:
•	 Targeting the hard-core poor programme
•	 Bandhan Health programme
•	 Empowering Cancer Care: Contribution to Assam Cancer Care Foundation
•	 Healthcare Accessibility: Donation of 18 Advanced Life-Saving Ambulances
•	 Skill Development Programme
	– Skill Development and Education Programme –Support to Ramakrishna Mission Centre For Human Excellence 
And Social Sciences (Viveka Tirtha)
	– Skill Development and Education Programme – Support to Nivedita Institute of Human Advancement & Research 
(NIHAR) Centre Ramakrishna Sarada Mission
•	 Bandhan Education programme
•	 Bandhan Employing the unemployed programme
•	 Bandhan Financial Literacy Programme
•	 Bandhan Sustainable Livelihoods Programme
•	 Bandhan Climate Action programme
	– Water Conservation
	– Afforestation
	– Biodiversity Conservation and Education at Jambusar
	– Solar Irrigation with Drip and Farm Pond for Water Conservation and Renewable Energy
	– Solar-powered streetlights
	
Details of such programmes are also provided in the Annual Report on CSR Activities forming part of the 
Annual Report for FY 2024-25.
208
Annual Report 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total  
(A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
%
(B / A)
Total  
(A)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
%
(B / A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees 
/ workers 
covered (B)
%
(C / D)
Employees
Permanent
75,032
75,032
100%
75,748
75,748
100%
69,702
69,702
100%
Other than 
permanent
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
75,032
75,032
100%
75,748
75,748
100%
69,702
69,702
100%
Workers
Permanent
-
-
-
Not Applicable
Other than 
permanent
-
-
-
Total
-
-
-
Note: All employees are provided training on human rights, including POSH and other HR related policies including digitally acknowledging 
the code of conduct during joining and on an annual basis.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
Equal to  
Minimum Wage
More than  
Minimum Wage
Total (D)
Equal to  
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Permanent
Male
66,672
4,043
6.1%
62,629
93.9%
67,308
111
0.16%
67,197
99.84%
Female
8,360
645
7.7%
7,715
92.3%
8,440
29
0.34%
8,411
99.66%
Other than Permanent
Male
Not applicable 
Female
Workers
Permanent
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Other than Permanent
Male
Not Applicable
Female
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages:
	
a.	
Median remuneration/wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/wages of 
respective category in ₹*
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/wages of 
respective category in ₹*
Board of Directors (BoD)
15
48,90,000
2
44,77,500
Key Managerial Personnel (other than BoD)
2
2,27,58,192 
0
NA
Employees other than BoD and KMP
66,667
2,83,728
8,360
 2,88,516
Workers
NA
NA
NA
NA
*Annual Remuneration
209
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
	
Note:
	
1.	
There is no difference in the sitting fee rates based on gender. However, the variance is on account of sitting fees paid to the members 
based on the number of Board meetings and Board Committee meetings attended by the members.
	
2.	
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh retired from the services of the Bank as the MD&CEO upon completion of his tenure on July 09, 2024.
	
3. 	 Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta was appointed as the MD&CEO of the Bank  w.e.f., November 01, 2024
	
4. 	 Mr. Pankaj Sood ceases to be on the Board of Directors w.e.f., December 13, 2024
	
	
*Sitting Fees and Fixed Remuneration paid to 12 NEDs for FY 2024-25: ₹5,40,36,828
	
	
10 Male NEDs: ₹4,50,81,828
	
	
2 Female NEDs ₹89,55,000
	
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
10.36%
10.12%
*The gross wages of 10.12 per cent. were paid off to 11.14 per cent. (8,440) of female employees.
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impact or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. The HR team overlooks Human Rights issues as a whole, but the Bank ensures that all its employees are trained to 
uphold the dignity of all its stakeholders, especially, the vulnerable and marginalised groups and promotes awareness 
and realisation of human rights across its network. The Bank believes in the Principle of Natural Justice and treats all 
employees equally with dignity.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues
	
The Bank extends many avenues to its employees to raise any grievances including human rights. The integrated 
Human Resource Management System (HRMS) platform is available for employees to access the entire Employee Life 
Cycle Management on their own devices and at their own disposal which enables employees to get their grievances 
redressed. In a nutshell, with the grievance redressal mechanism incorporated into the HRMS, the employees have a 
one-stop solution for any queries or complaints.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during  
the year
Pending 
resolution at  
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during  
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Sexual 
Harassment
31
08
The pending 
cases have since 
been closed
21
04
The pending 
cases have since 
been closed
Discrimination  
at workplace
0
0
-
0
0
-
Child labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Forced labour /
Involuntary labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Wages
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other human 
rights-related 
issues
0
0
-
0
0
-
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
31*
21#
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees/workers
0.23%
0.20%
Complaints on POSH upheld
27
 17
	
*24 complaints were filed by female employees of the Bank and 07 complaints were filed by non-employees
	
#17 complaints were filed by female employees of the Bank and 04 complaints were filed by non-employees
210
Annual Report 2024-25
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases
	
The Bank has a vigil mechanism which acts as a channel for the employees to report any act of unethical behaviour, 
actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Code of Conduct to the management. The terms of the vigil mechanism 
are laid down in the ‘Whistle Blower Policy ‘ and ‘Vigilance Policy’, as required under Section 177 of the Companies 
Act, Regulation 22 of the SEBI LODR and applicable circulars issued by the RBI. The Bank safeguards employees from 
being victimised while assuring the confidentiality and protection of the whistleblower against any form of retaliation.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
Yes. The Bank’s BRSR policy on Principle 5 has been incorporated, which aligns with the Bank’s processes and 
procedures to ensure that the value chain partners are compliant with all Human Rights requirements. 
10.	
Assessments for the year:
% of offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
In addition to the Vigilance team, the Bank’s Internal Audit teams conduct 100% branch 
compliance audits. These audit procedures include a review of branches’ compliance with 
statutory laws.
Forced/involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
11.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 10 above.
In cases where allegations are established, investigation findings are shared with the ‘Disciplinary and Ethics 
Management Team’ (D&EM) for further proceedings. Post completion of the investigation, the cases are presented 
to the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
All operational units including branches have suggestion/grievance redressal boxes. The HR team frequently monitors 
the nature of complaints received during the year and has an efficient system to resolve the same.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human Rights due diligence conducted.
NIL
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently-abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Yes, most of the Bank’s key establishments including offices, branches and banking unit premises are accessible to 
differently-abled visitors. The Bank has taken several measures to create an inclusive environment such as installing 
ramps, signage and elevators for ease of movement of employees as well as customers with locomotive disability. 
Similarly, the Bank ensures that doorways and corridors are wide enough for wheelchair users. Additionally, the 
Bank’s restrooms, workstations, and common areas are accessible and equipped with necessary retrofits that are 
easily accessible by persons with disability. The Bank remains committed to promoting digital accessibility where 
information and communication technology is accessible to all and/or compatible with assistive technology devices.
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual harassment
The Bank has already incorporated policies to ensure responsible supply chain.  
During the year, no adverse complaints/cases were reported.
The Bank follows and is compliant to all extant laws in terms of assessment  
of value chain partners.
Discrimination at workplace
Child labour
Forced labour/
Involuntary labour
Wages
Others – please specify
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
Not applicable
211
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
TJ
TJ
From Renewable Sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
-
-
Total fuel consumption (B)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
-
-
Total energy consumption (A+B+C)
-
-
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
6.0552*
6.085*
Total fuel consumption (E)
0
0.0060*
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
-
-
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
6.0552
6.0907
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
6.0552
6.0907
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumption/ per rupee of 
turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total energy consumed / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
-
-
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
(Total Energy consumed/full-time employee)
-
-
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
*Electricity consumption data is captured from the Head Office and Mega Project of the Bank. It does not cover any other sites or branches.
#Fuel consumption data is only from the Head Office of the Bank. It does not cover any other sites or branches.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency. (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
No.
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as Designated Consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve 
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme 
have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
No. the Bank does not belong to an energy intensive sector, and is not notified to be part of the 13 sectors identified 
as Designated Consumers (DCs).
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
(i)	 Surface water
-
-
(ii)	 Groundwater
-
-
(iii)	Third-party water
65,195*
78,266.46*
(iv)	Seawater/ desalinated water
-
-
(v)	 Others 
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
65,195*
78,266.46*
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
65,195*
78,266.46*
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
-
-
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total water consumption / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
-
-
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
*The water consumption numbers are based on the usage at the Head Office and Mega Projects of the Bank and does not cover any of the branches.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, the name of the external agency.
No
While the Bank has implemented policies on Principle 6, however, the Bank already has a robust process in place to reduce 
its footprint. Water consumed in the Bank’s operation is primarily for domestic purposes like drinking and sanitation.
212
Annual Report 2024-25
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	 To Surface water
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(ii)	 To Groundwater
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iii)	To Seawater
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
No
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
Majority of the Bank units are rented premises, the mechanism for zero liquid discharge is not material for the Bank’s 
operations. The primary water usage in offices and branches is for domestic consumption.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
NOx
-
-
34.7*
SOx
-
-
8.2*
Particulate matter (PM)
-
-
192*
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
-
-
Others – please specify
-
-
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
No.
213
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 emissions - Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent  
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
0.47*
1.18*
Total Scope 2 emissions - Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent  
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
1284.25*
1201.54*
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of turnover  
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue from operations)
-
-
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted 
for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / 
Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
-
-
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of physical output  
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / total no. of employees)
-
-
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) – the relevant metric  
may be selected by the entity
-
-
*Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions cover only the Head Office and Mega Projects of the Bank. No other sites or branches are covered
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
No.
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emissions? If yes, then provide details.
The Bank has allocated considerable resources to enhance afforestation initiatives such as developing a ‘Bio-shield’ 
to save the mangroves in the Bharuch district of Gujarat. The key highlights of this project include the plantation 
of 1,50,000 saplings on 20 hectares along a stretch of 1 kilometre of the coastline and also the plantation of other 
medical plant species and fodder species. Additionally, to date, more than 4.34 lakh saplings have been planted over 
a period of 5 years and 72 water harvesting structures have been constructed with a storage capacity of 1,45,318 
Kilolitres of water, which approximately resulted in sequestering over 3,968 MT of CO2 equivalent annually to date.
The Bank has also initiated Climate Action Programme under its CSR initiatives which focuses on water conservation, 
afforestation, and sustainable projects like solar-powered irrigation and streetlights, contributing to climate 
adaptation, carbon sequestration, and community sustainability.
Details of the climate action programme are available in the Annual Report of the Bank.
	
The Total amount of carbon sequestered through the plantation initiatives is estimated to be higher than the carbon 
footprint of the bank.
9. Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25 (In MT)
FY 2023-24 (In MT)
Total waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
-
-
E-waste (B)
-
-
Bio-medical waste (C)
-
-
Construction and demolition waste (D)
-
-
Battery waste (E)
-
-
Radioactive waste (F)
-
-
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
-
-
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
(Break-up by composition i.e., by materials relevant to the sector)
-
-
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
-
-
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total waste generated/ Revenue from operations)
-
-
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
-
-
Waste intensity in terms of physical output (Total waste generated / no. of employees)
-
-
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
214
Annual Report 2024-25
Parameter
FY 2024-25 (In MT)
FY 2023-24 (In MT)
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through 
recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	 Recycle
-
-
(ii)	 Re-used
-
-
(iii)	Other recovery operations
-
-
Total
-
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of 
disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)	 Incineration
-
-
(ii)	 Landfilling
-
-
(iii)	Other disposal operations
-
-
Total
-
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
No.
10.	
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted 
by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices 
adopted to manage such wastes.
The services offered by the Bank to its customers do not entail the usage of hazardous or toxic chemicals. The Bank 
is working towards making waste management practices more efficient and has partnered with third-party service 
providers for shredding paper in the corporate office. The Bank’s processes and procedures are designed in a manner 
that optimisation of resource usage and waste generation is minimal. Similarly, battery and e-waste are responsibly 
recycled and disposed of through certified vendors across all operational units.
11.	
If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental 
approvals/clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
Sl. No.
Location of 
operations/offices
Type of  
operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval/clearance are being complied 
with? (Y/N) If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
Not applicable
12.	
Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year
Name and brief 
details of the project
EIA Notification 
No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain  
(Yes / No)
Relevant  
Web-link
Bandhan Bank Limited has undertaken Head Quarter Project named ‘Mega Project’. The current project is a construction 
project of ‘Corporate Building’ which is comprised of 1 No. Business Building’ B1+B2+G+23 floors and a G+3 storied Service 
Utility Building. The construction activities of the project are near completion. Construction work started in April 2020. The 
Environmental impact assessment has been conducted by an independent external agency, however, the results are not 
communicated in the public domain.
Environmental Clearance from SEIAA - 905 / EN / T-II-1 /083/ 2018 dated, 08.07.2020 as per provisions of the EIA notification 
no. SO. 1533 (E) dated, September 14, 2006 of MoEFCC, GOI.
13.	
Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/regulations/guidelines in India, such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, and Environment Protection 
Act and Rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances.
The Bank complies with all applicable laws. There have been no instances of non-compliance with respect to the 
abovementioned regulations.
Sl. No.
Specify the law / regulation 
/ guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details of the 
non-compliance
Any fines/penalties/action taken by 
regulatory agencies such as pollution 
control boards or by courts
Corrective action 
taken, if any
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
215
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
	
For each facility/plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
(i)	
Name of the area
(ii)	
Nature of operations
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Surface water
NA
NA
(ii)	 Groundwater
NA
NA
(iii)	Third party water
NA
NA
(iv)	Seawater / desalinated water
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
NA
NA
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
NA
NA
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Into Surface water
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(ii)	 Into Groundwater
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iii)	Into Seawater
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
No
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
-
-
-
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
-
-
-
Total Scope 3 emissions intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may 
be selected by the entity
-
-
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency
No
216
Annual Report 2024-25
The Bank has a shallow credit footprint in the coal sector with 0.006% outstanding loans, whereas, the Bank has 
increased its footprint portfolio in green financing, including renewable energy (solar) loan portfolio with a 3.44% 
outstanding loan.
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along with prevention and remediation 
activities.
Not applicable
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions/effluent discharge/waste generated, please provide details of the same 
as well as the outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
Sl.  
No.
Initiative  
undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be provided along with 
summary)
Outcome of  
the Initiative
1.
The corporate office is 
located in GBC-GOLD 
rated Green Building-
certified property
AdventzInfinity@5 is a superlative green IT/ITes building with about 
8.5 lac square feet of high energy work space situated at the heart of 
Salt Lake, Sector V, Kolkata. The entire infrastructure is designed to 
maximise daylight and a superior indoor airflow of humidity-controlled 
fresh air.
AdventzInfinity@5 is a certified IGBC-GOLD-rated green building and 
hence will use the latest innovations in energy and water efficiency, 
sustainable practices, resource recycling and green building practices.
https://www.infinityitpark.com/adventzinfinity
The building is 
advocating a  
low-carbon 
economy.
2.
Water treatment facility 
in the Corporate Office
Plumbing- 100% waste water recycle plant (STP); use of water-
efficient sanitary fixtures.
https://www.infinityitpark.com/adventzinfinity
Advocating a 
wastewater  
recycling
3.
All offices, branches 
and business units are 
equipped with energy-
efficient LED lighting 
systems
All offices, branches and business units are equipped with energy-
efficient LED lighting systems.
Advocating a  
low-carbon 
economy.
4.
All offices’ air conditioners 
are set at 24-250C as per 
the latest standards of 
ASHRAE and BEE
https://www.mca.gov.in/Ministry/pdf/AcTempNotice_21082018.pdf
https://www.ashrae.org/technical-resources/bookstore/standards-
62-1-62-2#:~:text=ANSI%2FASHRAE%20Standards%2062.1%20
and,adverse%20health%20effects%20for%20occupants
Advocating a  
low-carbon 
economy.
5.
CSR Initiatives on Climate 
Change adaptation
https://bandhanbank.com/beyond-banking
Carbon 
sequestration 
through 
afforestation  
and plantation 
activities
6.
CSR initiatives on 
water conservation
https://bandhanbank.com/beyond-banking
Created rainwater 
harvesting 
potential for 
irrigation 
purposes and 
saving the area 
from groundwater 
depletion
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
Bank has a Board approved Policy on Operational Risk Management & Operational Resilience which has aspects 
related to Business Continuity Planning and Disaster Recovery Planning covered. Further, Bank also has a design level 
document (BCMS Manual) in place covering disaster recovery procedures across Bank.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation 
or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard?
Not applicable
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts.
Not applicable
217
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a 
manner that is responsible and transparent
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
a. 
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations.
	
	
The Bank is associated with 4 associations as listed in answer 1(b) of this section.
	
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/associations (determined based on the total members of such a body) the entity 
is a member of/affiliated to.
Sl.  
No.
Name of the trade and industry  
chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/associations  
(State/National)
1
IBA (Indian Banks’ Association) 
National
2
CII (Confederation of Indian Industries)
National
3
BCC&I (Bengal Chambers of Commerce & Industries)
State
4
ICC (Indian Chamber of Commerce)
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, 
based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
There has not been any cases related to anti-competitive conduct of the Bank.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
Sl.  
No.
Public policy  
advocated
Method resorted  
for such advocacy
Whether information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review 
by Board (Annually/ 
Half yearly/ Quarterly / 
Others – please specify)
Web Link,  
if available
The Bank does not engage in public policy advocacy and has not partnered with any association for setting any benchmark.
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year.
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by 
independent external agency  
(Yes / No)
Results communicated in 
public domain  
(Yes / No)
Relevant 
Web link
No such projects have been undertaken by the Bank for which SIA needs to be carried out as per applicable laws.
However, the Bank conducts its CSR activities proactively and has performed an Impact Assessment of the same, details of 
which are furnished on the website of the Bank.
To evaluate the impact of the CSR initiatives and understand the perception of the beneficiaries and stakeholders, the Bank 
appointed EY and an external agency, to conduct an impact assessment study of 19 selected CSR projects belonging to the 
following programmes.
•	 Bandhan Health Programme
•	 Targeting the Hard-core Poor Programme
•	 Bandhan Education Programme
•	 Employing the Unemployed Programme
•	 Bandhan Financial Literacy Programme
•	 Bandhan Sustainable Livelihoods Programme
•	 Bandhan Climate Action Programme
218
Annual Report 2024-25
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by 
your entity.
Sl. 
No.
Name of Project 
for which R&R  
is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs covered  
by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs in the 
FY (In ₹)
Not applicable
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
The Bank always makes an effort to establish a reliable relation with the local communities in the areas where it 
operates. The Bank provides facilities for improving education, healthcare, and social welfare while considering 
community voices, addressing their needs, and working to improve the standard of living in the area.
Any community and beneficiary who are involved and supported by the Bank through the project implementing 
agency – Bandhan Konnagar, has the right to report and raise complaints directly or indirectly by mailing at e-mail ID: 
grievance@bandhan.org
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers.
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
Not Applicable
Directly in India
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on 
a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost
Location
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Rural
28%
22%
Semi-urban
32%
25%
Urban
20%
32%
Metropolitan
20%
21%
(Place to be categorised as per RBI Classification System - rural / semi-urban / urban/metropolitan)
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
Not applicable
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies:
Sl. No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent
1
Jharkhand
 Bokaro 
57,77,213 
2
 Ramgarh 
58,32,692 
3
 Ranchi 
64,58,800 
4
West Bengal
South 24 Parganas
16,96,646 
3.	
(a)	
Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalised/vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
	
No
	
(b)	
From which marginalised / vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
Not Applicable
	
(c)	
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
Not Applicable
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the 
current financial year), based on traditional knowledge.
Sl. 
No.
Intellectual Property based 
on traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired (Yes/No)
Benefit shared
(Yes/No)
Basis of calculating  
benefit share
Not Applicable
219
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property-related disputes 
wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of Authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective Action Taken
Not Applicable
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects
Sl. 
No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefited 
from CSR projects
% of beneficiaries from 
vulnerable and  
marginalised groups
1
Targeting Hard-core Poor Programme (THP)
2000
100%
2
Bandhan Health Programme (BHP)
29052
98%
3
Bandhan Education Programme (BEP)
246
100%
4
Employing the Unemployed Programme (EUP)
2862
85%
5
Bandhan Financial Literacy Programme (BFLP)
98571
100%
6
Bandhan Climate Action Programme (BCAP)
737
100%
7
Bandhan Sustainable Livelihoods Programme (BSLP)
47
100%
8
Climate Action Programme (VIKAS)
25
100%
Total
133540
100%
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
A good customer experience remains paramount for the service industry and the Bank believes that providing 
prompt & efficient service is essential not only to attract new customers but also to retain existing ones. Grievance 
redressal is an essential aspect of effective service delivery and hence, the Bank has a robust customer complaint 
resolution mechanism.
The Bank has a framework in place for effective redressal of the complaints received from its customers. The Bank 
follows the principle of “First Contact Resolution”, and effort is made to resolve the grievance to the full satisfaction 
of the complainant at the point of first contact.
The grievance redressal mechanism is applicable for complaints received from all customers of the Bank including 
customers of third-party products as well as complaints emanating from rural areas and those relating to financial 
assistance to Priority Sector and Government's Poverty Alleviation Programmes. The grievance redressal channels of 
the Bank are also available to deal with issues related to services provided by Outsourced Agencies.
With a view to strengthen the internal grievance redressal system in line with the RBI regulations and to ensure 
that the complaints of the customers are redressed at the level of the Bank itself, the Internal Ombudsman (I.O.) 
mechanism has been set up for effective resolution of grievances.
Further, there is also a Branch Level Customer Service meeting wherein relevant feedback and suggestions of the 
customers are captured and taken up for improving Bank’s serviceability. Moreover, there are quarterly senior 
management level and Board level customer service Committee meetings wherein all the major areas of complaints 
and steps taken to address them are being discussed till logical conclusion.
2.	
Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/services that carry information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
Not applicable
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal
220
Annual Report 2024-25
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Received during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at  
the end of year
Remarks
Received during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Data Privacy
-
-
-
-
-
-
Advertising
-
-
-
-
-
-
Cyber-Security
-
-
-
-
-
-
Delivery of 
Essential Services
-
-
-
-
-
-
Restrictive Trade 
Practices
-
-
-
-
-
-
Unfair Trade 
Practices
-
-
-
-
-
-
Others*
1,55,958
6,116
Out of 6,116 
pending 
complaints, 
3,609 has since 
been closed.
60,330
1,150
Out of 1,150 
pending 
complaints, 
1,110 has since 
been closed.
*Customer complaints related to service delivery, excludes court cases (if any)
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Not applicable as the Bank belongs to the service industry
Forced recalls
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, 
provide a web-link of the policy.
Yes.
Web-link: https://bandhanbank.com/sites/default/files/2025-07/Policy-on-Customer-Protection-03072025.pdf
The Bank is highly committed to providing its utmost attention to the customers and providing them with superior 
services and the freedom of choice in the selection and usage of banking services. The Bank recognises that maintaining 
trust and regard of customers is important for the Bank’s success and credibility, in a fiercely competitive market. 
Through digital platforms and initiatives, the Bank will provide customers the flexibility to access and consume banking 
services over any digital platform of their choice and recognises that product quality and service delivery are vital 
for business growth. The Bank seeks to achieve this by regularly reviewing service levels and capturing feedback 
from customers.
The Bank recognises that one of its fundamental responsibilities is to ensure that the Bank protects personal 
information entrusted to it by the customers. The security of personal information is a priority and is ensured by 
maintaining physical, electronic, and procedural safeguards that meet applicable laws to protect customer information 
against loss, misuse, damage and unauthorised access, modifications or disclosures. Employees are trained for proper 
handling of personal information. The Bank continuously reviews and enhances its security policies and security 
measures to consistently maintain a high level of security.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty/action 
taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/services.
One of the major areas applicable to the Bank related to corrective actions taken to resolve issues, is cybersecurity 
and data privacy of the customers. To combat such issues, the Bank has formed a committee equipped with tools 
specific to handling these kinds of threats, known as the IT Strategy Committee of the Board (‘ITSCB’). The ITSCB, 
constituted pursuant to guidelines/circulars issued by RBI, deals with the information technology, information 
security, cybersecurity, etc., aspects of the Bank. The primary role of the committee includes:
•	 Formulation of IT strategy;
•	 Amend the IT policy to keep it aligned with current market trends;
221
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
•	 Update the Board on progress of IT levers and current global landscape of the IT in banking sector;
•	 Review periodically the Bank’s IT strategy and ensure its alignment with the current trends in the banking sector;
•	 Review IT risks;
•	 Ensure proper balance of IT investments for sustaining the Bank’s growth;
•	 Oversee the aggregate funding of IT at the Bank-level;
•	 Ascertain if the management has adequate resources to ensure proper administration of IT risks;
•	 Review the contribution of IT.
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches - NIL
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers -NIL
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches - NIL
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Channels/platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web-link, if available).
Information related to all the products and services provided by the Bank is available on its website. In addition, the 
Bank actively uses various social media and digital platforms to disseminate information on its services and products, 
including loans, deposits, accounts etc. Additionally, the Bank also has a dedicated mobile app available known as 
‘mBandhan’ which is an all-purpose app wherein customers can access their accounts and banking requirements on 
the go. Advertisements and information related to products and offerings are also available on the Bank’s portal as 
mentioned below:
The Bank’s Website link - https://bandhanbank.com/
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
Activities undertaken for enhancement of customer awareness:
d)	
‘Dial 1930’ to report Cyber Crime, RBI prescribed booklet on Modus Operandi of Financial Fraudsters (Raju & the 
Forty Thieves), etc. are also displayed on the Bank’s website to increase awareness of the customers of the Bank 
and public in general.
e)	
Fraud awareness and safe banking practices are highlighted on the Bank’s website. Please refer to the following 
links: https://bandhanbank.com/fraud-awareness and https://bandhanbank.com/safe-digital-banking-practices
f)	
Regulatory materials (banners, videos etc.) educating users are also displayed on the Bank’s website.
	
The Bank consistently using our regular communication channels—emailers, SMS, and social media posts—
to educate customers on various aspects of fraud prevention. These include safe banking practices, phishing 
awareness, secure password habits, and responsible usage of our products and services. This ongoing awareness 
drive reinforces our commitment to customer security and digital hygiene.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
In the Banking sector, one of the major security concerns that exist is related to cyber-attacks and digital banking 
frauds. The Bank has taken certain initiatives in order to inform and educate customers regarding the risks associated 
with digital banking frauds and methods to avoid being subjected to such attacks. Some of the steps taken by the 
Bank are the following:
a)	
Introduction of dynamic OTP based authentication in addition to login password as an additional security feature 
in Retail Internet Banking application.
b)	
Disallowing premature / partial withdrawal of term deposits (‘TD’), held in joint names, through internet banking 
platform to prevent unauthorised withdrawals of TDs.
c)	
Incorporation of additional security features (the mandatory security features prescribed by RBI as per CTS-2010 
standards), i.e., Micro lettering of ‘Bandhan Bank’ as well as ‘Customer Account Number’ in account number box 
and amount box on the cheque’s leaves issued to customers, to reduce chances of misuse of cheques by cloning, 
tampering, alterations, etc.
222
Annual Report 2024-25
d)	
One of the key features of BCP framework of the Bank is - Crisis communication plan. The Bank proactively 
communicates its customers about any planned or unplanned disruption / discontinuation of essential services 
through SMS and email.
e)	
Proactively inform customers about planned system downtimes through timely email and SMS 
notifications mentioning the expected duration and impacted services, helping maintain transparency and 
minimise inconvenience.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/
Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction 
relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a 
whole? (Yes/No)
The banking industry is facing a rapidly changing market, technological disruption, economic uncertainties, increasing 
competition and especially more demanding customers. The income and business growth of the Bank depends on 
loyal and satisfied customers. The Bank understands and continuously aims to evolve the way to handle personal and 
business finances. The Bank believes that great customer service comes from efficient, flawless operations including 
keeping pace with both live and digital options to ensure seamless and hassle-free service to customers. Amidst strong 
market competition, the Bank continuously strives to improve its relationship with customers by providing them with 
necessary product information and creating customer awareness.
The Bank conducts customer satisfaction surveys and workshops with senior citizens, women customers, low-income 
groups at the Bank branches to collect insight into parameters like –
•	 Reliability
•	 Responsiveness
•	 Empathy
•	 Assurance
Feedbacks from the customers are collated for generating scores to evaluate the performance and behaviour of 
employees handling customers across all the Bank branches and offices.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Bandhan Bank Limited
Anup Kumar Sinha
Place: Kolkata
Non-Executive (Independent) Chairman
Date: June 27, 2025
(DIN: 08249893)
223
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Bandhan Bank Limited
Report on the Audit of the  
Financial Statements
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying financial 
statements of Bandhan Bank Limited (the 
“Bank”) which comprise the Balance Sheet as at 
March 31, 2025, the Profit and Loss Account, the Cash 
Flow Statement for the year then ended, and notes 
to the Financial Statements including a summary of 
significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information (“the Financial Statements”).
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, the 
aforesaid financial statements give the information 
required by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as well as 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the circulars 
and guidelines issued by Reserve Bank of India, in the 
manner so required for banking companies and are in 
conformity with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India including the accounting standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act as applicable 
to banks and give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Bank as at March 31, 2025, and its profit 
and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards 
on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of 
the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards 
are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities 
for the Audit of Financial Statements” section of our 
report. We are independent of the Bank in accordance 
with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together with 
the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit 
of the Financial Statements under the provisions of the 
Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our 
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that 
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters
4.	
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in 
our audit of the Financial Statements of the current 
year. These matters were addressed in the context of 
our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole and in 
forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. We have determined 
the matters described below to be the key audit matters:
Identification and Provisioning of Non-performing Advances (NPA):
Total NPA as at March 31, 2025: ₹6,435.56 crore 
Provision for NPA as at March 31, 2025: ₹4,742.71 crore
(Refer Schedule 9, 18.6 & 18.7 to the Financial Statements)
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Identification of NPA and measurement of provision 
on account of NPA is made based on the assessment 
of various criteria stipulated in the Reserve Bank of 
India (‘RBI’) guidelines on ‘Prudential Norms on Income 
Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning 
pertaining to advances’ (‘IRACP’).
The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to 
determine the identification and provision required against 
NPAs by applying quantitative as well as qualitative factors. 
The risk of identification of NPAs is affected by factors like 
stress and liquidity concerns in certain sectors.
The provision against advances is based on criteria such 
as past due status, out of order status etc. The provision 
in respect of such NPAs are made based on ageing and 
classification of NPAs, recovery estimates, value of 
security, nature of loan products and other qualitative 
factors and is subject to minimum provisioning levels 
prescribed by the RBI and approved policy of the bank 
in this regard. In addition to this, for restructured 
accounts, provision is made for erosion/ diminution in fair 
value of restructured loans, in accordance with the RBI 
guidelines. Further, NPA classification is made borrower 
wise whereby if one facility of the borrower becomes 
NPA then all facilities of such a borrower will be treated 
as NPA.
•	 Tested the design and operating effectiveness of key controls 
(including application controls) over approval, recording, 
monitoring, and recovery of loans, monitoring overdue/
stressed accounts, identification of NPA, provision for NPA, 
and valuation of security including collateral. Testing of 
Application controls includes testing of automated controls, 
reports and system reconciliations.
•	 Evaluated the governance process and tested controls over 
calculations of provision on non-performing advances, basis 
of provisioning in accordance with the Board approved policy.
•	 Selected the borrowers based on quantitative and qualitative 
risk factors for their assessment of appropriate classification 
as NPA including computation of overdue ageing to assess its 
correct classification and provision amount as per the IRACP 
norms and Bank policy.
224
Annual Report 2024-25
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
We 
have 
identified 
‘Identification 
of 
NPA 
and 
Provisioning on Advances’ as a key audit matter in view of 
the significant level of estimation involved, as well as the 
stringent compliances laid down by the RBI in this regard.
Performed other substantive procedures including but not 
limited to the following:
•	 Selected sample of performing loans and assessed them 
independently as to whether these should be classified 
as NPA;
•	 For sample selected, examined the security valuation, 
financial statements and other qualitative information of 
the borrowers;
•	 Considered the accounts reported by the Bank and other 
Banks as Special Mention Accounts (“SMA”) in RBI’s Central 
Repository of Information on Large Credits (CRILC) to 
identify stress;
•	 Performed inquiries with the credit and risk departments to 
ascertain if there were indicators of stress or an occurrence of 
an event of default in a particular loan account or any product 
category which needs to be considered as NPA;
•	 Assessed the appropriateness of asset classification and 
adequacy of related provisioning by performing procedures 
such as computation of overdue ageing, assessment of 
borrower level, NPA identification and verification of 
applicable provision rates as per IRACP norms and Bank’s 
Policy on test check basis; and assessed the adequacy of 
disclosures against the relevant accounting standards and 
RBI requirements relating to NPAs.
•	 We communicated the observations arising out of our 
above procedures with those charged with governance 
and the management. The resultant modifications in IT 
procedures to improve financial and operating controls have 
been implemented or expected to be implemented in the 
near future. In the meanwhile, the management has made 
compensating computations through specific manual or 
other off system exercises to which we have applied audit 
tests, where necessary.
Information Technology (“IT”) Systems and Controls impacting Financial Reporting
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The Bank has a complex IT architecture to support its day-
to-day business operations. High volume of transactions are 
processed and recorded on single or multiple applications. 
The reliability and security of IT systems plays a key role in 
the business operations of the Bank. Since large volume of 
transactions are processed daily, the IT controls are required 
to ensure that applications process data as expected and 
that changes are made in an appropriate manner.
Appropriate IT general controls and application controls 
are required to ensure that such IT systems are able to 
process the data, as required, completely, accurately and 
consistently for reliable financial reporting.
Our procedures with respect to this matter included the 
following:
In assessing the controls over the IT systems of the Bank, we 
involved our technology specialists to obtain an understanding of 
the IT environment, IT infrastructure and IT systems. We evaluated 
and tested relevant IT general controls over the “in-scope” IT 
systems and IT dependencies identified as relevant for our audit 
of the financial statements and financial reporting process of the 
Bank. On such “in-scope” IT systems, we have tested key IT general 
controls with respect to the following domains:
•	 Program change management, which includes that program 
changes are moved to the production environment as per 
defined procedures and relevant segregation of environment 
is ensured.
•	 User access management, which includes user access 
provisioning, de-provisioning, access review, password 
management, sensitive access rights and segregation of duties 
to ensure that privilege access to applications, operating 
systems and databases in the production environment were 
granted only to authorised personnel.
225
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Key Audit Matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
We have identified ‘IT systems and controls’ as key audit 
matter because of the high level automation, significant 
number of systems being used by the management and 
the complexity of the IT architecture and its impact on 
the financial reporting system.
•	 Program development, which includes controls over IT 
application development or implementation and related 
infrastructure, which are relied upon for financial reporting. 
In addition, understood where relevant, changes made to the 
IT landscape during the audit period.
•	 IT operations, which includes job scheduling, monitoring and 
backup and recovery.
We also evaluated the design and tested the operating 
effectiveness of relevant key IT dependencies within the 
key business process, which included testing automated 
controls, automated calculations/ accounting procedures, 
interfaces, segregation of duties and system generated reports, 
as applicable.
We communicated the observations arising out of our above 
procedures with those charged with governance and the 
management. The resultant modifications in IT Procedures 
to improve financial and operating controls have been 
implemented or expected to be implemented in the near future. 
In the meanwhile, the management has made compensating 
computations through specific manual or other off system 
exercises to which we have applied audit tests, where necessary.
Information other than financial statements and 
auditors’ report thereon
5.	
The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for the 
other information. The other information comprises 
the information included in the annual report but 
does not include the Financial Statements and 
our auditor’s report thereon. The annual report is 
expected to be made available to us after the date of 
this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not 
cover the other information and we will not express 
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial 
Statements, our responsibility is to read the other 
information identified above when it becomes 
available and, in doing so, consider whether the other 
information is materially inconsistent with the Financial 
Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. When 
we read the annual report, if we conclude that there 
is a material misstatement therein, we are required 
to communicate the matter to those charged with 
governance and take appropriate action as applicable 
under the relevant laws and regulations.
Responsibilities of management and those 
charged with governance for the  
Financial Statements
6.	
The Bank’s Board of Directors are responsible for 
the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act, 
with respect to the preparation and presentation of 
these Financial Statements that give a true and fair 
view of the financial position, financial performance 
and cash flows of the Bank in accordance with the 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, 
including the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, and the provisions 
of Section 29 of the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 
and circulars, guidelines and directions issued by 
the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) from time to time. 
This responsibility also includes maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets 
of the Bank and for preventing and detecting frauds 
and other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant 
to the preparation and presentation of the Financial 
Statements that give a true and fair view and are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error.
7.	
In preparing the Financial Statements, the Board of 
Directors are responsible for assessing the Bank’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
management and Board of Director either intends to 
liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors are also responsible for 
overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process.
226
Annual Report 2024-25
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Financial Statements
8.	
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the Financial Statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance 
is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee 
that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will 
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the 
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of 
these Financial Statements.
9.	
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional 
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the Financial Statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.
•	 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the Bank has internal financial 
controls with reference to the Financial Statements in 
place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management of 
the Bank.
•	 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use 
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions 
that may cast significant doubt on the Bank’s ability 
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the Financial Statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our 
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future 
events or conditions may cause the Bank to cease to 
continue as a going concern.
•	 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the Financial Statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the Financial Statements 
represent the underlying transactions and events in 
a manner that achieves fair presentation.
10.	 We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 
including any significant deficiencies in internal control 
that we identify during our audit.
11.	 We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
12.	 From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters that 
were of most significance in the audit of the Financial 
Statements of the current year and are therefore the 
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our 
auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes 
public disclosure about the matter or when, in 
extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a 
matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so 
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
13.	 The financial statements of the Bank for the year ended 
March 31, 2024 were jointly audited by Singhi & Co. 
and M M Nissim & Co. LLP, who vide their audit report 
dated May 17, 2024 issued an unmodified opinion 
on the audited financial statements. Accordingly, 
V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., do not express any opinion 
on the comparable figures reported in the financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2024.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the 
above matter.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
14.	 In our opinion, the Balance Sheet and the Profit and 
Loss Account have been drawn up in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949 and Section 133 of the Act.
15.	 As required by sub-section (3) of Section 30 of the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that:
(a)	
we have obtained all the information and 
explanations which, to the best of our knowledge 
and belief, were necessary for the purpose of our 
audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
(b)	 the transactions of the Bank, which have come 
to our notice, have been within the powers of 
the Bank;
227
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
(c)	
Since the key operations of the Bank are 
automated with the key applications integrated 
to the core banking system, the audit is carried 
out centrally at the Bank’s Head Office located 
in Kolkata, as all the necessary records and 
data required for the purposes of our audit are 
available there. During the course of our audit, 
we have visited 20 branches and 24 banking 
units to examine the books of account and other 
records maintained at the branch and performed 
other relevant audit procedures.
16.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit;
(b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law have been kept by the Bank so 
far as it appears from our examination of those 
books, except for the matters stated in paragraph 
16(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
(as amended) (“the Rules”);
(c)	
The Balance Sheet, the Profit and Loss Account 
and the Cash Flow Statement dealt with by 
this report are in agreement with the books 
of account;
(d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid Financial Statements 
comply with the Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Act read with Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules 2021, to the extent 
they are not inconsistent with the guidelines 
prescribed by RBI;
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors as on March 31, 2025 
and taken on record by the Board of Directors, 
none of the directors is disqualified as on March 
31, 2025 from being appointed as a director in 
terms of Section 164(2) of the Act;
(f)	
The modifications relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith, 
reference is made to our remarks in paragraph 
16(b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)
(b) of the act and paragraph 16(h)(vi) below on 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Rules;
(g)	 With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to Financial 
Statements of the Bank and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our 
separate report in “Annexure A”; and
(h)	 With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 
11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the 
best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
i.	
The Bank has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position 
in its Financial Statements – Refer Schedule 
12 & 18.17 to the Financial Statements;
ii.	
The Bank did not have any long term contract 
including derivative contracts for which 
there were material foreseeable losses;
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to 
the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Bank, during the year ended 
March 31, 2025;
iv.	
(a)	
The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
other than as disclosed in the Schedule 
18.34 to the Financial Statements, no 
funds have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Bank to or in any 
other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall, whether, directly or 
indirectly, lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
(b)	 The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, 
other than as disclosed in the Schedule 
18.34 to the Financial Statements, 
no funds have been received by the 
Bank from any person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Funding 
Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the Bank shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
228
Annual Report 2024-25
	
(c)	
Based on such audit procedures that we 
considered reasonable and appropriate 
in the circumstances; nothing has 
come to our notice that has caused 
us to believe that the representations 
under sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any 
material misstatement.
v.	
(a)	
The final dividend proposed in the 
Previous Year, declared and paid by the 
bank during the year is in accordance 
with the Section 123 of the Act, as 
applicable; and
	
(b)	 As stated in Schedule 18.3 to the 
Financial Statements, the Board of 
Directors of the Bank have proposed 
dividend for the financial year 2024-
25 which is subject to the approval of 
the members at the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting. The amount of 
dividend proposed is in accordance with 
Section 123 of the Act, as applicable, 
until the date of this report.
vi.	
Based on our examination, which included 
test checks, the Bank has used various 
accounting software for maintaining its 
books of account which have a feature 
of recording audit trail (edit log) facility, 
which have operated throughout the year 
for all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software, except;
	
(a)	
the audit trail configured at Database 
level logs record only modified values in 
respect of two accounting software(s). 
Further, for one of these applications, 
the changes to capture pre-modified 
values was implemented from 
March 25, 2025.
	
(b)	 the audit trail to log any direct data 
changes was enabled at database level 
in case of one accounting software, 
from May 25, 2024.
Based on our procedures performed, 
we did not observe any instance of 
tampering with the audit trail except 
in respect of periods and systems as 
mentioned above wherein we are 
unable to comment upon in absence 
of audit trails. Further, the audit 
trail, to the extent maintained in the 
prior year, has been preserved by 
the Company as per the statutory 
requirements for record retention 
except in case of two sunset software 
discontinued during Previous Year and 
one accounting software wherein audit 
trail was enabled at database level 
from February 18, 2024.
17.	 In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, 
the provisions of Section 197 of the Act are not 
applicable to the Bank by virtue of Section 35B(2A) 
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Accordingly, the 
reporting under Section 197(16) of the Act regarding 
payment/ provision for managerial remuneration in 
accordance with the requisite approvals mandated by 
the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to 
the Act, is not applicable.
For Singhi & Co.
For V. Sankar Aiyar & Co.
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration No. 302049E)
(Firm Registration No. 109208W)
Ravi Kapoor
Karthik Srinivasan 
Partner
Partner
Membership No. 040404
Membership No. 514998
UDIN: 25040404BMLAOP6295
UDIN: 25514998BMLGKR9919
Place: Kolkata
Place: Kolkata
Date: April 30, 2025 
Date: April 30, 2025
229
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Annexure A 
to Independent Auditor’s Report
Referred to in paragraph 16(g) of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of Bandhan Bank Limited 
on the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025
Report on the Internal Financial Controls 
with reference to Financial Statements 
under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of 
Section 143 of the Act
1.	
We have audited the internal financial controls 
with reference to Financial Statements of Bandhan 
Bank Limited (“the Bank”) as of March 31, 2025, in 
conjunction with our audit of the financial statements 
of the Bank for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for 
Internal Financial Controls
2.	
The Banks’s management is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Bank considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its 
business, including adherence to Banks’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Banks’s 
internal financial controls with reference to Financial 
Statements based on our audit. We conducted our 
audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the 
Standards on Auditing deemed to be prescribed under 
Section 143(10) of the Act to the extent applicable to 
an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable 
to an audit of internal financial controls and both 
issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance 
Note require that we comply with ethical requirements 
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to Financial Statements was 
established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
4.	
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls system with reference to Financial 
Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our 
audit of internal financial controls with reference 
to Financial Statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to Financial Statements, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the Financial Statements, 
whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
audit opinion on the Banks’s internal financial controls 
system with reference to Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls 
with reference to financial statements
6.	
A Banks’s internal financial controls with reference to 
Financial Statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of Financial 
Statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A Banks’s 
internal financial controls with reference to Financial 
Statements includes those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Bank; 
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
Financial Statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the Bank are being made only 
in accordance with authorisations of management 
and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection 
of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
Bank’s assets that could have a material effect on the 
Financial Statements.
230
Annual Report 2024-25
Inherent Limitations of Internal  
Financial Controls with reference  
to financial statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal 
financial controls with reference to Financial 
Statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
Financial Statements to future periods are subject 
to the risk that the internal financial controls with 
reference to Financial Statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or 
that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	
In our opinion, to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, the Bank 
has, in all material respects, an adequate internal 
financial controls system with reference to financial 
statements and such internal financial controls with 
reference to Financial Statements were operating 
effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal 
control over financial reporting criteria established 
by the Bank considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued 
by ICAI.
For Singhi & Co.
For V. Sankar Aiyar & Co.
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration No. 302049E)
(Firm Registration No. 109208W)
Ravi Kapoor
Karthik Srinivasan 
Partner
Partner
Membership No. 040404
Membership No. 514998
UDIN: 25040404BMLAOP6295
UDIN: 25514998BMLGKR9919
Place: Kolkata
Place: Kolkata
Date: April 30, 2025 
Date: April 30, 2025
231
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Balance Sheet
as at March 31, 2025
(₹ in ‘000)
Particulars
Schedule
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Capital & Liabilities
Capital 
1
1,61,09,714
1,61,09,697
Employees stock options outstanding
1A
24,59,051
4,41,899
Reserves & Surplus
2
22,74,81,304
19,95,44,784
Deposits
3
1,51,21,24,991
1,35,20,19,862
Borrowings
4
11,13,84,927
16,37,15,240
Other liabilities and provisions
5
4,52,02,898
4,65,85,108
Total
1,91,47,62,885
1,77,84,16,590
Assets
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India
6
7,47,74,496
15,39,26,841
Balance with Banks and Money at call and short notice
7
2,09,19,416
77,78,420
Investments
8
40,71,22,755
29,28,75,784
Advances
9
1,31,98,73,177
1,21,13,67,833
Fixed Assets
10
1,18,03,819
1,17,34,263
Other Assets
11
8,02,69,222
10,07,33,449
Total
1,91,47,62,885
1,77,84,16,590
Contingent liabilities
12
16,76,91,610
9,21,44,446
Bills for collection
4,714
-
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts
17 & 18
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Balance Sheet
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Bandhan Bank Limited
For Singhi & Co
For V. Sankar Aiyar & Co.
Partha Pratim Sengupta
Anup Kumar Sinha
Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & CEO
Non-Executive 
(Independent) Chairman
ACB Chairman & 
Independent Director
Firm Registration Number : 
302049E
Firm Registration Number : 
109208W
Kolkata
DIN: 08273324
Kolkata
DIN: 08249893
Kolkata
DIN: 00751001
Ravi Kapoor
Karthik Srinivasan
Ratan Kumar Kesh
Rajinder Kumar Babbar
Rajeev Mantri
Partner
Partner
Executive Director & COO
Executive Director & CBO
Chief Financial Officer
Membership Number : 040404
Membership Number : 514998
Kolkata
Kolkata
Kolkata
Place : Kolkata
Place : Kolkata
DIN: 10082714 
DIN: 10540386
Date : April 30, 2025
Date : April 30, 2025
Indranil Banerjee
Company Secretary
Kolkata
232
Annual Report 2024-25
Profit and Loss Account
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in ‘000)
Particulars
Schedule 
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
I.
Income
Interest Earned
13
21,94,82,287
18,86,96,182
Other Income
14
2,96,66,000
2,17,14,199
Total
24,91,48,287
21,04,10,381
II.
Expenditure
Interest Expended
15
10,45,76,451
8,55,07,766
Operating Expenses
16
7,06,84,951
5,85,07,778
Provisions & Contingencies
18.1
4,64,33,930
4,40,99,210
Total
22,16,95,332
18,81,14,754
III. Net Profit for the year (I-II)
2,74,52,955
2,22,95,627
Balance in Profit & Loss Account brought forward from Previous Year
8,67,91,311
7,45,37,813
IV.  Amount available for appropriations
11,42,44,266
9,68,33,440
V.   Appropriations/Transfers
Transfer to Statutory Reserves
68,63,239
55,73,906
Transfer to Statutory Reserve u/s 36(1)(viii) of Income Tax Act 1961
12,36,585
9,84,116
Transfer to Capital Reserve
97,977
41,836
Transfer to Investment Reserve
-
15,32,773
Transfer to/(from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
13,54,900
(5,06,799)
Dividend Paid 
24,16,455
24,16,297
Balance carried over to Balance Sheet
10,22,75,110
8,67,91,311
Total
11,42,44,266
9,68,33,440
VI. Earnings per Share (refer Note 18.14)
Basic (₹) 
17.04
13.84
Diluted (₹)
17.04
13.84
Face value per share (₹)
10
10
Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to Accounts
17 & 18
Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Profit & Loss Account.
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Bandhan Bank Limited
For Singhi & Co
For V. Sankar Aiyar & Co.
Partha Pratim Sengupta
Anup Kumar Sinha
Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & CEO
Non-Executive 
(Independent) Chairman
ACB Chairman & 
Independent Director
Firm Registration Number : 
302049E
Firm Registration Number : 
109208W
Kolkata
DIN: 08273324
Kolkata
DIN: 08249893
Kolkata
DIN: 00751001
Ravi Kapoor
Karthik Srinivasan
Ratan Kumar Kesh
Rajinder Kumar Babbar
Rajeev Mantri
Partner
Partner
Executive Director & COO
Executive Director & CBO
Chief Financial Officer
Membership Number : 040404
Membership Number : 514998
Kolkata
Kolkata
Kolkata
Place : Kolkata
Place : Kolkata
DIN: 10082714 
DIN: 10540386
Date : April 30, 2025
Date : April 30, 2025
Indranil Banerjee
Company Secretary
Kolkata
233
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(₹ in ‘000)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
A.
Cash flow from Operating Activities :
Profit Before Taxation
3,62,32,770
2,94,29,123
Adjustments for :
Depreciation and amortisation
27,92,019
23,75,756
Provisions & Contingencies
3,76,54,115
3,69,65,714
Interest Income from fixed deposits
(1,15,868)
(75,568)
(Profit)/Loss on sale of Held-to-maturity (HTM) securities
(1,74,572)
(74,543)
Interest Income from Investments in Held-to-maturity (HTM) securities
(1,52,57,623)
(1,40,08,995)
Provision/(reversal of provision) for depreciation in value of investments
(28,59,784)
(27,31,048)
Employee Stock Options Expense
21,06,974
3,51,537
(Profit) / Loss on sale of fixed assets
210
(1,263)
Operating Profit Before Working Capital Changes
6,03,78,241
5,22,30,713
Movements in working capital :
(Increase)/Decrease in Advances
(14,56,31,727)
(20,03,49,721)
(Increase)/Decrease in Other Assets
1,53,40,632
1,97,880
(Increase)/Decrease in Investment in HFT & AFS securities
(5,69,68,047)
2,53,39,971
Increase / (Decrease) in Deposits
16,01,05,129
27,13,72,958
Increase / (Decrease) in Other Current Liabilities and Provisions
(5,86,036)
1,05,83,328
Cash flows generated from operations
3,26,38,192
15,93,75,129
Direct Taxes Paid (net of refunds)
(51,14,923)
(1,12,90,920)
Net Cash flows generated from/(used in) Operating Activities (A)
2,75,23,269
14,80,84,209
B.
Cash flow from Investing Activities :
Purchase of Fixed Assets/Capital work-in-progress
(28,80,720)
(55,74,223)
Sale of Fixed Assets
18,938
11,372
Interest received from fixed deposits
1,15,671
76,074
Interest received from Investments in Held-to-maturity (HTM) securities
1,44,49,239
1,41,48,765
(Increase)/Decrease in Held to Maturity Investment
(5,04,89,600)
82,48,747
Deposits (created)/ matured with banks and financial institutions
(743)
(955)
Net Cash flows generated from/(used in) Investing Activities (B)
(3,87,87,215)
1,69,09,780
C.
Cash flow from Financing Activities :
Dividend paid
(24,16,455)
(24,16,297)
Proceeds from share issue (Including share premium)
298
23,988
Proceeds from/(Repayment) of short term borrowings
(2,07,68,305)
1,75,78,690
Proceeds from/(Repayment) of long term borrowings
(3,15,62,009)
(10,09,71,675)
Net Cash flows generated from Financing Activities(C)
(5,47,46,471)
(8,57,85,294)
Net Increase/ (Decrease) In Cash And Cash Equivalents (A+B+C)
(6,60,10,417)
7,92,08,695
Cash And Cash Equivalents at the Beginning of the year
16,16,83,650
8,24,74,955
Cash And Cash Equivalents at the End of the year
9,56,73,233
16,16,83,650
Components of Cash and Cash Equivalents :
Cash and Balances with Reserve Bank of India (Refer Schedule no. 6)
7,47,74,496
15,39,26,841
Balance with Banks and Money at call and short notice (Refer Schedule no. 7)*
2,08,98,737
77,56,809
9,56,73,233
16,16,83,650
*Cash and Cash Equivalents excludes lien marked Fixed Deposits of ₹0.71 crore (Previous Year: ₹0.64 crore) with original maturity of more than 
three months & amount transferred to Unpaid Dividend account of ₹1.36 crore (Previous Year: ₹1.53 crore)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Bandhan Bank Limited
For Singhi & Co
For V. Sankar Aiyar & Co.
Partha Pratim Sengupta
Anup Kumar Sinha
Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & CEO
Non-Executive 
(Independent) Chairman
ACB Chairman & 
Independent Director
Firm Registration Number : 
302049E
Firm Registration Number : 
109208W
Kolkata
DIN: 08273324
Kolkata
DIN: 08249893
Kolkata
DIN: 00751001
Ravi Kapoor
Karthik Srinivasan
Ratan Kumar Kesh
Rajinder Kumar Babbar
Rajeev Mantri
Partner
Partner
Executive Director & COO
Executive Director & CBO
Chief Financial Officer
Membership Number : 040404
Membership Number : 514998
Kolkata
Kolkata
Kolkata
Place : Kolkata
Place : Kolkata
DIN: 10082714 
DIN: 10540386
Date : April 30, 2025
Date : April 30, 2025
Indranil Banerjee
Company Secretary
Kolkata
234
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
Schedule 1 - Capital
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
Authorised Capital
3,200,000,000 (Previous Year: 3,200,000,000) equity shares of ₹10/- each
3,20,00,000
3,20,00,000
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up capital
1,61,09,71,405 (Previous Year: 1,61,09,69,748) Equity Share of ₹10/- each
1,61,09,714
1,61,09,697
Total
1,61,09,714
1,61,09,697
Schedule 1A - Employees stock options outstanding
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
Opening Balance
4,41,899
1,19,456
Additions during the Year1
21,06,974
3,51,537
Deduction during the Year2
(89,822)
(29,094)
Total
24,59,051
4,41,899
1.	
Represents cost of stock options recongnised during the year.
2.	
Represents amount transferred to General Reserve on lapses of employee stock options during the year.
Schedule 2 - Reserves & Surplus
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
l.
Statutory Reserve
Opening Balance
3,61,60,059
3,05,86,153
Additions during the Year
68,63,239
55,73,906
Deduction during the Year
-
-
Total
4,30,23,298
3,61,60,059
ll.
Statutory Reserve U/S 36(1)(VIII) OF Income Tax Act 1961
Opening Balance
1,13,87,386
1,04,03,270
Additions during the Year
12,36,585
9,84,116
Deduction during the Year 
-
-
Total
1,26,23,971
1,13,87,386
lll.
Capital Reserve
Opening Balance
65,19,687
64,77,851
Additions during the Year1
97,977
41,836
Deduction during the Year
-
-
Total
66,17,664
65,19,687
IV.
Share Premium Account
Opening Balance
5,42,10,543
5,41,87,887
Additions during the Year
282
22,656
Deduction during the Year 
-
-
Total
5,42,10,825
5,42,10,543
235
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
V.
Investment Fluctuation Reserve
Opening Balance
16,18,082
21,24,881
Additions during the Year
13,54,900
-
Deduction during the Year
-
(5,06,799)
Total
29,72,982
16,18,082
VI.
Investment Reserve
Opening Balance
18,36,797
3,04,024
Additions during the Year2
-
15,32,773
Deduction during the Year5
(18,36,797)
-
Total
-
18,36,797
VII. Additional Reserve3
Opening Balance
2,77,389
2,77,389
Additions during the Year
-
-
Deduction during the Year
-
-
Total
2,77,389
2,77,389
VIII. General Reserve
Opening Balance
7,43,530
7,14,436
Additions during the Year4&5
29,16,881
29,094
Deduction during the Year 
-
-
Total
36,60,411
7,43,530
IX.
AFS Reserve
Opening Balance
-
-
Additions during the Year5
21,87,207
-
Deduction during the Year 
(3,67,553)
-
Total
18,19,654
-
X.
Balance in Profit and Loss Account 
10,22,75,110
8,67,91,311
GRAND TOTAL (I+II+III+IV+V+VI+VII+VIII+IX+X)
22,74,81,304
19,95,44,784
1.	
Appropriations made for profit on sale of investments in held to maturity category, net of taxes and transfer to 
Statutory reserve.
2.	
Appropriations made for reversal of excess provision for depreciation in “Available for Sale” & “Held for Trading” 
categories, net of taxes and transfer to Statutory reserve.
3.	
Additional Reserve represents reserve created in terms of section 29C of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 out of 
the distributable profits by erstwhile Gruh Finance Limited, which have been carried forward in accordance with the 
terms of the Merger scheme.
4.	
Includes amount transferred from Employee Stock Options outstanding to general reserve on lapses of employee 
stock options during the period & amount transferred from Investment Reserve pursuant to RBI Master Direction 
- Classification, Valuation & Operation of Investment portfolio of Commercial Banks (Directions), 2023 dated 
September 12, 2023
5.	
Refer Note 18.5(A)(ii) for transitional adjustments as per RBI Master Direction - Classification, Valuation & Operation 
of Investment portfolio of Commercial Banks (Directions), 2023 dated September 12, 2023
236
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
Schedule 3 - Deposits
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
A.
l.
Demand Deposits
i)	
From Banks
70,41,589
1,70,72,419
ii)	 From Others
7,38,44,645
7,95,73,092
ll.
Savings Bank Deposits
39,34,82,862
40,48,61,528
lll.
Term Deposits
i)	
From Banks
26,28,24,788
20,89,42,812
ii)	 From Others
77,49,31,107
64,15,70,011
Total
1,51,21,24,991
1,35,20,19,862
B.
l.
Deposits of branches in India
1,51,21,24,991
1,35,20,19,862
ll.
Deposits of branches outside India
-
-
Total
1,51,21,24,991
1,35,20,19,862
Schedule 4 - Borrowings
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
l.
Borrowings in India
i)
Reserve Bank of India
-
-
ii)
Other banks
59,83,250
2,65,97,580
iii)
Other Institutions & agencies1
6,00,99,927
9,16,61,935
ll.
Borrowings outside India
4,53,01,750
4,54,55,725
Total
11,13,84,927
16,37,15,240
Secured borrowings included in (I&II) above
7,50,000
7,50,000
1	
Includes borrowings made under refinance.
Schedule 5 - Other liabilities and provisions
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
l.
Bills Payable
74,92,971
81,44,551
ll.
Inter-office Adjustments(Net)
-
-
lll.
Interest accrued 
39,30,063
27,91,124
lV.
Contingent Provision against Standard Assets (refer Note 18.6(I))
1,02,45,113
1,01,06,627
V.
Provision for Income Tax (Net of Advance tax and Tax deducted at source)
1,72,306
14,94,537
Vl.
Others (including provisions)
2,33,62,445
2,40,48,269
Total
4,52,02,898
4,65,85,108
Schedule 6 - Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
l.
Cash In hand (including foreign currency notes)
85,63,032
1,44,52,702
ll.
Balance with Reserve Bank of India
i)	
In Current Account
6,62,11,464
4,94,74,139
ii)	 In Other Accounts1
-
9,00,00,000
Total
7,47,74,496
15,39,26,841
1.	
Represents Standing Deposit Facility (SDF)
237
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
Schedule 7 - Balances with Banks and Money at call and short notice
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
I.
In India
i)
Balance with Banks 
a)	 In Current Account
33,28,208
76,39,914
b)	 In Other Deposit Accounts
7,097
6,354
ii) 
Money at call & short notice
a)	 With banks
-
-
b)	 With other institutions
1,72,65,368
-
Total
2,06,00,673
76,46,268
II.
Outside India 
a)	 In Current Account
3,18,743
1,32,152
b)	 In Other Deposit Accounts
-
-
C)	 Money at call & short notice
-
-
Total
3,18,743
1,32,152
GRAND TOTAL (I+II)
2,09,19,416
77,78,420
Schedule 8 - Investments
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
I.
Investment in India in
i)
Government Securities
37,79,71,598
28,57,75,418
ii)
Other Approved Securities
-
-
iii) Shares
38,55,745
22,52,015
iv) Debentures & Bonds
35,00,000
26,06,239
v)
Subsidiaries and /or joint ventures
-
-
vi) Others (Mututal Fund units, Certificate of Deposits, Security Receipts and Pass 
Through certificates)
2,38,17,595
76,49,158
Total
40,91,44,938
29,82,82,830
Less- Provision for Depreciation on Investment*
(20,22,183)
(54,07,046)
Total
40,71,22,755
29,28,75,784
II.
Investments outside India
-
-
Total
-
-
GRAND TOTAL (I+II)
40,71,22,755
29,28,75,784
Carrying value of Investments as on March 31, 2025 is based on RBI Master Direction - Classification, Valuation & Operation 
of Investment portfolio of Commercial Banks (Directions), 2023 dated September 12, 2023 (Refer note 18.5(A)(ii) for 
transitional adjustments as on April 1,2024). Accordingly, the figures for the current year are not comparable with the 
Previous Year.
*Represents Provision for depreciation on Security Receipts in current year
238
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
Schedule 9 - Advances (Net of Provisions)
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
A.
i)
Bills Purchased & Discounted
1,72,706
-
ii)
Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand 
20,61,61,571
22,84,46,837
iii) Term loans*
1,11,35,38,900
98,29,20,996
Total
1,31,98,73,177
1,21,13,67,833
B.
i)
Secured by tangible assets (Including Advances against fixed deposits and book debts)
68,65,63,163
51,49,94,976
ii)
Covered by Bank/Government Guarantees
9,64,654
18,65,233
iii) Unsecured#
63,23,45,360
69,45,07,624
Total
1,31,98,73,177
1,21,13,67,833
C.
I)
Advances in India
i)
Priority Sector
51,66,68,329
58,63,45,580
ii)
Public Sector
40,12,798
-
iii) Banks
2,78,407
20,00,908
iv) Others
79,89,13,643
62,30,21,345
Total
1,31,98,73,177
1,21,13,67,833
II)
Advances Outside India
-
-
Total
-
-
GRAND TOTAL
1,31,98,73,177
1,21,13,67,833
*Including loans outstanding under Inter bank participation certificate ₹980.00 crore (Previous Year: ₹2606.63 crore)
The total amount received from National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Ltd (NCGTC) towards Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme is 
₹123.25 crore (Previous Year: ₹136.82 crore).
The above Net Advances includes Provision made against amount received (net) NCGTC held pending adjustment is ₹259.68 crore 
(Previous Year: ₹145.55 crore).
#Advances - Unsecured includes advances for which security documentation is being perfected
Schedule 10 - Fixed Assets
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
I) Premises
Gross Block
At cost as at March 31 of the preceding year
31,52,290
16,77,164
Addition during the Year
-
14,75,126
Deduction during the Year
-
-
Total
31,52,290
31,52,290
Depreciation
As at the beginning of the Year
1,35,162
1,07,310
Charge for the year
49,201
27,852
Deduction during the Year
-
-
Depreciation to date
1,84,363
1,35,162
Net Block
29,67,927
30,17,128
239
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
II) Other Fixed Assets (Including Furniture & Fixture)
Gross Block
At cost as at March 31 of the preceding year
1,53,10,764
99,48,257
Addition during the Year*
17,72,192
54,12,295
Deduction during the Year
(65,188)
(49,788)
Total
1,70,17,768
1,53,10,764
Depreciation
As at the beginning of the Year
87,37,185
64,28,960
Charge for the year
27,42,818
23,47,904
Deduction during the Year
(46,043)
(39,679)
Depreciation to date
1,14,33,960
87,37,185
Net Block
55,83,808
65,73,579
III) Capital Work-in-progress (including capital advances)
32,52,084
21,43,556
GRAND TOTAL (I+II+III)
1,18,03,819
1,17,34,263
*Additions during the year ended March 31, 2025 includes Intangible Assets amounting to ₹NIL (Previous Year: ₹155.45 crore) for Flexcube CBS 
and the same is amortised over the period of three years as per Bank’s accounting policy
Schedule 11 - Other Assets
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
I)
Inter Office adjustment (Net)
-
7
II)
Interest Accrued 
1,59,91,024
1,43,70,151
III)
Advance Income Tax (Net of Provision)
11,38,672
71,98,992
IV)
Stationery and stamps
-
-
V)
Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims (Net of Provision)#
-
3,33,343
VI)
Others*
6,31,39,526
7,88,30,956
Total
8,02,69,222
10,07,33,449
*Includes Deferred Tax Assets of ₹1,008.41 crore (Previous Year: ₹995.60 crore) (Refer Note. 18.13)
*Includes Deposits in Rural Infrastructure and Development Fund amounting to ₹4,499.88 crore (Previous Year: ₹6,244.61 crore)
#Provision towards Non banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims amounts to ₹50.33 crore (Previous Year : ₹16.91 crore)
Schedule 12 - Contingent liabilities
(₹ in ‘000)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 
I)
Claims against the Bank not acknowledged as debts
28,07,788
9,97,273
II)
Liability for partly paid investments
-
-
III)
a)	 Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts 
(other than Tom & spot)1
14,60,299
-
b)	 Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts 
(for Tom & spot)1
6,55,48,250
82,57,095
IV)
Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
(a)	 In India 
1,41,31,077
1,31,80,405
(b)	 Outside India 
-
-
V)
Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
59,50,847
39,81,088
VI)
Currency swaps1
7,43,20,513
6,28,97,220
VII) Interest rate swaps, currency options and interest rate futures1
16,00,000
-
VIII) Other items (including Capital Commitments)
18,72,836
28,31,365
Total
16,76,91,610
9,21,44,446
1.	
Represents notional amount
240
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Profit & Loss Account
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
(₹ in ‘000)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024 
I)
Interest/discount on advances/bills
19,36,74,639
16,50,62,039
II)
Income on investments
2,18,18,682
2,01,35,681
III)
Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank funds
9,71,765
7,78,136
IV)
Others (Includes gain on IBPC)
30,17,201
27,20,326
Total
21,94,82,287
18,86,96,182
Schedule 14 - Other Income
(₹ in ‘000)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024 
I)
Commission, exchange and brokerage
1,72,55,117
1,71,15,838
II)
Profit/(Loss) on sale of investments (Net)
13,54,900
13,54,723
III)
Profit/(Loss) on revaluation of investments (Net)
28,59,784
27,31,048
IV)
Profit/(Loss) on sale of fixed assets (Net)
(210)
1,263
V)
Profit/(Loss) on exchange/derivative transactions (Net)
3,38,707
(2,62,962)
VI)
Income earned by way of dividends etc. from subsidiaries/companies and/or joint 
venture abroad/in India
-
-
VII) Miscellaneous income (Refer note 18.47)
78,57,702
7,74,289
Total
2,96,66,000
2,17,14,199
Schedule 15 - Interest Expended
(₹ in ‘000)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024 
I)
Interest on deposits
9,53,32,391
7,25,16,466
II)
Interest on Reserve Bank of India/Inter-bank borrowings
33,01,440
9,07,597
III)
Others1
59,42,620
1,20,83,703
Total
10,45,76,451
8,55,07,766
1. Includes amortisation of premium on interest rate swaps and foreign currency swaps.
Schedule 16 - Operating Expenses
(₹ in ‘000)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024 
I)
Payments to and provisions for employees
4,36,09,753
3,54,29,236
II)
Rent, taxes and lighting
43,16,256
35,48,318
III)
Printing and stationery
2,89,536
3,54,761
IV)
Advertisement and publicity
5,56,910
5,58,025
V)
Depreciation on bank’s property
27,92,019
23,75,756
VI)
Directors’ fees, allowance and expenses (Refer Note 18.37)
80,096
65,632
VII) Auditors’ fees and expenses (including branch auditors) (Refer Note 18.43)
35,970
28,427
VIII) Law charges
1,90,862
1,20,756
IX)
Postage, telegrams, telephones etc
9,33,338
8,84,182
X)
Repairs and maintenance
10,17,944
8,10,631
XI)
Insurance
18,04,562
14,92,872
XII) Other expenditure (Refer Note 18.35)
1,50,57,705
1,28,39,182
Total
7,06,84,951
5,85,07,778
241
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
Schedule 17 – Significant accounting 
policies forming part of the financial 
statements for the year ended  
March 31, 2025
1. Background
Bandhan Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’), incorporated on 
December 23, 2014 in India, is a banking company, 
governed by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. 
Pursuant to the Banking license received from Reserve 
Bank of India on June 17, 2015, the Bank has commenced 
its banking operations from August 23, 2015.
2. Basis of preparation
The accompanying financial statements have been 
prepared under the historical cost convention and on the 
accrual basis of accounting, unless otherwise stated and 
comply with the requirements prescribed under the Third 
Schedule (Form A and Form B) of the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949. The accounting and reporting policies of the 
Bank used in the preparation of these financial statements 
conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in 
India (‘Indian GAAP’), the guidelines issued by RBI from 
time to time, the accounting standards notified under 
section 133 of the Companies Act 2013, read together with 
the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021 to the 
extent applicable and practices generally prevalent in the 
banking industry in India.
3. Use of Estimates
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity 
with the generally accepted accounting principles requires 
the Management to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities (including 
contingent liabilities) as at the date of the financial statements 
and the reported income and expenses during the reporting 
period. The Management believes that the estimates used in 
the preparation of the financial statements shall be prudent 
and reasonable. Any revisions to the accounting estimates are 
recognised prospectively in the current and future periods. 
Actual results could differ from estimates.
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
4.1 Revenue Recognition
Interest income is recognised in the profit and loss 
account on an accrual basis, except in the case of interest 
on non-performing assets, which is recognised as income 
on realisation, as per the income recognition and asset 
classification norms of RBI. Accrual of income shall also 
be suspended on certain other loans, including projects 
under implementation where the implementation has been 
significantly delayed and in the opinion of the management 
significant uncertainties exist as to the final financial closure 
and/ or date of completion of the project.
The Bank shall not charge and take to income account 
interest on any NPA. This will apply to Government 
guaranteed accounts also. However, interest on advances 
against Term Deposits, National Savings Certificates (NSCs), 
Indira Vikas Patras (IVPs), Kisan Vikas Patras (KVPs) and 
Life policies is taken to income account on the due date, 
provided adequate margin is available in the accounts.
Profit or Loss on sale of investments is recognised in the Profit 
and Loss Account. However, the profit on sale of investments 
in ‘Held to Maturity’ category is appropriated (net of 
applicable taxes and amount required to be transferred to 
statutory reserve) to ‘Capital Reserve Account’.
Income from hire purchase operations is accrued by applying 
the interest rate implicit on outstanding investments.
Income from leases is calculated by applying the interest 
rate implicit in the lease to the net investment outstanding 
on the lease over the primary lease period.
Income on discounted instruments is recognised over the 
tenure of the instrument on a straight line basis.
Interest Income on PTC and Loan purchase through 
assignment are recognised on a constant yield basis.
Dividend is accounted on an when the right to receive the 
dividend is established.
Loan processing fees is accounted for upfront when it 
becomes due.
Fees other than loan processing fees received as a 
compensation of future interest sacrifice are amortised 
over the remaining period of the facility.
Compromise on settlement is accounted on receipt of 
settlement money.
Arranger’s fee is accrued proportionately where more than 
75% of the total amount of finance has been arranged.
Guarantee / Letter of credit (LC) commission is recognised 
over the period of the guarantee / LC.
Annual/renewal fee on credit cards and debit cards is 
recognised upfront.
Locker Rent recognised on Straight Line Method basis over 
the period of Contract
All fees from deposit accounts are accounted for as and 
when they are due and realised.
242
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
Income from sale of Priority Sector Lending certificate 
(PSLC) is recognised in the Profit & Loss Account during 
the quarter on an equated basis from the quarter in which 
the sale has occurred and the remaining amount will be 
recognised in the Profit & Loss Account over the remaining 
quarters of that financial year.
Appropriation of recovery in NPAs and prudential  
written off accounts:
Any recoveries in NPA accounts and prudential written 
off accounts will be first appropriated to fees/charges 
outstanding, if any, then interest outstanding and then 
principal outstanding except in those cases where bank has 
specific agreement with the borrower w.r.t appropriation 
of recoveries.
The sale of NPA and technically written off portfolio is 
accounted as per guidelines prescribed by RBI :
i.	
When the Bank sells its financial assets to Securitisation 
Company (SC)/Reconstruction Company (RC), the 
same is removed from the books.
ii.	
If the sale is at a price below the net book value (NBV) 
(i.e., book value less provisions held), the shortfall 
is debited to the profit and loss account in the year 
of sale.
iii.	
If the sale is for a value higher than the NBV, the 
excess provision is reversed in the year the amounts 
are received, as permitted by the RBI.
All other fees are accounted for as and when they 
become due.
4.2. Investments
Classification, valuation and operation of investment 
portfolio is carried out in accordance with the revised 
framework as detailed in the Reserve Bank of India 
(Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment 
Portfolio of Commercial Banks) Directions, 2023 (“RBI 
Directions”) applicable from April 01, 2024, to all Commercial 
Banks excluding Regional Rural Banks.
A) Classification
Investments shall be classified into three categories, viz. 
Held to Maturity (‘HTM’), Available for Sale (‘AFS’) and Fair 
Value through Profit and Loss (‘FVTPL’). Held for Trading 
(‘HFT’) shall be a separate investment subcategory within 
FVTPL. The category of the investment shall be decided 
by the bank before or at the time of acquisition and for 
reclassification, Bank shall need to obtain approval from the 
Board of Directors for reclassification between categories 
((viz. HTM, AFS and FVTPL (includes FVTPL (HFT) and FVTPL 
(Non-HFT)). Further, reclassification shall also require the 
prior approval of the Department of Supervision (DoS), RBI.
Investments are accounted for on settlement date basis 
except for equity shares which are accounted for on 
trade date.
•	 Securities that meet the Solely Payment of Principal and 
Interest (‘SPPI’) criterion and are acquired with the intention 
and objective of holding it till maturity, i.e., the financial 
assets are held with the objective to collect the contractual 
cash flows shall be classified under HTM.
•	 Securities that meet the SPPI criterion and are acquired with 
the objective of both (a) collecting contractual cash flows 
and (b) selling securities shall be classified under AFS. These 
includes securities held for ALM.
•	 Investments, which are not classified in the above two 
categories, shall be classified as “Fair Value through Profit 
and Loss (FVTPL)”.
B) Initial Recognition:
At initial recognition, bank shall measure all investments at 
fair value. Bank shall presume acquisition cost to be the fair 
value unless the facts and circumstances suggest otherwise. 
Cost of investment excludes broken period interest paid 
on acquisition of investments. Brokerage and commission 
paid at the time of acquisition are charged to Profit and 
Loss Account. Cost of investments is determined on the 
weighted average cost basis. Any discount or premium on 
the acquisition of debt securities under AFS, FVPTL & HTM 
shall be amortised over the remaining life of the instrument.
C) Valuation & Subsequent Measurement:
Investments classified under the ‘AFS’ and ‘HFT’ categories 
are fair valued periodically as per RBI guidelines.
The fair valuation gains and losses across all performing 
investments held under AFS shall be aggregated. The net 
appreciation or depreciation shall be directly credited or 
debited to a reserve named ‘AFS Reserve’ without routing 
through the Profit & Loss Account. Upon sale or maturity of 
a debt instrument in AFS category, the accumulated gain/ 
loss for that security in the AFS Reserve are transferred 
from the AFS Reserve and recognised in the Profit and 
Loss Account. In the case of equity instruments designated 
under AFS at the time of initial recognition, any gain or loss 
on sale of such investments shall not be transferred from 
AFS-Reserve to the Profit and Loss Account. Instead, such 
gain or loss shall be transferred from AFS-Reserve to the 
Capital Reserve.
The securities held in FVTPL shall be fair valued and the 
net gain or loss arising on such valuation shall be directly 
credited or debited to the Profit and Loss Account.
The market/fair value for the purpose of periodical valuation 
of quoted investments included in the ‘AFS’ and ‘FVTPL’ 
categories is the market price of the security available from 
trades/quotes on the recognised stock exchanges, price 
243
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
list of RBI or prices declared by Financial Benchmarks India 
Pvt. Ltd. (FBIL), periodically. Other unquoted fixed income 
securities, including Pass through Certificate wherever 
linked to the Yield-to-Maturity (YTM) rates, is computed 
based on residual maturity with a mark-up (applicable to 
the issuer) over the YTM rates for GOI securities of similar 
maturities published by FIMMDA/FBIL as directed by RBI.
Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up value, 
if the latest balance sheet is available or at ₹1 as per 
RBI guidelines.
Discounted instruments like Treasury Bills, Certificate of 
Deposits, Commercial Papers are valued at carrying cost.
Investments categorised under HTM are carried at 
acquisition cost, or at amortised cost if acquired at a 
discount or premium over the face value. Such discount 
or premium is amortised over the remaining period to 
maturity of the relevant security on a straight-line basis. 
Where in the opinion of management, a diminution, other 
than temporary in the value of investments classified under 
HTM has taken place, suitable provisions are made. Any 
profit or loss on the sale of investments in HTM shall be 
recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. The profit on 
sale of an investments in HTM shall be appropriated below 
the line from the Profit and Loss Account to the ‘Capital 
Reserve Account’. The amount so appropriated shall be 
net of taxes and the amount required to be transferred to 
Statutory Reserve.
Security receipts issued by the asset reconstruction 
companies are valued in accordance with the guidelines 
applicable to such instruments, prescribed by RBI 
from time to time at the end of each reporting period. 
Accordingly, in cases where the cash flows from security 
receipts issued by the asset reconstruction companies 
are limited to the actual realisation of the financial assets 
assigned to the instruments in the concerned scheme, the 
Bank reckons the net asset value obtained from the asset 
reconstruction company from time to time, for valuation of 
such investments at each reporting period end.
D) Repurchase (Repo) and reverse repurchase transactions:
Repurchase (‘repo’) and reverse repurchase (‘reverse 
repo’) transactions including liquidity adjustment facility 
(with RBI) shall be accounted for as borrowing and lending 
transactions. Accordingly, securities given as collateral 
under an agreement to repurchase them continue to be 
held under the investment account of the Bank and the 
Bank would continue to accrue the coupon/discount on the 
security during the repo period. Also, the Bank continues to 
value the securities sold under repo as per the investment 
classification of the security. The difference between the 
clean price of the first leg and clean price of the second leg 
shall be recognised as interest income/expense over the 
period of the transaction in the profit and loss account.
E) Short Sales:
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, the Bank undertakes 
short sale transactions in Central Government dated 
securities. Such short positions are categorised under HFT 
category. These positions are marked-to-market along with 
the other securities under HFT portfolio and the resultant 
mark-to-market gains/losses are accounted for as per the 
relevant RBI guidelines as stated above.
F) Investment Fluctuation Reserve:
The amount transferred to IFR will be lower of the following 
(i) net profit on sale of investments during the year or (ii) 
net profit for the year, less mandatory appropriations, until 
the amount of IFR is at least 2 percent of the AFS and FVTPL 
including HFT portfolio, on a continuing basis.
G) Non-Performing Investment
Non-performing investments are identified and 
depreciation / provision are made thereon based on RBI 
guidelines. The depreciation / provision on such non-
performing investments are not set off against the 
appreciation in respect of other performing securities. 
Interest on non-performing investments is not recognised 
in the Profit & Loss Account until received.
H) Transition and Repeal Provisions
At the time of transition to these RBI Directions (i.e., on 
April 01, 2024), banks shall;
a.	
Reclassify their investment portfolio as at March 31, 
2024, as per the directions laid down in Chapter III of 
these Directions;
b.	
The balance in provision for depreciation, as at 
March 31, 2024, shall be reversed into the Revenue/ 
General Reserve;
c.	
The balances in Investment Reserve Account (IRA), 
if any, as of March 31, 2024, shall be transferred to 
the Revenue/ General Reserve if the bank meets the 
minimum regulatory requirements of IFR. If the bank 
does not meet the minimum IFR requirements, the 
balances in IRA shall be transferred to IFR;
d.	
In respect of HTM the acquisition cost adjusted for 
any premium/ discount amortised between date of 
acquisition and March 31,2024, shall be the revised 
carrying value. The difference between the revised 
carrying value and the previous carrying value shall 
be adjusted in any Revenue/General Reserve;
244
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
e.	
In respect of FVTPL the fair value as at March 31, 2024 
shall be the revised carrying value The difference 
between the revised carrying value and the previous 
carrying value shall be adjusted in any Revenue/ 
General Reserves;
f.	
In respect of AFS the fair value of the investment as at 
March 31, 2024 shall be the revised carrying value. The 
difference between the revised carrying value and the 
previous carrying value shall be adjusted in AFS Reserve
4.3 Loans /Advances and Provisions thereon
Advances are classified into performing and non-performing 
advances (‘NPAs’) as per the RBI guidelines and Stressed 
Asset Management & Recovery (SAMR) policy of the bank 
and are stated net of specific provisions made towards 
NPAs. Further, NPAs are classified into sub-standard, 
doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria stipulated 
by the RBI. Provisions for NPAs are made for sub-standard 
and doubtful assets at rates as prescribed by the RBI.
The Bank has a policy of deferment of instalments for micro 
(EEB) loan borrowers in case the group meetings have 
been suspended and the same has not been considered as 
overdue for the purpose of NPA classification.
Amounts recovered against debts written off in earlier 
years are recognised in the profit and loss account as credit 
to Miscellaneous Income under the head ‘Other Income’
The Bank maintains general provision on standard advances 
as prescribed by RBI. In case of micro (EEB & SBAL) lending 
portfolio, general provision on standard advances will be 
maintained by Bank at 1% comprising 0.25% as per the 
minimum provisioning requirement by RBI and 0.75% as 
additional provision. Provision made against standard 
assets is included in “Other liabilities & provisions”.
In case of non-performing micro (EEB & SBAL) lending 
portfolio, where 30 days have elapsed from the completion 
of loan tenure, the Bank is making 100% provision.
Non-performing loans, which have been fully provided for, are 
written off when the prospect of recovery is considered remote 
as per the management estimate in compliance with the 
stressed assets management and recovery policy of the Bank.
Restructured assets are classified and provided for in 
accordance with the guidelines issued by RBI from time to time.
For entities with Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure 
(‘UFCE’), provision is made in accordance with the guidelines 
issued by RBI, which requires to ascertain the amount of 
UFCE, estimate the extent of likely loss and estimate the 
riskiness of unhedged position. This provision is classified 
under Schedule 5 – Other Liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
Further, Incremental capital is maintained in respect of 
borrower counter parties in the highest risk category, in 
line with stipulations by RBI.
4.4 Inter Bank Participation Certificate
The Bank enters into Inter Bank Participation with risk sharing 
as issuing Bank and the aggregate amount of participation 
are reduced form the aggregate advance outstanding.
Gain on IBPC is the excess of income earned on the 
participation pool and interest paid to the issuing Bank and 
is recognised on accrual basis.
4.5 Tangible Assets
All tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment loss, if any. Cost 
comprises the purchase price and any attributable cost of 
bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Asset under development as at the balance sheet date are 
shown as Capital Work in Progress. Advance paid towards 
such development are shown as capital advance.
Any subsequent expenses is capitalised only when it increases 
the future economic benefit / functioning capability.
4.6 Intangible Assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on 
initial recognition at cost. Following initial recognition, 
intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment loss, if any.
4.7 Depreciation and Amortisation
Depreciation is charged over the estimated useful life of a 
fixed asset on a straight-line basis. The useful lives of the 
groups of fixed assets are given below:
Asset
Useful life 
in years
Leasehold Land
99
Building
60
Improvements to leasehold premises
3
Furniture & Fixtures Interior
3
Furniture & Fixtures Modular
5
Furniture & Fixtures Others
10
Office equipments (including air conditioners)
5
Motor vehicles
4
Computers
3
Electrical Installation and Equipment
10
Software/ Intangible Assets
3
Computer Networking/Server
6
Items costing less than ₹5,000/- shall be fully depreciated 
in the year of purchase.
245
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
Assets purchased and sold during the year shall be 
depreciated on the basis of actual number of days the asset 
has been put to use.
In case of revision in the estimated useful life of assets 
any unamortised depreciation shall be amortised over the 
remaining useful life of the assets.
4.8 Impairment
The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed at each 
balance sheet date to determine if there is any indication 
of impairment based on internal/external factors. An 
impairment loss is recognised wherever the carrying 
amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount which 
is the greater of the asset’s net selling price and value in 
use. In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessment of 
the time value of money and risks specific to the asset.
After impairment, depreciation is provided on the revised 
carrying amount of the asset over its remaining useful life.
4.9 Foreign Currency transactions
All transactions in foreign currency are recognised at the 
exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are 
translated at the Balance Sheet date at the closing rates 
of exchange notified by the Foreign Exchange Dealers’ 
Association of India (‘FEDAI’) and the resulting gains or 
losses are recognised in the Profit and Loss account.
Non-monetary items which are measured in terms of 
historical cost denominated in a foreign currency, are 
reported using the exchange rate at the date of transaction. 
Non-monetary items, which are measured at fair value or 
others similar valuation denominated in a foreign currency, 
are translated using the exchange rate at the date when 
such value was determined.
Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic 
operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing 
on the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange spot and forward contracts outstanding 
as at the Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are 
revalued at the closing spot and forward rates respectively 
as notified by FEDAI and at interpolated rates for contracts 
of interim maturities.
Contingent liabilities at the Balance Sheet date on account 
of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts, 
guarantees, acceptances, endorsements and other 
obligations denominated in a foreign currency are stated 
at the closing rates of exchange notified by the FEDAI.
4.10 Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)
In case of Employee stock option plan, measurement and 
disclosure of the employee share based payment plans is 
done in accordance with Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 
2014 and the Guidance Note on Accounting for Employee 
Share-based Payments, issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India. The cost of equity-settled 
transactions shall be measured using the intrinsic value 
method for options granted till March 31, 2021. For options 
granted to all employees after March 31, 2021, the fair value 
on the date of grant of such instruments is recognised 
as an expense in accordance with the RBI guidelines on 
Compensation of Whole-Time Directors / Chief Executive 
Officers / Material Risk Takers and Control Function staff. 
The fair value of the stock-based employee compensation is 
estimated on the date of grant using Black-Scholes model. 
The cumulative compensation expense is recognised with 
a corresponding increase in the ‘stock options outstanding 
account’ in reserve for equity-settled transactions at each 
reporting date until the vesting date reflecting the extent 
to which the vesting period has expired and the Bank’s 
best estimate of the number of equity instruments that 
will ultimately vest. The expense or credit recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss for a period represents 
the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the 
beginning and end of that period and shall be recognised 
in employee benefits expense. ESOP cost is recognised in 
Profit and Loss Statement on the basis of number of days 
of vesting period.
4.11 Retirement and employee benefits
Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund is a 
defined contribution scheme. The Bank has no obligation, 
other than the contribution payable to the provident fund. 
The Bank recognises contribution payable to the provident 
fund scheme as expenditure, when an employee renders the 
related service. If the contribution payable to the scheme for 
service received before the balance sheet date exceeds the 
contribution already paid, the deficit payable to the scheme 
is recognised as a liability after deducting the contribution 
already paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds the 
contribution due for services received before the balance 
sheet date, then excess is recognised as an asset.
246
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
Gratuity liability is a defined benefit obligation and is 
provided for on the basis of an actuarial valuation on 
projected unit credit method made at the end of each 
financial year.
The Bank provides for compensated absences based on 
actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary.
Actuarial gains/losses are immediately taken to the profit 
and loss account and are not deferred.
4.12 Income Taxes
Tax expenses comprises current and deferred tax. Current 
income tax is measured at the amount expected to be 
paid to the tax authorities in accordance with the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 and in compliance with AS 22 “Accounting 
for Taxation Income”. Deferred income taxes reflects the 
impact of current year timing differences between taxable 
income and accounting income for the year and reversal of 
timing differences of earlier years.
Deferred Tax is measured based on the tax rates and the tax 
laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet 
date. Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent 
that there is reasonable certainty that sufficient future 
taxable income will be available against which such deferred 
tax assets can be realised. If the Bank has carried forward 
unabsorbed depreciation and tax losses, all deferred tax 
assets is recognised only to the extent that there is a virtual 
certainty supported by convincing evidence that sufficient 
taxable income will be available in future against which 
such deferred tax assets can be realised.
At each reporting date, the Bank re-assesses unrecognised 
deferred tax assets. It recognises unrecognised deferred 
tax assets to the extent that it has become reasonably 
certain or virtually certain, as the case may be, that sufficient 
future taxable income will be available against which such 
deferred tax assets can be realised.
Deferred Tax liability is created on amount transferred to 
special reserve under section 36(i)(viii) of the Income Tax 
Act, 1961 as per the RBI guidelines.
The carrying amounts of deferred tax assets are reviewed 
at each balance sheet date. The Bank writes down the 
carrying amount of deferred tax assets to the extent 
that it is no longer reasonably certain or virtually certain 
as the case may be, that sufficient future taxable income 
will be available against which deferred tax asset can be 
realised. Any such write down is reversed to the extent 
that it becomes reasonably certain or virtually certain, as 
the case may be that sufficient future taxable income will 
be available.
4.13 Non-banking assets
Non-banking assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction of 
claims are valued at the market value on a distress sale 
basis or value of loan, whichever is lower. Further, the Bank 
creates provision on these assets as per the extant RBI 
guidelines or specific RBI directions.
4.14 Earnings per Share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net 
profit or loss after tax for the period attributable to equity 
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share reflect the potential dilution 
that could occur if contracts to issue equity shares were 
exercised or converted during the year. Diluted earnings 
per equity share is computed using the net profit or loss 
for the period attributable to equity shareholders and the 
weighted average number of shares outstanding during the 
period are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential 
equity shares.
4.15 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities  
and Contingent Assets
A provision is recognised when the Bank has a present 
obligation as a result of past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can 
be made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are not 
discounted to their present value and are determined based 
on the best estimate required to settle the obligation at the 
reporting date. These estimates are reviewed at each reporting 
date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises 
from past events whose existence will be confirmed 
by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more 
uncertain future events beyond the control of the Bank 
or a present obligation that is not recognised because it is 
not probable that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle the obligation. A contingent liability also arises in 
extremely rare cases where there is a liability that cannot 
be recognised because it cannot be measured reliably. The 
Bank does not recognise a contingent liability but discloses 
its existence in the financial statements.
Contingent Assets are not recognised in the 
financial statements.
4.16 Leases
Leases where the lessor effectively retains substantially all 
the risks and benefits of ownership of the leased items are 
classified as operating leases. Operating lease payments 
are recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account 
on a straight line basis over the lease term.
247
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
4.17 Cash and Cash equivalent
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances 
with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and 
short notice.
4.18 Share Issue Expenses
Share issue expenses are adjusted against the Securities 
Premium Account in terms of Section 52(2) of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
4.19 Reward points
Reward points on cards are accounted for based on value 
per point after taking into account the probability of 
redemption of such reward points
4.20 Derivative Transactions
Derivative transactions comprises of forward contracts, 
currency swaps and interest rate swaps. The Bank 
undertakes derivative transactions for trading and hedging 
balance sheet assets and liabilities.
The Bank recognises all derivative contracts (other than those 
designated as hedges) at fair value, on the date on which the 
derivative contracts are entered into and are remeasured at 
fair value as at the Balance Sheet or reporting dates.
Derivative transactions such as Foreign exchange forward 
contracts, Forex swap and Interest rate swaps outstanding 
as at the Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are fair 
valued at present value basis. The resulting profit or loss 
on valuation is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Derivatives which are not intended for trading such as 
Foreign exchange forward contracts and Forex swaps and 
which are outstanding at balance sheet date are fair valued 
at the FEDAI closing SPOT rate. The premium or discount 
arising at the inception of such Forward contracts and 
Forex swaps is amortised as expense or income over the 
life of the contract.
Derivatives are classified as assets when the fair value is 
positive (positive marked to market value) or as liabilities 
when the fair value is negative (negative marked 
to market value).
Pursuant to the RBI guidelines, any receivable under a 
derivative contract with a counterparty which remains 
overdue for more than 90 days, mark-to-market gains on 
any other derivative contract with the same counterparty, 
is reversed through Profit and Loss account.
Schedule 18 -Notes to accounts forming part of the financial statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2025
The following disclosures have been made taking into account the requirements of Accounting Standards (ASs) and Reserve 
Bank of India (RBI) guidelines in this regard.
18.1	Provisions & Contingencies” recognised in the Profit & Loss Account comprise:
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024 
Provision for Income Tax
- Current Tax
1,001.24
601.07
- Deferred tax 
(97.80)
122.42
- Income tax / Deferred Tax (for earlier years)
(25.46)
(10.14)
Total Tax Expenses
877.98
713.35
Provision for Standard assets
22.03
107.40
Provision for non-performing assets [Includes bad debts written off ₹2,410.94 crore 
(Previous Year:₹3,852.49 crore)]
3,607.37
3,576.79
Provision for restructured assets
(8.18)
(106.52)
Provision for unhedged foreign currency exposure
0.16
4.20
Provision for country risk
-
-
Provision for One time Settlement 
105.27
78.16
Provision for other contingencies
38.76
36.54
Total
4,643.39
4,409.92
248
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
Note: The Bank has assessed its obligations arising in the normal course of business, including pending litigations, 
proceedings pending with tax authorities and other contracts including derivative and long term contracts. In 
accordance with the provisions of AS 29 on ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’, the Bank 
recognises a provision for material foreseeable losses when it has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it 
is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a reliable estimate 
can be made. In cases where the available information indicates that the loss on the contingency is reasonably possible 
or the amount of loss cannot be reasonably estimated, a disclosure to this effect is made as contingent liabilities in 
the financial statements. The Bank does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a materially adverse 
effect on its financial results.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in provision for legal and fraud cases, 
operational risk and other contingencies.
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Legal
Other 
Contingencies
Legal
Other 
Contingencies
Opening Provisions
2.84
76.32
0.83
41.91
Movement during the year (net)
2.19
36.57
2.01
34.53
Less - Adjusted during the year
-
-
-
(0.12)
Closing Provisions
5.03
112.89
2.84
76.32
18.2	Capital
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has allotted 1,657 Equity Shares (Previous Year: 133,268) of ₹10/-
each in respect of stock option exercised aggregating to ₹0.0298 crore (Previous Year: ₹2.40 crore). Accordingly, 
share capital increased by ₹0.0017 crore (Previous Year: ₹0.13 crore) and share premium increased by ₹0.03 crore 
(Previous Year: ₹2.27 crore) respectively.
Details of movement in the paid-up equity share capital of the Bank are given below:
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
At the beginning of the year
1,610.97
1,610.84
Addition pursuant to share issued during the year#
0.00
0.13
Outstanding at the end of the year
1,610.97
1,610.97
#Denotes less than ₹1,00,000
18.3	Proposed dividend
	
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on April 30, 2025, has proposed a dividend of ₹1.50 per share 
(Previous Year: ₹1.50 per share) for the year ended March 31, 2025 subject to approval of the members at the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting. In terms of revised Accounting Standard (AS) 4 ‘Contingencies and Events occurring 
after the Balance sheet date as notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs through amendments to Companies 
(Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, the Bank has not accounted for proposed dividend aggregating to ₹241.65 crore 
(Previous Year: ₹241.65 crore) as a liability for the year ended March 31, 2025. Effect of the proposed dividend has 
been reckoned in determining capital funds in the computation of capital adequacy ratios as at March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024.
249
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
18.4	Regulatory Capital
	
A)	 Composition of Regulatory Capital
The Bank is subject to the Basel III capital adequacy guidelines stipulated by RBI with effect from the date of 
incorporation. As per the guidelines, the Tier-1 capital is made up of Common Equity Tier-1 (CET1) and Additional Tier-1.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, computation of capital adequacy as per Basel 
III framework.
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
i)	
Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET 1)
23,873.39
20,768.38
ii)	 Additional Tier 1 capital
-
-
iii)	 Tier 1 capital (i + ii)
23,873.39
20,768.38
iv)	 Tier 2 capital
1,135.16
1,286.07
v)	 Total capital (Tier 1+Tier 2)
25,008.55
22,054.45
vi)	 Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs)
1,33,641.30
1,50,203.44
vii)	 CET 1 Ratio 
17.86
13.83
viii)	Tier 1 Ratio 
17.86
13.83
ix)	 Tier 2 Ratio 
0.85
0.86
x)	 Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR)^
18.71
14.69
xi)	 Leverage Ratio
12.18%
11.47%
xii)	 Percentage of the shareholding of Government of India
NIL
NIL
xiii)	Amount of paid-up equity capital raised during the year#
-
-
xiv)	Amount of non-equity Tier 1 capital raised during the year*
-
-
xv)	Amount of Tier 2 capital raised during the year*
-
-
#An amount of ₹0.0298 crore raised pursuant to exercise of employee stock options during the year ended March 
31, 2025 (year ended March 31, 2024: ₹2.40 crore)
*The Bank has not raised (March 31, 2025: Nil) perpetual debt capital instruments qualifying for Additional Tier-1 
capital and subordinated debt qualifying for Tier-2 capital (March 31, 2024: Nil).
In accordance with the RBI guidelines, banks are required to make consolidated Pillar 3 and Net Stable Funding 
Ratio (NSFR) disclosures under the Basel III Framework. These disclosures are available on the Bank’s website 
at the following link:https://www.bandhanbank.com/regulatory-disclosures. The disclosures have not been 
subjected to audit by the statutory auditors of the Bank.
^Basis the clarification received, the Bank w.e.f quarter ended June 30, 2024 has assigned risk weight of 125% 
to its Emerging Entrepreneurs Business (EEB) Group Loans and Small Business & Agri Loans (SBAL) portfolio as 
against 75% risk weight assigned earlier. Accordingly capital adequacy as on March 31, 2024 been recomputed 
at 14.69% as against 18.28% disclosed earlier. Subsequently as per RBI Circular on “Review of Risk Weights on 
Microfinance Loans” dated February 25, 2025; the Bank has assigned risk weight of 75% to its EEB Group Loans 
and SBAL portfolio where such advances meets the criteria to be classified as regulatory retail portfolio (RRP) 
for regulatory capital purposes.
	
B)	
Draw Down from Reserve
There has been no draw down from reserves during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
250
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
18.5 (A) Investments
i)	
Composition of Investment Portfolio As at March 31, 2025
(` in crore)
Particulars
Investments in India
 Investments outside India 
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities
 Other 
Approved 
Securities 
Shares@ Debentures 
and Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others#
Total 
investments 
in India
Government 
securities 
(including local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Investments 
outside India
Held to Maturity
Gross^
26,353.03
-
-
350.00
-
188.01
26,891.04
-
-
-
-
26,891.04
Less: Provision for non-performing 
investments (NPI)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
26,353.03
-
-
350.00
-
188.01
26,891.04
-
-
-
-
26,891.04
Available for Sale
Gross^
9,232.40
-
377.90
-
-
924.05
10,534.35
-
-
-
-
10,534.35
Less: Provision for depreciation and NPI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
9,232.40
-
377.90
-
-
924.05
10,534.35
-
-
-
-
10,534.35
FVTPL HFT
Gross^
2,211.73
-
2.67
-
-
1,016.81
3,231.21
-
-
-
-
3,231.21
Less: Provision for depreciation and NPI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
2,211.73
-
2.67
-
-
1,016.81
3,231.21
-
-
-
-
3,231.21
FVTPL Non HFT
Gross^
-
-
5.00
-
-
252.89
257.89
-
-
-
-
257.89
Less: Provision for depreciation and NPI
-
-
-
-
-
202.21
202.21
-
-
-
-
202.21
Net
-
-
5.00
-
-
50.68
55.68
-
-
-
-
55.68
Total Investments
37,797.16
-
385.57
350.00
-
2,381.76
40,914.49
-
-
-
-
40,914.49
Less: Provision for non-performing 
investments
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Less: Provision for depreciation and NPI*
-
-
-
-
-
202.21
202.21
-
-
-
-
202.21
Net
37,797.16
-
385.57
350.00
-
2,179.55
40,712.28
-
-
-
-
40,712.28
#Other Investments include investments in Alternative Investment Fund (AIF), Commercial paper (CP), Security Receipts (SR) and Pass through Certificate (PTC),Certificate of Deposits (CD), Infrastructure 
Investment Trust (InvIT).
@Shares include investment in both quoted & unquoted Equity and Preference Shares
^Represents carrying value as on March 31, 2025 as per RBI Master Direction - Classification, Valuation & Operation of Investment portfolio of Commercial Banks (Directions), 2023 dated September 12, 2023, 
as detailed in note below.
*Represents Provision for depreciation on Security Receipts in current year
251
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
for the year ended March 31, 2025
ii)	
Transitional adjustments - Classification, Valuation & Operation of Investment portfolio
	
The RBI, vide its master direction dated September 12, 2023 issued revised norms for the classification, valuation and operation of investment portfolio of banks, which 
became applicable from April 01, 2024. While hitherto, the investment portfolio was classified under the held to maturity (HTM), available for sale (AFS) and held for 
trading (HFT) categories, the revised norms bring in a principle-based classification of investment portfolio and a symmetric treatment of fair value gains and losses. In 
accordance with the revised norms and the Bank’s board approved policy, the Bank has classified its investment portfolio as on April 01, 2024 under the categories of 
held to maturity (HTM), available for sale (AFS) and fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL) with held to trading (HFT) as a sub-category of FVTPL, and from that date, 
measures and values the investment portfolio under the revised framework. On transition to the framework on April 01, 2024, the bank has recognised ₹99.03 crore (net 
of tax of ₹33.31 crore) and ₹218.72 crore (net of tax of ₹73.56 crore) which has been credited to General reserve and AFS reserve respectively, in accordance with the said 
norms. The impact on the Profit & Loss of the change in the accounting framework as compared to previous period/s is not ascertainable and as such the income / profit 
or loss from investments for the year ended March 31, 2025 is not comparable with that of the previous period/s.”
iii)	 Composition of Investment Portfolio As at March 31, 2024	
(` in crore)
Particulars
Investments in India
 Investments outside India 
Total 
Investments
Government 
Securities 
 Other 
Approved 
Securities 
Shares@ 
Debentures 
and Bonds
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others#
Total 
investments 
in India
Government 
securities 
(including local 
authorities)
Subsidiaries 
and/or joint 
ventures
Others
Total 
Investments 
outside India
Held to Maturity
Gross
21,737.87
-
-
-
-
-
21,737.87
-
-
-
-
21,737.87
Less: Provision for non- performing 
investments (NPI)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
21,737.87
-
-
-
-
-
21,737.87
-
-
-
-
21,737.87
Available for Sale
Gross
6,160.37
-
225.20
260.62
-
764.92
7,411.11
-
-
-
-
7,411.11
Less: Provision for depreciation and NPI
57.20
-
-
483.50
540.70
-
-
-
-
540.70
Net
6,103.17
-
225.20
260.62
-
281.42
6,870.41
-
-
-
-
6,870.41
Held for Trading
Gross
679.30
-
-
-
-
-
679.30
-
-
-
-
679.30
Less: Provision for depreciation and NPI
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Net
679.30
-
-
-
-
-
679.30
-
-
-
-
679.30
Total Investments
28,577.54
-
225.20
260.62
-
764.92
29,828.28
-
-
-
-
29,828.28
Less: Provision for non-performing 
investments
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Less: Provision for depreciation and NPI
57.20
-
-
-
-
483.50
540.70
-
-
-
-
540.70
Net
28,520.34
-
225.20
260.62
-
281.42
29,287.58
-
-
-
-
29,287.58
#Other Investments include investments in Alternative Investment Fund (AIF), Commercial paper (CP), Security Receipts (SR) and Pass through Certificate (PTC).
@Shares include investment in both quoted & unquoted Equity and Preference Shares
252
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
18.5
B)	
Movement of Provisions for Depreciation and Investment Fluctuation Reserve
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
i)	
Movement of provisions held towards depreciation on investments#
	
a)	 Opening balance
540.70
813.81
	
b)	 Less: Adjustment due to transition to revised Investment Framework
(53.69)
-
	
c)	 Add: Provisions made during the year
-
3,489.61
	
d)	 Less: Write off / write back of excess provisions during the year
(284.80)
(3,762.72)
	
e)	 Closing balance
202.21
540.70
ii)	 Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve
	
a)	 Opening balance
161.81
212.49
	
b)	 Add: Amount transferred during the year
135.49
(50.68)
	
c)	 Less: Drawdown
-
-
	
d)	 Closing balance
297.30
161.81
iii)	 Closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments 
in AFS and FVTPL (including Non HFT)/Current category
2.15%
2.00%
#Above movement is based on RBI Master Direction - Classification, Valuation & Operation of Investment portfolio of Commercial 
Banks (Directions), 2023 dated September 12, 2023 (Refer Note 18.5(A)(ii) for transitional adjustments).Accordingly, the figures for 
the current year are not comparable with the Previous Year.
C)	
Sale and transfers of Securities to / from HTM Category
During the year ended March 31, 2025 and the Previous Year ended March 31, 2024 the Bank has not sold and 
transferred securities to or from HTM category exceeding 5% of the book value of investment held in HTM category 
at the beginning of the year. The 5% threshold referred to above does not include onetime transfer of securities 
to/from HTM category with the approval of Board of Directors permitted to be undertaken by banks as per extant 
RBI guidelines, sale of securities under pre-announced Open Market Operation (OMO) auction to the RBI and sale 
of securities or transfer to AFS / HFT consequent to the reduction of ceiling on SLR securities under HTM.
D)	 Repo Transactions 
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Minimum outstanding 
 during the year
Maximum outstanding  
during the year
Daily Average 
outstanding 
during the year
Outstanding 
as at 
March 31, 2025
FV
MV
FV
MV
FV
MV
FV
MV
Securities sold under Repo*
i.	
Government securities
-
-
1,550.67
1,500.00
66.01
62.89
-
-
-
-
(1,392.76) (1,278.00)
(37.74)
(34.62)
-
-
ii.	 Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
iii.	 Any Other Securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Securities purchased  
under reverse repo*
i.	
Government securities
-
-
4,203.13
4,000.00
73.83
73.09
-
-
-
-
(1,605.05) (1,500.00)
(68.93)
(64.89)
-
-
ii.	 Corporate debt securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
iii.	 Any Other Securities
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Previous year figures are shown in”()”.
*Amount reported are based on lending\borrowing amount under LAF/MSF
253
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
E)	
Non SLR Investment Portfolio
i)	
Issuer composition of Non SLR investments
(₹ in crore)
Issuer
 Amount
Extent of 
Private 
Placement
Extent of ‘Below 
Investment 
Grade’ Securities
Extent of 
‘Unrated’ 
Securities^
Extent of 
‘Unlisted’ 
Securities^
2
3
4
5
6
(i)	 Public Sector Units
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(69.91)
-
-
-
-
-
-
(ii)	 Financial Institutions
854.97
-
-
-
-
-
-
(190.71)
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iii)	Banks
1,285.36
375.54
-
-
-
-
-
(344.56)
(220.00)
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Private Corporates#
209.58
2.36
-
-
-
-
-
(492.21)
(487.21)
-
-
-
-
-
(v)	 Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(vi)	Others#
767.43
665.24
-
-
-
-
-
(153.35)
(153.35)
-
-
-
-
-
(vii)	Less : Provision held towards depreciation
202.21
-
-
-
-
-
-
(483.50)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
2,915.13
1,043.14
-
-
-
-
-
(767.24)
(860.56)
-
-
-
-
-
Amounts reported under columns (3), (4), (5) and (6) above are not mutually exclusive.
Discounted instruments are reported at carrying cost
Previous year figures are shown in”()”.
#Includes Security receipts and Infrastructure Investment Trust (INVIT units)
^ Excludes investments in securities issued by equity shares, equity / debt instruments / units issued by Category I and II Alternative 
Investment Funds (AIFs), commercial paper, certificate of deposits, security receipts (SR’s), pass through certificates and unlisted 
non-convertible debentures.
ii)	
Non performing Non-SLR investments
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in gross non-performing investments 
in securities, other than government and other approved securities.
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Opening balance#
0.00
-
Additions during the year#
-
0.00
Reduction during the year#
(0.00)
-
Closing balance#
-
0.00
Total provision held# &*
-
0.00
#Denotes less than ₹1,00,000
*GRUH was merged with and into Bandhan Bank Limited. At the time of merger of GRUH with the Bank, GRUH had a private 
provident fund trust, viz., Gruh Employees Provident Fund Trust, for its employees. Post-merger, GRUH had to transfer the 
balance in Gruh Employees Provident Fund Trust to EPFO, since the Bank had its PF managed by EPFO instead of Private Provident 
Fund Trust, some of the securities of IL&FS Limited and IL&FS Transportation Networks Ltd could not be liquidated and the EPFO 
was paid by the Bank the face value of the securities as the Non-Performing Investments (‘NPI’) bonds could not be liquidated. 
These securities were Non-Performing Investments, having zero value, with face value of the three securities being ₹2.20 crore, 
in lieu of which, the amount had been paid to EPFO. The face value of the three securities transferred was ₹2.20 crore, these 
NPI securities were transferred to the books of the Bank at ₹1 each, thereby totalling ₹3 only and increasing the NPI by ₹3 only.
The above NPI NCD investment aggregating to ₹3 of IL&FS and IL&FS Transportation Networks Ltd has been written off in 
Financial Year 2024-25.
254
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
	
F)	
Securities kept as Margin
(₹ in crore)
Sl  
No
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
i)
Securities kept as margin with Clearing Corporation of India towards:
Collateral and funds management – Securities segment
350.00
400.00
Collateral and funds management –Tri-party Repo
-
3,650.00
Default fund – Forex Forward segment
23.00
5.00
Default fund – Forex Settlement segment
5.00
5.00
Default fund – Rupee Derivatives (Guaranteed Settlement) segment
-
-
Default fund – Securities segment
15.00
15.00
Default fund –Tri-party repo segment
8.00
8.00
Default fund –MIBOR
1.00
-
ii)
Securities kept as margin with the RBI towards:
Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
4,500.00
3,250.00
Repo transactions
3,950.00
3,950.00
iii)
Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of 
India (NSCCIL) towards NSE Currency Derivatives segment.
-
-
iv)
Securities kept as margin with Indian Clearing Corporation Limited towards 
BSE Currency Derivatives segment
-
-
v)
Securities kept as margin with National Securities Clearing Corporation of 
India (NSCCIL) towards Capital market
5.00
5.00
	
G)	 Government Security Lending
The bank has not entered in any Government Security Lending transactions for the year ended March 31, 2025 
and March 31, 2024.
255
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
18.6	Asset Quality
	
A)	 Classification of Advances and Provisions held
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Standard
Non -Performing
Total
Total 
Standard 
Advances
Sub 
-standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non - 
Performing 
Advances
Gross Standard Advances and NPAs
Opening Balance
1,19,789.17
2,579.55
674.05
1,531.28
4,784.88
1,24,574.05
(1,03,528.50)
(1,531.88)
(559.74)
(3,207.00)
(5,298.62)
(1,08,827.12)
Add: Additions during the year
5,379.01
(5,681.68)
Less: Reductions during the year*
3,728.33
(6,195.42)
Closing balance
1,30,294.47
4,618.38
1,346.74
470.44
6,435.56
1,36,730.03
(1,19,789.17)
(2,579.55)
(674.05)
(1,531.28)
(4,784.88)
(1,24,574.05)
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
i)	
Upgradation
849.58
849.58
(1,021.48)
(1,021.48)
ii)	 Recoveries (excluding recoveries 
from upgraded accounts)
362.54
362.54
(523.60)
(523.60)
iii)	 Technical/ Prudential  
Write-offs
2,410.94
2,410.94
(3,852.49)
(3,852.49)
iv)	 Write-offs other than those 
under (iii) above
105.27
105.27
(78.16)
(78.16)
v)	 Sale to ARC's
-
-
(719.69)
(719.69)
*Provisions (excluding Floating Provisions)
Opening balance of  
provisions held
1,010.66
1,368.37
537.62
1,531.28
3,437.27
4,447.93
(1,009.78)
(585.39)
(277.96)
(3,207.00)
(4,070.35)
(5,080.13)
Add: Fresh provisions made 
during the year
4,263.52
(5,303.25)
Less: Excess provision reversed/ 
Write-off loans
2,958.08
(5,936.33)
Closing balance of provisions held
1,024.51
3,130.07
1,142.20
470.44
4,742.71
5,767.22
(1,010.66)
(1,368.37)
(537.62)
(1,531.28)
(3,437.27)
(4,447.93)
Net NPAs 
Opening Balance
1,211.18
136.43
-
1,347.61
(946.50)
(281.77)
-
(1,228.27)
Add: Fresh additions  
during the year
1,115.49
(378.43)
Less: Reductions during the year
770.25
(259.09)
Closing Balance
1,488.30
204.55
-
1,692.85
1,692.85
(1,211.18)
(136.43)
-
(1,347.61)
(1,347.61)
Previous year figures are shown in”()”.
*Closing balances of provision for NPAs include claims received (net) from ECLGS held pending adjustment is ₹259.68 crore 
(Previous Year: ₹145.55 crore)
256
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
	
B)	
Classification of Advances and Provisions Held
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Standard
Non -Performing
Total
Total 
Standard 
Advances
Sub 
-standard
Doubtful
Loss
Total Non - 
Performing 
Advances
Floating Provisions
Opening Balance
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
 (-) 
Add: Additional provisions  
made during the year
 - 
 (-) 
Less: Amount drawn down  
during the year
 - 
 (-) 
Closing balance of  
floating provisions
 - 
 (-) 
Technical write -offs and the recoveries made thereon
Opening balance of Technical/ 
Prudential written-off accounts
3,903.91
(54.35)
Add: Technical/ Prudential write-
offs during the year
2,410.94
(3,852.49)
Less: Recoveries made from 
previously technical/ prudential 
written-off accounts during the year
210.39
(2.93)
Less: One Time Settlement
32.79
-
Closing balance
6,071.67
(3,903.91)
Previous year figures are shown in”()”.
	
C)	
Sector wise Advances and Gross NPA’s
(₹ in crore)
Sr.  
No.
Sector
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Outstanding 
Total 
Advances
Gross NPAs
Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs to Total 
Advances in 
that sector
Outstanding 
Total 
Advances
Gross NPAs
Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs to Total 
Advances in 
that sector
A
Priority Sector*
1
Agriculture and allied 
activities#
7,817.89
548.25
7.01%
9,636.73
402.26
4.17%
2
Advances to 
industries sector 
eligible as priority 
sector lending#
5,294.31
517.64
9.78%
6,493.60
429.70
6.62%
Textiles
615.25
76.98
12.51%
-
-
-
3
Services
24,740.42
1,791.24
7.24%
30,737.51
1,139.23
3.71%
Transport Operator
4,095.05
195.99
4.79%
-
-
-
Retail Trade
15,682.93
1,275.77
8.13%
14,716.05
219.13
1.49%
257
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
(₹ in crore)
Sr.  
No.
Sector
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Outstanding 
Total 
Advances
Gross NPAs
Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs to Total 
Advances in 
that sector
Outstanding 
Total 
Advances
Gross NPAs
Percentage 
of Gross 
NPAs to Total 
Advances in 
that sector
4
Personal loans
16,156.82
344.08
2.13%
13,255.70
214.34
1.62%
Housing Loans
14,012.77
290.76
2.07%
12,761.75
208.58
1.63%
Sub Total (A)
54,009.44
3,201.21
5.93%
60,123.54
2,185.53
3.64%
B
Non Priority Sector
1
Agriculture and  
allied activities
1,046.53
4.95
0.47%
490.15
27.80
5.67%
2
Industry sector
9,641.45
479.06
4.97%
6,795.28
420.33
6.19%
Basic Metal and 
Metal Products
2,079.54
8.97
0.43%
1,003.02
11.27
1.12%
3
Services
40,979.60
1,960.47
4.78%
38,689.77
1,712.27
4.43%
Retail Trade
15,369.91
1,286.31
8.37%
15,014.04
827.32
5.51%
NBFCs
13,165.71
-
-
8,214.17
362.21
4.41%
Professional and 
Other Services
5,006.99
215.60
4.31%
-
-
-
4
Personal loans
31,053.01
789.87
2.54%
18,475.31
438.95
2.38%
Housing Loans
12,642.47
175.94
1.39%
7,996.80
112.58
1.41%
Sub Total (B)
82,720.59
3,234.35
3.91%
64,450.51
2,599.35
4.03%
Total (A+B)
1,36,730.03
6,435.56
4.71%
1,24,574.05
4,784.88
3.84%
Segments contributing in excess of 10% of the Sector as at March 31 of the respective years are individually listed
*Priority sectors includes ₹1,000 crore (Previous Year : ₹12,750 crore), in respect of which the Bank has sold Priority Sector 
Lending Certificates (PSLC). During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank has bought PSLC amounting ₹14,451.50 crore 
(Previous Year : ₹13,175 crore), which is not included in above.
#The SFMF classification is based on Self certified Land Holding declaration as per approved PSL policy of the Bank and Turnover, 
Investment in P&M/Equipment is based on Udyam Registration Certificates for MSME classification.
As per Board approved PSL policy of the Bank and in line with RBI Master direction, of Priority Sector Lending as updated by FIDD-RBI 
from time to time, the portfolio classified as Priority Sector advances for the year ended March 31, 2025 stands at ₹54,009.44 crore 
(Previous year : ₹60,123.54 crore).
The bank has compiled the data for the purpose of this disclosure from the internal MIS/ Reports which has been furnished by the 
management and has been relied upon by the auditors.
	
D)	 Ratios (in per cent)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Gross NPA to Gross Advances
4.71%
3.84%
Net NPA to Net Advances
1.28%
1.11%
Provision coverage ratio (without Prudential write-offs)
73.70%
71.84%
Provision coverage ratio (including Prudential write-offs)
86.47%
84.49%
Note: Net NPAs are non-performing assets net of specific provisions, claims received (net) from Credit Guarantors held 
pending adjustment.
	
E)	
Overseas Assets, NPAs and Revenue
	
	
The Bank does not have any overseas loan assets as on March 31,2025 and March 31,2024.
258
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
	
F)	
Divergence in asset classification and provisioning
	
	
In terms of the RBI guidelines banks are required to disclose the divergence in asset classification and provisioning 
consequent to RBI’s annual supervisory process in their notes to accounts to the financial statements, wherever 
the additional provisioning assessed / additional gross NPAs identified by RBI exceeds the threshold specified by 
RBI. The threshold for provisioning is 5 per cent (Previous year 5 per cent) of the reported profit before provisions 
and contingencies for the reference period and that for additional gross NPAs is 5 per cent (Previous year 5 per 
cent) of the published incremental Gross NPAs for the reference period.
	
	
Based on the above, there was no divergence in asset classification and provisioning for NPAs in current year and 
no reportable divergence for the Previous Year.
	
G)	 Transfer of Loan Exposures
	
	
Details of loans transferred excluding through Inter- Bank Participation Certificate (IBPC) & acquired 
during the year ended March 31, 2025 under the RBI Master Direction on Transfer of Loan Exposures dated 
September 24, 2021 are given below:
i)	
Details of Financial Assets sold to Securitisation / Reconstruction company for Reconstruction
There was no stressed loans transferred and Investment made in Security Receipts during the year ended 
March 31, 2025 to ARCs for technically written off and NPA accounts. Details for the Previous Years is 
given below:
Particulars
Value (To ARCs)
No of accounts
-
(7,866)
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans transferred (₹ in crore)
-
(719.69)
Weighted average residual tenor of the loans transferred (in years)
-
(17.60)
Net book value of loans transferred (at the time of transfer) (₹ in crore)
-
(367.47)
Aggregate consideration (₹ in crore)
-
(289.60)
Additional consideration realised in respect of accounts transferred in earlier years
-
-
Quantum of excess provisions reversed to Profit and Loss Account (₹ in crore)
-
-
Investment in Security Receipts (SR) (₹ in crore)
-
-
Previous year figures are shown in “()”.
ii)	
Details of Non Performing Financial Assets Purchased
The Bank did not purchase any Non Performing Financial Assets during the year ended March 31,2025 and 
March 31,2024.
iii)	
Details of Special Mention Account (SMA) or Stressed Financial Assets Purchased
The Bank did not purchase any Special Mention Account (SMA) or Stressed Financial Assets during the year 
ended March 31,2025 and March 31,2024.
259
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
(iv)	 Details of Loan Acquired through assignment
Details of Loan not in default acquired through assignment during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 
31,2024 are given below:
Particulars
Value
Aggregate amount of loans acquired (₹ in crore)
97.64
(1,262.58)
Weighted average residual maturity (in years) 
2.70
(1.70)
Weighted average holding period by originator (in years)
0.89
(0.51)
Retention of beneficial economic interest by the originator 
10.00%
(10.00%)
Tangible security coverage (%)
100.00%
(3.09%)
Previous year figures are shown in”()”.
Note: The loans acquired are not rated.
(v)	
Rating of Security Receipts
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, rating-wise distribution of Security Receipts held 
by the bank
(₹ in crore)
Rating
Recovery Rating
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Gross
Net*
Gross
Net*
RR1+
More than 150%
4.31
-
57.57
-
RR1
100%-150%
43.34
-
224.44
-
RR3
50%-75%
154.56
-
205.00
-
Total
202.21
-
487.01
-
*Provision for depreciation considered @ 100%
	
H)	 Disclosure of Provision for Frauds
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
No. of Frauds reported during the year to Reserve Bank of India
3,049
4,314
Amount involved in such Frauds (₹ in crore)
47.92
48.02
Amount involved in such Frauds net of recoveries / write-offs (₹ in crore)
23.65
15.81
Amount of provision made/held for such frauds (₹ in crore)
23.65
15.81
Amount of Unamortised provision debited from ‘other reserves’ as at the end of 
the year (₹ in crore)
-
-
Note: The information on frauds as above includes certain accounts which were already reckoned as NPAs in the prior years and these 
are fully provided for.
RBI vide circular No: DoS.CO.FMG.No. S332/23.04.001/2022-23 dated 13.01.2023, has directed Banks to report all UEBT (Unauthorised 
Electronic Banking Transactions) incidents on the XBRL platform (which is the same platform used to report frauds through FMR). 
These UEBT transactions are to be reported irrespective of whether customers have shared OTP/bank account credentials or not.
Accordingly, a total of 2583 UEBT incidents (out of total 3049 fraud incidents reported during FY 2024-25) amounting to ₹16.84 crore 
(not classified by the Bank as fraud) for the period - April 01, 2024 to July 31, 2024 pertaining to FY 2024-25 were reported by the Bank 
to the RBI and are considered as contingent Liability as “Claim against the bank not acknowledge as debts”.
Post July, 2024, Bank has stopped reporting UEBT incidents as per instructions vide RBI circular No:RBI/DOS/2024-25/118:DOS.CO.FMG.
SEC.No.5/23.04.001/2024-25 dated July 15, 2024.
260
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
	
I)	
Provisions on Standard Assets
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provisions towards Standard Assets*
1,024.51
1,010.66
*Includes accelerated & additional provision amounting to ₹533.25 crore (Previous Year: ₹568.93 crore) and also includes 
provision against advances restructured under the Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress amounting to ₹73.31 crore 
(Previous Year: ₹81.48 crore)
	
J)	
Disclosure on Advances
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Gross Advances (Including IBPC/Assignment)
1,36,730.03
1,24,574.05
Less: Managed Advance (IBPC/Assignment)
-
-
Gross Advances (Excluding Managed Advances)
1,36,730.03
1,24,574.05
Less: Provision on NPA
4,742.71
3,437.27
Net Advances (Refer Schedule 9)
1,31,987.32
1,21,136.78
18.7	Disclosure under Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress
(₹ in crore)
Type of borrower
Exposure to accounts 
classified as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan– Position 
as at the end of the 
previous half-year i.e 
September 30, 2024 (A)
Of (A), 
aggregate 
debt that 
slipped into 
NPA during 
the half-
year ended 
March 
31, 2025^
Of (A) 
amount 
written off 
during the 
half-year
Of (A) 
amount 
paid by the 
borrowers 
during the 
half- year*
Exposure to 
accounts classified 
as Standard 
consequent to 
implementation of 
resolution plan – 
Position as at the 
end of this half-year 
i.e March 31, 2025**
Personal Loans (Housing)
582.15
16.13
-
33.90
532.12
(711.90)
(70.73)
-
(50.43)
(590.74)
Corporate persons
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Of which, MSMEs
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Others
-
-
-
-
-
(66.83)
(46.10)
(35.83)
(20.73)
-
Total
582.15
16.13
-
33.90
532.12
(778.73)
(116.83)
(35.83)
(71.16)
(590.74)
Previous year figures are shown in”()”.
^Includes loans which have been written off during the period
*Net of increase in exposure during the period
**Does not include loans restructured under the above frameworks amounting to ₹16.50 crore (Previous Year: ₹34.44 crore) which were 
not standard as at September 30, 2024 and upgraded to standard during the half year ended March 31, 2025
261
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
18.8	
Exposures
A)	 Exposure to Real Estate Sector
(₹ in crore)
Category
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)	 Direct exposure
	
(i)	 Residential Mortgages - represents lending fully secured by mortgages 
on residential property that is or will be occupied by the borrower or that 
is rented.
34,192.71
31288.09*
	
	
of which: individual housing loans eligible for priority sector advances
14,183.00
12,742.80
	
(ii)	 Commercial Real Estate - represents lending secured by mortgages on 
commercial real estate
3,342.92
1,774.19
	
(iii)	Investments in Mortgage Backed Securities (MBS) and other  
securitised exposures –
	
	
1.	 Residential
165.37
140.86
	
	
2.	 Commercial Real Estate
3.38
6.57
b)	 Indirect exposure
	
Fund based and non-fund based exposures on National Housing Bank (NHB) 
and Housing Finance Companies (HFCs)
3,705.91
2,426.20
Total Exposure to Real Estate Sector
41,410.29
35,635.91
*Includes purchase of retail mortgage loans through IBPC route.
Note:
Exposure is higher of limits sanctioned or the amounts outstanding as at the year end.
B)	
Exposure to Capital Market
(₹ in crore)
Category
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Direct investments in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures 
and units of equity-oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is not exclusively 
invested in corporate debt#
226.85
220.20
Advances against shares/bonds/debentures or other securities or on clean 
basis to individuals for investment in shares (including IPOs/ESOPs), convertible 
bonds, convertible debentures, and units of equity-oriented mutual funds
-
-
Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or 
convertible debentures or units of equity-oriented mutual funds are taken as 
primary security
-
-
Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the collateral security 
of shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity-
oriented mutual funds i.e. where primary security other than shares/convertible 
bonds/convertible debentures/units of equity-oriented mutual funds does not 
fully cover the advances
-
-
Secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and guarantees issued on 
behalf of stockbrokers and market makers
575.20
981.43
Loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares/ bonds/
debentures or other securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter’s 
contribution to the equity of new companies in anticipation of raising resources
-
-
Bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows/issues
-
-
Underwriting commitments taken up in respect of primary issue of shares or 
convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity-oriented mutual funds
-
-
Financing to stock brokers for margin trading
-
-
All exposures to Venture Capital Funds (both registered and unregistered)#
9.32
5.92
Total Exposure to Capital Market
811.37
1,207.55
262
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
Note:
Exposure is higher of limits sanctioned or the amounts outstanding as at the year end.
#As per the Master Circular on Exposure norms dates July 01, 2014 banks direct investment in shares, convertible bonds, convertible 
debentures, units of equity oriented mutual funds and exposures to venture capital funds have been shown at their respective cost price.
C)	
Details of Single Borrower Limit (SGL) / Group Borrower Limit (GBL) exceeded by the Bank
During the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, the Bank’s credit exposure to single borrower and 
group borrowers was within the prudential exposure limits prescribed by RBI.
D)	 Unsecured Advances against Intangible Collaterals
During the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, there are no unsecured advances for which intangible 
securities such as charge over the rights, licenses, authority etc. has been taken as collateral by the Bank.
E)	
Risk Category wise Country Exposure
As per the extant RBI guidelines, the country exposure of the Bank is categorised into seven risk categories 
namely insignificant, low, moderately low, moderate, moderately high, high, very high on the basis of Export 
Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Limited (ECGC) guidelines. The net funded exposure of the Bank in respect 
of foreign exchange transactions with each country is within 1% of the total assets of the Bank and hence no 
provision is required to be made in respect of country risk as per the RBI guidelines.
(₹ in crore)
Risk Category
Exposure (net) at 
March 31, 2025
Provision Held – 
March 31, 2025
Exposure (net) at 
March 31, 2024
Provision Held – 
March 31, 2024
Insignificant
11.64
-
0.11
-
Low
0.54
-
1.03
-
Moderately Low
-
-
-
-
Moderate
-
-
-
-
Moderately High
-
-
-
-
High
-
-
-
-
Very High
-
-
-
-
Total
12.18
-
1.14
-
F)	
Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Bank made provision of ₹0.16 crore (Previous Year: ₹4.20 
crore) towards un-hedged foreign currency exposure. As on March 31, 2025, the Bank held cumulative 
provision towards un-hedged foreign currency exposure of ₹11.56 crore (Previous Year: ₹11.40 crore). 
As on March’25, the Bank is required to provide additional Capital of ₹90.17 crore (Previous Year: ₹124.88 crore) 
towards borrowers having un-hedged foreign currency exposures in accordance with RBI guidelines.
G)	 Intra Group Exposures
The Bank did not have any intra group exposure during the year ended March 31,2025 and March 31,2024.
H)	 Factoring Exposures
The Bank did not have any factoring exposure during the year ended March 31,2025 and March 31,2024.
263
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
18.9	Disclosure of penalties imposed by RBI
Penalty amounting to ₹0.01037 crore has been levied on the Bank by RBI during the year ended March 31,2025 and 
₹0.304 crore as on March 31,2024. The details are specified below:
Details
Particulars
Nature of Breach
Penalty for Deficiency identified by RBI during Incognito Visit.
Number of  
Instances of default
6
Quantum of  
penalty imposed
₹0.008 crore
Other details
In terms of extant regulatory guidelines, all the branches of banks in all parts of the country are 
required to mandatorily accept/exchange soiled/mutilated/defective currency notes.
During the financial year 2024-25, RBI has imposed penalties in five instances, with ₹10,000 on 
each occasion and ₹30,000 on single instance, due to deficiency in services identified during their 
incognito visits.
Nature of Breach
Penalty for bank branches including Currency Chests for deficiency in rendering customer service to 
the members of public.
Number of  
Instances of default
10
Quantum of  
penalty imposed
₹0.00237 crore
Other details
In terms of extant regulatory guidelines, penalties have been imposed for mutilated notes/ shortages 
of notes and coins detected during the course of Currency Verification and Processing System 
(CVPS)/ facility for non-adjudication of mutilated notes were not provided in the branch.
During the financial year 2024-25, RBI has imposed penalty of ₹10,600 for one such instance and  
₹18,100 in total for 10 other instances.
However, Bank has raised a request for waiver of the penalty ₹5,000 for one such instance on  
March 17, 2025 and the same is waived by RBI on April 03, 2025.
18.10 Employee Benefits
A)	 Gratuity
The Bank has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Every employee who has completed four years 240 days or 
more of service is eligible for gratuity on departure and it is computed at 15 days salary (last drawn salary) for 
each completed year of service. The scheme is funded with an insurance company in the form of qualifying 
insurance policy.
The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the profit and loss account 
and the funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the Gratuity plan.
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
i)	
Table Showing changes in present value of Defined Benefit obligation:
	
Present value of defined benefit obligations as at beginning of the year
254.15
202.39
	
Interest cost
17.37
14.27
	
Current service cost
49.88
39.28
	
Acquisitions cost
-
-
	
Benefit Paid
12.08
8.32
	
Actuarial loss/(gain) on obligations
17.69
6.53
	
Present value of defined benefit obligations as at end of the year
327.01
254.15
ii)	 Table showing fair value of plan assets:
	
Fair value of plan assets as at beginning of the year
222.60
176.48
	
Acquisitions cost
-
-
	
Expected return on plan assets
15.70
13.94
264
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
	
Contributions paid
40.00
40.00
	
Benefits Paid
12.08
8.32
	
Acquisition Adjustment
-
-
	
Actuarial Gain/ (loss) on plan assets
1.94
0.50
	
Fair value of plan assets at end of the year
268.16
222.60
iii)	 Actuarial Gain/(Loss) recognised:
	
Actuarial (gain)/loss on obligations
17.69
6.53
	
Actuarial (loss)/gain for the year-Plan assets.
1.94
0.50
	
Net Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the year
(15.75)
(6.03)
iv)	 The amounts to be recognised in the Balance Sheet and  
Profit and Loss Account:
	
Present value of obligations at the end of the year
327.01
254.15
	
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
268.16
222.60
	
Net liability recognised in balance sheet
58.85
31.55
v)	 The Principal assumptions used in the actuarial valuation are shown below :
	
Discount Rate
6.60%
7.00%
	
Salary Escalation
8.00%
8.00%
	
Withdrawal Rate
For Ages <=35 
- 16%; For Ages 
>35 - 8%
For Ages <=35 
- 16%; For Ages 
>35 - 8%
	
Expected rate of return on assets
7.25%
7.25%
vi)	
Expenses Recognised in Profit and Loss Account:
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Current Service Cost
49.88
39.28
Interest Cost
17.37
14.27
Expected return 
(15.70)
(13.94)
Net Actuarial loss/(Gain) recognised in the year
15.75
6.03
Expenses recognised in profit and loss account
67.30
45.64
Actual return on plan assets
17.64
14.44
vii)	 Amounts for the current and Previous Year are as follows:	
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 
31, 2025
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2023
As at 
March 
31, 2022
As at 
March 
31, 2021
a)	 Defined Benefit Obligations at the end 
of the period
(327.01)
(254.15)
(202.39)
(168.13)
(135.09)
b)	 Plan Assets at the end of the period
268.16
222.60
176.48
140.82
102.12
c)	 Deficit
(58.85)
(31.55)
(25.91)
(27.31)
(32.97)
d)	 Experience adjustments on plan 
liabilities [(Gain)/Loss]
17.69
6.53
(2.62)
1.48
2.29
e)	 Experience adjustments on plan assets 
[Gain/(Loss)]
1.94
0.50
(7.60)
(5.25)
(2.43)
265
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
viii)	 The Major categories of Plan Assets as a percentage of the fair value of Total Plan Asset are as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Insurance Managed Fund
83.40%
79.35%
Others
16.60%
20.65%
ix)	
The estimates of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation, takes account of inflation, seniority 
and other relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market.
x)	
The Bank expects to contribute ₹40 crore to gratuity fund in 2025-26 (Previous Year ended March 31, 2024: 
₹40 crore)
xi)	
The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on market prices prevailing on that date, 
applicable to the year over which the obligation is to be settled.
B)	
Provident Fund
Amount incurred as expense for defined contribution to Provident Fund is ₹200.08 crore (Previous year ended 
March 31, 2024 : ₹176.61 crore)
C)	
Compensated Absences
The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the profit and loss account 
and amounts recognised in the balance sheet
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Total actuarial liability
331.07
261.86
Cost1
97.69
83.52
Assumptions
Discount rate
6.60%
7.00%
Salary escalation rate
8.00%
8.00%
1.	
Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule-16 Operating expenses
D)	 The Code on Social Security, 2020
The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘the Code’) relating to employee benefits, during the employment and 
postemployment, has received Presidential assent on September 28, 2020. The Code has been published in 
the Gazette of India. Further, the Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on 
November 13, 2020. The effective date from which the changes are applicable is yet to be notified and rules for 
quantifying the financial impact are not yet issued. The Bank will assess the impact of the Code and will give 
appropriate impact in the financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related 
rules to determine the financial impact are published.
266
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
18.11 Segment Reporting
A)	 Segment Identification
Pursuant to the guidelines issued by RBI on AS 17 - Segment Reporting - Enhancement of Disclosures dated 
April 18, 2007, the following business segments have been reported:
i) Treasury :
Treasury operations include investments in sovereign securities and trading operations. The Treasury segment 
also includes the central funding unit.
ii) Retail banking :
Includes lending to individuals/small businesses through the branch network and other delivery channels subject 
to the orientation, nature of product, granularity of the exposure and low value of individual exposure thereof. 
It also includes liability products, card services, internet banking, mobile banking, ATM services and NRI services. 
All deposits sourced by branches are classified in retail category.
iii) Corporate/Wholesale Banking:
Includes corporate relationships not included under Retail Banking.
iv) Other Banking Business :
Include para banking activities like third party product distribution and other banking transaction not covered 
under any of the above three segments.
Income, expenses, assets and liabilities are either specifically identified with individual segments or are allocated 
to segments on a systematic basis.
The liabilities of the Bank are first used by the units generating the same. Any excess liabilities of the units are 
pooled to central funding unit (Treasury). Treasury then lends these funds to other units at appropriate rates.
The transfer pricing mechanism of the Bank is periodically reviewed. The segment results are determined based 
on the transfer pricing mechanism prevailing for the respective reporting periods.
Revenues of the Treasury segment primarily consist of fees and gains or losses from trading operations and 
interest income on the investment portfolio. The principal expenses of the segment consist of interest expense 
on funds borrowed from external sources and other internal segments, premises expenses, personnel costs, 
other direct overheads and allocated expenses.
Revenues of the Corporate/Wholesale Banking segment consist of interest and fees earned on loans given to 
customers falling under this segment and fees arising from these. Revenues of the Retail Banking segment 
are derived from interest earned on loans classified under this segment, fees for banking services and ATM 
interchange fees. Expenses of the Corporate/Wholesale Banking and Retail Banking segments primarily comprise 
interest expense on deposits and funds borrowed from other internal segments, infrastructure and premises 
expenses for operating the branch network and other delivery channels, personnel costs, other direct overheads 
and allocated expenses.
Segment income includes earnings from external customers and from funds transferred to the other segments. 
Segment result includes revenue as reduced by interest expense and operating expenses and provisions, if any, 
for that segment. Segment-wise income and expenses include certain allocations. Inter segment interest income 
and interest expense represent the transfer price received from and paid as per the transfer pricing mechanism 
presently followed by the Bank.
267
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
B)	
Segment Information
	
Primary (Business Segment)
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Treasury
Retail Banking
Corporate/ 
Wholesale 
Banking
Other 
banking 
business
Total
Segment Revenue
Gross interest income  
(external customers)
2,346.92
17,509.83
2,091.48
-
21,948.23
(2,158.04)
(15,141.83)
(1,569.75)
-
(18,869.62)
Other income
170.90
2,288.24
121.66
385.80
2,966.60
(132.48)
(1,722.26)
-
(316.68)
(2,171.42)
Total income as per profit  
and Loss Account
2,517.82
19,798.07
2,213.14
385.80
24,914.83
(2,290.52)
(16,864.09)
(1,569.75)
(316.68)
(21,041.04)
Add: Inter segment interest income
-
2,139.28
-
-
2,139.28
-
(850.26)
-
-
(850.26)
Total segment revenue
2,517.82
21,937.35
2,213.14
385.80
27,054.11
(2,290.52)
(17,714.35)
(1,569.75)
(316.68)
(21,891.30)
Less: Interest expenses 
977.72
8,997.85
482.08
-
10,457.65
(1,344.98)
(6,773.32)
(432.48)
-
(8,550.78)
Less: Inter segment interest expenses
669.60
-
1,463.75
5.93
2,139.28
(104.77)
-
(742.82)
(2.67)
(850.26)
Less: Operating expenses
30.17
6,787.29
238.81
12.22
7,068.49
(21.25)
(5,635.39)
(181.77)
(12.37)
(5,850.78)
Operating Profit
840.33
6,152.21
28.50
367.65
7,388.69
(819.52)
(5,305.64)
(212.68)
(301.64)
(6,639.48)
Less: Provisions for non performing 
assets/others
-
3,807.01
(41.60)
-
3,765.41
-
(3,579.25)
(117.32)
-
(3,696.57)
Segment results
840.33
2,345.20
70.10
367.65
3,623.28
(819.52)
(1,726.40)
(95.36)
(301.64)
(2,942.91)
Less: provisions for tax
877.98
(713.34)
Net profit
2,745.30
(2,229.57)
Other information
Segment assets
50,416.35
1,10,283.46
29,532.54
45.02
1,90,277.37
(44,538.39)
(1,10,459.29)
(21,049.44)
(29.33)
(1,76,076.45)
Unallocated assets
1,198.92
(1,765.21)
Total assets
50,416.35
1,10,283.46
29,532.54
45.02
1,91,476.29
(44,538.39)
(1,10,459.29)
(21,049.44)
(29.33)
(1,77,841.66)
Segment liabilities*
36,247.96
1,49,770.05
5,272.63
-
1,91,290.64
(39,339.11)
(1,27,938.37)
(10,255.01)
-
(1,77,532.49)
Unallocated liabilities
185.65
(309.17)
Total liabilities
36,247.96
1,49,770.05
5,272.63
-
1,91,476.29
(39,339.11)
(1,27,938.37)
(10,255.01)
-
(1,77,841.66)
Capital Expenditure
-
276.42
11.65
-
288.07
(16.76)
(516.90)
(23.76)
-
(557.42)
Depreciation 
22.77
245.06
11.37
-
279.20
(32.53)
(192.34)
(12.70)
-
(237.57)
268
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
Notes:
The business of the Bank does not extend outside India and it does not have any assets outside India or earnings emanating from 
outside India. Accordingly, the Bank has reported operations in the domestic segment only.
*Treasury segment liabilities includes share capital and reserve & surplus
The RBI vide its circular dated April 07, 2022 on establishment of Digital Banking Units (DBUs), has prescribed reporting of Digital 
Banking Segment as a sub-segment of Retail Banking Segment. The Bank does not have any DBUs, hence Digital Banking Segment 
disclosures is not applicable.
Previous year figures are shown in”()”.
Segment information is provided as per the MIS available for internal reporting purposes, which include certain estimates/assumptions. 
The methodology adopted in compiling and reporting the above information has been relied upon by the auditors.
18.12 Related Party disclosure
The Bank has transactions with its related parties comprising of associates/other related entities, key management 
personnel and the relatives of key management personnel.
As per AS 18 “Related Party Disclosures”, notified under section 133 of the Companies Act 2013, read together with 
paragraph 7 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules 2014, the Bank’s related parties for the year ended March 31, 2025 
are disclosed below:
	
Names of related parties and nature of relationship
Entities
Nature of relationship
Bandhan Financial Services Limited 
Entity having Significant influence (Promoter)
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
Entity having Significant influence (Promoter)
Bandhan Konnagar
Promoter Group Entity
Bandhan AMC Limited
Entity in which Promoter entity exercises control
Nakshi Creations Pvt. Ltd.
Entity in which relative of key management personnel of 
Promoter entity is interested
Key Management Personnel
Mr. Partha Pratim Sengupta (w.e.f. November 01, 2024)
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Ratan Kumar Kesh (Interim MD & CEO  
w.e.f. July 10, 2024 upto October 31, 2024)
Executive Director
Mr. Chandra Shekhar Ghosh (ceased to be MD & CEO 
w.e.f. July 10, 2024)
Key management personnel of Promoter entity
Mr. Rajinder Kumar Babbar (w.e.f. March 08, 2024)
Executive Director
Mr. Rajeev Mantri (w.e.f. February 22, 2024)
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Indranil Banerjee
Company Secretary
Relatives of Key Management Personnel
Sarmishtha Sengupta, Debabrata Sengupta, Poulami Sengupta, Aiushi Sengupta, Sutirtha Thakur-  
(w.e.f. November 01, 2024)
Antara Kesh, Ashalata Kesh, Rajarshi Kesh, Manik Chand Kesh, Sulekha Sam, Sipra Roy
Nilima Ghosh, Suchitra Ghosh, Angshuman Ghosh, Vaskar Ghosh, Dibakar Ghosh, Shipra Ghosh, Supriya Ghosh
Inderpreet Kaur, Nauvtej Singh Babbar, Gourima Singh Babbar, Sarla Grover, Anju Sethi, Shashi Sachdeva
Rupal Mantri, Vijay Shankar Mantri, Sampat Mantri, Raaghav Mantri, Ria Mantri, Naveen Mantri, Suman Rathi
Saswati Banerjee, Arati Banerjee, Ishaan Banerjee, Mousumi Mukherjee
In accordance with paragraph 5 & 6 of AS-18, the Bank has not disclosed certain transactions with entity in which Key 
management personnel or thier relatives are interested as they are in the nature of banker-customer relationship.
269
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
The Bank’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2025 are 
summarised as follows:
(₹ in crore)
Items/Related Party
Entity having 
Significant 
influence 
(Promoter)
Promoter 
Group 
Entity
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
Deposits taken*
514.87
326.01
2.44
5.67
848.99
(784.73)
(357.08)
(5.88)
(7.80)
(1,155.49)
Deposits placed
-
-
-
-
-
Advances given
-
-
9.70
-
9.70
-
-
(10.22)
-
(10.22)
Security Deposit given
-
0.76
-
-
0.76
Payables
-
1.11
-
-
1.11
Dividend paid
96.62
-
0.25
0.00
96.87
Interest received
-
-
0.63
-
0.63
Interest paid 
50.20
26.34
0.27
0.53
77.34
Rendering of services
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
Remuneration paid
-
-
13.73
-
13.73
Stock options exercised during the year
-
-
-
-
-
Rental Expense
-
6.68
-
-
6.68
Training Expense
-
11.12
-
-
11.12
CSR Expense
-
21.78
-
-
21.78
Other reimbursements 
-
1.47
0.16
0.00
1.63
Figures in bracket () indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year.
Value of transactions involving income and expenses nature of transactions are exclusive of all taxes.
*Deposits taken includes Fixed Deposits & accrued interest
The Bank’s related party balances and transactions for the year ended March 31, 2024 are 
summarised as follows:
(₹ in crore)
Items/Related Party
Entity having 
Significant 
influence 
(Promoter)
Promoter 
Group 
Entity
Key 
Management 
Personnel
Relatives 
of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Total
Deposits taken*
637.66
338.08
3.85
5.96
985.55
(1,678.10)
(679.61)
(9.33)
(14.87)
(2,381.91)
Deposits placed
-
-
-
-
-
Advances given
-
-
10.17
-
10.17
-
-
(14.15)
-
(14.15)
Security Deposit given
-
0.06
-
-
0.06
Payables
-
5.97
-
-
5.97
Dividend paid
96.62
-
0.25
0.00
96.87
Interest received 
-
-
0.14
-
0.14
Interest paid 
73.12
10.80
0.23
0.22
84.37
Rendering of services
0.000
0.002
-
0.002
0.004
Remuneration paid
-
-
10.86
0.72
11.58
Stock options exercised during the year**
-
-
1.44
-
1.44
Rental Expense
-
6.80
-
-
6.80
Training Expense
-
32.59
-
-
32.59
CSR Expense
-
35.80
-
-
35.80
Other reimbursements 
-
1.58
0.10
0.00
1.68
270
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
Notes:
Figures in bracket () indicate maximum balance outstanding during the year.
Value of transactions involving income and expenses nature of transactions are exclusive of all taxes.
*Deposits taken includes Fixed Deposits & accrued interest
**Options exercised under Employee Stock Option Plan Series 1.
A specific related party transaction is a significant transaction wherever it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that category. The 
significant transactions between the Bank and related parties during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are given below
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Entity having 
Significant 
influence 
(Promoter)
Promoter 
Group Entity
Key Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Deposits*
Bandhan Financial Services Limited 
 462.63 
 (380.83)
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
 52.24 
 (256.83)
Bandhan Konnagar
 326.01 
 (338.08)
Advances
Ratan Kumar Kesh
 3.36 
 (3.54)
Rajinder Kumar Babbar 
 5.53 
 (5.73)
Dividend paid
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
 96.62 
 (96.62)
Interest paid 
Bandhan Financial Services Limited 
 36.05 
 (34.74)
Bandhan Financial Holdings Limited
 14.15 
 (38.38)
Bandhan Konnagar
 26.34 
 (10.80)
Interest received
Rajinder Kumar Babbar 
 0.48 
 - 
Ratan Kumar Kesh
 0.12 
 (0.05)
Sunil Samdani
 - 
 (0.07)
Indranil Banerjee
 0.02 
 (0.02)
Rendering of services
Nidhi Samdani
 # 
 (#) 
Nilima Ghosh
 # 
 (#) 
271
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Entity having 
Significant 
influence 
(Promoter)
Promoter 
Group Entity
Key Management 
Personnel
Relatives of Key 
Management 
Personnel
Bandhan Konnagar
 # 
 (#) 
Bandhan Financial Services Limited 
 # 
 (-) 
Stock Options exercised**
Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
 (-) 
 (0.90)
Sunil Samdani
 (-) 
 (0.54)
Rent Expense
Bandhan Konnagar
 6.68 
 (6.80)
Training Expense
Bandhan Konnagar
 11.12 
 (32.59)
CSR Expense
Bandhan Konnagar
 21.92 
 (35.80)
Other reimbursements
Bandhan Konnagar
Remuneration paid 
Partha Pratim Sengupta
 1.39 
 (-) 
Chandra Shekhar Ghosh
 1.87 
 (4.11)
Ratan Kumar Kesh
 2.73 
 (2.42)
Rajinder Kumar Babbar
 2.93 
 (0.19)
Rajeev Mantri
 3.23 
 (0.34)
Indranil Banerjee
 1.57 
 (1.39)
Sunil Samdani
 (-) 
 (1.96)
Previous year figures are shown in”()”.
#Denotes amount less than ₹1 lacs
*Deposits taken includes Fixed Deposits
**Options exercised under Employee Stock Option Plan Series 1.
272
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
18.13 Deferred Tax 
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred Tax Assets arising out of
Depreciation on fixed assets
51.74
38.20
Provisions for loan losses
1,058.32
947.14
Provision for depreciation in value of investments
-
136.08
Expenditure charged to the profit & Loss account in the current year but allowed for 
tax purposes on payment basis
224.24
150.46
Others
33.46
8.04
Total (a)
1,367.76
1,279.92
Deferred Tax Liability arising out of
Special Reserves
(315.44)
(284.32)
Provision for depreciation/revaluation in value of investments
(43.91)
-
Total (b)
(359.35)
(284.32)
Deferred tax asset (net) (a-b)
1,008.41
995.60
18.14 Earnings per Share
The Bank reports basic and diluted earnings per equity share in accordance with Accounting Standard 20 - 
“Earnings per Share”.
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Basic
Weighted Average Number of equity shares
1,61,09,70,817
1,61,08,89,761
Net Profit after tax available for equity share holders
2,745.30
2,229.56
Basic Earnings Per Share (FV ₹10/-)
17.04
13.84
Diluted
Weighted Average Number of equity shares (including dilutive potential equity share)
1,61,11,40,600
1,61,10,74,329
Net Profit after tax available for equity share holders
2,745.30
2,229.56
Diluted Earnings Per Share (FV ₹10/-)
17.04
13.84
Nominal value per share
10.00
10.00
The dilutive impact is due to stock options granted to employees of the Bank.
273
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
18.15 Liability for Operating Leases
The Banking Units premises are generally rented on cancellable terms for less than twelve months with no escalation 
clause and renewable at the option of the Company. The Head office and the Bank Branches office premises are 
obtained on non- cancellable lease terms. Lease payment during the year are charged in the statement of profit & loss.
The amount of rent expenses included in the Profit & Loss account towards operating leases aggregate to ₹364.80 
crore (Previous year ended March 31,2024: ₹298.43 crore).
Particulars of future minimum lease payment in respect of Head office & Bank branches are as mentioned below :
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)	 Not later than 1 year
253.79
194.63
b)	 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years
743.63
534.92
c)	 Later than 5 years
451.09
304.08
18.16 Small and Micro Industries
	
Under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 which came into force from 
October 02, 2006, certain disclosures are required to be made relating to Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. 
There have been no reported cases of delays in payments to micro and small enterprises or of interest payments due 
to delays in such payments during the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024. The above is based on the 
information available with the Bank which has been relied upon by the auditors.
18.17 Description of contingent liabilities
	
i)	
Claims against the Bank not acknowledged as debts:
An amount of ₹280.77 crore (Previous year: ₹99.73 crore) is outstanding as at March 31, 2025, as claims against 
the Bank not acknowledged as Debts including ₹162.90 crore (Previous year: ₹40.69 crore) being in the nature 
of a contingent liability on account of proceedings pending with Tax authorities. The Bank is a party to various 
taxation matters in respect of which appeals are pending and various legal proceedings in the normal course of 
business. The Bank has reviewed and classified these items as possible obligations based on legal opinion/judicial 
precedents/assessment and does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a materially adverse 
effect on the Bank’s Financial Statements.
ii)	
Liability on account of Forward Exchange contracts
The Bank has entered into foreign exchange contracts with interbank Counterparties. Forward exchange contracts 
are commitments to buy or sell foreign currency at a future date at the contracted rate. The forward exchange 
contracts that are not intended for trading and are entered into to establish the amount of reporting currency 
required or available at the settlement date of a transaction are effectively valued at closing spot rate. The premium 
or discount arising on inception of such forward exchange contracts is amortised over the life of the contract as 
interest Expense / income. The amount in contingent liability represents notional outstanding principal amount.
iii)	 Guarantees given on behalf of constituents, Acceptances, Endorsements and Others
An amount of ₹2,008.19 crore (Previous year: ₹1,716.15 crore) is outstanding as at March 31, 2025. As part of its 
commercial banking activity, the Bank issues documentary credit and guarantees on behalf of its customers. 
Guarantees generally represent irrevocable assurances that the Bank will make payments in the event of the 
customer failing to fulfil its financial or performance obligations.
iv)	 Currency swaps & interest rate swaps
This item represents the notional principal amount of various derivative instruments which the Bank undertakes 
in its normal course of business. The Bank undertakes these contracts to manage its own interest rate and foreign 
exchange positions.
274
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
v)	
Other items:
An amount of ₹187.28 crore (Previous year: ₹283.14 crore) is outstanding as at March 31, 2025. These include:
a)	
Liability in respect of capital commitments relating to fixed assets.
b)	
Amount transferred to RBI under Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund).
18.18 Additional Disclosures
A)	 Disclosure of customer complaints
Summary information on complaints received by the bank from customers and from the offices of Ombudsman
Sr. 
No
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Complaints received by the bank from its customers
1
Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
1,150
1,420
2
Number of complaints received during the year*
1,55,958
60,330
3
Number of complaints disposed during the year*
1,50,992
60,600
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the bank
22,082
5,995
4
Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
6,116
1,150
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from OBOs
5
Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from OBOs
1,407
952
5.1 Number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by 'BOs'
601
334
5.2 Number of complaints resolved through conciliation/mediation/advisories 
issued by 'BOs'
806
617
5.3 Number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by 'BOs' against the bank
-
1
6
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time  
(other than those appealed)
-
-
*The above does not include 1,11,500 Nos. of complaints received and resolved within next working day during the year ended 
March 31, 2025 (Previous Year : 9,596 Nos.)
Top five grounds of complaints received by the bank from customers
Grounds of complaints,
(i.e. complaints relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
at the 
beginning of 
the year 
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
% increase/ 
(decrease) in 
the number 
of complaints 
received over 
the Previous Year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
the end of 
the year
Of 5, 
number of 
complaints 
pending 
beyond 
30 days
1
2
3
4
5
6
Year ended March 31, 2025
Internet/Mobile/Electronic Banking
312
46,068
104.74%
1,149
319
Account opening/difficulty in operation  
of account
300
41,831
237.59%
2,773
502
ATM/Debit Cards
148
26,718
48.79%
397
95
Loans and advances
223
12,016
187.74%
751
182
Cross-selling/Para-Banking
131
5,141
566.80%
128
33
Others
36
24,184
854.38%
918
495
Total
1,150
1,55,958
6,116
1,626
275
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
Grounds of complaints,
(i.e. complaints relating to)
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
at the 
beginning of 
the year 
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
% increase/ 
(decrease) in 
the number 
of complaints 
received over 
the Previous Year
Number of 
complaints 
pending at 
the end of 
the year
Of 5, 
number of 
complaints 
pending 
beyond 
30 days
1
2
3
4
5
6
Year ended March 31, 2024
ATM/Debit Cards
211
17,957
(3.30%)
148
2
Internet/Mobile/Electronic Banking
189
22,501
349.75%
312
18
Account opening/difficulty in operation  
of accounts
740
12,391
26.07%
300
42
Loans and advances
175
4,176
80.70%
223
63
Cheques/drafts/bills
3
1,053
621.23%
3
3
Others
102
2,252
18.96%
164
36
Total
1,420
60,330
1,150
164
B)	
Letter of Comfort (LOC’s) issued by the Bank
The Bank has not issued any Letter of Comfort (LOC) during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
C)	
Bancassurance Business
The following table shows breakup of income derived from sale of insurance /Mutual funds.
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
For selling life insurance policies
341.96
261.90
For selling non-life insurance policies
32.04
15.16
For selling mutual fund products
10.94
6.31
Others
0.72
0.15
D)	 Concentration of Deposits, Advances Exposures & NPAs
I)	
Concentration of Deposits
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
i)	
Total Deposits of twenty largest depositors
25,132.77
21,847.93
ii)	 Percentage of Deposits of twenty largest depositors to Total Deposits 
of the bank
16.62%
16.16%
II)	
Concentration of Advances
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
i)	
Total Advances to twenty largest borrowers
9,437.55
8,606.34
ii)	 Percentage of Advances to twenty largest borrowers to Total Advances 
of the Bank
6.67%
6.62%
Advances comprises credit exposure (funded and non-funded credit limits) and excludes Advances against 
Bank own deposit computed as per current exposure method in accordance with RBI guidelines.
276
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
III)	
Concentration of Exposures
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
i)	
Total Exposure to twenty largest borrowers / customers
9,708.80
8,606.34
ii)	 Percentage of Exposures to twenty largest borrowers / customers to 
total exposure of the bank on borrowers / customers
6.71%
6.56%
Exposure comprises credit exposure (funded and non-funded credit limits), Investment exposure and excludes 
Advances against Bank own deposit computed as per current exposure method in accordance with RBI guidelines.
IV)	 Concentration of NPAs
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Total Exposure to the top twenty NPA accounts
275.91
651.88
Percentage of exposures to the twenty largest NPA exposure to  
total Gross NPAs.
4.29%
13.62%
18.19 Disclosures on Remuneration
	
Qualitative Disclosures
A)	
Information relating to the composition and 
mandate of the Remuneration Committee.
The Bank’s Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (NRC) oversees the framing, review 
and implementation of the Compensation Policy 
on behalf of the Board of Directors. The NRC 
reviews the policy at least once a year to ensure 
that the reward design is aligned to industry best 
practices and is consistent with effective risk 
management and long term business interests of 
the Bank. The NRC works in close coordination 
with the Risk Management Committee of the 
Bank, to achieve the effective alignment between 
remuneration and risks.
As on March 31,2025 the NRC comprises of the 
following directors.
Mr. Suhail Chander - Chairman
Dr. A S Ramasastri
Mr. Philip Mathew
The NRC functions with the following 
main objectives:
i)	
To identify persons who are qualified to 
become directors in accordance with the 
criteria laid down, recommend to the Board 
their appointment, re-appointment or 
removal and to carry out evaluation of every 
Director’s performance;
ii)	
To formulate the criteria for determining 
qualifications, positive attributes and 
independence of a Director and decide their 
‘fit & proper’ status;
iii)	
To oversee the framing, review and 
implementation of compensation policy of 
the Bank and recommend to the Board the 
overall remuneration philosophy and policy 
including the level and structure of fixed 
pay, variable pay, perquisites, bonus pool, 
stock based remuneration to employees;
iv)	
To oversee the framing, implementation and 
review of the Remuneration of the Whole 
Time Director (WTDs) /Managing Director 
(MD)/ Chief Executive Officer (CEOs) as 
per the RBI Guidelines and Companies Act, 
2013. The Committee shall recommend 
to the Board the remuneration package 
for the Managing Director & CEO and the 
other Whole Time Directors – including the 
level of fixed pay, variable pay, stock based 
Remuneration and perquisites;
277
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
v)	
To review the HR strategy and policy 
including the conduct and ethics of the Bank 
and review any fundamental changes in the 
organisation structure which could have 
wide ranging and high risk implications;
vi)	
To review and recommend to the Board, the 
succession policy at the level of Managing 
Director & CEO, other WTDs, senior 
management one level below the Board and 
key roles.
B)	
Information relating to the design and structure of 
remuneration processes and the key features and 
objectives of remuneration policy
The Compensation Policy reflects the Bank’s 
objectives for good corporate governance as 
well as sustained and long-term value creation 
for stakeholders. The aims of the Bank’s 
remuneration framework are to:
i)	
Attract, motivate and retain people with 
requisite skill, experience and ability to 
deliver the Bank’s strategy;
ii)	
Create an alignment and balance 
between the rewards and risk exposure of 
shareholders and interests of employees;
iii)	
Link rewards to creation of long term 
sustainable shareholder value consistent 
with strategic goals and appropriate risk 
management; and
iv)	
Encourage behaviour consistent with the 
Bank’s values and principles.
v)	
Support 
appropriate 
conduct 
and 
meritocratic culture through differentiated 
performance rewards
To achieve the above objectives, the philosophy 
adopted by the Bank is as follows:
i)	
Market referenced: offer employees 
competitive salary, achieved through 
benchmarking with peer groups.
ii)	
Making 
fixed 
salary 
the 
main 
remuneration component.
iii)	
Ensure that jobs of similar internal value are 
grouped and pegged within a range guided 
by market benchmarked jobs.
iv)	
Risk Adjusted: By integrating non-financial 
considerations relating to conduct in 
performance assessments, employing 
proper mix of compensation elements and 
aligning compensation incentives to risk 
outcomes and factoring the time horizon 
of risks
v)	
Focus on ‘Total rewards’, all aspects of 
compensation, rewards and well defined 
benefits, including rewarding work 
environment and personal development.
vi)	
The focus will be to ensure that the Bank 
is competitive in its overall salary offer to 
its employees without being excessively 
expensive for the Bank.
The compensation structure for the MD & CEO 
also mirrors the Bank’s philosophy of aligning 
with the principles of sound compensation 
practices to ensure:
i)	
Effective and independent governance 
of compensation.
ii)	
Effective alignment of compensation with 
prudent risk taking.
iii)	
Effective supervisory oversight and 
engagement by stakeholders.
Design & Structure of Remuneration process
The total compensation is a prudent mix of 
fixed remuneration and performance-based 
variable remuneration 
The key remuneration elements are:
1)	
Fixed Pay
2)	
Discretionar y 
Performance-based 
Variable Remuneration
The Bank ensures that the fixed pay element is 
reasonable, taking into account the market rates 
and trends. The fixed pay is reviewed annually 
using market intelligence provided by a leading 
global performance/reward consulting and 
benchmarking firm for financial services industry 
to ensure that the Bank remains competitive in 
278
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
marketplace and that the Bank is able to attract 
and retain best talent. The level of fixed pay 
shall be sufficient enough in order to discourage 
inappropriate risk-taking.
Performance-based variable remuneration may 
comprise cash bonus, stock linked instruments, 
and is awarded by ensuring:
i)	
an appropriate balance between fixed and 
performance-based components;
ii)	
that the fixed component represents a 
higher proportion of the total remuneration;
iii)	
that the performance-based component 
reflects 
the 
risk 
underlying 
the 
achieved result;
iv)	
that a substantial part of the performance-
based component may be deferred;
v)	
that no hedging of deferred shares 
takes place;
Presently, the bank utilises only two form of 
performance based variable remuneration, 
viz.,cash bonus, ESOP, as referred in note no 18.32 
is linked to continuous service with the Bank.
The compensation policy of the Bank is reviewed 
by the NRC and approved by the Board of 
Directors. The NRC oversees the implementation 
of the policy and reviews the fixed pay increases, 
the organisational performance threshold for 
bonus to be paid, cash bonus and deferred 
variable remuneration.
C)	
Description of the ways in which current and 
future risks are taken into account in the 
remuneration process
The MD & CEO, employees in the grades of 
SVPs and above and employees engaged in 
the functions of Risk Control and Compliance 
are included in the policy of risk alignment 
of compensation.
The alignment of compensation to prudent risk 
taking is ensured through the following:
i)	
Structure of remuneration is such that 
a significant part of performance based 
variable remuneration is deferred.
ii)	
Performance hurdles includes financial 
and non-financial parameters, ensuring 
compensation is aligned to both.
iii)	
Fixed Salary is reasonable and sufficient, 
thereby discouraging inappropriate 
risk taking.
iv)	
Annual Bonus Plan is managed with an 
independent governance framework.
v)	
Variable 
remuneration 
awards 
are 
conditional, discretionary and contingent 
upon a sustainable and risk-adjusted 
performance. 
They 
are 
therefore 
capable of forfeiture or reduction at the 
Bank’s discretion.
vi)	
For employees included in the policy of risk 
alignment of compensation, NRC has the 
discretion to apply malus and clawback – 
ex-post risk adjustment, allowing the Bank 
to adjust previously awarded remuneration 
to take account of subsequent performance 
and potential risk outcomes and thus 
enabling to recoup variable pay in the event 
of a negative contribution.
Deferral of Variable Pay
To ensure that risk measures are not focused 
only on the achievement of short term goals, 
variable payout is deferred, if it exceeds 50% of 
the fixed pay.
The Bank’s compensation policy aims to ensure 
that both ex-ante estimates and ex-post 
outcomes of risk affect payoffs; so that one 
or the other, can better address the various 
situations or risks.
D)	
Description of ways in which the Bank seeks 
to link performance, during a performance 
measurement period with levels of remuneration.
The Bank has a performance measurement 
framework in place to assess the achievements 
of the organisation as a whole, its business lines 
and organisational units as well as individual 
employees. In order to maximise the incentive to 
deliver adequate performance and to take into 
account any risks of the business activities, the 
Bank seeks to closely link remuneration outcomes 
with performance and risk outcomes. Accordingly, 
the Bank’s performance management and 
compensation philosophy is designed in a manner 
to help achieve the Bank’s business objectives.
The performance management system in the 
Bank is aligned to the balanced scorecard 
approach. The goal setting process helps 
279
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
individuals to have clarity on their roles and align 
their profiles in line with the broad organisation 
strategy. Both quantitative / financial and 
qualitative / non-financial performance measures 
are considered. The qualitative or non-financial 
measures include customer service, adherence 
to risk and compliance standards, behaviour and 
values such as accountability, team work, etc., 
which builds a culture conducive to sustainable 
business performance.
The performance appraisal process starts with 
the employee conducting self-appraisal followed 
by the assessment of the supervisor via appraisal 
feedback and discussion.
Individual fixed pay increases and variable 
remuneration are based on the final performance 
ratings. In addition, the fixed pay increase is 
also influenced by an employee’s position in 
the salary range and relevant market salaries. 
Performance related variable compensation 
is linked to corporate performance, business 
performance and individual performance. The 
performance ratings based bonus distribution 
matrix is reviewed by the NRC.
Employees engaged in all control functions 
including Compliance and Risk do not carry 
business profit targets in their goal sheets 
and hence are compensated based on their 
achievement of key result areas as per the 
balance score card. The aim is to ensure that 
the remuneration system and outcomes 
relating to such control functions maintain the 
independence of the function and Bank’s robust 
risk management framework. Accordingly, for the 
control functions, the variable pay is conservative 
to promote prudent risk management behaviour 
and the ‘pay mix’ is skewed towards fixed pay.
In the case of performance evaluation of the 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of 
the Bank, factors such as financial performance 
measures, cost management initiatives, 
other strategic initiatives, prudential risk and 
compliance management, recognition and awards 
to the Bank, etc., is taken into account, which may 
vary from year to year depending on the Bank’s 
strategic priorities. Based on the inputs from 
NRC, the Board reviews the performance and 
recommends the rate of bonus to be paid, and 
the increments for the MD & CEO, for regulatory 
approval in terms of Section 35B of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 (B.R. Act, 1949).
E)	
Bank’s policy on deferral and vesting of variable 
remuneration and bank’s policy and criteria for 
adjusting deferred remuneration before vesting 
and after vesting.
In terms of RBI guidelines, the Compensation Policy 
specifically addresses the following categories 
of employees:
Category I : Managing Director &Chief Executive 
Officer / Whole Time Directors / Material Risk Takers
Category II : Risk Control and Compliance Staff
Category III: Other Categories of Staff (employees 
receiving share-linked variable pay)
The following principles are applied for grant 
and deferral of performance-based variable 
remuneration for the above categories 
of employees.
Category I
i)	
Variable pay shall not exceed 3 (three) 
times the annual fixed pay for MD & CEO 
and WTDs.
ii)	
Variable pay shall not exceed 2.5 (two and 
half) times the annual fixed pay for MRTs.
iii)	
At minimum, variable pay shall be equal to 
the annual fixed pay.
iv)	
If an executive is barred by regulation/ statute 
to receive grant of share-linked instruments, 
the variable pay shall be capped at 1.5 (one 
and half) times the annual fixed pay, but will 
be more than 50% of the annual fixed pay
v)	
If variable pay is up to 2 (two) times the 
annual fixed pay, then at least 50% of the 
variable pay shall be in the form of share-
linked instruments (i.e. non-cash).
vi)	
If variable pay is between 2 (two) to 3 (three) 
times the annual fixed pay, then at least two—
thirds of the variable pay shall be in the form 
of share-linked instruments (i.e. non-cash).
280
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
vii)	 At least 60% of total variable pay shall be 
deferred including at least 50% of cash-
based variable pay. However, in cases where 
the cash component of variable pay is under 
₹25 lakh, the Bank at its discretion, may not 
necessarily have deferral requirements.
viii)	 Deferral of cash based variable pay shall 
be for 3 years on pro-rata yearly basis 
(annual vesting).
ix)	
Deferral of share-linked variable pay shall be 
for 4 years on pro-rata yearly basis (annual 
vesting).
x)	
In case the employee exits the organisation 
before the vesting of all three parts, the 
remaining deferred cash based variable pay 
will not be paid
Category II
i)	
The mix of Fixed Pay and Variable 
remuneration will be weighed towards 
Fixed Pay.
ii)	
Variable pay shall not exceed the annual 
fixed pay.
iii)	
At least 40% of the variable pay shall be in 
the form of share-linked instruments (i.e. 
non-cash).
iv)	
Deferral of share-linked variable pay shall 
be for 4 years on pro-rata yearly basis 
(annual vesting).
v)	
The compensation will be commensurate to 
their key role in the Bank.
Category III
i)	
Variable Remuneration will be as per the 
NRC approved pay-out levels in terms of 
performance, grade and role matrix.
ii)	
Variable pay shall not exceed the annual 
fixed pay.
iii)	
At least 50% of the variable pay shall be in 
the form of share-linked instruments (i.e. 
non-cash).
iv)	
Deferral of share-linked variable pay shall 
be for 4 years on pro-rata yearly basis 
(annual vesting).
For the three categories of employees mentioned 
hereinabove, the awarded performance based 
variable pay shall be subject to in-year adjustment, 
malus or clawback as decided by the NRC, in the 
event of negative contribution of the Bank and / 
or relevant line of business and in material cases 
of detrimental conduct of individual or business.
Negative contribution of the Bank and / or 
relevant line of business is defined as:
Conduct related:
i)	
If an employee engages in certain 
detrimental conduct, including mis-selling 
practices, manipulation of interest rate 
benchmarks, illegal activity, breach of a 
fiduciary duty, etc. that causes material 
financial or reputational harm to the Bank.
ii)	
If the award was based on a material 
misrepresentation by the employee.
iii)	
If there is reasonable evidence of employee 
malfeasance and breach of integrity inviting 
disciplinary actions.
iv)	
Violation of Anti Hedging and Anti Pledging 
Policy or Code of Conduct for Prevention of 
Insider Trading.
Risk related and others:
i)	
If the awarded performance-based variable 
pay was granted on a deliberately erroneous 
foundation or an incorrect decision made 
due to gross negligence not considered as 
errors of judgement.
ii)	
If the employee who is reasonably expected 
to be aware of the failure, misconduct or 
weakness in approach that contributed 
to the failure, improperly or with gross 
negligence failed to identify, assess, report 
or escalate in a timely manner.
iii)	
If the performance, decisions or actions 
taken leads to the Bank or the relevant 
business unit suffering a significant material 
downturn in its financial performance.
281
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
iv)	
If the RBI assessed divergence in the Bank’s 
provisioning for Non-Performing Assets 
(NPAs) or asset classification exceeds the 
prescribed threshold for public disclosure, 
the bank shall not pay the unvested 
portion of the variable compensation for 
the assessment year under malus clause. 
Further, in such a situation, there shall 
not be any increase in variable pay for 
the assessment year. In case the bank’s 
post assessment Gross NPAs are less than 
2.0%, these restrictions will apply only 
if the criteria for public disclosure are 
triggered either on account of divergence 
in provisioning or both provisioning and 
asset classification.
v)	
In the event of a material restatement, 
correction or amendment of the Bank’s 
financial results for the relevant period.
F)	
Description of the different forms of variable remuneration (i.e. cash, shares, ESOPs and other forms) that the 
bank utilises and the rationale for using these different forms.
The Bank presently utilises only one form of variable remuneration, viz., cash bonus, which is linked to corporate 
performance, business performance and individual performance ensuring differential pay based on the 
performance. ESOP, as referred in Note 18.32 is linked to continuous service with the Bank.
	
Quantitative disclosures :
	
	
The quantitative disclosures pertaining to the MD & CEO, WTDs & MRTs, for the year ended March 31,2025 and 
March 31,2024 are given below:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
a)	 i)	
Number of meetings held by the Remuneration Committee during the year.
9
7
	
ii)	 Remuneration paid to its members (sitting fees)
₹19,20,000
₹12,60,000
b)	 Number of employees having received a variable remuneration award during the 
year (Active & Inactive).
21
23
c)	 Number and total amount of sign on awards made during the year.
Nil
Nil
d)	 Details of guaranteed bonus, if any, paid as joining / sign on bonus.
Nil
Nil
e)	 Details of severance pay, in addition to accrued benefits, if any.
Nil
Nil
f)	
Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration, split into cash, shares and 
share linked instruments and other forms.
₹3.06 cr (Cash) 
Unvested 
ESOP (Shares) - 
42,87,244 
CSARs - 2,87,267
₹2.96 cr (Cash) 
Unvested 
ESOP (Shares) 
-54,34,704 
g)	 Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in the year (paid in cash)
₹0.46 cr (Cash)
₹0.79 cr (Cash)
h)	 Breakdown of amount of remuneration awards for the year to show fixed and 
variable, deferred and non deferred.
Fixed - ₹51.08 
crore, Variable 
- ₹5.27 crore, 
Non-deferred 
- ₹4.01 crore, 
Deferred- ₹1.26 
crore
Fixed - ₹30.55 
crore, Variable 
- ₹4.29 crore, 
Non-deferred 
- ₹3.49 crore, 
Deferred- ₹0.79 
crore
i)	
Shares granted under ESOP
ESOP - 8,73,621 
CSARs - 
2,87,267#
39,41,125 
CSARs - NIL#
j)	
Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration and retained remuneration 
exposed to ex-post explicit and / or implicit adjustments.
Nil
Nil
k)	 Total amount of reductions during the year due to ex post explicit adjustments.
Nil
Nil
l)	
Total amount of reductions during the year due to ex post implicit adjustments.
Nil
Nil
m)	 *Number of MRTs identified. (Including inactive)
31
25
(n)	 (i)	 Number of cases where malus has been exercised.
Nil
Nil
	
(ii)	 Number of cases where clawback has been exercised.
Nil
Nil
	
(iii)	 Number of cases where both malus and clawback have been exercised.
Nil
Nil
282
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
(o)	 The mean pay for the bank as a whole (excluding sub-staff) and the deviation of 
the pay of each of its WTDs from the mean pay.
The mean pay 
for the Bank as a 
whole (excluding 
sub-staff) - 
₹0.0457 crore.
The deviation 
of the fixed pay 
of MD from the 
mean pay - 
₹3.41 crore.
The deviation of 
the fixed pay of 
ED & CBO from 
the mean pay - 
₹2.89 crore.
The deviation of 
the fixed pay of 
ED & COO from 
the mean pay - 
₹2.37 crore.
The mean pay 
for the Bank as a 
whole (excluding 
sub-staff) - 
₹0.0406 crore.
The deviation 
of the fixed pay 
of MD from the 
mean pay - 
₹3.31 crore.
The deviation 
of the fixed pay 
of ED from the 
mean pay - 
₹2.37 crore.
The deviation 
of the fixed pay 
of ED from the 
mean pay - 
₹2.90 crore.
*As on year ended March 31,2025 and March 31,2024 number of active MRTs are 28 and 25 respectively.
#CSAR denotes Cash Settled Stock Appreciation Rights
18.20 Disclosure relating to Securitisation
The Bank has not originated any securitisation transactions during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
18.21 Marketing and distribution
During the year ended March 31,2025 and March 31,2024, the Bank has received NIL (Previous Year ₹33.06 crore) in 
respect of the marketing and distribution function (excluding bancassurance business) undertaken by them.
18.22 Off-balance Sheet SPVs sponsored
The Bank has not sponsored any special purposes vehicle which is required to be consolidated as per accounting norms.
18.23 Transfer to Depositor education and awareness fund (DEA Fund)
The details of amount transferred to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund during the year ended March 31, 2025 
and March 31, 2024:
(₹ in crore)
Sr. 
No
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
i)
Opening balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund
0.06
0.02
ii)
Add: Amounts transferred to DEA Fund during the year
0.36
0.04
iii)
Less: Amounts reimbursed by DEA Fund towards claims
-
-
iv)
Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund
0.42
0.06
18.24 Transfer to Investor education and protection fund (IEPF)
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund by the Bank during the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
283
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
18.25 The key business ratios and other information is set out below :
A) Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest income as a percentage to working funds1
12.03%
11.80%
Non-interest income as a percentage to working funds1
1.63%
1.35%
Cost of Deposits
7.06%
6.49%
Net Interest Margin5
7.07%
7.35%
Operating profit as a percentage to working funds1,2
4.05%
4.15%
Return on assets1
1.50%
1.39%
Profit per employee (₹ in crore)3
0.035
0.030
Business (deposits less inter-bank deposits plus advances) per employee (₹ in crore)3,4
3.35
3.19
1.	Working funds represent average of total assets as reported to Reserve Bank of India in Form X under Section 27 of the Banking Regulation 
Act, 1949, during the year ended March 31,2025 and March 31,2024.
2.	Operating profit is profit for the year before considering provisions and contingencies.
3.	Productivity ratios are based on average number of employees for the year.
4.	Business per employee (Deposits plus Gross Advances (on book), inter-bank deposits shall be excluded.
5.	Net interest income/Average earning assets. Net interest income is the difference of interest income and interest expense. Average 
earning assets are average of balance of interest earning assets.
B)	
Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium
(₹ in crore)
Sr. 
No
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
i)
Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium*
164.87
129.89
ii)
Arrears in payment of DICGC premium
-
-
(*) The amount includes GST.
18.26 Green Deposits raised by the bank
There has been no green deposits during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
18.27 Disclosure on Liquidity Coverage Ratio
(A)	 Qualitative disclosure
The Bank has adopted the Basel III framework on liquidity standards as prescribed by RBI and has put in place 
requisite systems and processes to enable periodical computation and reporting of the Liquidity Coverage 
Ratio (LCR). The Risk department computes the LCR and reports the same to the Asset Liability Management 
Committee (ALCO) every month for review.
The Bank follows the criteria laid down by RBI for calculation of High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA),gross outflows 
and inflows within the next 30-day period. HQLA predominantly comprises Government securities in excess of 
minimum SLR requirement viz. Treasury Bills, Central and State Government securities and excess of minimum 
cash reserve ratio (CRR).
The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for management of liquidity risk. The Board at overall level 
decides the strategy, policies and procedures of the bank to manage liquidity risk in accordance with the liquidity 
risk tolerance/limits. The Board has constituted Risk Management Committee, which reports to the Board, and 
consist of Managing Director and certain other Board members. The Committee is responsible for evaluating 
the overall risks faced by the bank including liquidity risk.
284
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
18.27 Disclosure on Liquidity Coverage Ratio
(B)	 Quantitative Disclosure as on March 31, 2025	
Particulars
Day end Average for quarter 
ended June 30, 2024
Day end Average for quarter 
ended September 30, 2024
Day end Average for quarter 
ended December 31, 2024
Day end Average for quarter 
ended31 March 2025
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1)	 Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
35,714.41
32,690.42
33,817.07
35,196.52
Cash Outflows
2)	 Retail Deposits and deposits from small 
business customers, of which:
72,451.17
6,752.93
74,893.26
6,962.59
77,354.66
7,233.93
79,749.71
7,483.59
	
a)	 Stable deposits
9,843.75
492.19
10,534.77
526.74
10,030.69
501.53
9,827.70
491.38
	
b)	 Less stable deposits
62,607.43
6,260.74
64,358.49
6,435.85
67,323.96
6,732.40
69,922.02
6,992.20
3)	 Unsecured wholesale funding, of which:
23,998.32
15,257.86
22,820.89
14,688.41
26,698.62
17,044.16
24,731.64
15,969.50
	
a)	 Operational deposits (all counterparties)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
b)	 Non-operational deposits (all 
counterparties)
23,998.32
15,257.86
22,820.89
14,688.41
26,698.62
17,044.16
24,731.64
15,969.50
	
c)	 Unsecured debt
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4)	 Secured wholesale funding
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
5)	 Additional requirements, of which:
5,997.03
811.20
7,420.93
2,312.61
6,373.98
1,466.33
6,744.29
1,183.42
	
a)	 Outflows related to derivative exposures 
and other collateral requirements*
196.97
196.97
1,331.10
1,331.10
351.71
351.71
159.95
159.95
	
b)	 Outflows related to loss of funding on  
debt products
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
c)	 Credit and liquidity facilities
5,800.06
614.24
6,089.83
981.51
6,022.28
1,114.62
6,584.34
1,023.47
6)	 Other contractual funding obligations
3,828.24
3,828.24
4,041.69
4,041.69
2,243.25
2,243.25
2,567.41
2,567.41
7)	 Other contingent funding obligations
2,063.92
69.47
1,968.41
61.19
2,230.95
73.40
2,156.12
70.93
8)	 Total Cash outflows
26,719.70
28,066.48
28,061.07
27,274.85
Cash Inflows
9)	 Secured lending (eg. Reverse repos)
2,418.07
-
961.90
-
594.05
-
349.26
-
10)	Inflows from fully performing exposures
7,803.90
4,906.56
8,007.83
4,964.28
7,594.13
4,580.36
8,330.31
5,408.38
11)	Other cash inflows
297.03
297.03
1,453.28
1,393.91
443.08
397.92
341.72
251.89
12)	Total Cash Inflows
10,519.00
5,203.59
10,423.01
6,358.20
8,631.26
4,978.28
9,021.29
5,660.28
13)	Total HQLA
35,714.41
32,690.42
33,817.07
35,196.52
14)	Total Net Cash outflow
21,516.11
21,708.29
23,082.79
21,614.57
15)	Liquidity Coverage Ratio(%)
165.99%
150.59%
146.50%
162.84%
*Item shown under derivative exposure relates to Fx swaps
(₹ in crore)
285
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(C)	 Quantitative Disclosure as on March 31, 2024
(` in crore)
Particulars
Day end Average for quarter 
ended June 30, 2023
Day end Average for quarter 
ended September 30, 2023
Day end Average for quarter 
ended December 31, 2023
Day end Average for quarter 
ended 31 March 2024
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Unweighted 
Value 
(Average)
Total 
Weighted 
Value 
(Average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1)	 Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
34,753.15
32,984.02
30,870.65
29,066.00
Cash Outflows
2)	 Retail Deposits and deposits from  
small business customers, of which:
60,704.43
5,901.97
63,646.68
6,193.89
65,736.74
6,388.28
68,635.61
6,508.99
a)	 Stable deposits
3,369.40
168.47
3,415.59
170.78
3,707.94
185.40
7,091.45
354.57
b)	 Less stable deposits
57,335.03
5,733.50
60,231.09
6,023.11
62,028.80
6,202.88
61,544.16
6,154.42
3) 	 Unsecured wholesale funding, of which:
19,268.64
13,145.60
19,815.41
13,762.87
20,318.14
13,257.77
22,708.12
15,314.50
a)	 Operational deposits (all counterparties)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
b)	 Non-operational deposits (all counterparties)
19,268.64
13,145.60
19,815.41
13,762.87
20,318.14
13,257.77
22,708.12
15,314.50
c)	 Unsecured debt
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4)	 Secured wholesale funding
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
5)	 Additional requirements, of which:
7,181.04
1,994.12
5,926.79
1,454.46
3,720.19
583.39
4,579.47
475.13
a)	 Outflows related to derivative exposures and 
other collateral requirements*
0.08
0.08
1.57
1.57
0.07
0.07
0.02
0.02
b)	 Outflows related to loss of funding  
on debt products
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
c)	 Credit and liquidity facilities
7,180.96
1,994.04
5,925.22
1,452.89
3,720.12
583.32
4,579.45
475.11
6)	 Other contractual funding obligations
3,026.53
3,026.53
4,548.97
4,548.97
4,192.80
4,192.80
4,558.80
4,558.80
7)	 Other contingent funding obligations
1,902.73
66.82
2,180.39
75.69
2,150.65
75.15
2,168.82
74.91
8)	 Total Cash outflows
24,135.04
26,035.88
24,497.39
26,932.33
Cash Inflows
9)	 Secured lending (eg. Reverse repos)
2,250.99
-
555.36
-
1,099.70
-
488.99
-
10)	Inflows from fully performing exposures
7,649.31
4,807.81
7,002.53
4,208.97
7,535.39
4,723.19
7,182.33
4,436.12
11)	Other cash inflows
317.16
317.16
486.97
486.97
221.72
221.72
124.67
124.67
12)	Total Cash Inflows
10,217.46
5,124.97
8,044.86
4,695.94
8,856.81
4,944.91
7,795.99
4,560.79
13)	Total HQLA
34,753.15
32,984.02
30,870.65
29,066.00
14)	Total Net Cash outflow
19,010.07
21,339.94
19,552.48
22,371.55
15)	Liquidity Coverage Ratio(%)
182.81%
154.56%
157.89%
129.92%
*Item shown under derivative exposure relates to  Fx swaps
286
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
18.28 Maturity pattern of certain items of assets and liabilities
(` in crore)
Particulars
Day 1
2 to 7 days
8 to 14 
days
15 to 30 
days
31 days 
to 2 months
Over 2 
months and 
to 3 months
Over 3 
months 
and up to 6 
Months
Over 6 
months and 
up to 1 year
Over 1 year 
and up to 3 
years
Over 3 
years and 
up to 5 
years
Over 5 years
Total
Liabilities
Borrowings*
50.17
-
427.38
253.69
1,880.45
2,859.97
970.75
1,789.25
2,449.48
457.36
-
11,138.49
-
(2.48)
-
(860.53)
(1,125.97)
(4,104.49)
(4,164.50)
(4,344.74)
(1,206.15)
(464.75)
(97.91)
(16,371.52)
Deposits*
1,203.54
3,395.75
1,394.01
3,036.60
3,764.80
3,138.36
15,790.59
38,267.21
59,530.78
9,719.97
11,970.89
1,51,212.50
(3,859.50)
(3,540.73)
(784.68)
(837.19)
(2,479.06)
(3,107.09)
(14,181.30)
(46,678.25)
(57,091.46)
(2,057.57)
(585.16)
(1,35,201.99)
Foreign 
Currency 
Liabilities#
-
2.82
427.38
213.92
1,880.73
2,394.96
221.88
10.15
125.07
0.48
-
5,277.38
-
-
-
(417.03)
(1,125.97)
(1,351.16)
(3,311.68)
(5.84)
(6.78)
(0.67)
-
(6,219.13)
Assets
Advances
635.52
1,947.77
2,743.07
1,969.29
5,317.27
5,214.49
14,935.74
22,384.85
37,603.36
9,977.89
29,258.08
1,31,987.32
(1,101.18)
(2,253.05)
(2,794.82)
(2,163.47)
(5,221.09)
(5,271.14)
(14,491.13)
(22,305.44)
(33,092.37)
(7,358.79)
(25,084.30)
(1,21,136.78)
Investment
-
427.59
-
447.98
749.92
1,164.76
2,450.57
2,627.58
2,617.60
5,843.60
24,382.70
40,712.28
-
(9.97)
-
(180.42)
(3.83)
(3.84)
(1,972.40)
(414.26)
(2,583.22)
(3,760.89)
(20,358.75)
(29,287.58)
Foreign 
Currency 
Assets#
31.87
-
-
-
-
6.41
-
41.03
-
-
-
79.31
(13.22)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(37.53)
-
-
(50.75)
*Deposits & Borrowings includes Foreign Currency Liabilities which is shown separately
Classification of non-maturing assets and liabilities under the different maturity buckets is based on the same estimates and assumptions as used by the Bank for compiling the return submitted to the RBI, 
which has been relied upon by the auditors.
Previous year figures are shown in”()”.
#Excludes off-balance sheet assets and liabilities & includes Foreign currency borrowings & deposits
287
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
18.29 Disclosure on Derivatives
	
(i)	 Derivatives
Derivatives are financial instruments whose characteristics are derived from underlying parameters like interest 
rates or foreign exchange rates. These include forward contracts, swaps, etc. These transactions may expose 
the Bank to risks primarily in the nature of market and credit risk. The following sections outline the nature and 
terms of the derivative transactions undertaken by the Bank.
Interest Rate swaps undertaken by the Bank involve the exchange of interest obligations with a counterparty 
for a specified period without exchanging the underlying principal i.e., notional amount. The Bank has 
undertaken derivative transactions in Rupee Interest Rate Swaps (OIS) only on the Astroid platform of CCIL for 
proprietary trading.
Foreign Exchange forward contracts and Foreign Exchange Swaps are agreements to buy /sell/exchange fixed 
amounts of currency against another currency at an agreed exchange rate on Spot / forward date. These 
instruments are carried at fair value.
The Bank has adopted the following mechanism for managing risks arising out of the derivative transactions.
The derivative transactions are governed by the Investment Policy and Market Risk Management Policy of the 
Bank as well as by the extant RBI guidelines. The risk limits are set up and actual exposures are monitored vis-à-vis 
the limits allocated. These limits are set up taking into account market volatility, risk appetite, business strategy 
and management experience. Risk limits are in place for risk parameters viz. Value at Risk (VaR), Maximum tenor, 
deal size and Price Value of a Basis Point (PVBP). Actual positions are monitored against these limits on a daily 
basis and breaches if any are reported promptly.
The Treasury has entered into derivative transactions with interbank counterparties. The Bank has an independent 
back-office and mid-office as per regulatory guidelines. The MTM position of the derivative portfolio is monitored 
on a daily basis. The risk profile of the outstanding portfolio is reviewed by the Board at regular intervals.
Derivative transactions such as foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign exchange swap and Interest rate 
swaps outstanding as at the Balance Sheet date and held for trading, are fair valued. The resulting profit or loss 
on valuation is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account. Derivatives which are not intended for trading such 
as, Foreign Exchange forward contracts and Forex swaps and which are outstanding at balance sheet date, are 
fair valued at the FEDAI closing rate. The premium or discount arising at the inception of such Forward contracts 
and Foreign Exchange swaps are amortised as expense or income over the life of the contract. Derivatives are 
classified as assets when the fair value is positive (positive marked to market value) or as liabilities when the fair 
value is negative (negative marked to market value). Bank has placed margin/collateral to Central Counterparty 
(CCIL) for various asset classes, wherever applicable.	
(a)	
Forward rate agreement (FRA)/Interest rate swap (OIS):
(₹ in crore)
Sr 
No
Particulars
Current Year
Previous Year
i
The notional principal of swap agreements (OIS)
160.00
-
ii
Losses which would be incurred if counterparties
failed to fulfil their obligations under the agreements (*)
-
-
iii
Collateral required by the bank upon entering into swaps
-
-
iv
Concentration of credit risk arising from the swaps
-
-
v
The fair value of the OIS
0.042
-
(*) During the review period, Interest rate swap (OIS) trades are executed with The Clearing Corporation of India Limited (CCIL).
288
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the nature and terms OIS.
(₹ in crore)
Benchmark
Type
At March 31, 2025
At March 31, 2024
Notional 
principal 
(₹ in crore)
No. of 
deals
Notional 
principal 
(₹ in crore)
No. of 
deals
MIBOR
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
80.00
6
 - 
 - 
MIBOR
Fixed Payable v/s Floating receivable
80.00
5
 - 
 - 
(b)	
Exchange traded interest rate derivatives and currency derivatives:
(₹ in crore)
Sr 
No
Particulars
Current Year
Previous Year
i
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate 
derivatives undertaken during the year 
-
-
ii
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate 
derivatives outstanding 
-
-
iii
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate 
derivatives outstanding and not highly effective 
NA
NA
iv
Mark to market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives 
outstanding and not highly effective 
NA
NA
(c)	
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the details of derivative positions:
(₹ in crore)
Sr 
No
Particulars
Current Year
Previous Year
Currency
Interest rate
Currency
Interest rate
Derivatives
Derivatives2
Derivatives
Derivatives
a)
Derivatives (Notional Principal Amount)1
i)	
FX Forwards and Swaps - Hedging
5,354.62
NIL
6,289.72
-
ii)	 FX Forwards and Swaps - Trading
2,239.45
160.00
-
-
b)
Marked to Market Positions 
(Trading Book)1
i)	
Asset (+)
15.29
3.85
-
-
ii)	 Liability (-)
14.84
3.81
-
-
c)
Credit Exposure (*)
109.20
0.70
146.78
-
d)
Likely impact of one percentage 
change in interest rate (100*PV01)3
i)	
on hedging derivatives
0.37
-
0.06
-
ii)	 on trading derivatives
-
-
-
-
e)
Maximum of 100*PV01 observed  
during the year
i)	
on hedging
1.16
-
0.06
-
ii)	 on trading
-
0.05
0.02
-
f)
Minimum of 100*PV01 observed 
during the year
i)	
on hedging
0.08
-
-
-
ii)	 on trading
-
-
-
-
Note :
1	 Excluding FX Tom & Spot contracts. FX Forwards and Swaps position are comprising of USD/INR trades. The premium or 
discount arising on inception of ALM Swaps/ Forward contracts is amortised over the life of the contract as interest Expense / 
income. The accrued Swap cost amount is ₹42.82 crore as on March 31, 2025 which is not included in above Marked to Market 
Positions. The amount in contingent liability represents notional outstanding principal amount.
2	 During the review period, Interest rate swap (OIS) trades are executed with The Clearing Corporation of India Limited (CCIL).
3	 PV01 amounts given are absolute values on a net basis,the Bank has computed the maximum and minimum of PV01 for the 
year based on the balances as at the end of every month
(*) In respect of derivative contracts, the Bank has computed the exposure under the Current Exposure Method based on the 
guidelines issued by RBI.
	
(ii)	 Credit default swaps
	
	
The Bank has not transacted in credit default swaps during the year ended March 31,2025 and March 31, 2024.
289
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
18.30 Details of Priority sector lending certificates (category wise) sold and purchased:
(₹ in crore)
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Purchase
Sale
Purchase
Sale
i)
PSLC – Agriculture
5,500.00
-
1,500.00
-
ii)
PSLC - Small & Marginal farmers(SFMF)
8,951.50
-
6,975.00
-
iii)
PSLC - Micro Enterprises
-
1,000.00
4,700.00
2,750.00
iv)
PSLC – General
-
-
-
10,000.00
18.31 Details of Inter-Bank Participation Certificate (IBPC) transactions
(₹ in crore)
Sl 
No.
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Sale
Purchase
Sale 
Purchase
i)
Outstanding value of aggregate IBPCs entered 
-
980.00
-
2,606.63
ii)
Outstanding value of aggregate consideration received/paid
-
980.00
-
2,606.63
iii)
Aggregate gain recorded
-
-
-
-
iv)
IBPCs outstanding
-
-
-
-
18.32 Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)
On July 26, 2017 the board of directors approved the Bandhan Bank Employee Stock Option Plan Series 1 for issue 
of stock options to eligible employees and directors of the Bank.
The Shareholders of the Bank at the meeting held on November 23, 2017 has approved the Employee Stock Option 
Plan Series 1 and the grant of Employee Stock Option to the employees of the Bank. The said approval accords the 
Board of Directors of the Bank or any Committee including the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, which 
the Board has constituted, to create, offer, and grant at any time to permanent employees of the Bank, including 
any Director of the Bank, whether whole-time or otherwise but excluding Promoter(s), Independent Directors and 
Directors holding directly or indirectly more than 10% of the outstanding equity shares, employee stock options from 
time to time in one or more tranches.
This plan was framed in accordance with the SEBI (Employee Stock Option Scheme & Employee Stock Purchase 
Scheme) Guidelines, 1999 as amended from time to time and as applicable at the time of the grant. The accounting 
for the stock options has been in accordance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 to 
the extent applicable.
Employee Stock Option Plan Series 1 provides for the issuance of options at the recommendation of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee of the Board (‘NRC’) at the closing price on the working day immediately preceding 
the date when options are granted. The closing price of the Bank’s equity share on an Indian stock exchange with the 
highest trading volume as of the working day preceding the date of grant set forth by the NRC at the time of grant. 
The period in which the options may be exercised cannot exceed five years from date of expiry of vesting period. 
However, if the participant’s employment terminates due to retirement (including pursuant to any early/ voluntary 
retirement scheme), the whole of the unvested options shall vest on the first vesting date relating to the said grant, 
immediately following the date of superannuation. During the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, few 
modifications were made to the terms and conditions of ESOPs as approved by the NRC.
Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2025:
Sr 
No
Particulars
Number 
of options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (₹)
i)
Options outstanding, beginning of year
3,99,71,840
317.76
ii)
Granted during the year
1,30,17,308
140.11
iii)
Exercised during the year
1,408
180.00
iv)
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year
46,71,889
334.59
v)
Options outstanding, end of year
4,83,15,851
268.27
vi)
Options exercisable
1,97,82,288
348.55
290
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
Activity in the options outstanding under the various employee stock option plans as at March 31, 2024:
Sr 
No
Particulars
Number 
of options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (₹)
i)
Options outstanding, beginning of year
3,07,85,151
356.00
ii)
Granted during the year
1,49,99,423
250.84
iii)
Exercised during the year*
1,15,030
180.00
iv)
Forfeited / Lapsed during the year**
56,97,704
350.96
v)
Options outstanding, end of year
3,99,71,840
317.76
vi)
Options exercisable
1,47,50,897
380.06
*Includes 249 shares against which application money was received but pending allotment to ₹0.004 crore
**6588 forfeited options have not been considered as the same has been reported in last FY.
	
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstandings as at March 31, 2025:
Sr 
No
Plan
Range of 
exercise 
price (₹)
Number of 
shares arising 
out of options
Weighted average 
remaining life of 
options (in years)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (₹) 
1
Plan Series 1
135.34 to 539.22
4,83,15,851
5.23
268.27
The following table summarises the information about stock options outstandings as at March 31, 2024:
Sr 
No
Plan
Range of 
exercise 
price (₹)
Number of 
shares arising 
out of options
Weighted average 
remaining life of 
options (in years)
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price (₹) 
1
Plan Series 1
180.00 to 539.22
3,99,71,840
5.18
317.76
Fair value methodology
The weighted average fair value of stock option granted during the year was ₹60.96. The fair value of options used 
to compute the proforma net profit and earnings per equity share have been estimated on the dates of each grant 
using the binomial option-pricing model. The Bank estimates the volatility based on the historical prices of its equity 
shares. The various assumptions considered in the pricing model for the ESOPs granted during the year ended 
March 31, 2025 are:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Dividend yield (%)
0-0.93%
Expected volatility (%)
36.51%,37.95%,49.20%,49.11%
Risk-free interest rate (%)
6.53%, 6.56%, 6,58%, 6.61%
Expected remaining life of the options (yrs)
0.25-8.92 yrs
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
The Bank measures the cost of ESOP using the Fair valuation method w.e.f April 01, 2021. Had the Bank used the fair 
value model to determine compensation for options granted before April 01, 2021, its profit after tax and earnings 
per share as reported would have changed as indicated below:
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
Profit after tax as reported*
2,745.30
2,229.56
Add: ESOP cost using the intrinsic value method
-
-
Less: ESOP cost (net of taxes) using the fair value method
2.54
74.04
Proforma profit after tax
2,742.76
2,155.52
Weighted Average Number of equity shares
1,61,09,70,817
1,61,08,89,761
Weighted Average Number of equity shares (including dilutive potential equity share)
1,61,11,40,600
1,61,10,74,329
291
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
Earnings Per Share
Basic
	
- As reported
17.04
13.84
	
- Proforma
17.03
13.38
Diluted
	
- As reported
17.04
13.84
	
- Proforma
17.02
13.38
*Includes additional cost of ₹183.07 crore during year ended March 31, 2025 as employees stock option expenses on account of RBI advisory 
[refer Note 18.46 (B)]
18.33 Corporate Social Responsibility
	
a)	
Gross amount required to be spent by the Bank during the year ended is ₹39.89 crore (Previous 
year ended March 31, 2024: ₹40.05 crore)
(₹ in crore)
Sl 
No
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
(i)
Total CSR obligation for the financial year1
39.89
40.05
(ii)
Amount of expenditure incurred1
23.25
40.05
(iii) Amount in unspent CSR account/ yet to be paid in cash at the end of the year2
16.64
0
(iv) Details of related party transactions (Bandhan Konnagar for Inclusive Growth)3
21.92
36.05
1	
Includes spends from surplus generated from CSR activities towards Bank Interest in project account (FY25:₹0.13 crore; 
FY24: ₹0.25 crore).
2	
₹16.64 crore was budgeted in FY25 for ongoing projects but remained unspent. The amount was transferred to the Unspent 
CSR Account in April 2025 and would be spent over three years, as per CSR rules.
3	
Includes spends from surplus generated from CSR activities towards Bank Interest in project account and spent through Bandhan 
Konnagar (FY25: ₹0.13 crore; FY24: ₹0.25 crore).
CSR activities during FY25 were in the areas of affordable and accessible healthcare, education, skill development, women empowerment, 
financial literacy, environmental and ecological projects like afforestation and rainwater harvesting, livelihood projects and 
social interventions.
	
b)	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amount spent by the Bank on CSR 
related activities;
(₹ in crore)
Sr 
No
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2025
Year ended March 31, 2024
In Cash
Yet to 
be paid 
in Cash*
Total
In Cash
Yet to 
be paid 
in Cash
Total
i)
Construction/ acquisition of any assets 
-
-
-
-
-
-
ii)
On purpose other than (i) above*
23.25
16.64
39.89
40.05
-
40.05
*For the year ended March 31, 2025, out of the amount (yet to be paid in cash), as required under the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)Amendment Rules, 2021, ₹16.64 crore budgeted in FY25 for ongoing 
projects but which remained unspent, was transferred to the Unspent CSR Account in April, 2025 and would be 
spent over three years, as per CSR rules.
292
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of movement in provision pertaining to CSR 
related activities
(₹ in crore)
Sl 
No
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
(i)
Opening balance of provision
-
-
(ii)
Add: Provision for expenses during the year
16.64
-
(iii)
Less: Payment out of opening balance
-
-
(iv)
Closing balance of provision
16.64
-
18.34 Disclosure under Rule 11(e) of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014
As part of the normal banking business, the Bank grants 
loans and advances to its borrowers with permission 
to lend/invest or provide guarantee/security in other 
entities identified by such borrowers or on the basis 
of the basis of security/guarantee provided by the co-
borrower. Similarly, the Bank may accept funds from its 
customers, who may instruct the Bank to lend/invest/
provide guarantee or security or the like against such 
deposit in other entities identified by such customers. 
These transactions are part of Bank’s normal banking 
business, which is conducted after exercising proper 
due diligence including adherence to “Know Your 
Customer” guidelines.
Other than the nature of transactions described above:
•	 No funds have been advanced or loaned or invested 
by the Bank to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies) 
(“Intermediaries”) with the understanding that the 
Intermediary shall lend or invest in party identified by 
or on behalf of the Bank (Ultimate Beneficiaries).
•	 The Bank has not received any fund from any party(s) 
(Funding Party) with the understanding that the Bank 
shall whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified by or on behalf 
of the Bank (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries.
18.35 Disclosure of Items that exceeds one 
percent under respective categories:
Other expenditure includes IT Operating expenses 
amounting to ₹277.20 crore (Previous Year: ₹305.13 
crore) exceeding 1% of the total income of the Bank.
18.36 Other Assets includes Investment in RIDF (Rural 
Infrastructure Development Fund) amounting to 
₹4,499.88 crore (Previous Year ended March 31, 2024 
₹6,244.61 crore)
18.37 Remuneration by way of sitting fees paid to the 
Non-Executive Directors for attending meeting of 
the Board and its committees during the year ended 
March 31, 2025 amounting to ₹4.25 crore (Previous 
Year: ₹3.38 crore).
18.38 Accounting Software Used for 
maintenance of Books of Accounts
	
As per the requirements of rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules 2014 the Bank uses only such 
accounting software(s) for maintaining its books of 
account that have a feature of recording audit trail 
of each and every transaction creating an edit log of 
each change made in the books of account along with 
the date when such changes were made within such 
accounting software. This feature of recording audit 
trail has operated throughout the year and was not 
disabled, tampered with during the year and audit trail 
has also been preserved in accordance with statutory 
record retention requirements, except 
(a)	
the audit trail configured at database level 
logs record only modified values in respect of 
two accounting software(s). Further, for one 
of these applications, the changes to capture 
pre-modified values was implemented from 
March 25, 2025.
(b)	 the audit trail to log any direct data changes 
was enabled at database level in case of one 
accounting software, from May 25, 2024.
The Bank has preserved the audit trail as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention except 
in the case of two sunset software discontinued 
during the previous financial year and one accounting 
software wherein audit trail was enabled at database 
level from February 18, 2024.
18.39 Provision for credit card and debit card 
reward points
	
Reward points on cards are accounted for based on 
value per point after taking into account the probability 
of redemption of such reward points. The Bank made 
provision of ₹5.85 crore in FY 24-25 (Previous Year: Nil) 
in respect of reward points on debit & credit cards.
293
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
18.40 Accounts restructured under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector
	
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of accounts restructured under MSME sector as per 
RBI circular no. FIDD.MSME & NFS.BC.No. 21/06.02.31/2015-16 dated March 17, 2016 subsequent changes thereafter.
As at March 31, 2025 
As at March 31, 2024 
Number of  
accounts restructured
Amount Outstanding 
(₹ in crore)
Number of  
accounts restructured
Amount Outstanding  
(₹ in crore)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
18.41 Resolution of Stressed Assets
During the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, the Bank has not implemented any resolution plan under 
the prudential framework for stressed assets issued as per RBI/2018-19/ 203 DBR.No.BP.BC.45/21.04.048/2018-19 
dated June 07, 2019 on Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets
18.42 Details of Accounts subjected to Restructuring
Particulars
Agriculture and 
allied activities
Corporates 
(excluding MSME) 
Retail (excluding 
agriculture  
and MSME)
Total
As at 
March 
31, 2025
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2025
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2025
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2025
As at 
March 
31, 2024
Standard
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
1
11
1
11
Gross Amount (in crore)
-
-
-
-
0.000
0.040
0.000
0.040
Provision Held (in crore)
-
-
-
-
0.000
0.002
0.000
0.002
Substandard Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
4
-
4
-
Gross Amount (in crore)
-
-
-
-
0.008
-
0.008
-
Provision Held (in crore)
-
-
-
-
0.006
-
0.006
-
Doubtful
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Gross Amount (in crore)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Provision Held (in crore)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
Number of Borrowers
-
-
-
-
5
11
5
11
Gross Amount (in crore)
-
-
-
-
0.008
0.040
0.008
0.040
Provision Held (in crore)
-
-
-
-
0.006
0.002
0.006
0.002
18.43 Details of payments to Auditors
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Statutory Audit Fees 
1.65
1.50
Others
1.95
1.34
18.44 Implementation of IFRS converged Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS)
The RBI issued a circular in February, 2016 requiring 
banks to implement Indian Accounting Standards 
(‘Ind AS‘) and prepare Ind AS financial statements 
with effect from April 01, 2018. In line with the RBI 
guidelines on Ind AS implementation, the Bank has 
formed a Steering Committee comprising members 
from the concerned functional areas. As advised by 
the RBI, the Bank has also submitted Proforma Ind AS 
financial statements every half year to the RBI.
Further, RBI vide its communication dated 
August 08, 2021, had advised the bank to submit 
Proforma Ind AS financial statements.
Further on January 16, 2023 RBI released a discussion 
paper on the Expected Loss (EL) based approach for 
loan loss provisioning by banks to formulate a principle 
based guidelines supplemented by regulatory 
backstops wherever necessary.
However, the RBI in its press release issued on March 
22, 2019 has deferred the applicability of Ind AS till 
further notice for Scheduled Commercial Banks.
294
Annual Report 2024-25
Schedules forming part of the Balance sheet
as at March 31, 2025
The Bank has made a diagnostic study to identify the 
gaps, process and system changes required to implement 
Ind AS and is in the process of implementing necessary 
changes in its IT system and other processes. The Bank 
is regularly holding workshops and training for its staff.
18.45 The Bank has applied its significant accounting 
policies in the preparation of these financial results 
consistent with those followed in the annual financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 and 
any circular / direction issued by RBI is implemented 
prospectively when it becomes applicable. Basis 
the RBI circulars/ directions, changes has been 
made during the year which are disclosed in Note 
18.46 below.
18.46 A)	Policies on classification and valuation  
of investments:
	
With effect from April 01, 2024 the Bank adopted the 
revised framework of classification and valuation of 
investments issued by RBI vide Master Direction No. 
RBI/DOR/2023-24/104 DOR.MRG.36/21.04.141/2023-
24 on Classification, Valuation and Operation of 
Investment Portfolio of Commercial Banks (Directions), 
2023 dated September 12, 2023. The disclosure of 
transition impact in terms of Para 43 of the RBI Circular 
is disclosed in Note 18.5(A)(ii) of Notes to Accounts & 
Accounting Policy (refer 4.2)
B)	
Accounting for Employees Stock  
Option Expense:
	
Pursuant to RBI Guidelines on Compensation of Whole 
Time Directors/ Chief Executive Officers/ Material 
Risk Takers and Control Function Staff, the Bank was 
recognising the cost of new stock options granted on 
or after April 01, 2021 to the Whole Time Directors, 
Chief Executive Officers, Material Risk Takers and 
Control Function Staff at fair value on the date of 
grant using the Black-scholes model. During the year, 
pursuant to RBI advisory, the Bank has changed its 
accounting policy in respect of share based payment 
to all employees from intrinsic value method to 
fair value method for stock options granted after 
March 31, 2021 and consequently the bank has 
recognised fair value of options estimated using 
Black-Scholes model, as compensation expense over 
the vesting period as discosed in Accounting Policy 
(refer 4.10)
18.47 With respect to the claim under Credit Guarantee 
Fund for Micro Units (CGFMU), the Bank has received 
from NCGTC on January 21, 2025 the claim payout 
of ₹289.59 crore. Accordingly, ‘Other Income’ for 
the year ended March 31, 2025 includes an amount 
aggregating to ₹537.61 crore (claim receivable 
of ₹289.59 crore and reversal of ₹248.02 crore 
pertaining to recoveries related to first tranche of 
accounts held under ‘Other Liabilities’). In relation 
to the ECLGS scheme, the Bank has received a 
claim of ₹123.25 crore from NCGTC during the year 
ended March 31, 2025. This is in addition to the 
claim received of ₹161.13 crore in earlier years. The 
balance claim would be received in line with the 
Scheme Guidelines. The said amount has reduced 
the provisions debited to Profit & Loss Account 
under “Provisions & Contingencies” and also been 
considered for computing Net NPA’s as per the 
consistent accounting policy followed by the Bank.
18.48 Previous year figures have been regrouped/
reclassified, wherever necessary, to conform to 
current year classification.
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For Bandhan Bank Limited
For Singhi & Co
For V. Sankar Aiyar & Co.
Partha Pratim Sengupta
Anup Kumar Sinha
Vijay Nautamlal Bhatt
Chartered Accountants
Chartered Accountants
Managing Director & CEO
Non-Executive 
(Independent) Chairman
ACB Chairman & 
Independent Director
Firm Registration Number : 
302049E
Firm Registration Number : 
109208W
Kolkata
DIN: 08273324
Kolkata
DIN: 08249893
Kolkata
DIN: 00751001
Ravi Kapoor
Karthik Srinivasan
Ratan Kumar Kesh
Rajinder Kumar Babbar
Rajeev Mantri
Partner
Partner
Executive Director & COO
Executive Director & CBO
Chief Financial Officer
Membership Number : 040404
Membership Number : 514998
Kolkata
Kolkata
Kolkata
Place : Kolkata
Place : Kolkata
DIN: 10082714 
DIN: 10540386
Date : April 30, 2025
Date : April 30, 2025
Indranil Banerjee
Company Secretary
Kolkata
295
Corporate 
Overview
Statutory
Reports
Financial
Statements
Joint Statutory Auditors
M/s. V. Sankar Aiyar & Co., Chartered Accountants
Sarojini House, 6, Bhagwan Das Road, 
New Delhi - 110 001
M/s. Singhi & Co., Chartered Accountants
161, Sarat Bose Road,
Kolkata - 700 026
Secretarial Auditor
CS Hansraj Jaria, Practicing Company Secretary
36, Abinash Sashmal Lane, Beleghata, Phoolbagan,
Near Pawanputra Hotel, Kolkata - 700 010
Tel. No.: +91 (33) 4600 9667
Email ID: hansrajjaria@gmail.com
Auditor for Certificate on Corporate Governance
CS Anjan Kumar Roy, Practicing Company Secretary
M/s. Anjan Kumar Roy & Co., Company Secretaries
GR 1, Gouri Bhaban, 28A Gurupada Halder Road,
Kolkata - 700 026
Tel. No.: +91 (33) 2475 0112
 Email ID: akroyco@yahoo.co.in
Registered & Head Office
Regd. Office: DN-32, Sector V, Salt Lake,  
Kolkata - 700 091
Head Office: Floors 12-14, Adventz Infinity@5,
BN 5, Sector V, Salt Lake City, Kolkata - 700 091
Tel. No.: 91 (33) 6609 0909
Email ID: investors@bandhanbank.com
Website: www.bandhanbank.com
Corporate Identity Number (CIN)
L67190WB2014PLC204622
Listed with Scrip Name
BSE Scrip Code: 541153
NSE Symbol: BANDHANBNK
Registrars & Transfer Agents
KFin Technologies Limited
Selenium Building, Tower-B, Plot Nos. 31 & 32,
Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad, Rangareddi, Telangana, India - 500 032
Toll Free No.: 1800 309 4001
Email ID: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website: www.kfintech.com
Corporate Information
296
Annual Report 2024-25
Concept, content & design by Report Yak (contact@reportyak.com)
Registered Office
DN-32, Sector V, Salt Lake, Kolkata - 700 091, West Bengal, India
T: +91-33-6609 0909 | F: +91-33-6609 0502
www.bandhanbank.com
Scan to download
Call of Bandhan
