 
 
 
Ref: BEL/IAR/NSEBSE/28072025 
 
                         
       
                28th July, 2025 
 
Listing Department                                                                  Department of Corporate Services – Listing  
National Stock Exchange of India Limited                          BSE Limited 
Exchange Plaza,                                                                        P. J. Towers 
Bandra Kurla Complex,                                                           Dalal Street, 
Bandra (East),                                                                            Mumbai – 400 001 
Mumbai – 400 051                                                      
 
NSE Scrip Symbol: BRIGADE/ BSE Scrip Code: 532929 
 
Dear Sir/ Madam, 
 
Sub: 
Intimation under Regulation 34 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 - Integrated Annual Report for the financial year 2024-25 
 
We are enclosing herewith the Integrated Annual Report of the Company along with the Notice of 
Thirtieth Annual General Meeting and the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the 
financial year 2024-25 being dispatched in electronic form to all eligible Shareholders whose email 
ids are registered with the Company/ Depositories as well as to all members holding shares in 
physical mode whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company/Registrar & Transfer 
Agents of the Company (‘RTA’ or ‘KFintech’). Further, in accordance with Regulation 36(1)(b) of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015, the Company is also 
sending a letter to Shareholders whose e-mail addresses are not registered with Company/DPs 
providing the weblink and QR code from where the Integrated Annual Report can be accessed on 
the Company’s website. 
 
The Thirtieth Annual General Meeting of the Company is scheduled on Thursday, August 21, 2025 
at 11:30 a.m. IST through Video Conferencing (VC)/ Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM) in 
accordance with the various General Circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and the 
Securities & Exchange Board of India.   
 
The Integrated Annual Report can also be accessed from the website of the Company at 
https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/regulation-46/annual-reports and that of NSDL at 
www.evoting.nsdl.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Integrated Annual Report is enclosed pursuant to Regulation 34 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015. 
 
Thanking you, 
 
Yours faithfully, 
For Brigade Enterprises Limited 
 
 
P. Om Prakash  
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer  
 
Encl.: a/a 
Om Prakash 
Palanimuthu
Digitally signed by Om 
Prakash Palanimuthu 
Date: 2025.07.28 
20:26:54 +05'30'
Brigade Icon, Chennai 
(Artist’s Impression)
O
ur journey of close to four decades 
is filled with passion, purpose and 
partnerships that continue to shape 
who we are today. From modest beginnings 
as a real estate venture, we have evolved into 
a dynamic enterprise with a presence across 
residential, commercial, retail, hospitality 
and education. Through this transformation, 
one principle has remained unchanged, our 
commitment to excellence.
We have gone beyond building structures to 
creating integrated, sustainable ecosystems 
that uplift communities and enrich lives, 
serving over 40,000 satisfied customers. Yet, 
our aspirations extend far beyond business 
milestones. At the heart of our vision lies a deep 
sense of responsibility towards our customers, 
our people and the planet. This has culminated 
in our goal of achieving Net Zero emissions 
by 2045, reflecting a purposeful shift toward 
climate-conscious, future-ready development.
It is this commitment to 
sustainability, innovation 
and inclusive growth—that 
inspires us to move forward 
with conviction. Every project 
is an opportunity to lead with 
foresight, act with integrity and 
leave a lasting, positive impact.
What’s Inside
Corporate Overview
04 
About the Report
06 
Who We Are
10 
Key Highlights FY24-25
12 
Our Journey
14 
Investment Case
18 
Operating Context
20 
Governance
Business Overview
28 
Management Messages
32 
Business Segments Review
42 
Value Creation Model
44 
Stakeholder Communication
48 
Materiality
60 
Our Strategy
62 
Risk Management
Statutory Reports
118 
 Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
174 
Management Discussion and Analysis
192 
Board’s Report
223 
Report on Corporate Governance
Our Capitals
72
Manufactured 
Capital
68
Financial 
Capital
76
Intellectual  
Capital
78
Human   
Capital
90
Social and 
Relationship Capital
96
Natural  
Capital
Financial Statements and more
248 
 Standalone Financial Statements
344 
Consolidated Financial Statements
452 
Notice
470 
Annexures
Brigade El Dorado, Bengaluru
About the 
Report
Introduction to the Report
At Brigade Enterprises Limited (BEL, Brigade Group, 
Brigade), we are committed to building enduring 
value through responsible growth, customer-
centric innovation and strong governance. Our first 
Integrated Annual Report for FY24-25 captures 
this holistic approach, showcasing not only our 
business performance and strategic milestones, 
but also our deepening commitment to sustainable 
development. Through transparent reporting, we 
reaffirm our dedication to shaping a resilient, future-
ready organisation that creates long-term impact for 
all stakeholders.
Reporting Scope 
and Boundary
This Integrated Annual Report encompasses the 
essential operational and strategic dimensions of 
Brigade Group for the reporting period. The Report 
provides a holistic view of our organisation by detailing:
 
 Strategic planning initiatives and long-term value 
creation roadmap
 
 Business structure and organisational ecosystem
 
 Operational environment including market 
dynamics and competitive landscape
 
 Material risks and corresponding 
mitigation frameworks
 
 Stakeholder preferences and 
engagement methodologies
 
 Key accomplishments and 
performance milestones
 
 Future prospects and growth trajectories
 
 Corporate governance structures  
and practices
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
The Report covers all material aspects of Brigade 
Enterprises Limited's operations during the financial 
year, with boundaries defined by our operational 
footprint, business segments and stakeholder 
relationships. Our reporting framework aligns with 
applicable regulatory requirements and best practice 
standards to ensure comprehensive disclosure while 
maintaining focus on matters most material to our 
business and stakeholders.
Reporting Period
The Report primarily focuses on our performance for 
the reporting period between April 1, 2024 to March 31, 
2025. However, some sections of the Report present 
facts and figures from previous years or information 
as of the date of approval of the Report to provide a 
holistic view to the stakeholders.
Brigade Citadel, Hyderabad
Brigade Enterprises Limited
4
GRI 2-3
Forward-Looking 
Statements
This Report may include forward-looking statements 
that go beyond historical facts and pertain to future 
projections. These statements may include forecasts, 
predictions, objectives, events, trends or plans based 
upon current assumptions and expectations. It is 
essential to acknowledge that unexpected events 
and uncertainties can arise, which may not be 
accounted for in these statements. While based on 
reasonable assumptions, actual results may differ. 
Brigade Enterprises Limited undertakes no obligation 
to update forward-looking statements unless required 
by securities laws. Readers are cautioned not to place 
undue reliance on such statements.
Standards and Frameworks
This Report has also been made with reference to the 
following standards and frameworks: 
 •
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2021 Standard 
 •
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 
(UN SDGs)
 •
International Integrated Reporting <IR> Framework, 
developed by the International Integrated Reporting 
Council (IIRC)
 •
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(BRSR), prepared in accordance with the guidelines 
issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of  
India (SEBI)
Statement of Responsibility
This Report has been reviewed by the Board of 
Directors and the Senior Management of the Company. 
The Company’s Board of Directors confirm that this 
Integrated Annual Report provides fair and necessary 
information on the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
We welcome your feedback and 
suggestions on this Report.  
You may e-mail us at 
investors@brigadegroup.com
5
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-3
Spaces that Inspire and 
Endure
Brigade Enterprises Limited's journey 
embodies this principle at every turn. 
What began with a single 14-storey 
commercial tower in Bengaluru 
has grown into a portfolio of 300+ 
buildings  100 mn sqft across India's 
urban landscape - each project a 
testament to how ambitious goals 
create lasting value.
Building with
Purpose:
WHO WE ARE
Our developments—from residential 
communities to tech-enabled SEZs and 
from hospitality landmarks to vibrant 
retail destinations—demonstrate this dual 
commitment to excellence and responsibility. 
The Grade A quality we deliver and the 
innovation driving our real estate technology 
accelerator, both reflect how we translate 
inspired objectives into enduring impact.
This is the Brigade difference: where 
every construction milestone serves 
both immediate aspirations and 
generational transformation. 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
6
GRI 2-1
Our Business Segments
Residential
Our largest business segment, 
Residential, saw a 29% growth in 
Net Presales value in FY25, driven 
by a customer-first approach and 
an offering that spans premium 
apartments, integrated townships 
and mixed-use developments 
designed with world-class 
architecture and functionality.
Commercial
We develop premium office and 
co-working spaces, including our 
BuzzWorks brand, designed for 
modern enterprises and located 
in key business districts, offering 
flexible layouts, advanced facilities 
and strong address value.
Read more on pg 34
Read more on pg 36
Hospitality
Our Hospitality portfolio includes 
star-rated hotels, clubs, convention 
centres and The Baking Company, 
developed in partnership with 
industry leaders to deliver high-
quality lifestyle experiences and 
elevate community living. 
Read more on pg 40
Retail
Orion Mall at Brigade Gateway 
stands as our flagship retail 
destination. Alongside this, Orion 
Avenue Mall (Banaswadi) and 
Orion Uptown Mall (Whitefield-
Hoskote Road) extend our presence 
across key urban hubs. Across our 
integrated developments, we blend 
malls, neighbourhood retail and 
high-street arcades to enhance 
accessibility and convenience, 
supporting a seamless  
live-work-play environment.
Read more on pg 38
Brigade Twin Towers, Bengaluru 
(Artist’s Impression)
7
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-2
Brigade 
Philosophy 
Our corporate philosophy 
rides on innovation, quality 
and trust. The Brigade Group 
is a professionally managed 
organisation with a stable and 
confident business model 
guided by the principles of 
excellence, integrity and 
service to society. The Brigade 
Promise is a diverse and 
wonderful world of resilience, 
hope, beauty and joy.
Our Strengths that 
Set Us Apart
Stringent  
Land 
Acquisition
Thought 
Leadership
Holistic  
Approach 
to CRM
Operating 
Efficiencies
Conservative 
Financial 
Strategy
Prudent 
Capital 
Allocation
Brigade Citrine, 
Bengaluru 
(Artist’s Impression)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
8
Vision 
To be a world-class organisation 
in our products, processes, people 
and performance.
Mission
To constantly endeavour to 
be the preferred developer 
of residential, commercial 
and hospitality spaces in the 
markets in which we operate, 
without compromising on our 
core values, for the benefit of 
all stakeholders.
Core Values
QC-FIRST APPROACH
 • QUALITY 
 • CUSTOMER CENTRICITY 
 • FAIRNESS 
 • INNOVATION 
 • RESPONSIBLE SOCIALLY
 • TRUST
Brigade Gateway, 
Hyderabad 
(Artist’s Impression)
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
9
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Our Year in
₹5,074 Cr
Revenue from operations
300+
Buildings delivered
6
WTC Licenced owners 
of World Trade 
Centres in South India
Among the Top 10 
Listed Developers
In the country by market 
capitalisation 
15 Mn. Sq. Ft
Upcoming launches
26 Mn. Sq. Ft
Ongoing projects
100+ Mn. Sq. Ft
Delivered
4% from FY24
₹1,654 Cr
EBITDA
21% from FY24
₹680 Cr
PAT
69% from FY24
Financial
Operational
KEY HIGHLIGHTS FY24-25
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
10
Review
Integration of ESG 
elements in Enterprise Risk 
Management
ESG elements have been integrated 
into the Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) framework, including 
assessments of climate-related and 
biodiversity risks.
Implementation of 
Tech Platform for 
ESG Performance 
Monitoring
SaaS based ESG tech Platform
Targeting 50% women 
representation on the 
Board by 2028
Women Directors on the Board has 
increased from 25% to 33% in FY25
Sustainability 
Benchmark Project
Two additional projects, alongside 
the ongoing Brigade Citrine for 
Net Zero-C initiative, have been 
undertaken and are currently in 
the design stage.
Zero Carbon
'Net Zero' Strategies, Target Setting and Validation By SBTi: On our Net Zero 
Carbon Commitment, the base year carbon estimation has been revisited, along 
with NZ strategy and the road-map. NZ target setting with SBTi for the validation 
is in progress.
Environmental, Social and Governance
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
11
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1995 – 1998 
BRIGADE MM
 • Bengaluru’s first multi-
storeyed industrial complex.
BRIGADE REGENCY 
 • Bengaluru’s first project to 
get rated by CRISIL. One of 
the first developers to be 
ISO 9001 Certified.
BRIGADE SOFTWARE PARK
 • Karnataka’s first project by 
a private developer to get 
infrastructure status.
2000 
BRIGADE HOMESTEAD
 • Brigade enters the 
hospitality sector by 
pioneering the concept 
of serviced residences 
in Bengaluru.
2002
BRIGADE MILLENNIUM
 • Bengaluru’s first mixed-use 
enclave. Awarded RT2+ 
by CRISIL.
 • Brigade introduces the 
concept of a self-managed 
club to Bengaluru.
2006
BRIGADE GATEWAY
 • (1,250+ apartments) A truly 
one-of-a-kind mixed-use 
lifestyle enclave with WTC 
Bengaluru, Sheraton Grand 
Bengaluru Hotel, Brigade 
School, a hospital and a club.
2007
BRIGADE GOES PUBLIC
 • Brigade achieves a 
successful IPO.
 • Ties up with hospitality 
majors like Starwood, Accor 
and InterContinental Hotels.
2010
COMPLETION OF WTC 
BENGALURU
 • South India’s tallest 
commercial building with 
32 floors.
2015
CROSSED ₹1,000 CRORE 
TURNOVER MARK
 • Launch of the Brigade 
online customer portal.
 • Completion of Azure at 
Brigade Exotica - one of the 
tallest residential towers 
in Bengaluru.
2011
BUILDING MORE VALUE
 • Launch of Sheraton 
Grand Bengaluru Hotel at 
Brigade Gateway.
 • Launch of Brigade 
Meadows, a 60+ acre 
integrated enclave.
 • Launch of Brigade 
Orchards, a 135-acre 
smart township.
2014
PE FUNDING OF 
₹1,500 CRORE BY GIC 
SINGAPORE 
 • MoU signed with GIFT 
City, India’s office & 
hotel development.
 • Launch of the Brigade 
online booking platform.
 • Opening of High 
Ultra Lounge.
1986 – 1994 
BRIGADE TOWERS
 • Bengaluru’s tallest building 
built by a private developer. 
This record was broken only 
in 2002.
BRIGADE GARDENS
 • Bengaluru’s first 
centrally air conditioned 
shopping complex.
BRIGADE RESIDENCY
 • Mysuru’s first luxury 
residential project.
A Legacy
Written in Landmarks
OUR JOURNEY
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
12
2016
DEVELOPMENT OF  
OVER 30 MILLION SQ. FT. 
ACROSS 7 CITIES IN 
SOUTH INDIA 
 • Launch of Grand Mercure 
Mysuru, a 5-star hotel in 
the heart of Mysuru.
 • Launch of WTC Kochi.
 • Launch of Brigade REAP 
- Asia’s first Real Estate 
Accelerator Program.
 • Completion of 30 projects 
in the 30th year of 
Brigade’s operations.
2017
EXPANDS FOOTPRINT IN 
CHENNAI
 • Launch of Holiday Inn, 
Chennai, a 202-room hotel 
on OMR IT Expressway.
 • Launch of Brigade’s first 
residential project in 
Chennai - Brigade Xanadu.
2019
TOWARDS NEW HORIZONS 
 • Launch of Brigade Residences 
at WTC Chennai.
 • Launch of integrated 
townships - Brigade 
Cornerstone Utopia 
and Brigade El Dorado 
in Bengaluru.
 • Launch of ‘BuzzWorks’ in 
the co-working segment 
with a plan for 2,500+ seats 
across cities.
2020
VALUES LEAD THE WAY
 • Recognised as a ‘Great 
Place to Work’ for the 10th 
year in a row.
 • First developer in India to 
successfully organise a 
virtual expo.
 • Launch of Orion 
Uptown Mall.
 • Launch of Holiday Inn, 
OMR Bengaluru.
2021
STRENGTHENS FOOTPRINT 
IN HYDERABAD
 • Launch of Brigade Citadel, a 
1,300+ luxury home project, at 
Moti Nagar.
 • Recognised as a 'Great Place to 
Work' for the 11th year in a row.
2022
COMPLETED 35 YEARS
 • Forayed into 
plotted development.
 • Forayed into industrial parks 
& logistics.
 • Inaugurated Brigade Tech 
Gardens, a USGBC Platinum-
certified SEZ development.
 • Signed MoU with BCIC 
to establish ‘Brigade-
BCIC Skill Development 
Academy’ in Aerospace Park, 
North Bengaluru.
2025
SHAPING THE FUTURE
 • A one-of-a-kind mixed-
use lifestyle enclave in 
Hyderabad with premium 
residences, a World Trade 
Center, InterContinental 
Hotel and Orion Mall.
 • Launch of Brigade Citrine, 
India’s first net-zero Carbon 
residential development.
 • Inaugurated Venkatappa 
Art Gallery in Bengaluru.
2023
MAKING STRIDES
 • Signed MoU with St. John’s 
Medical College Hospital to 
build not-for-profit 100-
bed hospital at Brigade 
El Dorado.
2024
ACHIEVED HIGHEST  
SALES EVER
 • Launched Brigade Icon 
on Mount Road, Chennai, 
Brigade's most premium 
launch to date.
 • Inaugurated 108-bed St. 
John's Medical College 
Hospital at Brigade Meadows.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
13
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Why Choose 
Brigade Enterprises Limited?
Brigade Enterprises Limited is not just building real estate; it is 
creating experiences, shaping cities and delivering enduring 
value. With scale, stability, ESG focus and a proven track record 
of execution, Brigade is poised to lead India’s next era of real 
estate transformation. 
Brigade delivered its best-ever performance in FY25:
 •
₹7,847 Cr in presales (↑31% Y-O-Y)
 •
₹7,250 Cr in collections (↑23% Y-O-Y)
 •
Zero residential debt across the Group
 •
Pre-sales of 7.05 Mn sq. ft. with a 40% rise in 
realisation (₹11,138/sq. ft.)
With a strong balance sheet, consistent EBITDA margins 
and prudent capital management,  
Brigade is equipped for long-term value creation.
Brigade is a multi-asset developer across Residential, 
Office, Retail, Hospitality, Industrial, Senior Living and 
Education. Notably:
 •
Over 100 Mn sq. ft. developed
 •
Operations across Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, 
Mysuru, Kochi, GIFT City, Thiruvananthapuram
 •
26 Mn sq. ft. under construction and  
15 Mn sq. ft. upcoming
This breadth provides resilience and scalable growth 
across market cycles.
A Proven Track 
Record of 
Growth and 
Execution Excellence
Geographic 
and Portfolio 
Diversification
INVESTMENT CASE
Brigade Enterprises Limited
14
GRI 2-1
Brigade has deepened its footprint in Chennai and 
Hyderabad, two high-opportunity markets:
 •
Brigade Icon (Mount Road, Chennai): Ultra-luxury 
residences + commercial + retail on a historic artery
 •
Brigade Gateway, Neopolis Hyderabad: India’s 
tallest integrated development at 700 ft, with 
residences, WTC, Orion Mall and InterContinental 
Hotel. Over ₹1,000 Cr sold at launch
 •
Target: Chennai to become Brigade’s  
second-largest market after Bengaluru
These markets are being approached with long-term 
conviction and tailored urban solutions.
Brigade is committed to net-zero by 2045 and water 
positivity by 2030:
 •
ESG tech platform in place since FY25
 •
New projects like Brigade Gateway Hyderabad 
designed for IGBC Platinum certification
Environmental responsibility is embedded across 
assets and operations.
Accelerated Growth 
in Chennai and 
Hyderabad
Sustainability 
Leadership with a  
Net-Zero Commitment
World Trade 
Centre, Kochi
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
15
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Brigade Cornerstone 
Utopia, Bengaluru
Brigade is redefining real estate with PropTech and 
digital-first solutions:
 •
Belong App: 18K+ users across communities for 
property and amenity management
 •
BuzzWorks: Tech-enabled, flexible office spaces 
expanding from 9 to 18 centres in FY26
 •
Earth Fund: India’s first VC for PropTech and 
sustainability, co-founded by Brigade
Brigade is actively shaping India’s built-environment 
innovation ecosystem.
Brigade continues to expand its leasing and commercial 
verticals with:
 •
Brigade Twin Towers, Yeshwanthpur: 1.2 Mn sq. ft. 
IGBC Gold-certified Grade A space
 •
Brigade Padmini Tech Valley: Lakeside workplace in 
Whitefield, IGBC Platinum-certified
 •
Commercial pipeline across Whitefield, Bellary Road 
and Chennai (Tech Boulevard)
80%+ of debt is lease-backed and demand remains 
strong across sectors.
From Brigade Gateway Bengaluru to the 
Neopolis project in Hyderabad, Brigade is a leader 
in integrated urban ecosystems:
 •
Live-work-play-townships: Residences + Retail + 
Offices + Hospitality + Schools and Hospitals
 •
Seamless design for sustainability, wellness and 
community living
 •
Resident-first initiatives: solar rooftops, sports 
tournaments, cultural fests
Brigade developments are not just projects, they are 
thriving communities.
Cutting-Edge  
Innovation and Digital 
Integration
Robust Commercial and  
Leasing Portfolio
Integrated Living and  
Community-First 
Design
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
16
Led by Executive Chairman M. R. Jaishankar and 
second-generation leaders Pavitra Shankar (Managing 
Director), Nirupa Shankar (Joint Managing Director), 
Amar Mysore (Executive Director) and Pradyumna 
Krishnakumar (Executive Director), Brigade brings:
 •
A long-term vision rooted in customer centricity 
and ethics
 •
15 consecutive years of Great Place to 
Work certification
 •
An inclusive approach: 33% women representation 
on the Board, with a target of 50% by 2028
Leadership continuity meets modern governance and 
ESG accountability.
 •
Renovation of Venkatappa Art Gallery, Bengaluru’s 
heritage site
 •
Indian Music Experience Museum, and  
community-led events
 •
Brigade Foundation: Active in education, healthcare, 
community development
Visionary Leadership and   
People-First Culture
Deep Cultural and  
Social Impact
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
17
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Turning Market Pulses into
Progress 
Brigade is committed to sculpting 
India's real estate landscape with 
iconic developments across 
different categories. 
Every land acquisition presents a new opportunity 
for Brigade, approached with prudence, unlocking 
new territories while upholding environmental 
and societal duties. In a changing business 
environment, we analyse various factors that 
influence our business operations and then 
leverage the opportunities for business growth.  
Macroeconomic Drivers
India's GDP Growth and  
Inflation Outlook
The Indian economy witnessed significant growth 
across sectors due to strong fundamentals, robust 
demand and government-led investments, during the 
year under review. India’s GDP was projected to grow 
by 6.5% in FY25 and 6.3% in FY26, making it the fastest-
growing large economy. Retail inflation eased to 4.9% in 
FY25, with an expected further decline in FY26.
Our strategic response: We are prepared for 
more investments for growth and development. 
As a step towards the same, we have signed 
two MoUs with the Government of Tamil Nadu 
signifying an investment exceeding ₹3,400 Crores 
in the state.
Interest Rate Environment and its 
Impact on Affordability
Home loan interest rates across major banks ranged 
from 8.3% to 9.7% during the reporting period, following 
RBI's repo rate adjustments. This 140-basis-point 
fluctuation directly impacted housing affordability, 
particularly in the mid-income segment (₹50 Lakh - 
₹1.5 Crore ticket size.) 
Our strategic response: Brigade offered the 
in-house facility for loans as a one-stop solution, 
offering hassle-free doorstep services and 
multiple options for loans by working closely 
with leading home loan institutions, including 
nationalised banks.
Urbanisation and infrastructure-led 
Development
The growing urbanisation driven by infrastructure 
development, creation of more job opportunities and 
growth of Tier 2 and 3 cities has a positive impact 
on the demand for the housing sector. The focus 
areas by the government such as housing and waste 
management through initiatives like the Smart Cities 
Mission and PM Awas Yojana Urban 2.0 further boost 
the momentum.
Our strategic response: We are focused on 
driving business growth across key urban 
hubs—Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad. 
While Bengaluru remains our stronghold and 
a magnet for innovation-led demand, we see 
significant potential in Chennai and Hyderabad. 
Chennai is fast emerging as a hub for IT/ITES 
and healthcare, with high absorption rates for 
commercial spaces—creating a ripple effect in 
residential demand.
Our planned investments in Tamil Nadu and Telangana 
are expected to generate employment opportunities 
for approximately 25,000 individuals over the next 
three to four years, reinforcing our role as a catalyst for 
urban development and economic progress.
Real Estate Sector Trends
Rising Demand for Integrated Townships
Over the past few years, the real estate sector has 
experienced a shift in preferences from homebuyers. 
The townships offering state-of-the-art infrastructure 
OPERATING CONTEXT 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
18
and holistic lifestyles are preferred over homes in 
single, individual buildings. The all-inclusive structure 
of integrated townships from convenient shopping 
to education and recreation greatly attracts a 
wide audience.
Our strategic response: Brigade being the pioneer in 
the industry to introduce the concept of enclaves and 
integrated townships, we have a strong experience in 
the segment. Hence, we can capitalise on our strengths 
and expertise. 
Shifts in Residential Preferences 
Post-COVID
The world before and after the pandemic was different 
in many ways. A growing inclination towards outdoor 
spaces like gardens and multi-function rooms due to 
the increasing trend of working at home during and 
after the pandemic was witnessed. 
Our strategic response: Our offerings in the 
residential segment have a variety of options for 
the customers to choose from such as large to 
medium residences,  homes in enclaves, plotted 
developments and villas. We at Brigade partner 
and collaborate with renowned institutions to 
become a bigger and better version of ourselves. 
Infrastructure and 
Connectivity
Increased Attractiveness of Peripheral 
and Tier 2 Locations
Post-COVID period has seen drastic shifts in the 
workplaces and hence the residences. The overall 
development of Tier 2 and 3 cities was seen due to 
factors like improved infrastructure, economic and 
job opportunities. Better traffic conditions and lower 
pollution in smaller cities were also factors improving 
the quality of life. The affordability, coupled with the 
spacious homes, offered a very attractive option to 
the buyers.
Our strategic response: Brigade has given a 
variety of choices to its customers through its 
offerings. Our business has expanded to Tier 2 
and Tier 3 cities. 
Sociopolitical and 
Environmental Factors
Climate Risks (urban flooding, heat) 
and ESG Compliance Pressures
Buying a house property is a long-term investment and 
a base for the next generations. But in India's fast-
growing cities, climate risks are erasing this sense of 
assurance. Changing water tables, heat waves, floods 
and monsoons have made housing more risky than 
ever before.
Homes with poor ventilation and high concrete 
exposure require 20-30% more energy for cooling, 
according to a 2023 assessment by the Centre for 
Science and Environment (CSE).
Our strategic response: We are leading this effort 
by driving sustainable and inclusive development 
with measurable impact. With the launch of 
Brigade Citrine—India’s first truly net-zero carbon 
and near-net-zero water discharge residential 
development on Old Madras Road in Bengaluru—
we have set a new benchmark for environmentally 
responsible urban living.
With our design-first approach, we take care of this 
aspect of climate preservation at the start of the 
project planning exercise. 
Demand for Green Buildings, Low-
carbon Construction and Wellness 
Infrastructure
The Indian real estate market is experiencing rising 
awareness of climate change and the demand for 
sustainable, healthier living and working environments. 
The Indian government has put rules and programmes 
in place to push for eco-friendly building practices and 
LEED certifications. 
Our strategic response: While the requirement 
of green-certified buildings increases, Brigade 
is prepared to fulfil the same. The reduction in 
water consumption and energy costs for the 
construction fulfils our goals towards a sustainable 
future. Brigade is prepared to unveil its eco-
friendly business endeavours such as Brigade 
Deccan Heights in North Bengaluru, spanning 2.2 
acres with a development area of 4,28,000 sq. ft. 
This sustainable project is IGBC Gold Certified, 
featuring rainwater harvesting, 100% power backup 
and advanced waste management systems.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
19
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
The Pillars of 
Prudence 
GOVERNANCE
At Brigade Group, governance 
forms the cornerstone of our 
commitment to long-term 
sustainability and stakeholder trust. 
We recognise that our reputation is built on 
stakeholder trust and are committed to nurturing 
lasting relationships through ethical conduct, 
accountability and responsible leadership.
Code of Conduct 
The Brigade Group Code of Conduct (CoC), rooted 
in its core values, serves as a guiding framework for 
ethical behaviour and responsible decision-making. It 
applies to the Board of Directors, executives and senior 
management, ensuring that integrity, fairness and 
accountability are upheld across all operations.
The CoC covers key areas such as compliance with 
laws, fair dealing, confidentiality, conflict of interest, 
health and safety, protection of intellectual property 
and company assets and prohibition of insider trading. 
These principles are reinforced through training, 
oversight mechanisms and a culture of integrity, 
supporting Brigade's commitment to ethical 
governance and long-term value creation. 
During the reporting period, Brigade Group recorded 
no legal proceedings related to anti-competitive 
behaviour, antitrust violations or monopoly practices, 
reflecting our continued commitment to fair and ethical 
business conduct.
Brigade Group maintained strong operational 
compliance, with only one significant instance of non-
compliance with laws and regulations reported. This 
case pertained to a delay in the handover of a unit 
brought in before the National Consumer Disputes 
Redressal Commission (NCDRC). 
The delay was a consequence of an external regulatory 
directive issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), 
which mandated a 75-metre buffer zone from the lake, 
impacting project timelines. This isolated incident 
resulted in a fine of ₹3,54,900. 
Brigade Group has taken corrective steps and remains 
committed to proactive compliance, continuous 
regulatory monitoring and stakeholder transparency to 
prevent future occurrences.
During the reporting period, 1,391 employees spanning 
senior, middle and junior management levels were 
trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures, 
ensuring a strong understanding of ethical expectations 
and compliance requirements.
 •
No confirmed incidents of corruption
 •
No employee dismissals or disciplinary actions 
related to corruption
 •
No contract terminations with business partners for 
such violations 
 •
Seven (7) instances of customer privacy breaches 
were recorded, all of which were promptly 
investigated and successfully resolved 
 •
No cases on conflict of interest
Brigade Enterprises Limited
20
GRI 2-15, 23, 24, 27; 205-2, 3; 206-1; 3; 418-1
During the reporting period, we implemented a 
Grievance Redressal Policy specifically for internal 
stakeholders, providing employees with structured 
channels to raise and resolve concerns, including 
those related to human rights, workplace conduct and 
ethical issues. 
For external stakeholders, including customers, 
suppliers and community members, the Brigade Group 
offers multiple accessible channels to ensure that 
grievances and inquiries are acknowledged, reviewed 
and addressed in a timely and appropriate manner.
1391
Employees trained on anti-corruption 
policies and procedures
Zero
Incidents of corruption
Zero
Cases on conflict of interest
Zero
Cases on anti-competitive behaviour
Our complaint management system ensures timely 
resolution through active involvement of relevant 
departments, achieving a 98% on-time resolution rate 
across investor, customer, employee and regulatory 
complaints in FY24-25.
These mechanisms reinforce our commitment to 
stakeholder inclusivity, responsive governance and 
continuous improvement. 
Internal Communications
Stakeholders
Communication Channel
Description
Employees
Grievance redressal policy
Provides a structured, transparent and 
confidential process for addressing workplace 
concerns, including those related to human rights, 
ethical conduct and professional grievances.
'Write@CMD'
Enables employees to communicate directly 
with the CMD, promoting open dialogue and 
trust and access to senior leadership.
'Whistleblower@Brigade' 
platform
Allows employees to anonymously report 
unethical or dishonest practices without fear 
of retaliation.
'HR CONNECT' forum
A dedicated platform for employees to engage 
with zonal HR teams, supporting prompt 
and effective resolution of employment-
related issues.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
21
GRI 2-15, 16, 23, 24, 26; 205-2, 3
External Communications
Stakeholders
Communication channel
Description
Customers, 
suppliers and 
community 
members
here4you@brigadegroup.com
A direct interface to voice concerns related to 
human rights issues.
Ethics committee
A formal avenue for stakeholders to escalate 
grievances, ensuring prompt attention 
and resolution.
Shareholders
investors@brigadegroup.com
Enables engagement with the 
organisation's leadership.
Our Policies
At Brigade Group, strong governance is anchored in 
clear processes, awareness and accountability. Our 
policies establish well-defined protocols for workplace 
conduct and business operations, ensuring compliance 
with regulatory requirements and internal standards.  
Designed for clarity and accessibility, these policies 
are regularly reviewed and updated to align with 
evolving best practices, stakeholder expectations and 
legal frameworks. Oversight is provided by the Board 
of Directors and senior management. This structured 
approach reinforces ethical decision-making, risk 
mitigation and stakeholder trust.
For greater transparency, our key governance policies 
are made publicly accessible on our website.
Brigade 
Group 
Policies
ESG 
Policy
Environmental 
Policy
Biodiversity 
Policy
Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion 
Policy
Stakeholder 
Engagement 
Policy
Shareholders 
Rights Policy
Health Safety 
and Well-being 
Policy
Human Rights 
Policy
Business Continuity 
and Disaster  
Management Policy
Supplier Code of 
Conduct Policy
Sustainable 
Sourcing Policy
Brigade Enterprises Limited
22
GRI 2-16, 23, 24, 26
Brigade Group Org Chart
Executive Chairman
Managing 
Director
Jt. Managing 
Director
Executive 
Director & 
Head Engg.
Executive 
Director
Executive 
Director
Managing 
Director - 
WTC
Legal
WTC
Liaison
Liaison
Hospitality
New 
Projects
Facility 
Management
Design & 
Development
Residential
Commercial
Engineering
Engineering
Finance
IT & Systems
Internal 
Audit
Secretarial
Retail
Logistics
Hospitality
HR &  
Administration
REAP
23
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-9
Board of Directors
M.R Jaishankar 
Executive Chairman
M. R. Jaishankar (aged 71), has over 35 years of experience in the construction and real 
estate development industry. He holds a Bachelor of Science Degree and a Master of 
Business Administration Degree. His forward-thinking guidance, steadfast dedication 
to excellence and focus on meeting customer needs have driven Brigade’s evolution 
to a multinational, multi-domain and multi-city organisation. Jaishankar played a 
crucial role in establishing the Company as a market leader in real estate development 
and his exceptional achievements surpass construction and building. He has made 
noteworthy contributions to education, health, community development and social 
philanthropy. In September 2022, the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce 
and Industry (FKCCI), honoured his contribution with the Bharat Ratna Sir M Visvesvaraya 
Award. He was also awarded an Honorary Doctorate Degree from Bengaluru City 
University for his notable contributions to society and impressive achievements in 
infrastructure development.
Pavitra Shankar 
Managing Director
Pavitra Shankar (aged 44), has been associated with Brigade for over seven years and 
is in charge of formulating and executing Brigade’s residential business strategy and 
fostering its expansion with an emphasis on sales, marketing, finance and customer 
experience apart from other functions. She holds a Master of Arts Degree in Economics 
and Mathematics from the University of Virginia, as well as a Master of Business 
Administration Degree in Real Estate and Finance from Columbia Business School in the 
United States. With an overall professional background of over 18 years, she has acquired 
extensive experience in consulting, private equity and real estate development.
Nirupa Shankar 
Joint Managing Director
Nirupa Shankar (aged 42) has been with Brigade since 2009 and is responsible for 
overseeing the hospitality, office and retail operations of the Company. In addition, 
she holds responsibility for overseeing Human Resources (HR), Public Relations (PR) 
and Innovation apart from other functions. She holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in 
Economics from the University of Virginia and a Master of Science Degree in Hospitality 
Management from Cornell University. Nirupa possesses a strong analytical ability and 
has embraced a data-driven methodology when it comes to making decisions. She has 
prior experience as a Senior Business Analyst at Ernst & Young LLP, where she worked in 
various locations including New York, Washington, D.C. and North Carolina. She initiated 
the establishment of the Brigade Real Estate Accelerator Program (REAP), which is Asia’s 
first real estate accelerator. The primary objective of this program is to provide guidance 
and support to high-tech start-ups operating within the real estate sector.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
24
GRI 2-9
Amar Mysore 
Executive Director
Amar Mysore (aged 46) has more than ten years of experience in supply chain 
management, manufacturing, the power industry and real estate. At Brigade, he plays 
a crucial role in liaising with government authorities and statutory bodies, particularly 
focusing on residential functions. He is also focused on driving the Company's expansion 
plans in Hyderabad, further extending Brigade’s footprint in the region. Amar holds the 
responsibility of overseeing the business development function of the Company. He 
has played a crucial role in procuring renewable energy for our portfolio of businesses. 
He holds a Master of Engineering Degree from Pennsylvania State University in the 
United States.
Roshin Mathew 
Executive Director
Roshin Mathew (aged 62) has over three decades of experience and possesses a wealth 
of knowledge in project management, civil construction and real estate development. 
He has been with the Brigade Group for nearly twenty years and has been the head of 
the Engineering department since 2007. Roshin holds a Bachelor of Technology Degree 
in Civil Engineering from Kerala University in India and a Bachelor’s and Master’s Degree 
of Science in Building Engineering and Management from the School of Planning and 
Architecture in New Delhi.
Pradyumna Krishna Kumar 
Executive Director
Pradyumna Krishna Kumar (aged 42) has over 17 years of experience in investor relations 
and working with private equity investors. He has been associated with the Brigade 
Group since 2009 and has successfully facilitated numerous land acquisitions and 
handles all necessary documentation. He holds a Bachelor of Commerce Degree from 
the University of Madras and a Master of Business Administration Degree from the Asian 
Institute of Management in Manila, Philippines.
Lakshmi Venkatachalam 
Independent Director
Lakshmi Venkatachalam (aged 71) has over three decades of experience in the public 
sector and she has also worked in development banks. She became a member of the 
Indian Administrative Service in 1978 and through her tenure, she occupied various 
high-level managerial roles within the State Government of Karnataka such as the 
Commissioner of the Bengaluru Development Authority and the Principal Secretary in 
the Departments of Industry. She also held esteemed positions within the Government 
of India including Director at the Ministry of Steel and Chairperson at the Coffee 
Board of India. From 2010 to 2015, she was the Vice President for Private Sector and 
Co-financing Operations at the Asian Development Bank. Lakshmi holds a Master of 
Arts Degree in Economics and a Master of Business Administration, both from Boston 
University in the United States.
25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-9
Dr. Venkatesh Panchapagesan 
Independent Director
Dr. Venkatesh Panchapagesan (aged 57) has over 20 years of experience in academia 
and in the global financial services sector. He is an Associate Professor of Finance at IIM 
Bengaluru and also serves as the Head of the N.S. Raghavan Centre for Entrepreneurial 
Learning and the Real Estate Research Initiative. Dr. Venkatesh held the prestigious 
position of being the sole academic representative from India at the Initiative for Real 
Estate at the World Economic Forum. Before joining IIM Bengaluru in September 2011, 
he had a professional affiliation with Bridgewater Associates, the largest hedge fund 
in the world. In this role, he held the position of Global Currency Trading Strategist 
and was responsible for spearheading initiatives to enhance trading and research 
analytical infrastructure. From 2005 to 2008, he worked for Goldman Sachs Asset 
Management in New York, where he was responsible for overseeing trading research for 
their quantitative hedge funds. He is a Chartered Accountant, a Cost Accountant and an 
alumnus of IIM Kolkata.
Pradeep Kumar Panja  
Independent Director
Pradeep Kumar Panja (aged 69) has more than four decades of experience in finance 
and he has served on the Board of The State Bank of India for five years. During his 
tenure at SBI, he played a key role in effectively overseeing a wide range of portfolios 
including corporate, international, treasury, information technology, retail and transaction 
banking. He is also experienced in treasury and investment management and was 
Treasury Head at the Global Markets Group. He is a Certified Associate of the Indian 
Institute of Bankers (CAIIB) and also holds a Master of Science Degree in Statistics from 
the University of Madras.
Velloor Venkatakrishnan Ranganathan  
Independent Director
Velloor Venkatakrishnan Ranganathan (aged 72) has over four decades of financial 
experience and has worked in India and globally. Before his current role, he was a 
Senior Partner and Country Head for Quality and Risk Management at a prominent 
global services firm. He has also worked with the International Council for Commercial 
Arbitration in Hague, Netherlands; the Conciliation Committee of Independent Experts; 
the Governing Board of Bharti Foundation (Airtel); and the Advisory Council of Bharti 
Institute of Public Policy at the Indian School of Business (ISB), Mohali Campus. He 
is a Chartered Accountant and holds a Degree in Commerce with a distinguished 
gold medal. He was honoured with the Sankara Ratna Award by Sankara Nethralaya, a 
renowned charitable eye hospital in Chennai.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
26
GRI 2-9
Abraham Stephanos 
Independent Director
Abraham Stephanos (aged 62) has around four decades of rich and versatile experience 
in sales and marketing. He was associated with the Tata Group for over 25 years 
in various capacities. Stephanos was Managing Director of Tata Steel Downstream 
Products Ltd for around 10 years. He holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Mechanical 
Engineering with a Post Graduate Diploma in Management from IIM, Calcutta 
(specialisation in Marketing and Strategic Management).
Padmaja Chunduru  
Independent Director
Padmaja Chunduru (aged 63) is a seasoned financial services executive with over 37 
years of banking and capital markets experience in India and USA. She has done her 
M.Com (Banking and Finance) from Andhra University and is a qualified CAIIB (Certified 
Associate of Indian Institute of Bankers). She has led prestigious institutions like NSDL 
(National Securities Depository Ltd.) and Indian Bank as the MD and CEO. As Deputy 
Managing Director at SBI (State Bank of India), she led digital banking services and 
was the Country Head, SBI -US Operations, for 3 years, from 2014-2017. Ms. Padmaja 
has served on the Boards of LIC (Life Insurance Corporation of India), NPCI (National 
Payments Corporation of India), ISSA (International Securities Services Association), 
ACG (Asia Pacific Central Depository Group), the Institute of International Bankers and 
Asia Society, New York.
Currently, she is a member of the Insurance Advisory Committee of IRDAI (Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India) and the CCGS Advisory Council, IIMB 
(Centre for Corporate Governance and Sustainability, IIM Bengaluru). She has been 
awarded Best CEO (BFSI) for 2021 by Business Today and Best CEO 2021 for Women 
Leadership by Economic Times. She has been acknowledged as one of the Most 
Powerful Women (MPW) in Business by Fortune India and Business Today for 2022 
and 2023.
27
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-9
Purpose-Led
Growth in a Transforming India
Dear Stakeholders,
It gives me great pride to 
present Brigade Enterprises 
Limited’s first ever Integrated 
Annual Report for FY 2024–25. 
This year has been one of 
strong performance, purposeful 
growth and expanding impact.
Navigating a Dynamic  
Economic Landscape
FY24-25 unfolded against the backdrop of a 
recovering global economy. While inflationary 
pressures and geopolitical uncertainties continue to 
pose challenges, India remains a beacon of resilience 
and growth. The Indian real estate sector, supported 
by robust demand and evolving consumer 
preferences, has seen significant momentum, 
particularly in residential and premium asset classes. 
Government policies favouring infrastructure 
development, urbanisation and sustainability have 
further reinforced this trend.
Record Financial Performance
Brigade has delivered a year of record-breaking 
performance. We achieved our highest ever pre-
sales of ₹7,847 Crore, a remarkable 31% growth 
over FY23-24, with a volume of 7.05 Million sq. ft. 
launched across 11 projects, the largest in our history. 
The average realisation stood at ₹11,138 per sq. ft., up 
by 40%, driven by a focused strategy on premium 
residential offerings.
On the commercial front, we launched 2 Million sq. 
ft. of office space, with our flagship properties like 
Brigade Twin Towers witnessing robust demand from 
flex spaces, retail and manufacturing sectors. Mall 
consumption also grew by 4% Y-O-Y, underscoring the 
strength of our mixed-use ecosystem.
Our total revenue increased by 5% Y-O-Y to ₹5,314 
Crore, while EBITDA grew 21% to ₹1,654 Crore. Profit 
after tax rose significantly to ₹680 Crore, highlighting 
our focus on execution, margin optimisation and 
operational efficiency. It is also noteworthy that 
our residential segment continues to be debt-free, 
reflecting financial prudence and healthy cash flows.
CHAIRMAN'S MESSAGE
Brigade Enterprises Limited
28
GRI 2-22
Scale, Diversification 
and Innovation
We launched over 9.5 Million sq. ft. across 11 projects, 
our highest ever and expanded into mixed-use and 
plotted developments. Our commercial leasing 
portfolio now spans 9 Million sq. ft., with demand 
driven by marquee tenants across manufacturing, 
flex and IT sectors. Orion Malls continue to lead with 
high footfalls and trading density, supported by green 
operations powered by 80% renewable energy.
The hospitality vertical, now comprising 9 operating 
hotels and ~1,600 keys, posted strong profitability with 
branded assets under global operators. Our clubs and 
convention centres continue to be benchmarks in 
experiential service.
ESG: Built into the Blueprint
Brigade is advancing confidently on its net zero 
by 2045 roadmap. FY25 saw a 3X increase in 
renewable energy usage, an 8.8% reduction in 
energy consumption and a 17.5% drop in operational 
emissions compared to the previous year. We have 
now planted over 1 lakh trees, with another 1 lakh 
scheduled and have cumulative 16.35 Million sq.ft. of 
Certified Green Space and it is a a testament to our 
environmental stewardship.
Our ESG monitoring tech platform went live this 
year, improving transparency and accountability 
across projects. Climate and biodiversity risks 
have also been integrated into our enterprise risk 
management framework.
Commitment to People 
and Communities
Our purpose extends beyond commercial 
success. The Brigade Foundation continues to 
uplift communities through education, health and 
skill development initiatives. The Indian Music 
Experience Museum, India’s first hi-tech interactive 
music museum, remains a proud symbol of 
cultural investment.
Workplace inclusion and diversity are progressing 
steadily, with 33% of our Board now represented 
by women, moving towards our 50% goal by 2028. 
Recognised for 14 consecutive years as a Great Place 
to Work, Brigade remains an employer of choice in the 
real estate sector.
Looking Ahead
Looking ahead to FY25-26, we have a strong launch 
pipeline of ~15 Million sq. ft., including key projects in 
fast-growing metros. The planned IPO of Brigade Hotel 
Ventures Ltd. will unlock value and support further 
scale in our hospitality business. Simultaneously, tech-
led platforms such as Brigade REAP and initiatives like 
Here4You and Brigade Plus will continue to enhance 
customer and partner experiences.
With an investment-grade balance sheet, a pan-South 
India presence and a diversified portfolio, Brigade 
is well-positioned to sustain momentum. Our focus 
remains clear: responsible growth, innovation-driven 
execution and lasting value creation.
Gratitude
We are not just building structures, we are shaping 
experiences, environments and futures. I extend 
sincere thanks to our shareholders, employees, 
customers and partners for their continued trust 
and support. Together, we will keep transforming city 
skylines and lives.
Warm regards, 
M.R. Jaishankar
Executive Chairman
Brigade Enterprises Limited
29
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-22
Building with
Purpose
MD'S MESSAGE
FY 2024–25 was a milestone year – one that 
broadened our presence, strengthened customer trust 
and sharpened our focus on delivering quality at scale. 
But more than that, it was a year in which we brought 
our Net Zero vision to the forefront of our agenda.
Our commitment to sustainability is no longer a 
distant goal – it is a defining part of how we think, 
plan and build. As we continue to scale our residential 
footprint, it has been our mission to ensure that our 
environmental responsibility matches the ambition of 
our growth. From low-carbon construction methods 
and energy-efficient design to meaningful green 
certifications, we are embedding climate-conscious 
choices into every phase of development.
We closed the year with record-breaking presales 
of ₹7,847 crores—a 31% increase over the previous 
year. More than half of this came from new launches, 
reaffirming that well-designed, well-located and 
well-managed projects continue to resonate with 
today’s homebuyers.
Increasingly homebuyers are looking for elevated, 
premium lifestyles. In response, we are expanding 
our presence in the premium and luxury segments 
with carefully curated projects like Brigade Insignia, 
Brigade Icon and Brigade Gateway (Bengaluru and 
Hyderabad). These developments embody our focus 
on design excellence, high-end amenities and refined 
living experiences. The response has been especially 
encouraging toward our emphasis on sustainability, 
lifestyle and thoughtful design. Today’s buyers are 
choosing homes that elevate everyday living—and that 
is precisely what we aim to deliver.
Chennai and Hyderabad are no longer emerging 
markets for us—they are central to our next phase of 
growth. Chennai, is on track to become our second-
largest residential market, driven by the rising demand 
for integrated, design-forward developments. Brigade 
Icon on Mount Road—a marquee project in the heart 
of the city—will define our next chapter. With its 
strategic location, high-end positioning and brand-
defining architecture, Icon is designed to become a 
landmark destination in Chennai. In Hyderabad, the 
launch of Brigade Gateway at Neopolis—a world-
class, integrated lifestyle enclave that brings together 
premium residences, retail, hospitality and commercial 
spaces is a clear statement of our intent for the 
city. As Hyderabad continues to evolve as a tech 
and innovation hub, Gateway is positioned to serve 
a new generation of aspirational, quality-conscious 
homebuyers and businesses.
One of our proudest moments this year was the launch 
of Brigade Citrine—India’s first Net Zero residential 
development. Located in East Bengaluru, Citrine 
reflects our deep and growing commitment to climate-
conscious development. It embodies our belief that 
sustainability should not be a trade-off, but a triumph—
where smart water recycling, energy efficiency and 
solar integration come together to create homes that 
are as responsible as they are refined. 
As we grow, we continue to invest where it matters 
most: in design, in people and in relationships. We 
believe success is not just about scale but about 
staying true to what we promise—and delivering 
more than what is expected. Enhancing the home 
ownership journey is Brigade Plus Interiors which has 
crossed ₹100 Cr in bookings the last financial year. 
This marks a 54.6% year-on-year growth, a strong 
validation of our focused efforts on quality, customer 
experience and timely execution. Furthermore, our 
Rentals & Resale business continues to demonstrate 
remarkable traction, showing an impressive 483.3% 
growth over the previous year. This momentum reflects 
increasing customer trust, repeat transactions from 
Brigade homeowners and enhanced service delivery 
across markets.
We thank our teams, partners and customers for 
making FY 2024-25 a significant year. Together, we are 
shaping neighbourhoods, supporting cities and creating 
spaces that endure.
Pavitra Shankar
Managing Director
Brigade Enterprises Limited
30
GRI 2-22
Shaping the 
Future
This year, we bridged long-term vision with on-
ground transformation. Across asset classes, we 
delivered growth, expanded in markets and deepened 
our commitment to innovation, sustainability and 
community. From residential and retail to offices and 
hospitality, each vertical gained new momentum, 
backed by our values of quality, technology and 
stakeholder-first thinking.
This year, we launched the Earth Fund—India’s first 
and only venture capital platform dedicated to 
sustainability and PropTech in real estate. It is a ₹300 
Crore partnership between Brigade and Gruhas, 
created to back high-growth startups focused on 
decarbonisation, digitalisation and disruption in 
construction, design and development.
As buildings and construction contribute nearly 39% of 
global CO2 emissions, the responsibility on developers 
has never been greater. With Earth Fund, we aim to 
be more than just capital providers—we are offering 
market access, enterprise support and strategic 
mentorship to the startups reshaping our industry.
At the heart of our innovation journey is Brigade 
REAP, Asia’s first real estate accelerator. REAP has now 
supported over 82 startups, of which nearly 45% have 
secured further investment and are actively solving 
challenges across the real estate value chain. These 
partnerships exemplify our approach to ecosystem-led 
transformation. Additionally, its accelerator portfolio 
companies raised over ₹65 crore in follow-on funding. 
These startups are not only scaling but also delivering 
tangible impact across the built environment. Retail 
continued to evolve as a key experiential driver. This 
year marked a significant expansion of our retail 
portfolio with the South India debut of global icons 
UNIQLO and LEGO, the Bengaluru launch of Cinnabon 
and Paul Café and the addition of the famed Magnolia 
Bakery to our portfolio, along with many more exciting 
brand additions across our three malls and a vibrant 
mix of F&B offerings within and beyond mall premises. 
These upgrades are part of our vision to build lifestyle 
destinations that offer more than retail spaces that 
foster community engagement, social interaction and 
brand-led experiences.
Brigade’s office portfolio includes a planned 
development pipeline of approximately 10 Mn Sqft over 
the next five years, with projects under various stages 
of execution across Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, 
Ahmedabad, Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Mysuru. 
In Hyderabad, our Brigade Gateway model integrates 
work, living and recreation into one vertical ecosystem. 
The inclusion of premium offices, hotel, retail and 
residences within one precinct demonstrates our 
ability to masterplan urban experiences that drive 
productivity and quality of life.
Another highlight this year was the scaling of 
BuzzWorks, our coworking and managed office 
platform. Now active in 18 centres, with plans to double 
in the coming year.
Through the Brigade Foundation, we also made 
significant strides in community impact. The 
complete renovation of Venkatappa Art Gallery is 
a standout initiative—restoring a cultural landmark 
while reimagining it as a hub for art, creativity and 
civic engagement.
As we enter a new financial year with 15 Million sq. ft. 
in the pipeline, our priorities are clear: to scale with 
responsibility, invest in innovation and deliver on our 
purpose—to create spaces that enable people to live 
better, work smarter and experience more.
To all our stakeholders—thank you for your continued 
belief in our journey. Here’s to scaling, not just for profit, 
but for positive, lasting impact.
Nirupa Shankar
Joint Managing Director
JMD'S MESSAGE
31
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-22
A Vision that 
Endures
Empowering Urban 
India:
Brigade Citrine, Bengaluru 
(Artist’s Impression)
BUSINESS SEGMENTS REVIEW
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
32
The Indian economy is one of 
the fastest-growing in the world, 
supported by resilient consumption 
and sustained government spending. 
As a more educated and aspirational 
younger population from rural 
areas seeks new opportunities, 
urbanisation continues to accelerate. 
This shift is fuelling growing demand not just 
for housing, but also for quality infrastructure, 
entertainment and commercial spaces that enhance 
urban living. At Brigade, we see this evolving 
landscape not just as a business opportunity, but 
as a responsibility. It is a goal that inspires us 
to build thoughtfully and inclusively. Through our 
diverse offerings across residential, commercial, 
retail and hospitality segments, we are committed to 
delivering real estate solutions that are future-ready, 
sustainable and community-focused, creating an 
impact that endures for generations to come.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
33
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Business Segments
The evolving residential housing segment in India 
now demands homes that blend luxury, technology 
and sustainability — expectations Brigade fulfils 
through decades of expertise and an industry-leading 
commitment to net zero by 2045. As our largest 
revenue contributor (38% of FY25 presales), the 
residential segment achieved record performance 
with ₹7,567 Crore presales across 6.75 Million sq. ft., 
supported by our highest-ever launches of 9.5 Million 
sq. ft. Beyond numbers, we build emotional connections 
through thoughtfully designed enclaves. 
Residential
Our Bengaluru-rooted expertise now extends across 
Chennai, Hyderabad and Mysuru, offering apartments, 
villas and plotted developments where state-of-
the-art fitness centres, infinity pools and open 
layouts converge with ESG-tech platforms to create 
sustainable lifestyles. These are not just homes, but 
carefully curated ecosystems — whether it is young 
professionals finding their first apartment near business 
districts, or families enjoying clubhouses designed in 
collaboration with renowned wellness experts.
Brigade Gateway, Hyderabad 
(Artist’s Impression)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
34
Key Highlights
 •
Branded residences are also on the rise in India. 
Notable developments like Brigade Icon and 
Brigade Insignia.
 •
Brigade pioneered the enclave concept in Bengaluru—
self-contained, integrated communities that blend 
residential, commercial, retail and recreational 
spaces. Over the years, we have developed eight such 
enclaves, each designed to offer a holistic lifestyle. 
These include landmark developments such as 
Brigade El Dorado, Brigade Millennium, Brigade 
Metropolis, Brigade Gateway (Bengaluru), Brigade 
Orchards, Brigade Meadows, Brigade Cosmopolis, 
Brigade Golden Triangle, Brigade Exotica, and 
Brigade Cornerstone Utopia.
₹7,567 Cr
Record presales
₹11,205/sq. ft.
Average realisation
6.75 Mn sq. ft.
Sales volume
9.5 Mn sq. ft.
New launches (11 projects)
100+ Mn sq. ft.
developed to date
Top 10
Listed developers in India
29% Y-O-Y growth
40% Y-O-Y growth
31% Y-O-Y growth
Projects Completed in 
FY25 
 •
Brigade Cornerstone Utopia – 
Eden, Serene, Tranquil, Halycon
 •
Brigade El Dorado – Galium,  
Helio, Jasper, Feldspar, Krypton
 •
Brigade Citadel – Phase 1, 
 •
Brigade Gem
 •
Brigade Xanadu - Destino
Projects Under 
Construction FY25 
 •
Brigade Sanctuary (Bengaluru)
 •
Brigade Valencia (Bengaluru)
 •
Brigade Icon (Chennai)
 •
Brigade Gateway (Hyderabad)
 •
Brigade Altius (Chennai)
 •
Brigade Citrine (Bengaluru)
 •
Brigade Eternia (Bengaluru)
Competitive 
Differentiation 
 •
Strategic Product Portfolio: 
Curating premium developments 
at optimal locations with value-
driven pricing to match evolving 
market demand.
 •
Landowner Partnerships: 
Fostering collaborative 
relationships through ethical 
engagements anchored in our 
QC-FIRST values framework.
 •
Brand Leadership: 
Driving customer engagement 
through cutting-edge marketing 
and our signature 'Here4You' 
relationship platform.
 •
Community-Centric 
Development: Pioneering 
integrated townships that 
redefine urban living through 
thoughtful master planning.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
35
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Brigade delivers South India's most strategically located 
Grade-A office spaces, combining prime business 
district access with institutional-grade infrastructure. 
Our commercial portfolio — spanning Bengaluru, 
Chennai, Kochi, Mysuru, GIFT City, Gandhinagar and 
Thiruvananthapuram — is engineered to enhance 
enterprise productivity through:
 •
Prime Connectivity: All developments situated 
within 30 minutes of major transport hubs, including 
international airports and metro junctions
 •
Future-proof Design: Buildings with 45%+ daylight 
penetration and LEED Platinum standards
Commercial
 •
Flexible Enterprise Solutions: BuzzWorks 
offers configurable spaces from 10-seat startup 
pods to 50,000 sq. ft. corporate campuses, all 
featuring biophilic design and plug-and-play 
technology infrastructure
As one of South India's top three office developers 
by leased area (JLL 2023 Report), we transform 
commercial real estate from functional spaces 
into strategic business assets. Our portfolio spans 
approximately 8 Million sq. ft., with 22 Million sq. ft. of 
completed commercial projects and an occupancy 
rate of 90% across 8 Million sq. ft. of operational assets, 
housing over 100 enterprise tenants.
Brigade Tech 
Boulevard, Chennai 
(Artist’s Impression)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
36
Leasing Momentum
BuzzWorks Expansion
Awards
8.13 Mn sq. ft.
Operational portfolio
90%
Occupancy
31% 
Revenue growth 
(Y-O-Y)
6,200
Desks currently 
in operation
3,500
Desks to be added over 
the next 7 months
100%
Y-O-Y growth in 
desk capacity
0.66 Mn sq. ft. Y-O-Y
Key Highlights
Operational Assets 
of FY25
 •
World Trade Center Kochi
 •
Brigade International Financial 
Centre (GIFT City)
 •
Brigade Tech Gardens (Bengaluru)
Commercial Projects 
Under Construction FY25
 •
Brigade Square
 •
Arcadia at Brigade 
Cornerstone Utopia
 •
Brigade Padmini Tech Valley
 •
Brigade Tech Boulevard
 •
Brigade Vantage at Mysore
Competitive Differentiation 
 •
Sustainability Leadership:
 −78% of operational portfolio LEED 
Platinum/IGBC Net Zero certified
 −40% energy reduction via smart 
building tech
 •
Tenant-Centric Innovations:
 −BuzzWorks 2.0 with AI-powered 
workspace analytics
 −WTC Premium Lounges for CXO suites
 •
Portfolio Strength:
 −90% occupancy in Grade A assets 
(vs. 88% industry avg.)
New Locations 
Added in FY25
Hyderabad – HITEC City 
(Q4 FY25 launch)
Best 
Commercial 
Developer – 
South India
ET Now
Planned 
Expansions 
in FY26
- Hyderabad 
- Chennai 
- Mumbai
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
37
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Brigade's retail portfolio exemplifies our commitment 
to creating high-value commercial assets through 
meticulous location strategy and design innovation. Our 
flagship Orion Mall at Brigade Gateway stands as South 
India's premier retail destination, attracting 18 Million 
annual visitors with its iconic architecture and curated 
brand mix of 70+ international tenants. This success 
has been replicated through subsequent developments 
including Orion Avenue and Orion Uptown, which 
combine premium retail spaces with experiential 
Retail
offerings. All Brigade retail assets are strategically 
positioned in high-growth urban corridors, featuring 
ESG-compliant designs and technology-enhanced 
customer experiences that consistently deliver 25% 
higher sales per square foot than market averages. With 
two additional mall developments planned for FY26-
27, we continue to redefine India's retail landscape 
through spaces that blend commercial viability with 
community value.
Key Highlights
 •
With an average trading density above ~2,600, 
Orion Mall at Brigade Gateway ranks among the 
top 5 malls in the country
 •
In terms of trading density, over 25% of total 
brands in Orion Mall at Brigade Gateway are the 
best-performing stores in South India
 •
Renewable energy contributes towards ~80% 
of overall power consumption, resulting in 
annual CO2 savings of ~5 Million tonnes
 •
Orion Mall has received honours from most of 
the recognised industry bodies in India
Zero
Discharge in terms of 
water/waste usage
~1.3 Mn sq. ft.
Operational portfolio
250+ Mn sq. ft.
Prominent retailers
1.6 Mn
Average footfalls across 
the malls
Arcadia at Brigade Cornerstone 
Utopia, Bengaluru 
(Artist’s Impression)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
38
Competitive Differentiation 
 •
Sales and Trading Metrics:
 −Retail sales grew by 3.6% 
Y-O-Y in FY25
 −Trading density (sales per 
carpet area) improved by 2.1% 
over FY24
 −Orion Gateway reported a 
strong trading density of 
₹2,500+ per sq. ft.
 •
Footfall Performance:
 −Orion Mall recorded a growth 
of 0.8% over Q1 FY25
 −Despite the dip, overall retail 
engagement remained stable
 •
Category Mix and Leasing:
 −10% of total revenue 
came from experiential 
categories such as F&B and 
entertainment
 −78% of anchor store leases 
were successfully renewed 
during the year
 −8 new international 
brands were added across 
retail assets
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
39
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Brigade’s hospitality business comprises Brigade 
Hotel Ventures Limited (BHVL), which manages 
the Group's hotel portfolio, and Brigade Hospitality 
Services Limited, which oversees its clubs and 
convention centres.
Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited (BHVL) is the 
subsidiary of Brigade Enterprises Limited. As of March 
31, 2025, the platform includes 9 operating hotels 
Hospitality
with 1,604 keys, with 5 hotels under development 
expected to add 960 keys.
The company is the second-largest owner of chain-
affiliated hotels and rooms in South India among 
private hotel asset owners with more than 500 rooms 
nationwide. Its hotels are located in demand-led 
micromarkets with proximity to commercial hubs, IT 
corridors, and premium residential catchments.
Key Highlights
9 
operating hotels with
1,604 
keys
5 
hotels under development with 
960 
keys
35.45%
EBITDA margin
100%
of operating hotels EDGE certified
30
restaurants and bars 
across the portfolio
~2.15 Mn sq. ft.
of MICE facilities
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
40
Competitive Differentiation 
 •
Strong Operating 
Discipline: 
The company 
retains oversight of 
hotel operations by 
monitoring operator 
performance, setting 
targets, and optimising 
cost structures. In 
FY2025, Brigade 
implemented cost-
control measures 
including better 
space utilisation, 
energy optimisation, 
shared services, 
and manpower 
rationalisation. These 
initiatives supported a 
healthy EBITDA margin 
of 31%.
 •
Focused 
Development Strategy: 
Brigade’s approach is 
location-led, identifying 
sites near airports, 
business districts, 
and high-footfall 
retail catchments. 
The business model 
is asset-heavy 
at the ownership 
level but relies on 
professional third-
party management for 
operations, with global 
hospitality brands 
serving as operators. 
These strategic 
partnerships offer 
access to international 
marketing platforms, 
technical know-how, 
and operating systems.
 •
Designed 
for Experience: 
All Brigade hotels are 
designed to deliver a 
comprehensive guest 
experience, including 
fine dining, wellness 
facilities, and event 
spaces. As of March 
31, 2025, the portfolio 
included 30 restaurants 
and bars and MICE 
facilities covering ~2.15 
lakh sq. ft.
 •
Commitment to 
Green Hospitality: 
In June 2025, all 
operating hotels 
received EDGE 
(Excellence in Design 
for Greater Efficiencies) 
certification, awarded 
by the International 
Finance Corporation 
(IFC). The certification 
recognises at least 20% 
reduction in energy 
and water consumption 
and significant savings 
in embodied carbon 
through thoughtful 
material selection.
ibis Styles,  
Mysuru
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
41
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Value Creation Model 
Inputs
Value Creation  
Process/ Approach
Vision 
To be a world-class organisation in our 
products, processes, people and performance.
Mission
To constantly endeavour to be the preferred 
developer of residential, commercial and 
hospitality spaces in the markets in which we 
operate, without compromising on our core 
values, for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Core Values
QC-FIRST APPROACH
 • QUALITY 
 • CUSTOMER CENTRICITY 
 • FAIRNESS 
 • INNOVATION 
 • RESPONSIBLE SOCIALLY
 • TRUST
Manufactured Capital
Construction expenditure:  
₹2,03,812 Lakhs
Area under construction: 
26Mn sft
Planned area: 10.3 Mn Sft 
No of ongoing projects: 45
Percentage of material 
sourced from local suppliers: 
99.87%
Human Capital
No of employees: 5,527
Training & Development 
Sessions: 28,136
Expenditure on staff welfare: 
₹2,289 Lakhs
Employees and workers 
trained for safety 
parameters: 100%
Linking of ESG parameters to 
KPIs: Completed for the Key 
Roles and work in progress 
for all employees
Social and Relationship Capital
CSR Expenditure: 
₹1,072 Lakhs
% Suppliers/Contractors 
reached through trainings: 2%
Natural Capital
Energy Consumption:  
6,01,061 GJ
Renewable Energy 
Consumption:  89,477 GJ
Water Consumption:  1,728 
Million Liters
GHG emission:  
4,83,361 tCO2e
Recycled material 
consumption:  36,226 Tonnes
No. of EIA Conducted: 4 Nos
Total expenditure on 
Environmental Initiatives: 
₹3,56,23,442
Intellectual Capital
No of years of sectoral 
experience: 40
Investment in Brigade REAP: 
₹200 Lakhs
Expedniture on design 
& innovation/ R & D: 
₹5,364 Lakhs
Collaborations/associations 
with organisations (No.): 10
Financial Capital
Net worth: ₹5,91,534 Lakhs
Net Debt: ₹2,01,346 Lakhs*
Shareholder equity: 
₹5,63,845 Lakhs
Operating expenditure: 
₹3,66,000 Lakhs
Working capital:  
₹2,37,393 Lakhs
* including Debentures/loans of PE Partners
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
42
Output
Stakeholders 
Involved
SDGs 
Impacted
Total area completed during the 
reporting year: 7 Million
Number of Projects Completed: 
1.5 Project Every Month
Project Completion Rate: 18
Manufactured Capital
2
7
Employee Retention Rate: 90%
Diversity Ratio (e.g., % Female 
Employees, % Differently-abled 
Employees): ~19%
Total Training Hours: 1,43,930
Average Training Hours per 
Employee (Hour/Employee): 43.4
Human Capital
3
4
Total Number of Customers: 
45,000
Net Promoter Score (NPS): 84 in 
the real estate vertical
Customer Satisfaction Score:  
4.6 out of 5
Market Share: 7% in Bengaluru
Total CSR Expenditure: 
₹1,072 Lakhs
Profits Spent on CSR: 2%
Number of Beneficiaries 
Reached:  2,267 
Social and Relationship Capital
2
7
6
8
Total Energy 
Consumption: 166961MWh
No Reduction in 
Water Consumption
Water Recycled/Reused: 52%
Scope 1 Emissions (Direct, tonnes 
CO2e):  6,401 tCO2e 
Scope 2 Emissions (Indirect, 
tonnes CO2e):  30,757 tCO2e 
Scope 3 Emissions (Supply Chain, 
tonnes CO2e):  4,46,204 tCO2e 
Natural Capital
1
3
2
8
Enhanced Product & 
Service Offerings
Intellectual Capital
1
3
2
7
Growth in net worth over the 
reporting period: 66%*
Credit Rating: ICRA A+
Repayment of interest on capital 
or of debt: ₹46,715 Lakhs
Return on equity: 12.90%
Financial Capital
1
3
5
1
5
2
6
3
7
4
8
Investors
Lenders
Customers
Suppliers/
vendors
Employees
Community
Workers
Channel 
partners
* including the QIP
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
43
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Engage. Empower. 
Elevate. 
Our business drivers 
form the foundation of 
our strategic direction 
and long-term 
value creation. 
As part of this, we continually strengthen our sustainability strategy and 
disclosures through ongoing and meaningful stakeholder engagement. By 
actively engaging with a diverse group of stakeholders, including employees, 
customers, investors, suppliers, community members and regulatory 
bodies, we gain valuable insights into their expectations, address material 
issues and incorporate their feedback into our planning and decision-
making processes. 
Over the past year, we conducted extensive stakeholder engagement 
through a variety of channels, including surveys, meetings, interviews, 
conferences, training programmes and feedback sessions.
STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION
Brigade Insignia, Bengaluru 
(Artist’s Impression)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
44
GRI 3-1
Channels of Communication
Frequency of 
Engagement 
Relevant Matters
Board of Directors
 •
Board Meetings 
 •
Annual General Meeting
Regular
Annual
Consultation, participation and sharing of information on:
 •
Ensuring regulatory compliance.
 •
Driving growth and profitability.
 •
Maintaining fiduciary accountability to shareholders.
 •
Defining strategy for the Company and the corporate 
governance, including ESG.
 •
Managing enterprise risks.
 •
Discussion on CSR initiatives.
Channel Partners
 •
Meetings
 •
Feedback
Weekly
Monthly
Quarterly
Consultation and information on:
 •
Gaining insights into customer needs and market trends.
 •
Understanding the competitive landscape.
 •
Identifying suitable tenants, assessing credit worthiness and 
aligning space requirements with property offerings.
 •
Leveraging market insights, tenant demand trends and 
negotiation expertise to maximise deal value for both parties.
 •
Developing strategies for property promotion, tenant 
outreach and market penetration.
Contractual Workforce
 •
Induction programme
 •
Toolbox meetings
 •
Job-specific EHS training and 
other awareness sessions – 
BOCW etc.
 •
Health camps
 •
Hazard identification and 
risk assessment
 •
Safety committee meeting 
 •
Incident investigation
 •
National Safety Week celebration 
 •
Road Safety Week
 •
Fire Service Week
 •
World Environment Day 
celebrations for planting trees
 •
Height work 
safety demonstration 
 •
Emergency demonstration and 
conducting mock drills 
 •
Safety Poster 
Painting competition
 •
Introduction to BOCW Act
Regular
Daily
Weekly
Need-based
 •
Consultation and sharing information on: Knowlegde transfer 
and job training.
 •
Creating awareness of EHS and other statutory compliances.
 •
Discussing issues related to the workplace and 
working environment.
 •
Sharing information on changes required in 
internal processes.
 •
Identifying the exact root cause of the incident.
 •
Construction activity and operational control procedures.
 •
Conducting tree plantation drives.
 •
Sharing benefits of registering as a BOCW beneficiary. 
 •
Statutory compliance.
 •
Conducting kick-off meeting before commencing the project.
 •
Workshop mode training for EHS implementation 
and monitoring.
 •
Hazard identification and risk assessment are conducted for 
all construction activities.
 •
Demonstrating construction emergency.
 •
Celebrating Road Safety Week, National Safety Week and Fire 
Safety Week. 
 •
EHS concern meeting.
45
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-29
Channels of Communication
Frequency of 
Engagement 
Relevant Matters
Customers
 •
Here4You (online feedback)
 •
Belong Community App for 
1. Visitor management
2. Complaint management
3.  Automatic number 
plate recognition
4.  Access control via bluetooth
5. Community engagement
6. Notice board
7. Amenity booking
 •
Expos and events
 •
Meetings
 •
Webinar
Monthly
Quarterly
Consultation and sharing information on:
 •
Understanding customer preferences, behaviours 
and expectations. 
 •
Discussing areas for improvement.
 •
Celebratory engagement during important days and festivals, 
fostering community and cultural inclusion. 
 •
Creating a dedicated help desk for managing feedback and 
resolving complaints. 
 •
Biannual customer satisfaction (CSAT) surveys for structured 
performance assessment.
 •
Monthly client meetings for updates and discussions. 
 •
FM Insight — our monthly newsletter to share updates, 
initiatives and achievements. 
 •
Conducting safety-focused activities including periodic 
evacuation drills.
 •
Engaging informally through flea markets, sports events and 
blood donation camps.
 •
Organising occasional community meals such as gala dinners 
and lunches to enhance relationship building. 
Employees
 •
Town halls
 •
Team building activities
 •
Leadership talk
 •
Engineers' meet
 •
Surveys and feedback
 •
Celebration of festivals
 •
Mentoring and counselling
 •
Virtual and physical training
 •
Team lunch/dinners
 •
Sports events
Weekly
Quarterly
Half yearly
Annual
Need-based
Consultation, participation and sharing of information on:
 •
Promoting health, safety and overall well-being across 
all operations.
 •
Investing in upskilling, training and continuous skill 
development opportunities.
 •
Advancing diversity, equity and inclusion across roles 
and functions.
 •
Ensuring an equal opportunity workplace that respects 
all individuals.
 •
Reinforcing the importance of collaboration and teamwork to 
drive performance and innovation.
 •
Sharing regular updates on business performance to align 
teams with organisational goals.
 •
Organising team-building activities to strengthen cohesion 
and morale.
 •
Providing clear and accessible grievance redressal channels 
to foster a culture of trust and accountability.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
46
GRI 2-29
Channels of Communication
Frequency of 
Engagement 
Relevant Matters
Investors and Shareholders
 •
Annual General Meeting
 •
Conferences 
 •
Investor meetings
 •
Press Release/Media interaction
Regular
Consultation and sharing information on:
 •
Assessing operational and financial performance
 •
Defining long-term business strategy
 •
Evaluating business model capability to generate value
 •
Building strategic collaborations and partnerships
 •
Discussing the quarterly investor presentation on all of 
the above
Non-Government Organisation (NGOs)
 •
ESG SteerCo meetings
 •
ESG Working 
Committee meetings
 •
Monthly ESG bulletin
 •
ESG training and 
awareness workshops
 •
Feedback
Regular
Participation, consultation and sharing of information on:
 •
Identifying levers to reduce sustainability risks and create a 
positive impact in the long run.
Suppliers and Vendors
 •
Meetings
 •
Press conferences and Media Kit
Regular
Participation, consultation and sharing of information on:
 •
Understanding business product and service requirements.
 •
Enhancing supply chain resilience and risk management.
 •
Gaining insights from their respective industries.
 •
Aligning expectations on sustainability integration via goods 
and services purchased or procured.
 •
Adopting updated software for digitalising the data collection 
process from vendors on their green practices.
 •
Training vendors to use updated software to standardise the 
data collection process.
47
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-29
Focused on What Truly 
Matters
MATERIALITY
Environmental, Social 
and Governance (ESG) 
considerations continues 
to gain prominence not 
only due to regulatory 
requirements but also 
because of increasing 
stakeholder expectations. 
Both local and international stakeholders are now more aware of 
sustainability, with a particular focus on ESG-related performance 
and transparency. 
In this reporting year, we have continued to prioritise the twelve 
material topics identified as very high priority in the materiality 
assessment conducted in FY22-23. These priorities were 
determined using a structured materiality matrix that evaluated the 
significance of ESG issues from both stakeholder and organisational 
perspectives. For a detailed view of the materiality process and the 
full list of identified topics, please refer to our previous sustainability 
report here.
Policy 
Insurance
Asset 
Management
Sustainability Supply Chain
Opportunities in Green Building 
and Third Party Accreditations
GHG Emissions
Materials
Biodiversity
Waste Management
Water Management
ESG Risk Management
Transparency 
and Disclosures
Regulatory 
Compliance
Ecomonic 
Performance
ESG Governance
Business Conduct 
and Compliance
Technology and 
Innovation
Data Privacy and 
Cyber Security
Health and 
Safety
Human Rights
Human Capital 
Development
Tenants and 
Community
Corporate Citizenship 
and Philantrophy
Diversity, Equality 
and Inclusion
Talent Attraction and Retention
Responsible 
Marketing
Labour Practice 
Indicators
High
Very High
Medium
High
Very High
Medium
Brigade Enterprises Limited
48
GRI 3-1
ESG
Environment
Social
Governance
 M1 
 Water Management
 M2 
 GHG Emissions
 M3 
 Business Conduct 
and Compliance
 M4 
 ESG Governance
 M5 
 Health and Safety
 M6 
 Human Rights
 M7 
 Tenants and Community
 M8 
 Human Capital 
Development
 M9 
 Materials
 M10 
 ESG Risk Management
 M11 
 Waste Management
 M12 
 Biodiversity
 M13 
 Opportunities in Green 
Building and Third-
Party Accreditations
 M14 
 Corporate Citizenship 
and Philanthropy
 M15 
 Talent Attraction 
and Retention
 M16 
 Sustainable Supply Chain
 M17 
 Diversity, Equality 
and Inclusion
 M18 
 Data Privacy and 
Cyber Security
 M19 
 Responsible Marketing
 M20  Economic Performance
 M21 
 Transparency 
and Disclosures
 M22 
 Asset Management
 M23  Regulatory Compliance
 M24  Technology and Innovation
 M25  Labor Practice Indicators
 M26  Policy Influence
Medium
High
Very High
Materiality Topics in Order of Importance
49
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 3-2
Materiality Assessment 
Environment
Brigade Group integrates sustainability into its 
operations through responsible resource use and 
strategic action across key environmental areas.
To manage water efficiently, the Brigade Group uses 
rainwater harvesting, wastewater treatment and zero 
liquid discharge systems, supported by smart meters 
and curing compounds. It addresses GHG emissions 
through renewable energy adoption, energy-efficient 
design and green construction practices and has 
committed to net-zero emissions by 2045, aligned 
with SBTi.
Sustainable material sourcing is ensured via low-
carbon, recycled and locally sourced materials, while 
harmful substances are avoided through adherence 
to a Red List protocol. Waste management follows a 
circular economy model focusing on reduction, reuse 
and recycling.
The Brigade Group also promotes biodiversity 
by preserving native species, transplanting 
trees, rejuvenating water bodies and meeting 
annual afforestation targets to support urban 
ecological regeneration.
Social
Brigade advances social responsibility 
through initiatives in health and safety, human 
rights, community engagement and human 
capital development.
It targets 100% occupational health and safety training 
for its workforce by 2025 and WELL Health-Safety 
certification for all leased assets by 2028. The Brigade 
Group aims for SMETA certification by 2025 and 
alignment with global labour standards by 2026. It also 
plans to join the UN Global Compact by 2028.
95% of procurement is domestic, strengthening local 
supply chains. Brigade also plans to introduce an NPS 
mechanism by 2025 and integrate Green Clauses in 
lease agreements by 2027.
Human capital development includes training, women-
led leadership and inclusion programmes to build a 
diverse, future-ready workforce.
Governance
Brigade maintains robust ESG governance and 
compliance through a three-line ESG model introduced 
in FY22-23. This integrates sustainability into strategy, 
risk and execution, ensuring transparency and 
stakeholder alignment.
Proactive ESG risk management reinforces financial 
stability, legal compliance and long-term resilience in a 
dynamic business environment.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
50
GRI 3-3
Management of Material Areas
M1: Water 
Management
Operational Impact – High Significance
Water is a critical operational resource for Brigade 
Group across development, lease rental, hospitality and 
facility management activities. The Group recognises 
both the strategic value and risk of water and has 
taken significant steps to embed sustainable water 
management practices across its value chain.
Actual
Positive Impact: 
 •
Strategic sourcing and rainwater harvesting 
initiatives have significantly reduced freshwater use 
across the Group.
 •
Water efficiency per unit of revenue has improved, 
particularly in the lease rental segment.
 •
Adoption of water-saving technologies, curing 
compounds and widespread wastewater recycling 
has enhanced circularity.
 •
Installed a 65KL rainwater harvesting tank at 
Brigade Southfield.
 •
Promoted conservation through partnerships and 
awareness programmes.
 •
Reclaimed water is utilised for flushing, cooling and 
cleaning operations across projects.
 •
The Group recorded that 52% of its water use, 
equivalent to 898.27 Million litres, was met through 
recycling, representing a 13.6% increase from the last 
reporting year.
 •
Reduced freshwater use and supported groundwater 
recharge through treatment systems and recharge 
pits, restoring an additional 45.69 Million litres of 
water, which is a 21% increase from the previous year.
 •
Brigade’s Citrine is designed to be 66% water self-
sufficient, significantly reducing reliance on water 
tankers and supporting long-term sustainability and 
cost efficiency.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Internal awareness of the Group’s Water Positivity 
2030 goal remains limited and requires further 
integration across departments and stakeholders.
 •
Total water consumption across all verticals reached 
1,727.65 Million litres during the reporting period, 
marking a 27% increase from the previous year.
Potential
Positive Impact: 
 •
Continuing progress achieving water positivity 
by 2030, including expanding wastewater 
recycling coverage.
 •
Strengthening focuses on efficient 
water management.
 •
Minimising freshwater usage wherever possible.
 •
Enhancement of Brigade’s leadership in sustainable 
water stewardship through policy, practice 
and partnerships.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Operational risks in water-scarce regions or 
geographies with stringent regulatory frameworks.
 •
Reputational risk if water resources are not managed 
responsibly in sensitive areas or during peak 
demand periods.
M2: GHG 
Emissions
Operational Impact – High Significance
Brigade Group recognises that climate change presents 
both as a material risk and a strategic opportunity. 
Addressing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is 
central to the Group's long-term sustainability vision 
and net-zero commitment.
Actual
Positive Impact: 
 •
Strategic sourcing and rainwater harvesting 
initiatives have significantly reduced freshwater use 
across the Group.
51
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 3-3
 •
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are rigorously 
measured and managed, ensuring transparency 
and accountability.
 •
Group-wide tracking of Scope 3 emissions has been 
initiated, improving the accuracy of the Group’s 
emissions inventory.
 •
Brigade successfully met its short-term target by 
becoming a signatory to the Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi).
 •
Expanded on-site solar power generation by utilising 
rooftops across properties.
 •
Tracking of emerging renewable energy technologies, 
such as battery storage, has been initiated.
 •
Renewable energy comprised 14.3% of total energy 
use this year, up from 7.4% in the previous year and 
marking a threefold year-on-year increase.
 •
Brigade Citrine, among India’s first net-zero carbon 
residential projects, showcases the Group’s climate 
leadership and helps mainstream low-carbon design 
across future developments.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Continued reliance on grid-based electricity remains 
a key contributor to GHG emissions.
 •
Highlights the need to accelerate the transition to 
cleaner energy sources.
 •
Brigade Enterprises Ltd recorded a 48% increase 
in energy consumption, driven by an expanded 
reporting boundary and a rise in real estate and 
hospitality projects.
 •
Scope 2 emissions rose significantly to 30,756.80 
tonnes of CO2e, reflecting a negative environmental 
impact. This increase was largely driven by higher 
electricity consumption due to the expanded 
scale of projects, hospitality units and lease rental 
properties in operation.
 •
Total Green Certified Portfolio (Pre+ Final) is 16.35 
Million Sq. Ft., which is less than the previous 
reporting year.
Potential
Positive Impact: 
 •
Brigade has set bold long-term emission reduction 
targets, including Net Zero by 2045. (Near-term 
science-based targets for 2034 covering Scope 1, 
Scope 2 and relevant Scope 3 emissions, alongside a 
long-term net-zero target for 2045.)
 •
The company is preparing a detailed 
decarbonisation roadmap to support 
implementation and compliance.
 •
It is advancing to the next phase of its climate 
strategy by aligning with evolving regulations and 
investor expectations on climate risk.
 •
Plans are underway to scale up certified green 
spaces under LEED, IGBC and other internationally 
recognised frameworks.
 •
Exploring long-term Power Purchase Agreements 
(PPAs) to ensure access to stable and clean energy, 
supporting the target of 100% renewable-powered 
operations by 2040.
 •
Renewable energy procurement is expected to 
reduce exposure to energy price volatility.
 •
Brigade supports cleantech innovation through its 
Real Estate Accelerator Programme (REAP), fostering 
partnerships with sustainability-focused startups.
 •
These collaborations contribute to innovation 
in sustainable real estate development and 
energy efficiency.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Persistent high emissions could lead to increased 
regulatory compliance costs and climate-related 
taxes or penalties.
 •
There is a risk of asset devaluation and reduced 
investor confidence in markets that increasingly 
favour low-carbon assets.
 •
Physical climate risks, such as extreme 
weather events, could disrupt operations and 
asset performance.
Management of Material Areas
Brigade Enterprises Limited
52
GRI 3-3
M3: Business Conduct 
and Compliance
Reputational Impact – High Significance
Brigade Group upholds the highest standards of ethical 
conduct and regulatory compliance as foundational 
to responsible business growth. Ensuring transparent 
governance, fostering stakeholder trust and embedding 
integrity across operations are central to the Group’s 
long-term value creation and sustainability vision.
Actual
Positive Impact: 
 •
Trained all employees on the Code of Conduct, 
fostering trust among stakeholders.
 •
Effectively implemented a comprehensive 
ESG Policy
 •
Maintained regulatory excellence by ensuring full 
compliance and reinforcing trust.
 •
Aligned past performance, market trends and plans 
to drive sustainable growth.
 •
Strengthened operational efficiency 
through continuous improvement and 
transparent disclosures.
 •
Leveraged strong financial health to enable strategic 
investments and deliver higher returns.
 •
Developed future-ready strategies to anticipate 
market shifts and refine long-term goals.
 •
Built an inclusive and responsible business model to 
earn stakeholder trust and long-term value.
 •
Advanced collaborative growth and green 
procurement to boost efficiency, innovation 
and sustainability.
 •
Conducted regular investor presentations to 
enhance transparency and build confidence.
Negative Impact: 
 •
None
Potential
Positive Impact: 
 •
Training employees and suppliers on the Code of 
Conduct reinforces Brigade’s commitment to ethical 
business practices and regulatory compliance.
 •
Upholding the highest standards of business 
ethics helps build lasting trust with customers, 
investors and stakeholders, supporting continued 
market leadership. 
 •
Full compliance with regulations ensures ongoing 
recognition from regulatory bodies.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Weak corporate governance could result in 
legal penalties.
 •
May lead to loss of investor confidence.
 •
Can damage relationships with key stakeholders.
M4: ESG  
Governance
Strategic Impact – High Significance
Brigade Group is committed to robust ESG governance 
as a cornerstone of responsible business. By 
embedding environmental, social and governance 
principles across strategic and operational levels, the 
Group ensures transparency, accountability and long-
term value creation for all stakeholders. A structured 
ESG governance model reinforces ethical leadership 
and drives sustained impact.
Actual
Positive Impact: 
 •
Upheld high ethical and governance standards to 
drive responsible growth.
 •
Established clear sustainability objectives aligned 
with long-term strategy.
 •
Implemented a three-line ESG governance model to 
ensure accountability and transparency.
Management of Material Areas
53
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 3-3
 •
Embedded ESG principles into core operations to 
strengthen stakeholder engagement.
 •
Delivered long-term value for shareholders and 
society through responsible business practices.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Achieving a consistent understanding of ESG 
parameters across all verticals and project sites 
remains a significant challenge.
Potential
Positive Impact: 
 •
Effective implementation can enhance stakeholder 
trust and strengthen reputation, paving the way 
for long-term sustainability and growth, while 
positioning Brigade Group as a leader in ESG 
governance in India.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Missed opportunities for value creation 
and stakeholder engagement can lead to 
setbacks in competitiveness and harm the 
organisation's reputation.
M5: Health 
and Safety
Reputational Impact – High Significance
Brigade Group recognises that strong health and safety 
(H&S) performance is not only a legal and operational 
imperative but also a core reputational pillar. A 
proactive approach to safety contributes to workforce 
well-being, enhances trust and reinforces Brigade’s 
commitment to responsible business practices.
Actual
Positive Impact: 
 •
Achieved 100% workforce training in occupational 
health and safety, ahead of the 2025 target.
 •
Maintained a zero-fatality record with no 
major injuries.
 •
Boosted employee morale through visible, proactive 
and preventive safety measures.
 •
Demonstrated commitment to mental health through 
structured counselling and wellness programmes.
 •
Improved electrical safety through the use of 
certified cable connectors.
 •
Introduced rear-view retrofitting on vehicles and 
equipment to enhance visibility and site safety.
 •
Replaced GI spill trays with upgraded PVC trays, 
improving the safe handling of hazardous liquids.
Negative Impact: 
 •
During the reporting period, a total of 404 near-
miss incidents and two (2) reportable injuries were 
recorded among workers.
 •
Unsafe conditions reduce worker morale and 
efficiency, leading to low productivity.
Potential
Positive Impact: 
 •
Effective implementation of health and safety 
practices can significantly enhance stakeholder 
trust and reinforce Brigade’s reputation as a 
responsible developer.
 •
Strong safety performance supports long-term 
sustainability goals and contributes to overall 
business resilience and growth.
 •
Continued focus on workplace safety positions 
Brigade Group as an emerging leader in ESG 
governance within India’s real estate sector.
 •
Achieving WELL Health-Safety certification by 2028 
will strengthen Brigade’s positioning as a preferred 
partner, particularly among tenants that prioritise 
employee health and well-being.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Implementation of H&S regulations may 
add an administrative burden and lead to 
employee resistance.
 •
Potential fines and lawsuits, due to non-compliance 
– legal liabilities
 •
Reputation Damage: Negative publicity affecting 
client trust and future projects.
 •
Higher expenses related to compensation, insurance, 
legal fees and safety measures.
 •
Safety management challenges, such as issues 
like inadequate training and poor communication, 
increase risks.
Management of Material Areas
Brigade Enterprises Limited
54
GRI 3-3
 •
Psychological Impact, including stress and 
absenteeism caused by unsafe work environments.
 •
There is also a risk of unforeseen challenges 
emerging from new compliance measures.
 •
An increase in near-miss incidents and first-
aid injuries may lead to major safety incidents, 
regulatory action and higher operational costs.
M6: Human 
Rights
Social Impact – High Significance
Brigade Group remains committed to upholding human 
rights across all operations and business relationships. 
The Group adopts a proactive, policy-driven approach 
to ensure a respectful, inclusive and legally compliant 
work environment, aligned with global best practices.
Actual
Positive Impact: 
 •
Implemented Human Rights policy with 100% 
coverage of employees and workers.
 •
Introduced a structured HR & Admin guide to 
support new joiners and employees, enabling timely 
query resolution and improved employee experience.
 •
Continued progress towards SMETA certification by 
2025 has enhanced internal safeguards for human 
rights compliance.
 •
No complaints or violations were reported this year.
 •
Maintained zero cases of child labour, forced labour, 
or PoSH violations.
 •
Completed human rights due diligence for all 
major contractors, reinforcing accountability in the 
extended workforce.
Negative Impact: 
 •
No significant negative impacts were recorded 
during the reporting year.
Potential
Positive Impact: 
 •
Achieving SMETA certification is expected to 
enhance Brigade Group’s competitive positioning, 
attract socially responsible investors and deepen 
stakeholder trust.
 •
Aligning labour standards with the UN Guiding 
Principles on Business and Human Rights will 
institutionalise ethical practices across employment 
and contractor relationships.
 •
Future participation in the UN Global Compact will 
reinforce Brigade’s global visibility and long-term 
commitment to human rights.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Failure to improve or uphold human rights standards 
could result in reputational damage, legal exposure 
and diminished stakeholder confidence, particularly 
in socially conscious markets and investor circles.
M7: Tenants and 
Community
Reputational Impact – High Significance
Brigade Group places a strong emphasis on customer-
centric operations, responsible procurement and 
meaningful community engagement. Through proactive 
upgrades, local sourcing and ESG-integrated design, 
the Group continues to enhance its brand value, 
stakeholder trust and long-term resilience.
Actual
Positive Impact: 
 •
Achieved a high Net Promoter Score (NPS) 
of 84 in the Real Estate vertical, reflecting 
exceptional circumstances 
 •
Attracted and retained high-quality tenants through 
customised leasing solutions, ensuring predictable 
and stable cash flows.
 •
Enhanced asset value by integrating ESG-focused 
design, green certifications and premium lifestyle 
amenities across developments.
 •
Strengthened community well-being through 
impactful CSR initiatives focused on health, 
education, skill development and social welfare.
 •
Improved tenant experience with better food 
court options and operational efficiency, including 
elevator performance.
 •
Infrastructure improvements undertaken, such as 
leak repairs, lobby modernisation and landscape 
enhancements in older properties.
Management of Material Areas
55
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 3-3
Negative Impact: 
 •
Failing to meet green clause targets could mean 
missing out on eco-focused tenants and eroding 
Brigade’s market edge.
M8: Human Capital 
Development
Social Impact – High Significance
At Brigade Group, our people are at the core of 
our progress. We invest in holistic human capital 
development through leadership training, cross-
functional collaboration and employee well-being.  
By fostering a culture of continuous learning, inclusivity 
and performance-driven engagement, we empower 
our workforce to drive innovation and long-term 
value creation.
Actual
Positive Impact: 
 •
Invested in leadership talks, mentoring and skill-
building to empower employees.
 •
Encouraged cross-functional collaboration through 
monthly engineers' meets and sales training.
 •
Strengthened engagement via thought leadership 
platforms like Synergy and Decode.
 •
Improved operational efficiency with tools such as 
SAP CONCUR.
 •
Promoted sustainability and compliance through 
supplier education and VCP training.
 •
Achieved 33% gender diversity on the Board.
 •
Reached a 100% return-to-work rate for women 
post-maternity leave. 
 •
Disclosed gross hourly pay gap metrics with mean 
value 18.8% and median value 6.9%.
Negative Impact: 
 •
The percentage of permanent employees received 
performance reviews has reduced from 88% in 
FY 2023-24 to 72% in the reporting year.
 •
Created refreshed and welcoming spaces 
through ongoing maintenance and proactive 
design upgrades.
 •
95% domestic (national suppliers)
 •
Conducted 10 hours of ESG training for key suppliers.
 •
Completed ESG assessments of 50 key suppliers to 
evaluate risk and opportunities for compliance.
 •
27% of the total supplier expense for eco-friendly 
and green certified materials
 •
Confirmed zero non-compliance with regulations 
or voluntary codes related to customer health 
and safety.
 •
No instances of non-compliance related 
to product and service information or 
marketing communications.
Negative Impact: 
 •
None
Potential
Positive Impact: 
 •
Implementing Group-wide Net Promoter Score 
(NPS) system by 2025 to effectively measure 
tenant satisfaction.
 •
Partnering with quality food operators to enhance 
dining experiences and boost tenant satisfaction.
 •
Conducting third-party elevator audits to ensure 
smooth and efficient vertical mobility.
 •
Performing proactive structural assessments to 
strengthen building integrity and reduce leakages.
 •
Investing in common areas to improve aesthetics 
and functionality.
 •
Implementing greener landscaping initiatives to 
create inviting, sustainable outdoor spaces.
 •
Enhancing tenant well-being and environmental 
impact through these improvements.
 •
Adding Green Clauses in Lease Rental contracts will 
boost environmental commitment.
 •
Building a multi-speciality hospital in partnership as 
a CSR initiative, creating strong community impact
Management of Material Areas
Brigade Enterprises Limited
56
GRI 3-3
 •
Implemented strategic material selection prioritising 
human health and environmental well-being.
 •
Embraced local procurement to support sustainable 
development and strengthen local economies.
 •
Reduced environmental impact through 
local sourcing.
 •
Proactively identified and excluded conflict materials 
and hazardous substances from the supply chain.
 •
Reinforced commitment to health, safety and 
ethical standards.
 •
Ensured a safer and more responsible built 
environment for all stakeholders.
 •
99.87% of the materials were sourced locally, 
reflecting significant progress towards sustainable 
and efficient procurement.
 •
95% domestic suppliers and 99% procurement 
spending on domestic suppliers
 •
Recorded 61% rise in green material spending and 
27% of procurement expense for green material.
 •
Utilised 37,961.20 tonnes of recycled and reused 
materials, reinforcing commitment to resource 
circularity and environmental responsibility.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Challenges in implementing aspects of the 
Sustainable Procurement policy and aligning criteria 
for sustainable procurement.
Potential
Positive Impact: 
 •
By aiming for low-emission, ethically sourced 
materials with reduced embodied carbon, we 
strive to create healthier, more resilient spaces 
thereby progressing towards use of ‘green certified’ 
materials target.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Ineffective materials management can cause cost 
overruns and project delays.
 •
May lead to quality issues and safety hazards.
 •
Risks environmental damage and increased GHG 
emissions from procurement.
 •
It can harm reputation, result in legal challenges and 
create sustainability issues for the organisation.
Potential
Positive Impact: 
 •
Focus on leadership development promotes 
adaptability, innovation and long-term growth.
 •
Continuous learning enhances productivity, 
collaboration and execution.
 •
Investing in employee development strengthens 
retention and loyalty.
 •
Upskilling empowers teams to deliver higher quality 
and drive innovation across projects.
 •
Foster a supportive workplace that enhances 
employee satisfaction, increase investment in 
workforce training and expand women-centric 
leadership programme.
 •
Boost productivity through ongoing skill 
development and fair policies.
 •
Improve talent retention with regular performance 
appraisals and inclusive initiatives.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Overlooking human capital can severely undermine 
performance, damage reputation and threaten long 
term sustainability.
M9: Materials
Operational Impact – High Significance
At Brigade Group, we prioritise responsible 
material selection to ensure the health, safety and 
sustainability of our built environment. Through our 
Sustainable Procurement Policy, we actively eliminate 
harmful substances, promote low-VOC and green-
certified alternatives and support local sourcing 
to minimise environmental impact and empower 
regional economies.
Actual
Positive Impact: 
 •
Successfully implemented Brigade’s Sustainable 
Procurement Policy.
 •
Continue to eliminate harmful materials through a 
stringent “Red List” and prioritising green-certified, 
low-VOC materials.
Management of Material Areas
57
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 3-3
M11: Waste 
Management
Operational Impact – High Significance
Brigade applied a five-step waste hierarchy to reduce 
waste and recover resources. Initiatives included 
composting, reuse of topsoil and secure storage to 
prevent leakage. While significant landfill diversion 
was achieved, enhancing source-level reduction and 
circular economy understanding remains a focus.
Actual
Positive Impact: 
 •
In FY 2024–25, over 85.9% of the total waste was 
diverted from landfills through recycling and reuse 
strategies, marking steady progress toward our 
circularity goals.
 •
Achieved 3.3 times increase in recovered waste 
volumes year-on-year.
 •
Implemented five-step waste hierarchy to reduce 
waste and maximize resource recovery.
 •
Used secure storage solutions to minimise material 
wastage and leakage.
 •
Reused excavated topsoil for landscaping, reducing 
external soil needs and transport emissions.
 •
Supported local biodiversity through sustainable 
soil use.
 •
Compost organic waste to produce nutrient-
rich compost, reducing chemical fertiliser use 
and emissions.
 •
Adopted closed-loop systems and third-party 
recycling as a part of the Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) 
initiative, to conserve water and protect ecosystems, 
setting a high standard for sustainable wastewater 
management in real estate.
M10: ESG Risk 
Management
Strategic Impact – High Significance
At Brigade Group, ESG risk management is integral 
to enhancing organisational resilience, strategic 
alignment and informed decision-making. Ongoing 
efforts to improve ESG risk awareness across functions 
enable us to anticipate challenges, seize sustainability 
opportunities and support long-term value creation.
Actual
Positive Impact: 
 •
 Deliberations on Risk Awareness, improved 
decision making, organisation resilience and 
strategic alignment.
Negative Impact: 
 •
All ESG risks must be integrated into the core 
business risk framework.
Potential
Positive Impact: 
 •
Strong ESG risk management drives sustainable 
growth by bolstering reputation and investor 
confidence, mitigating financial risks, 
fostering innovation and seizing emerging 
sustainability opportunities.
 •
Publishing the TCFD report will enhance 
transparency on climate-related risks and 
opportunities, strengthening investor confidence 
and guiding informed decision-making.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Embedding ESG risk management into the core 
risk framework is essential, with climate risks 
regularly assessed across all levels to avoid 
heightened vulnerability.
Management of Material Areas
Brigade Enterprises Limited
58
GRI 3-3
 •
Committed to the TNFD framework and have begun 
work in that direction.
 •
Discussion on preparing a biodiversity roadmap to 
attain a 10% net-gain is in progress
 •
Over 27,438 trees were planted in the 
reporting period.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Limited awareness of biodiversity protection among 
all Brigadiers and associated communities
Potential
Positive Impact: 
 •
Effective restoration projects and strong 
partnerships can contribute to a healthier urban 
environment and greater biodiversity.
 •
TNFD reporting and transparent impact tracking will 
strengthen stakeholder trust.
 •
Integrating native species and green infrastructure 
will foster resilient urban spaces.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Non-compliance with TNFD guidelines or 
lack of active involvement in restoration 
projects may lead to missed opportunities for 
enhancing urban biodiversity and promoting 
environmental sustainability.
 •
Lack of awareness may result in individual-level gaps 
in implementation.
 •
Unveiled a 25-foot e-waste mural at Orion Mall 
on World Environment Day which is a great 
example of circular practice and stakeholder 
collaboration, showcasing Brigade’s commitment to 
the environment.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Insufficient understanding of the circular economy, 
particularly in terms of waste reduction at 
the source.
Potential
Positive Impact: 
 •
Proper waste management can drive year-on-year 
improvements in reducing, reusing and recycling, 
ultimately supporting the development of a 
circular economy.
Negative Impact: 
 •
Insufficient focus on waste classification, source 
reduction and proper management according to 
guidelines can lead to an increase in waste disposal.
M12: Biodiversity
Operational Impact – Medium Significance
Brigade advanced biodiversity through afforestation, 
seedball campaigns and site-level conservation, 
guided by a comprehensive policy and TNFD alignment. 
Ongoing efforts aim to enhance biodiversity across 
developments, through broader awareness and 
engagement remain areas for growth.
Actual
Positive Impact: 
 •
Successfully implemented a comprehensive policy 
on Biodiversity adopted TNFD framework for nature 
related risk management and disclosure in FY 2024-25
 •
Actively increasing afforestation drives, conducting 
seedball campaigns and protecting biodiversity 
across all project sites. 
Management of Material Areas
59
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 3-3
Balanced
Growth. 
Built to 
Endure. 
OUR STRATEGY
At Brigade, our strategy is deeply 
rooted in purposeful diversification 
across asset classes, geographies and 
economic cycles. 
Our growth blueprint is intentionally broad-based, yet sharply 
focused: to build a future-ready real estate platform that drives 
enduring value for all stakeholders.
Multi-domain 
Presence
Proven 
competencies 
across asset classes
Geographic 
Diversification
De-risked by  
multi-city approach
Core Values
Anchored by 'QC-FIRST' 
framework
Consistent Growth
Stable value creation 
for shareholders
STRATEGY
ENDURING 
VALUE
Stable value 
creation for 
stakeholders
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
60
Dominance Through 
Diversification
We are among the very few players in India with 
capabilities that span the full real estate value 
chain, from residential and commercial, to retail and 
hospitality. This multi-domain expertise gives us the 
latitude to pivot between asset classes, depending on 
market cycles, while ensuring that our growth remains 
steady, sustainable and self-funded.
In residential, our business model is designed for 
predictability and transparency; recognising revenues 
only upon sale and registration. This ensures financial 
integrity even in high-growth phases. Simultaneously, 
our commercial and retail assets provide annuity-
based income, backed by marquee tenants and high-
performing retail spaces. Together, these segments 
create a resilient revenue engine.
Anchored in Values, 
Designed for the Future
Our strategic clarity is reinforced by our unwavering 
commitment to the QC-FIRST framework: Quality, 
Customer Centricity, Fairness, Innovation, 
Responsible Socially and Trust. These are not 
abstract ideals — they are embedded in every decision 
we make, ranging from product design and pricing to 
customer service and digital enablement.
Customer-first initiatives like Here4You, Brigade 
Plus and the Belong community app are designed 
to enhance lifetime engagement. Our collaborations 
with global design firms and our leadership in ESG 
certifications reflect our obsession with quality 
and sustainability.
Delivering Growth 
with Discipline
The result of this multi-pronged strategy is visible 
in our performance. We achieved our highest-ever 
residential sales in FY24: 7.55 Million sq. ft., with a 
CAGR of 30% in value terms over the last five years. Our 
growth has not come at the cost of financial prudence; 
we remain conservatively leveraged with strong 
operating margins and a focus on return on capital.
Supported by strategic land acquisition filters, a 
well-diversified portfolio and a disciplined capital 
allocation approach, we continue to drive scale without 
compromising on stability.
The South India Imperative: 
De-risked by Geography, 
Positioned for Scale
Our long-term growth vision is inextricably linked to 
deepening our dominance in South India. From our 
home ground in Bengaluru, where we have set industry 
benchmarks in integrated townships and commercial 
landmarks, we are now actively consolidating our 
position in Chennai, which we see as the next big 
engine of growth. Chennai’s improving infrastructure, 
investor appetite and strong residential demand, align 
perfectly with our strategic objectives.
In parallel, we have entered Hyderabad with a focused 
and measured approach. Our foray into this market 
is driven by its booming IT and commercial sectors, 
along with increasing urban housing demand. With 
Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad under our fold, we 
aim to become the leader in Southern India’s real estate 
landscape, both in scale and in quality.
This multi-city strategy not only helps us capture 
new growth frontiers but also de-risks us from over-
dependence on any single geography. It allows us to 
optimise our land bank, respond swiftly to local market 
signals and build stronger customer and institutional 
relationships across regional ecosystems.
Read more on pg 32
Read more on pg 44
Read more on pg 68
Read more on pg 14
In essence, our strategy is about creating a 
future-ready real estate platform that is built on 
deep regional roots, diversified revenue engines, 
customer-first thinking and an unshakeable value 
system. As we expand across South India, we 
do so with the confidence that we are not just 
building projects, we are also building a legacy.
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
61
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Building a Long-term, Sustainable 
Risk Management 
Framework 
At Brigade Group, our risk management framework is 
aligned with globally recognised Committee of Sponsoring 
Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) 
standards, which we have adopted since March 2018. 
This structured and integrated approach strengthens 
our ability to identify, assess and mitigate risks, supporting 
long-term resilience and organisational stability.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Governance 
and Culture 
Strategy and 
Objective 
Setting
Performance
Review and 
Revision
Information 
Communication 
and Reporting
Implement Board 
oversight
Establish operating 
structures
Define desired 
organisational 
culture
Demonstrate 
commitment to 
core values
Attract, develop 
and retain capable 
individuals
Analyse business 
context
Define risk appetite
Evaluate alternative 
strategies
Formulate business 
objectives
Identify risk, assess 
the severity of 
the risk
Prioritise the risk 
Implement the risk 
response
Develop portfolio 
view
Assess substantial 
change 
Review risk and 
performance
Pursue improvement 
in Enterprise Risk 
Management
Leverage 
information and 
technology
Communicate risk 
information
Report on risk 
culture and 
performance
Components of ERM Framework
Brigade Enterprises Limited
62
GRI 2-16, 25
Board of Directors
Risk Management 
Committee (RMC)
Risk Management 
Executive Committee
Corporate Risk Coordinator/
Risk Management Secretariat
Functional/SBU Head
Roles & Responsibilities of Risk Management Committee
Brigade Insignia, Bengaluru 
(Artist’s Impression)
Reporting
Communication
Annually
Quarterly
Quarterly
Monthly
63
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-16, 25
Our Vision
At Brigade Enterprises Limited (BEL), the heart of our 
journey lies in becoming a world-class organisation in 
products, processes, people and performance - a clear 
goal that inspires, and a commitment that creates an 
enduring impact. Recognising and proactively managing 
key business risks is essential to realising this vision 
and reinforcing trust across all levels of our enterprise.
Way Forward
Brigade has submitted its commitment to the Science 
Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) and is targeting net-zero 
emissions by 2045. This ambition reflects our long-
term focus on enhancing both natural and financial 
capital resilience. 
De-carbonisation strategy and roadmap has been 
prepared and target submission is under progress.
In parallel, we are disclosing climate related risk 
assessment and management information aligned 
with TCFD/IFRS-2 framework for the first time. Aligned 
with set goal we are publishing our first TNFD report 
in FY 2024-25. Reinforcing our stewardship of natural 
capital and commitment to sustainable, nature-
positive growth.
Our Risk Management 
Approach and Framework
Brigade Enterprises Limited (BEL) conducts its 
operations across all real estate sectors, including 
residential, commercial (office and retail leasing) and 
hospitality. The Company’s regulatory framework 
consists of a Board-appointed Risk Management 
Committee, responsible for overseeing the risk 
management plan and ensuring its effectiveness. 
The Company has established a comprehensive 
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework, 
supported by a clearly defined governance structure 
tailored to the Company’s organisational design. 
This integrated framework facilitates the systematic 
identification, assessment, monitoring and reporting 
of risks arising from both internal and external sources. 
Internal risks include factors such as land bank 
management, project execution and talent acquisition 
and retention, while external risks stem from political 
uncertainties and macroeconomic shifts.
The risk management function is overseen by the Board 
of Directors, with active involvement from the senior 
leadership and management teams. They periodically 
review risk policies and systems to ensure alignment 
with evolving strategic priorities and changes in the 
external environment. The Company’s proactive and 
forward-looking approach enables early identification 
of potential challenges, supported by robust mitigation 
strategies that enhance the Company’s resilience.
The risk management team, under the guidance of the Board, continuously 
monitors the Company’s risk profile and the effectiveness of its mitigation 
plans. Key risks identified by business and functional heads are addressed 
through structured and ongoing mitigation measures, reinforcing BEL’s 
ability to navigate uncertainty and sustain long-term performance.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
64
GRI 2-16, 25
Risks and the Initiatives
Market Risk
Raw Material Risks
Market risk, or systemic risk, 
refers to the potential for financial 
losses resulting from broad 
macroeconomic and geopolitical 
factors that impact the overall 
market performance. These include 
interest rate fluctuations, trade 
policies, industrial output, political 
instability, natural disasters and 
geopolitical events. While such 
risks are external and not specific 
to our business or sector, they can 
influence investor sentiment and 
impact our earnings.
Raw materials constitute a 
significant portion of our operating 
costs and fluctuations in their 
prices or availability can materially 
affect our profitability, cash flow 
and operational efficiency. In the 
absence of long-term vendor 
contracts or commodity hedging 
mechanisms, BEL is directly 
exposed to volatility in fuel and 
logistics costs, which in turn 
influence raw material pricing and 
contribute to periodic inflation.
Mitigation
Our balanced business model offers inherent resilience, anchored by 
both residential and annuity segments. The residential segment is more 
directly influenced by market fluctuations, whereas the annuity business 
provides stable and recurring revenue streams, partially insulating us from 
market volatility.
To manage market risk effectively, we conduct thorough due diligence 
and market research before any investment. This includes evaluating local 
economic indicators, population trends, employment data and market 
demand. Moreover, we maintain a diversified portfolio across property 
types and geographic regions, helping to mitigate exposure and enhance 
overall stability.
Mitigation
To manage these risks, BEL establishes fixed base prices at the time of 
contract award, with any subsequent price changes tracked and reconciled 
during the procurement cycle. This approach ensures transparency and 
fairness throughout the purchasing process.
At project sites, we maintain optimal inventory levels of key materials such 
as steel, cement, copper and aluminium. We actively monitor market trends 
and pricing data to make informed procurement decisions. To further 
mitigate cost pressures, we employ value engineering, efficient design 
practices and effective waste reduction strategies. Our budgeting process 
also includes contingency provisions to absorb potential cost escalations, 
thereby safeguarding financial stability amid market volatility.
65
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-25
Land-related Risk
Execution Risk
Land is a fundamental input for 
all construction projects and the 
limited availability of suitable 
plots in strategic locations at 
reasonable prices can significantly 
increase costs, thereby impacting 
overall business performance.
Real estate projects are exposed 
to a range of implementation 
challenges, including fluctuations 
in raw material availability and 
cost, regulatory compliance delays, 
skilled labour shortages, adverse 
weather conditions, logistics 
disruptions, site accidents and 
quality deviations. These factors 
can result in delayed project 
initiation, construction setbacks 
and cost overruns.
Mitigation
To address this, the Company adopts a strategic and flexible approach to 
land acquisition, employing a hybrid model that includes outright purchases, 
joint ventures and collaborative development. In cases where land prices are 
elevated, we prioritise joint ventures or joint development arrangements to 
avoid substantial capital outflows, ensuring prudent financial management.
Our in-house legal department conducts rigorous due diligence on all land 
titles. This process is further reinforced by engaging experienced legal 
experts specialising in real estate, to thoroughly vet every land acquisition, 
joint venture, or development agreement prior to execution.
Recognising the challenges posed by limited land availability, we work closely 
with land aggregators to expand our access to viable options. This proactive 
sourcing strategy broadens our pipeline of potential acquisitions and helps 
mitigate risks associated with land acquisition constraints, supporting the 
sustained growth of our land bank.
Mitigation
At BEL, effective execution is central to delivering successful project 
outcomes. Before commencement, we develop comprehensive Project 
Execution Plans (PEPs) and conduct detailed orientation sessions with 
all stakeholders to ensure alignment with execution protocols and 
implementation requirements.
During the development phase, we maintain strict adherence to established 
processes and policies. Cross-functional teams conduct regular review 
meetings to monitor progress, uphold quality benchmarks and address 
potential issues. We prioritise the selection of reputed, best-in-class 
contractors and adopt a strategic, data-driven approach to planning and 
execution. Besides, daily tracking systems are implemented to ensure timely 
delivery and consistent quality.
Health and safety remain a top priority. The most significant construction 
risks include falls from heights and collisions with moving vehicles, while 
non-fatal injuries often stem from slips, trips and falling objects. BEL 
mitigates these risks through a robust Environmental & Social (E&S) 
policy framework and vigilant on-site monitoring, ensuring a safe working 
environment throughout the project lifecycle.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
66
GRI 2-25
Interest Rate Risk
Inflation Risk
IT Risk
BEL is exposed to market risk 
arising from fluctuations in the 
interest rates on its borrowings, 
all of which are linked to floating 
rates. An increase in interest rates 
may raise our financing costs and 
adversely affect earnings. These 
fluctuations are largely driven 
by the Reserve Bank of India’s 
monetary policy and broader 
macroeconomic conditions, 
including inflation which are 
factors beyond the Company’s 
direct control.
Inflationary pressures stem from 
a range of global and domestic 
factors, including geopolitical 
tensions, supply chain disruptions 
and unforeseen events such as 
pandemics, all of which can hinder 
the economic growth. Domestically, 
rising inflation can directly elevate 
procurement and operational 
costs. Moreover, monetary policy 
responses to inflation, such as 
interest rate hikes, can increase the 
cost of debt servicing.
Any disruption or delay in the 
functioning of our existing 
IT systems or challenges in 
implementing new technologies, 
could hinder the Company’s 
ability to efficiently track, record 
and analyse the work in progress, 
potentially resulting in the loss of 
critical data.
Mitigation
Despite this exposure, BEL maintains one of the lowest borrowing rates in 
the real estate sector. During the development phase, we utilise construction 
finance, which is typically repaid through project-generated cash flows. 
Post-completion, commercial project loans are often refinanced into lower-
cost lease rental discounting (LRD) loans, thereby optimising interest costs 
over time.
Interest rate volatility may also influence investor preferences and affect 
overall returns on real estate assets, particularly in a rising rate environment. 
To mitigate this risk, we adopt a diversified investment strategy across 
multiple geographies and asset classes, helping to balance returns and 
reduce sensitivity to interest rate movements.
Mitigation
To mitigate these risks, BEL adopts a proactive approach by factoring an 
inflation premium into interest rates and the required rate of return (RoR) 
on investments. This strategy helps safeguard operational margins and 
ensures financial resilience, while maintaining a prudent and forward-looking 
investment outlook.
Mitigation
To mitigate these risks, BEL has implemented robust information security 
practices and is certified under the ISO 27001: 2022 framework. Well-
defined IT policies and procedures are in place and consistently enforced 
across the organisation.
67
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-25
A Year of Record Growth and  
Lasting Impact
FINANCIAL CAPITAL 
In FY25, Brigade Group redefined excellence, turning 
aspirations into achievements with its highest-ever 
real estate sales of ₹7,847 Crore, a testament to a 
goal that inspires. 
Interlinkages with 
the Other Capitals 
SDGs Impacted
Key Material Topics
M20 - Economic Performance
M21 -  Transparency 
and Disclosures
M22 - Asset Management 
M23 - Regulatory Compliance
Brigade Enterprises Limited
68
GRI 201-1
Performance Like  
Never Before
With collections soaring to ₹7,250 Crore and robust 
operating cash flows of ₹2,135 Crore, the Company 
didn’t just grow; it created an impact that endures. 
The real estate segment shone with ₹3,613 Crore in 
revenue, while the leasing business surged by 24%, 
reflecting Brigade’s dual strength in development 
and sustainability. 
Consolidated revenue reached ₹5,314 Crore, backed 
by a 31% EBITDA margin and a 69% jump in PAT, prove 
that when vision meets execution, success is not 
just measured in numbers, but in the lasting value 
it creates. This is not just growth – it is a legacy in 
the making.
Capital and Resource 
Allocation
Brigade Enterprises maintains a disciplined approach 
to capital allocation, focusing on high-return projects 
and balanced growth across real estate, leasing and 
hospitality. The Company prioritises deleveraging, 
with net debt-to-equity improving to 0.65X in 
FY25, supported by strong operating cash flows of 
₹2,135 Crore. Investments are directed toward prime 
residential, commercial and retail assets, ensuring 
optimal utilisation of resources, while maintaining 
liquidity for future opportunities.
Cost Management and 
Efficiency
The Company has implemented stringent cost 
optimisation measures across construction, 
procurement and operations, contributing to steady 
EBITDA margins of 31%. The leasing segment’s 
high EBITDA of ₹771 Crore reflects efficient asset 
monetisation, while centralised procurement and 
tech-driven processes enhance productivity. These 
efforts ensure sustained profitability, despite market 
fluctuations, reinforcing the Company’s focus on 
operational excellence.
Brigade Vantage, Mysuru 
(Artist’s Impression)
69
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 201-1
Particulars
FY25
FY24
FY23
FY22
 FY21 
Revenue (in ₹ Cr)
 5,313.5 
 5,064.2 
 3,563.2 
 3,065.5 
 2,010.4 
EBIDTA (in ₹ Cr)
 1,653.5 
 1,361.8 
 977.6 
 833.1 
 532.4 
EBIT (in ₹ Cr)
 1,364.8 
 870.8 
 543.5 
 482.5 
 295.4 
Interest (in ₹ Cr)
 495.5 
 491.0 
 434.2 
 443.6 
 346.8 
PBT (in ₹ Cr)
 869.3 
 568.7 
 278.0 
 38.9 
 (125.1)
PAT (in ₹ Cr)
 680.5 
 401.0 
 222.2 
 (15.0)
 (96.4)
Net Worth (in ₹ Cr)
 5,915.3 
 3,557.8 
 3,143.7 
 2,877.7 
 2,463.2 
Bank Debt (in ₹ Cr)
 4,444.2 
 4,649.8 
 3,821.6 
 4,106.8 
 4,295.5 
Net Fixed Assets (in ₹ Cr)
 7,017.0 
 5,804.5 
 5,401.3 
 5,441.5 
 5,510.5 
Inventory (in ₹ Cr)
 8,868.8 
 7,735.9 
 7,327.3 
 6,222.8 
 5,902.0 
Debtors (in ₹ Cr)
 629.1 
 499.7 
 461.6 
 504.2 
 527.2 
Cash & Bank (in ₹ Cr)
 3,261.0 
 1,737.3 
 1,478.1 
 944.8 
 559.4 
Per Share Ratio
Earnings Per Share (EPS)
28.7
 19.6 
12.6
3.7
 (2.2)
Dividend Per Share (DPS)
2.5
 2.0 
1.5
1.2
 1.0 
Book Value Per Share (BVPS)
 230.7 
 157.9 
 140.6 
 126.4 
 111.3 
Growth Ratio (%)
Revenue Growth
 4.92 
 42.1 
 16.2 
 52.5 
 (25.0)
EBIDTA Growth 
 21.42 
 39.3 
 17.4 
 56.5 
 (25.3)
PAT Growth
 69.67 
 80.5 
 NA 
 84.4 
 (184.6)
Growth in Book Value Per Share
 46.12 
 12.3 
 11.3 
 13.5 
 (0.3)
Inventory Growth
 14.65 
 5.6 
 17.7 
 5.4 
 13.3 
Margin Ratios (%)
EBIDTA Margin
 31.12 
 26.9 
 27.4 
 27.2 
 26.5 
EBIT Margin
 25.68 
 17.2 
 15.3 
 15.7 
 14.7 
Net Profit Margin
 7.92 
 7.9 
 6.2 
 (0.5)
 (4.8)
Other Key Ratios (%)
Return on Equity (RoE)
12.9%
13.0%
9.5%
3.5%
 (2.1)
Dividend Payout
 6.78 
 12 
 15.6 
 (183)
 (24.9)
Debt Equity Ratio (D/E) x
 0.75 
 1.31 
 1.22 
 1.43 
 1.7 
Interest Coverage Ratio x
 3.3 
 2.8 
 2.3 
 1.9 
1.5
Brigade’s Performance Through the Years
Brigade Enterprises Limited
70
GRI 201-1
Key Performance Indicators
Total Income
EBITDA
DPS
EPS
Book Value Per Share
ROE
5,314
231
28.7
1,654
2.5
12.9%
5,064
158
19.6
1,362
2.0
13%
3,563
141
12.6
978
1.5
9.5%
3,065
126
3.7
833
1.2
3.5%
2,010
111
532
1.0
(₹ in Cr)
(₹)
(₹)
(₹ in Cr)
(₹)
(₹)
(2.1)
(2.2)
FY24
FY24
FY24
FY24
FY24
FY24
FY23
FY23
FY23
FY23
FY23
FY23
FY22
FY22
FY22
FY22
FY22
FY22
FY21
FY21
FY21
FY21
FY21
FY21
FY25
FY25
FY25
FY25
FY25
FY25
71
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 201-1
Where Innovation Meets Sustainable 
Growth
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL 
Manufactured capital is the 
foundation of our operational 
strength, powering our assets, 
infrastructure and relentless 
pursuit of efficiency. 
Interlinkages with 
the Other Capitals 
SDGs Impacted
Key Material Topics
M20 - Economic Performance 
M1 - Water Management
M2 - GHG Emissions
M5 - Health and Safety
M9 - Materials
M11 - Waste Management
M12 - Biodiversity 
M 25 - Labour Practice Indicators
Key Highlights
7.2 Mn sq. ft.
Area completed
26 Mn sq. ft.
Area under construction 
39
No. of projects 
We strategically invest in cutting-edge automation and digital 
transformation, driving productivity and precision across every 
project. Our optimised supply chains and rigorous quality 
frameworks not only uphold world-class standards, but also 
reduce waste, ensuring that performance and sustainability 
go hand in hand. By blending advanced technology with 
responsible practices, we turn infrastructure into impact, 
delivering lasting value for stakeholders and the planet.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
72
Addressing the Demand
India’s premium residential housing market is 
undergoing a remarkable transformation, shaped by 
the aspirations of affluent buyers who seek more than 
just a home; they desire a lifestyle. Today’s discerning 
homeowners expect a seamless blend of luxury, 
advanced technology and sustainable living.  
In response, developers are crafting exclusive,  
tailor-made living experiences that reflect 
sophistication and individuality.
From infinity pools and private gyms to in-home 
theatres, art galleries and designer lounges, modern 
luxury residences are curated to offer not just 
comfort, but an elevated way of life. This new era of 
real estate redefines what luxury means in a rapidly 
modernising India – delivering not just spaces to live, 
but environments to thrive.
Sustainable Luxury: Brigade 
Enterprises Responds to the 
Green Imperative
At Brigade Enterprises, luxury is no longer defined 
solely by opulence, it is equally about responsibility. As 
environmentally conscious living becomes a priority 
for today’s discerning homebuyers, the development is 
leading the way with smart, sustainable design.
We integrate eco-friendly features such as solar energy 
systems, rainwater harvesting, energy-efficient lighting, 
advanced waste management solutions and more. 
Thoughtfully planned green spaces, urban gardens and 
vertical landscapes not only enhance aesthetic appeal, 
but also support a healthier, greener lifestyle.
By weaving sustainability into every aspect of 
its offering, Brigade Enterprises is redefining 
modern luxury, where refined living meets 
environmental responsibility.
Brigade Icon, Chennai 
(Artist’s Impression)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
73
"I have been living at Brigade El Dorado for a while now and I could not be 
more pleased with my decision. The location is fantastic – well-connected 
to major IT hubs and the city centre, yet peaceful and quiet, making 
daily commuting a breeze. The amenities here are top-notch. The gym is 
well-equipped, the swimming pool is inviting and the clubhouse is a great 
space to unwind. Everything has been designed with residents' comfort in 
mind. The construction quality is impressive, with spacious and  
well-ventilated apartments that feel both modern and durable. Security 
is a priority here and the 24/7 surveillance and gated entry gives me 
complete peace of mind. The lush green landscaping is another highlight, 
offering a calm and refreshing atmosphere. The management team is 
responsive and professional, always quick to address any concerns. The 
community vibe is friendly and welcoming, with plenty of social events 
to help residents connect. As an investment, Brigade El Dorado 
offers great value for money and strong potential for appreciation. 
Overall, Brigade El Dorado is a fantastic place to live – 
comfortable, secure and a great community to be part of.”
Customer Testimonial
Saleemunnisa Syed
Brigade El Dorado
“The construction quality is impressive, modern and durable."
Brigade Enterprises Limited
74
Wellness-centric Living:  
Brigade Enterprises Champions Holistic Home Design
In the post-pandemic world, health and wellness 
have taken centre stage in how premium homes are 
envisioned and Brigade Enterprises is at the forefront 
of this transformation. Understanding the evolving 
priorities of homebuyers, Brigade has integrated 
wellness-focused features into the core design of 
its developments.
From serene yoga studios and dedicated meditation 
rooms to advanced air purification systems, every 
element is thoughtfully planned to support a healthier 
lifestyle. Innovations like circadian lighting, noise-
dampening materials and open, naturally ventilated 
layouts, foster a balanced living environment that 
nurtures both body and mind.
With a deep commitment to holistic well-being, 
Brigade Enterprises is not just building homes, it is 
creating sanctuaries that elevate everyday living, 
through wellness-first design.
Brigade El Dorado, Bengaluru
75
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL 
Innovation
in Every Blueprint
At Brigade Enterprises, innovation 
is not just a principle, it is a driving 
force that has elevated us into 
a formidable presence in India’s 
commercial landscape. 
Interlinkages with 
the Other Capitals 
SDGs Impacted
Key Material Topics
M24 - Technology and Innovation 
M18 -  Data Privacy and 
Cyber Security 
M3 -  Business Conduct 
and Compliance
M19 - Responsible Marketing
Guided by a future-ready mindset and a culture 
that champions forward-thinking solutions, we are 
dedicated to creating lasting value for all stakeholders.
Our undeterred focus on harnessing intellectual 
excellence empowers us to lead transformative 
progress, not just for the Company, but for the 
communities we touch. True to our ethos, we pursue 
a goal that continually inspires and delivers an impact 
designed to endure.
Luxury Meets Technology 
At Brigade Enterprises, technology is not just an 
enhancement, it is a core element of modern luxury 
living. Recognising the evolving expectations of high-
end homebuyers, Brigade is redefining premium 
residences through intelligent design and seamless 
digital integration.
From smart home systems that effortlessly manage 
lighting, climate and security, to state-of-the-art 
kitchens equipped with advanced appliances and 
voice-controlled assistants, every detail is curated 
for convenience and sophistication. The adoption 
of IoT-enabled features ensures energy efficiency, 
personalised comfort and enhanced safety.
By embedding future-ready technology into the fabric 
of its developments, Brigade Enterprises is delivering 
a new benchmark in luxury, where innovation meets 
intuitive living.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
76
Innovation at Brigade Enterprises
Pioneering PropTech Innovation in Asia 
Brigade Enterprises has been a trailblazer in real 
estate innovation through Brigade REAP (Real Estate 
Accelerator Program), Asia’s first dedicated real estate 
accelerator. Designed to foster cutting-edge PropTech 
startups, REAP has now supported over 82 startups, of 
which nearly 45% have secured further investment and 
are actively solving real-world challenges across the 
real estate value chain. The programme receives over 
100 applications per batch, selecting only five to seven 
high-potential ventures focused on cost-efficiency, 
time savings, or revenue generation.
With a robust Proof of Concept success rate of 
40–50%, REAP has become a launchpad for scalable 
business models. Its accelerator portfolio companies 
have collectively raised over ₹65 crore in follow-on 
funding and startups graduating from the programme 
have seen an average business growth of 160%.
Brigade benefits from early access to emerging 
technologies but does not mandate first use. This 
flexibility allows startups to scale organically, often 
finding faster adoption with more agile developers. A 
notable example is Aap Ka Painter, which was acquired 
post-REAP, giving Brigade a successful exit despite not 
being the primary user of its B2C solution.
Beyond the accelerator, Brigade continues to fuel 
innovation through multiple PropTech-focused capital 
vehicles. The most notable is the recently launched 
Earth Fund, India’s first and only venture capital 
platform dedicated to sustainability and PropTech 
in real estate. This ₹300 crore partnership between 
Brigade and Gruhas is focused on high-growth 
startups working on decarbonisation, digitalisation and 
disruption in construction, design and development.
Sustainability 
Smart 
Spaces
Construction 
Technology
Real Estate 
Intelligence 
Customer 
Delight 
Digital 
Marketing 
77
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
HUMAN CAPITAL
Where Passion Builds, People
Thrive 
Our people are the blueprint 
of our success. We create a 
diverse, inclusive and purpose-
driven workforce that generates 
innovation and excellence in every 
project. We are committed to 
a culture where each person is 
valued and empowered.
Learning never stops at Brigade. Through focused 
training in technical leadership and behavioural areas, 
we are equipping our teams to grow both within their 
roles and across the organisation. Our development 
programmes are driving our upcoming generations of 
talent and enabling untapped potential in people.
Safety and well-being are deeply embedded in our 
ethos. With our robust site safety measures, wellness 
programs and health plans, we ensure that our people 
feel safe, supported and cared for.
People are not just part of our journey, they lead it. 
That is why investing in human capital remains central 
to Brigade’s sustainable growth story.
Interlinkages with 
the Other Capitals 
SDGs Impacted
Key Material Topics
M5 Health & Safety
M6 Human Rights
M8 Human Capital Development
M15 Talent Attraction & Retention
M25 Labor Practice Indicators
Key Highlights
3,043
Permanent employees
18.6%
Gender diversity
17,209
Contract workers
1,43,930
Total Training hours
100%
ESG Training 
participation rate
85%
Employee satisfaction/
Engagement score 
87% 
Health and Wellness 
participation rate 
₹37,634.02/-
Welfare Expenditure  
per employee  
(₹ per employee)
76.4%
ESG Performance Score 
(Improvement over baseline)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
78
GRI 2-7,8; 404 – 1,2; 405-1
Employee Details 
In FY25, the Brigade workforce/Brigade's workforce 
comprised 5,527 individuals, including both permanent 
and contractual employees. This reflects a significant 
20% increase from the previous year’s headcount of 
4,592 employees, marking a year of robust growth. Of 
the total workforce, 4,481 were male and 1,046 were 
female, translating to a gender diversity ratio of ~19%. 
Of the total workforce, approximately 45% were 
permanent and 55% were contractual employees. 
Among the permanent staff, 63% were associates, 
29% held middle management positions, 7% were in 
senior management and 1% formed part of the top 
management team. This distribution remained largely 
consistent with the previous year. 
The age profile of our permanent workforce also 
demonstrates diversity. A majority of the workforce, 
which is around 56%, were between 30 and 50 years 
old, 40% were under 30 and 4% were over 50.
During the year, we engaged 17,209 contract workers, 
a 42% increase from 12,081 in the previous reporting 
period. Of this group, 92% were male and 8% female. 
Encouragingly, the number of female contract 
workers doubled compared to last year, which 
signals a positive movement towards more inclusive 
workforce participation. 
5,527
4,592
44.9 
4%
55.0 
6%
FY24
FY25
FY25
Employees by 
type (%)
Permanent
Contractual
4%
40%
56%
FY25
Under 30 years
30-50 years old
Over 50 years old
Employees by Age Group (%)
Y-O-Y Employee Growth
Gender Diversity for Permanent Employee Categories
33%
25%
17%
14%
18%
17%
13%
10%
19%
17%
19%
18%
Board 
Members
Top 
Management
Senior 
Management
Middle 
Management
Total Permanent 
Employees 
(with BoD)
Associate
FY24
FY25
Employees by Seniority/Employee Categories
79
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-7, 8; 405-1
Developing a Workforce  
for Tomorrow 
During the reporting period, we were proud to include 
32 persons with disabilities in our workforce, up from 
22 the previous year and a significant rise from just 
3, two years ago. This group comprises 17 permanent 
employees, 5 workers and 10 contractual employees. 
We remain committed to fostering an inclusive 
workplace free from discrimination. 
Gender diversity within our permanent workforce 
improved across all organisational levels this year. 
Women now represent 33% of our Board, 19% of 
associates, 18% of middle management, 17% of top 
management and 13% of senior management. This brings 
the overall gender representation among permanent 
employees to 19%, from 17% in the previous year. 
However, the overall gender diversity across total 
employees declined from 22% to 19%, primarily due to a 
lower proportion of women among contractual staff.
Overall, our female workforce expanded by 43% – a 
meaningful step forward in our efforts to build a more 
inclusive workplace and advance women's leadership 
across roles.
We welcomed 1,599 new permanent employees during 
the year, reflecting a hiring rate of 52%. Of these, 
60% were under 30, 38% were between 30–50 years 
and 1% were over 50. Women made up 20% of all 
new hires, underlining our ongoing efforts to improve 
gender balance. 
During the same period, 922 employees exited the 
organisation, leading to a turnover rate of 30%.  
Attrition was highest in the under-30 age group at 63%, 
followed by 35% in the 30–50 group and 2% among 
those over 50. Gender-wise, 82% of exits were male 
and 17% female.
52% 
Hiring rate
30% 
Turnover rate
The 20% increase in employees 
underscores our ability to attract talent 
and meet growing project demands
Women in 
permanent roles 
increased from 
17% to 19%
43% increase 
in total female 
workforce 
Women employees 
increased at 
every level, from 
associates to Board 
100% increase in 
female contract 
workers
We remain committed to ensuring parity in 
compensation and benefits across all levels of the 
organisation, a key driver of our employees’ financial 
well-being.
This year, we assessed our gender pay gap using 
internationally recognised methods. Where disparities 
emerged, we initiated targeted strategies to 
bridge those gaps. In line with our commitment to 
transparency and gender equity, Brigade Group is 
sharing these metrics as part of our broader Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) agenda.
32 
Specially abled employees
During the reporting period, the 
average salary ratio of women 
to men was in 0.77 in senior 
management, 0.99 in middle 
management and 1.05 in junior 
management. Our gender pay gap 
analysis revealed a gross hourly 
pay gap of 18.8% (mean) and 6.9% 
(median), while the bonus pay 
gap stood at 17.3% (mean) and 
6.6% (median).
Brigade Enterprises Limited
80
GRI 401-1; 405-1, 2
Training and Development
In FY25, we delivered over 70 distinct training 
programmes, totalling more than 1,43,930 hours of 
collective learning across the Group, representing a 
35% increase compared to FY24. These investments in 
human capital not only sharpen individual performance, 
but also elevate overall organisational excellence and 
employee satisfaction.
Training programmes focused on various thematic 
areas such as:
To support continuous and self-directed learning, we 
adopted a hybrid learning model that blends internal 
programmes with external platforms such as Udemy, 
Coursera and LinkedIn Learning, enabling a flexible, self-
paced development. 
In FY25, permanent employees received an average 
of 43.40 hours of training. Male employees averaged 
42.76 hours, while female employees received 46.19 
hours of training. We also ensure that essential training 
on Occupational Health & Safety (OHS) and the Code 
of Conduct is provided to contract workers, who 
constitute a significant portion of our workforce.
Performance and Career 
Development
In FY25, 2,272 employees, including both permanent 
and contractual staff, participated in structured 
career development reviews. Notably, 72% of 
permanent employees were covered under formal 
performance evaluations.
1.4 lakh+ 
learning hours delivered a 
35%
YoY increase in training hours
 Women as 
Emerging 
Leaders
Organisational 
& Leadership 
Strategies
Technology 
and Digital 
Literacy
Prevention 
of Sexual 
Harassment 
(PoSH)
Enterprise Risk 
Management
Teamwork and 
Development
ESG-related 
Topics
43.40
42.76
Male
46.19
Female
Total
Average Training Hours for 
Permanent Employees
2,272 
Employees participated in structured 
career development reviews
72% 
of permanent employees covered 
under formal evaluations
81
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 404 1-3
Employee Engagement
At Brigade, we believe that true progress is measured 
by the strength of our communities and the 
engagement of our people. We focus on creating a 
workplace where employees feel valued, connected and 
empowered to contribute meaningfully. 
Our engagement Initiatives promote inclusion, work-life 
balance and leadership values. These efforts enhance 
motivation and teamwork and help build resilience and 
sustainable performance over time.
In FY25, employee engagement emerged as a key 
enabler for ESG integration. From wellness programmes 
and cultural festivities to environmental initiatives 
and governance-focused forums, every activity was 
intentionally aligned with our ESG objectives. 
More than 70% of our employees participated in 
wellness activities, reflecting strong involvement and 
positive sentiment. Inclusive celebrations nurtured 
a sense of belonging and reinforced community ties 
across all locations. Environmental efforts, including 
tree plantation drives, heightened sustainability 
awareness; while long service awards enhanced 
recognition and retention. Guided by stakeholder 
input and sustainability priorities, activities such as 
mental health webinars, green drives and leadership 
forums effectively embedded ethics, empathy and 
environmental stewardship into our workplace culture, 
reinforcing Brigade’s commitment to transparent, 
responsible and people-centered engagement.
Nurturing of nature 
through mass tree 
plantation drive
Spreading awareness on celebration 
of Ganesha Chaturthi through Clay 
Ganesha Idol making Campaign
Brigade Enterprises Limited
82
GRI 2-29; 404-2
Engagement Activities
Initiative
Key Highlights
Environmental
Tree Plantation Drive at 
Twin Towers
A tree plantation drive was conducted at the Twin Towers site, bringing 
together employees and the community to enhance green cover and 
reinforce our shared commitment to sustainability.
Social
Fitness Fun Friday, Yoga Day, 
Laughter Yoga, Fitness@Brigade
Promoted employee wellness and supported work-life balance
Career Guidance Workshop 
(Mentoria)
Supported employee development and family well-being through 
career mentoring.
Mother’s Day and International 
Family Day
Promoted family inclusion and emotional well-being through special 
celebrations on Mother's Day and International Family Day, fostering 
deeper personal connections and a supportive workplace culture.
Women’s Premier League, Brigade 
Premier League, Badminton League
Promoted gender empowerment and inclusivity through sports initiatives 
that encouraged equal participation, teamwork and mutual respect 
across all genders.
Organised cancer awareness 
sessions, healthy eating webinars 
and provided access to YourDOST for 
mental health support, reinforcing 
our commitment to comprehensive 
employee well-being
Addressed physical and mental wellness, supporting holistic 
employee health.
Governance
Long Service Awards  
(April and September)
Recognised employee loyalty and dedication through Long Service 
Awards held in April and September, fostering a culture of appreciation 
and long-term commitment.
Brigade Project Experience 
Strengthened employee-brand connection and organisational 
transparency through immersive Brigade Project Experience visits to 
Sanctuary, El Dorado, Atmosphere and Oasis.
Environmental + Social
TCS, Uru, Bengaluru Marathons
Encouraged physical health and environmental awareness through 
community-driven participation in events such as the TCS, Uru and 
Bengaluru Marathons.
83
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-29; 404-2
Initiative
Key Highlights
Social + Governance
Ugadi, Gauri Ganesha, 
Onam, Sankranthi, Diwali, 
Fiesta, Christmas
Celebrated cultural diversity and inclusiveness across multiple locations 
through regionally rooted festivals, collaborative events and employee-
led cultural showcases.
Fun Fridays, Great Place to Work 
(GPTW) Celebrations
Fostered a positive and engaging workplace culture through meaningful 
interactions, recognition programmes and shared celebrations.
Mysore IBIS Trial Stays
Offered experiential benefits to enhance employee engagement, 
creating memorable moments that strengthened connection and 
workplace satisfaction.
Independence Day, Children’s Day, 
Women’s Day
Offered experiential benefits to enhance employee engagement, 
creating memorable moments that strengthened connection and 
workplace satisfaction.
Outbound Team Bonding 
– Pondicherry
Strengthened team spirit and cross-functional collaboration through an 
outbound team bonding experience in Pondicherry.
"World No Tobacco Day" 
awareness campaign
Team outing for better bonding
Brigade Enterprises Limited
84
GRI 2-29; 404-2
Employee Benefits
We believe employee benefits should support not just 
pay but also well-being, personal growth and long-
term security. Our benefits framework addresses the 
varied needs of our workforce, offering comprehensive 
coverage that includes insurance, healthcare, disability 
support and maternity leave for all employees, whether 
permanent or contractual.
Permanent employees also benefit from retirement 
plans and stock ownership options, reinforcing our 
focus on career continuity and financial empowerment. 
Across roles, we ensure fair and above-minimum 
compensation, supporting diversity and building a 
workplace where every contribution counts.
Parental Leave
At Brigade, we support our employees through life’s 
key milestones, including parenthood. Our parental 
leave policy promotes shared caregiving and enables 
employees to prioritise family without compromising 
their professional growth. 
All permanent employees are eligible for parental 
leave, with female employees entitled to 180 days and 
male employees to three days. Contractual female 
employees are also supported through maternity 
leave benefits. 
During the reporting period, 89 % female employees 
who availed parental leave returned to work, 
demonstrating the strength of our re-entry support and 
our focus on ensuring that caregiving responsibilities 
do not interrupt long-term career progression. 
Health and Safety
Championing Health and  
Safety Excellence
Health and safety are foundational to how we operate. 
Our three-fold approach: awareness, workplace safety 
and global compliance, ensures robust safeguards for 
our workplace and stakeholders. 
89% 
Return to work rate after parental leave 
Awareness
We consider awareness the first line of defence in 
ensuring workplace safety. Regular safety training 
sessions, open communication and targeted 
campaigns, we equip our workforce and stakeholders 
with the knowledge to act responsibly and proactively. 
By embedding safety awareness into our organisational 
culture, we cultivate a shared sense of accountability, 
reduce risk and create an environment where people 
actively look out for one another.
Workplace Safety
We take a proactive stance on safety, especially in 
construction, where risks are high. Through detailed 
planning, expert supervision and a safety-first mindset, 
we address site hazards with precision and discipline.
Compliance with Global Standards
Our safety systems align with ISO 45001:2018 
standards. Dedicated safety professionals conduct 
frequent audits and ensure compliance with protocols 
and regulations. 
Every employee undergoes comprehensive health 
assessments and continuous safety training, enabling 
them to work with awareness, confidence and care. 
Our zero-fatality record stands as a testament to our 
unwavering dedication to protecting workers from 
injuries and ill health.
Employee Wellness
Employee wellness is crucial to the fabric of our 
workplace culture. We view well-being as a balanced 
integration of physical, mental and emotional support, 
essential for both personal and professional growth.
We offer on-site fitness access, mental health 
counselling and ergonomic workspaces. These 
initiatives support physical and emotional health, 
helping our people feel valued and perform at their 
best. By investing in safety and wellness, we are not 
just protecting our teams – we are building a resilient, 
sustainable future together.
At Brigade, investing in our people’s well-being 
is how we build a stronger, more resilient and 
sustainable future.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
85
GRI 401-2, 3; 403-1, 2, 4-9; 404-2; 403-3
Real Estate
Our ISO 45001:2018-certified Occupational Health 
and Safety Management System (OHSMS) reflects our 
commitment to protecting everyone on-site, including 
permanent staff and contractual workers.
We follow a structured, proactive approach to 
managing work-related hazards and risks, anchored 
in rigorous Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment 
(HIRA) practices. Before any task begins, whether 
routine or non-routine, our teams are trained to assess 
and mitigate potential risks, ensuring preparedness at 
every level.
Our safety-first culture is driven by hands-on 
leadership and vigilant and competent supervision. 
Emergency Preparedness and Response Teams 
(EPRTs) are in place at every major site, supported by 
structured response plans and regular mock drills to 
ensure operational readiness in critical moments.
Our safety systems are collaborative by design. Each 
project site has a joint worker safety committee, with 
equal representation from both management and 
the workforce. 
Oversight is maintained through monthly safety reviews 
led by Execution Heads, supported by daily toolbox 
talks and routine site inspections. These efforts help 
embed a safety-first mindset across all teams.
Zero 
fatalities recorded during the 
reporting period
ISO 45001:2018  
Aligned safety management in place
Joint Worker Safety Committees at every 
project site
Promoting Worker Health
Brigade treats worker health as a top priority. We 
provide routine check-ups, on-site medical support, 
mental health resources and wellness programmes. 
All workers, including contractual staff, receive 
access to government healthcare schemes through 
BOCW registration.
We conduct regular medical camps and awareness 
sessions on nutrition, mental health, HIV/AIDS, tobacco 
cessation and injury prevention. All project sites 
have first aid facilities, regular doctor visits and 24/7 
ambulance services.
Our Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) system 
focuses on hazard assessment, incident investigation 
and comprehensive safety training. In FY24, we 
recorded 404 close calls and two work-related 
incidents, both addressed with immediate care. 
All workers receive structured training to ensure 
safe operations.
Hospitality
We ensure health, safety and dignity for all 
hospitality staff. All team members receive training in 
Environmental Health and Safety (EHS), ergonomics and 
job-specific PPE use. Risk assessments are conducted 
across functions.
We offer regular medical check-ups and mental health 
support in partnership with external providers.
Lease Rentals
We maintain strict public safety protocols across 
malls, clubs and hospitals. All facilities have disaster 
management plans, emergency procedures, regular 
drills and clear safety signage. Surveillance and security 
systems ensure a secure environment.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
86
GRI 403- 1, 5, 8, 9, 10
Reporting Violations
The Group has formal channels where violations of 
human rights could be brought to our attention safely 
and anonymously.
Customers
here4you@brigadegroup.com
Investors and Shareholders
investors@brigadegroup.com
Employees and Management
ethicscommittee@brigadegroup.com or 
chairmanauditcommitteebel@gmail.com
Physical address
29th & 30th Floor, World Trade Centre, 
Brigade Gateway Campus, 
26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, 
Malleswaram- Rajajinagar, 
Bengaluru - 560055
Phone Number
91-80-41379200
Our Human Rights Policy Pillars
Zero cases of child labour, forced labour 
and PoSH violations
Human Rights
We enforce zero tolerance for discrimination, child 
labour and forced labour across our operations and 
supply chain. All employees receive human rights 
training and can access grievance redressal systems. 
Employees are informed 8 to 12 weeks in advance of 
any major operational changes.
In the reporting period, there were no reported cases of 
child labour, forced labour, or PoSH violations, reflecting 
the strength of our systems and our continued focus on 
fostering a respectful, rights-based workplace culture.
In the coming years, we plan to introduce targeted 
human rights sessions addressing evolving social 
issues, ensuring that both our internal teams and 
external stakeholders remain informed, aligned 
and accountable.
4
6
8
10
2
3
5
7
9
1
Freedom of 
Association 
and Collective 
Bargaining
Health, 
Safety and 
Wellbeing
Learning and 
Development
Rights of  
Communities
Fair 
Remuneration
Workplace 
Discrimination 
or Harassment
Diversity 
and Inclusion
Protection 
of Data
Prohibition 
of Forced  
Labor
Prohibition 
 of Child  
Labor
87
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-23, 24, 26, 30; 402-1; 406-1; 407-1; 408-1; 409-1; 410-1
Case Studies
To strengthen workplace safety and ensure compliance with occupational health standards, several key initiatives 
have been implemented. These measures are designed to reduce hazards, foster a culture of safety and drive 
continuous improvement in health and safety performance. A few of these initiatives are outlined below:
Background
Site inspections revealed that safety markers 
on lifting equipment were often torn, faded or 
missing, making it difficult to verify equipment 
compliance and creating audit gaps. 
Challenge
Conventional tagging methods such as paints or 
markers were unreliable in harsh site conditions, 
risking the use of non-compliant tools.
Solution
Brigade introduced embossed aluminium tags on 
all lifting tools and harnesses. These tags included 
serial numbers, inspection and due dates, Safe 
Working Load (SWL) and Third-Party Inspection 
(TPI) references. Designed to be weather-
resistant and tamper-proof, they also enabled full 
traceability for audits.
Outcomes
 
 Improved accuracy and reliability of 
equipment inspections
 
 Reduced tagging-related errors and  
non-compliance risks
 
 Enforced strict adherence to equipment 
readiness protocols
1
2
3
Case Studies
Tamper-proof Safety Tagging System
Impact
This durable system ensured only inspected 
and approved equipment was in use, 
reinforcing a zero-compromise approach to 
on-site safety.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
88
GRI 403-7
Mr Om Prakash P
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
Background
The use of polypropylene rope lifelines for works 
at height posed safety concerns due to their 
limited durability and low load-bearing capacity.
Challenge
Substandard lifelines increased the risk of failure 
during high-risk tasks, putting workers in danger.
Solution
Brigade upgraded to 8 mm wire rope lifelines, 
anchored using clamps and welded supports. 
These lifelines are engineered for greater 
strength, longevity and full compliance with 
height safety standards.
Outcomes
 
 Improved fall protection and 
structural integrity
 
 Reduced risk of lifeline failure
 
 Ensured full compliance with height 
safety norms
1
2
3
Case Studies
High-Strength Lifelines for Safer Work at Heights
Impact
This intervention significantly 
strengthened safety measures for 
work at height, reflecting Brigade’s 
commitment to proactive, standards-led 
safety implementation.
We have integrated ESG risks into our enterprise risk 
strategy, enabling proactive identification and mitigation 
of strategic, operational, and regulatory risks through 
regular monitoring. Our first hospital project, St John’s 
at Brigade Meadows, reflects our commitment to 
community healthcare. Backed by ethical governance 
and strict regulatory compliance, the venture prioritises 
transparency, patient-centric care, and community 
engagement. These efforts support our broader vision of 
inclusive development and lasting social impact.
89
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-22,  403-7
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Bridging Aspirations with 
Action
Our legacy is defined not just by the spaces 
we build, but by the trust we earn and the 
communities we support. Every project reflects 
our commitment to creating spaces that promote 
well-being, foster connection and deliver long-
term value. 
Through the Brigade Foundation, 
we extend our impact beyond 
business, supporting initiatives in 
education, healthcare and equity. 
These efforts help create pathways 
to opportunity, particularly for 
underserved communities.
Interlinkages with 
the Other Capitals 
SDGs Impacted
Key Material Topics
M7 - Tenants & Community
M14 -  Corporate Citizenship 
& Philanthropy
M17 -  Diversity, Equality 
& Inclusion
M19 - Responsible Marketing
M26 - Policy Influence
Customer Base
CSR Expenditure
Suppliers/Contractors 
reached through 
training 
~45,000
Total number of customers
9% of repeat buyers  
in FY25
Customer Retention Rate
4.6 out of 5
Customer Satisfaction Score
7% in BLR
Market share
2%
Profits Spent on CSR  
(whole group including BEL)
2267
Number of Beneficiaries 
Reached (through St. John's 
hospital at Brigade Meadows.)
₹10.72 Cr
Total CSR expenditure  
(whole group including BEL)
Value chain assessment 
initiated for
50
key suppliers in the 
reporting period
Brigade Enterprises Limited
90
GRI 201-1
Corporate Social Responsibility
We believe that our growth holds greater meaning when 
it uplifts the communities around us. With this belief, 
we established The Brigade Foundation, a not-for-profit 
trust dedicated to advancing social impact through 
focused corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives.
Operating primarily in Bengaluru, the Foundation 
supports long-term change in the areas of education, 
healthcare and community development. 
In FY25, we invested ₹10.72 Crore towards these efforts 
in these critical areas. We aim to create a meaningful 
legacy that extends far beyond the walls of our projects, 
ensuring that the benefits of growth are shared and felt 
across the community.
₹10.72 Crore invested in education, 
healthcare and community development, 
through The Brigade Foundation
Venkatappa  
Art Gallery Bengaluru
91
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 201-1; 413-1
St. John's Medical College Hospital 
at Brigade Meadows, Bengaluru
As part of our CSR commitment, the Brigade Foundation partnered with 
St. John’s Medical College Hospital to establish a 108-bed  
multi-speciality hospital at Brigade Meadows. Designed with the aim 
of providing affordable and quality health care services, this endeavour 
serves to fill an important service gap for both urban and rural 
populations in South Bengaluru. 
Launched in June 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic, it began as a 
modest 10-bed health centre to provide affordable, quality healthcare 
to underserved communities. The overwhelming response and visible 
need for accessible medical care laid the foundation for a full-fledged 
hospital. Formalised through a long-term collaboration, the facility is 
operated by St. John’s Medical College Hospital and supported through 
sustained annual CSR funding of approximately ₹1 Crore.
Project Reach
Centrally located in Kaggalipura, the hospital serves over 21,500 
people across 13 neighbouring villages, in addition to more than 
10,000 residents of Brigade Meadows. Service areas included 24-hour 
emergency, maternity and child health, diagnostics, physiotherapy and 
regular outreach in the form of health camps and vaccination campaigns.
Sector
Health
Collaborator
St. John’s Medical College
St. John’s Medical College Hospital
Hospital at Brigade Meadows
Brigade’s CSR Project
Number of beneficiaries
2267
Impact
Since its inception, the hospital 
has experienced steady growth 
in patient numbers, high levels 
of satisfaction and increasing 
community trust. Additionally, 
the initiative has created local 
employment opportunities, with 
over 100 local jobs created in 
clinical and administrative roles. 
By reducing the travel burden 
for medical care and promoting 
health equity, the project 
continues to enhance quality of 
life for surrounding communities, 
reinforcing Brigade’s long-term 
vision of inclusive, accessible 
healthcare for all.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
92
GRI 413-1, 2
Supply Chain
Ensuring an Ethical Supply Chain
Our sustainability commitment extends beyond internal 
operations to our entire supply chain. We are focused 
on building partnerships rooted in ethical practices, 
transparency and ESG alignment.
To embed sustainability into procurement, we are 
actively strengthening our processes to incorporate 
ESG considerations and enhance supplier 
accountability. By fostering responsible sourcing, we 
aim to drive sustainable impact across our value chain.
Building Strong Relationships with 
Local Suppliers
We prioritise working with local suppliers to support 
domestic businesses, reduce lead time and lower our 
environmental footprint. 
In FY25, 95% of our suppliers, i.e. 2,410 out of 2,536, 
were based in India. Our domestic procurement 
spends amounted to ₹1,154.94 Crore, while international 
procurement stood at ₹1.21 Crore.
Total supplier spending in this reporting year was 
₹1,156.15 Crore, more than double the ₹469 Crore spent 
in the previous reporting year. This growth reflects 
our continued focus on expanding operations while 
maintaining strong local partnerships and responsible 
sourcing standards.
Supplier Engagement and 
Capacity Building
We view our suppliers as strategic partners in our 
sustainability journey. To ensure shared accountability 
and drive continuous improvement, we are rolling out a 
structured engagement programme that embeds ESG 
principles into our supply chain.
This initiative includes the development of ESG-
aligned policy development, training modules on 
ethical and environmental practices and responsive 
feedback systems.
Supplier Assessments
During 2024-25, we conducted ESG assessments for 
50 key suppliers, evaluating their performance across 
environmental impact, human rights, occupational 
health and safety and ethical governance. As part of our 
capacity-building efforts, each supplier also received 
10 hours of training on social and environmental topics.
The assessments revealed encouraging progress, 
helped identify improvement areas and reinforced our 
commitment to building supplier relationships rooted in 
transparency and shared sustainability values.
Monitoring Contractor 
Compliance
At Brigade, our responsibility for health, safety and 
ethical conduct extends across our entire value chain. 
We work closely with contractors to ensure that ESG 
principles are consistently upheld at every project site.
All tenders issued by the Company outline clear 
expectations regarding Environmental, Health and 
Safety (EHS) compliance, statutory obligations and 
ethical standards. However, our approach goes beyond 
documentation – we prioritise active collaboration and 
continuous engagement. 
We value long-standing supplier relationships built 
on trust and reliability. Of our active suppliers:
95% 
Domestic 
suppliers
99.9%  
Domestic 
spending
2,262 (89%)
have partnered 
with us for less 
than 5 years
239 (9%)
have remained 
partners for 
5–15 years
35 (1%) 
have been 
associated 
with us for 
over 15 years
50 
Key suppliers assessment Initiated 
on ESG
93
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-6; 204-1; 308- 1, 2; 414- 1, 2
Regular touchpoints such as weekly progress reviews, 
fortnightly compliance discussions, monthly Safety 
Committee meetings and bi-annual management 
reviews help us maintain open dialogue and proactive 
oversight. Contractors are also required to submit 
quarterly ESG performance reports, enabling mutual 
accountability and transparency. Emphasising 
sustainability, the Company increased its spending 
on eco-friendly and green-certified materials by 61% 
compared to FY24, which now represents 27% of total 
procurement expenses.
By embedding monitoring into a broader culture 
of partnership, we are not just checking boxes, we 
are nurturing a shared commitment to safer, more 
sustainable operations across our value chain.
Advancing Ethically with SMETA
Brigade is in the process of obtaining SMETA (SEDEX 
Members Ethical Trade Audit), a globally recognised 
certification to further demonstrate our ethical 
business practices. SMETA evaluates aspects including 
labour rights, health and safety, environmental 
performance and business integrity. 
Customers
Fostering Sustainable 
Relationships with Our Tenants
In our Lease Rentals and Retail segments, sustainability 
is not limited to constructing green buildings, it extends 
to the relationships we nurture with our clients. 
Tenants are not merely occupants; they are valued 
partners in shared progress. We are committed to 
building a tenant-first culture that prioritises comfort, 
collaboration and shared responsibility. As we look 
to the future, this partnership-driven approach 
will continue to guide us toward a more inclusive, 
sustainable and successful tomorrow.
Trust Built for Perpetuity
Trust is earned over time through consistent, ethical 
and transparent engagement. Every tenant interaction 
is an opportunity to reaffirm our values and uphold high 
standards of service.
By prioritising open communication, fair business 
practices and prompt resolution of issues, we ensure 
our tenants feel confident and supported. 
In FY25, we received a total of 1,163 complaints, of which 
1,112 were successfully resolved, achieving a resolution 
rate of 95.61%.
We are proud to report zero instances of non-
compliance with regulations or voluntary codes related 
to customer health and safety during the reporting 
period. Through these efforts, we are not only fostering 
strong tenant relationships, we are building a reputation 
that is designed to endure.
61%
Rise in green material spending
95.61% 
Resolution rate for  
customer complaints
~27% 
of procurement expense for 
green material
Zero  
Incidents of non-compliances 
with customer health and safety
Brigade Enterprises Limited
94
GRI 301-1; 308-1; 414-1; 416-2
Genuine Marketing Practices
At Brigade Enterprises Ltd., we understand that trust 
and a strong brand image are vital to our brand, which 
is built on honesty and consistency. Our marketing 
practices reflect these values, highlighting the 
genuine quality and value of our properties without 
exaggeration or misrepresentation. Our commitment 
to customer satisfaction extends beyond marketing. 
Through our post-purchase digital platform, ‘mykey’, 
customers enjoy seamless access to essential property 
information, documentation and updates, ensuring a 
smooth and transparent ownership experience.
We are proud to report that during the reporting 
period, there were no instances of non-compliance 
related to product and service information or 
marketing communications.
Elevating Customer Experience 
through ‘Customer Connect’
We have established a robust, multi-channel 
engagement framework, 'Customer Connect ‘, to ensure 
that every customer receives timely, respectful and 
effective support. This system is designed to promote 
transparency, responsiveness and fairness throughout 
the customer journey. 
Customer Support Channels
Email
here4you@brigadegroup.com
Social media
Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram
Customer portal
www.brigadegroup.com/mykey
Chatbot
Brigade Group Chat for real-time support
QwikSpec
Dedicated app for sharing feedback on purchased units
Voice support
Toll-Free (India): 1800 102 9480
NRI Services: +91 96112 18222
Mainline: +91-80-41379200
95
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-26; 416-2; 417-1, 2, 3
NATURAL CAPITAL
Rooted in
Responsibility
At Brigade Group, sustainability 
began with an initiative-based 
approach; however, over the last 
five years, it has steadily been 
woven into the way we do business. 
We recognise that the built environment has a lasting 
environmental footprint and we are taking deliberate 
steps to mitigate this impact while delivering long-term 
value to stakeholders and communities. 
Through the adoption of cleaner technologies, increased 
reliance on renewable energy and more considered 
material choices, we are rethinking how the built 
environment can coexist harmoniously with the natural 
world. These efforts are not without challenges, but 
they reflect a growing organisational commitment to 
environmental responsibility. 
Interlinkages with 
the Other Capitals 
SDGs Impacted
Key Material Topics
M1 - Water Management 
M2 - GHG Emissions 
M4 - ESG Governance 
M9 - Materials 
M10 - ESG Risk Management 
M11 - Waste Management 
M12 - Biodiversity 
M13 -  Opportunities in Green 
Building & Third-
Party Accreditions
Brigade Eternia, Bengaluru 
(Artist’s Impression)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
96
Brigade’s Journey to Net Zero
Brigade Group is actively advancing its climate 
commitments through a structured science-based 
approach to decarbonisation. Recognising the 
urgency of the climate crisis, we have aligned our 
emissions reduction strategy with the Science Based 
Targets Initiative (SBTi), which is a globally recognised 
framework designed to ensure corporate climate goals 
are consistent with limiting global warming to 1.5°C 
In FY24, we formally committed to the SBTi and began 
the process of setting targets in line with the ‘Building 
Sector Science-Based Target Guidance’, released 
in 2024. This sector-specific framework enables us 
to address both operational emissions from in-use 
buildings and embodied emissions from construction 
activities, two of the most material sources of climate 
impact in real estate. 
In 2025, we undertook a comprehensive applicability 
assessment across our real estate portfolio to 
evaluate alignment with the SBTi Corporate Net-Zero 
standard and Building Sector Guidance. Based on 
these assessments, we are in the process of finalising 
and submitting our near-term and net-zero targets, 
marking a pivotal milestone in our climate journey.  
These targets provide a clear and credible pathway 
to monitor, manage and reduce emissions at the 
asset level. By embedding the strategy into project 
development and operations, Brigade Group is working 
towards decarbonisation in a manner that is both 
technically grounded and commercially viable. 
Brigade Group has set near-term science-based 
targets for 2034 covering Scope 1, Scope 2 and relevant 
Scope 3 emissions, alongside a long-term net-zero 
target for 2045.
To deliver on these commitments, the Group 
has charted a comprehensive decarbonisation 
roadmap centred on energy-efficient design, green 
infrastructure, smart building technologies and 
strengthened water and waste management systems.
Brigade Citrine, a flagship project and one of India’s 
first net-zero carbon residential developments 
currently under construction, exemplifies the 
Group’s commitment to moving beyond incremental 
improvements and leading by example. Projects of this 
nature serve as test beds for sustainable innovation, 
helping to mainstream low-carbon design and 
construction across future portfolios.
Corporate 
Near-Term Tool
Corporate  
Net-Zero Tool
Near-Term and Net-Zero Target Setting Process
Near-Term Targets
Our near-term targets are set using the absolute 
contraction approach. For Scope 1 and 2 emissions, we 
are committed to reducing our operational emissions 
by 58.8% by 2034, using 2023 as the base year.  
For Scope 3, we are targeting a reduction in physical 
intensity to 5.7 t CO2e per thousand sq. ft., from the 
baseline of 17 t CO2e per thousand sq. ft. recorded in 
2023. This translates to a 63.8% decrease in emissions 
intensity across our value chain. 
 •
Total GHG 
emissions for 
Scope 1, 2, 3
 •
Base year
 •
Target year
Scope 1 & 2
Absolute reduction 
target approach
Scope 3
Physical Intensity 
targets approach
Brigade's in-use 
emissions were 
below 20%. So, no 
targets set using 
SDA method
Absolute Targets
Scope 1 and 2 absolute reduction 
targets are allowed if they match or 
exceed the minimum level required for 
1.5°C-aligned pathways.
Sectoral Decarbonisation 
Approach (SDA)
To use the SDA method, at least 20% 
of total emissions must come from in-
use operations.
Intensity Targets
Scope 1 and scope 2 emissions are only 
eligible when they are modeled using an 
approved 1.5°C sector pathway applicable 
to companies' business activities.
97
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-25; 3-3; 201-2
Net-Zero Targets
We have committed to an absolute reduction of 90% 
in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2045, using 2023 as 
the base year. Our net-zero ambition is driving deep 
decarbonisation, leaving residual emissions, which can 
be offset through credible removals. 
For Scope 3, we have set intensity-based targets, 
aiming to reduce emissions from 16.97 t CO2e per 
thousand sq.ft. to 0.51 t CO2e per thousand sq.ft. 
by 2045, which represents a reduction of 95% in 
emission intensity. 
Brigade Group Energy 
Consumption 
Energy Consumption and Trends
In FY25, Brigade Enterprises Ltd had a 52 % increase in 
energy consumption, bringing total usage to 642’ (000) 
GJ. This is attributed to a change in the boundary, an 
increase in the number of projects for the real estate 
vertical, as well as the hospitality vertical. 
Lease Rentals account for the largest share of energy 
consumption across Brigade Group, contributing 57% 
of the total. This is followed by the Hospitality vertical, 
which accounts for 28.5%. The Real Estate vertical, 
including estate management services, is responsible 
for 13.9 %, despite a rise in the number of projects. 
The combined energy footprint of our Corporate 
Office and BuzzWorks operations remains minimal, at 
approximately 0.6% of total consumption. 
The Lease Rental vertical is the highest energy-
consuming segment within the Group, primarily due 
to continuous demand for temperature regulation, 
lighting and other essential services across commercial 
properties and shopping centres. In the Hospitality 
segment, maintaining seamless guest comfort requires 
uninterrupted operation of heating, ventilation, air 
conditioning and lighting systems. These usage 
patterns highlight the need for targeted efficiency 
interventions in our highest-consuming areas and 
directly inform our energy management strategies as 
we transition towards lower-carbon operations.
The energy intensity for the Real Estate vertical is 6.41 
GJ per 000’ sq. ft. of area.  For Hospitality, it stands at 
38.9 GJ per 000’ sq. ft. area, while the Lease Rentals 
vertical records an intensity of 38.2 GJ per 000’ sq. ft.
14.25%
0.596%
0.001%
57%
28.18%
FY25
Lease Rentals
Real Estate
Hospitality
Buzzworks 
and Corporate
Energy Consumption Across Verticals (%)
Harnessing Renewable Energy for 
Sustainable Growth
Grid electricity continues to be the mainstay for all 
operational energy consumption. 
Renewable energy accounted for 14.3% of the total 
energy use in the reporting year, up from 7.4% in the 
previous financial year, a threefold increase year-
on-year.  Notably, we have sustained this threefold 
growth in renewable energy sourcing for two 
consecutive years. 
15% 
Contribution from renewable energy 
18% 
Renewable energy in the total 
electricity consumption
Energy Intensity GJ ('000) per sq. ft.
4.1
71.89
Brigade Group
Real Estate
Hospitality
Lease rentals
Buzzworks
Corporate
0.02
18.29
37.12
35.26
Brigade Enterprises Limited
98
GRI 302-1, 3
Energy Efficiency
Improving energy efficiency is a key focus area in our 
sustainability efforts, aimed at reducing greenhouse 
gas emissions and lowering operational costs. By 
adopting advanced technologies and promoting 
responsible energy use across our projects, we strive 
to optimise energy consumption while maintaining 
comfort and functionality. The following initiatives 
highlight our commitment to sustainable energy 
management across the verticals:
 
 Replaced all common area incandescent and CFL 
lights with energy-efficient LED fittings.
 
 Installed motion and occupancy sensors 
in common areas to minimise unnecessary 
electricity consumption.
 
 Introduced timer-based controls for outdoor, 
façade, landscape and logo lighting.
 
 Installed Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) on fresh 
air units, kitchen equipment and other machinery 
to optimise energy use, achieving significant 
annual electricity savings.
 
 Generated and utilised solar power to meet 
common area electricity requirements.
 
 Implemented systematic monitoring and 
management of split AC units, ensuring they are 
switched off when not in use or during night-time.
 
 Installed dimmable LED lights and photo sensors 
for street lighting.
 
 Encouraged tenant and guest participation in 
green programmes, such as towel reuse and 
lighting control.
 
 Upgraded equipment, including converting 
machines to cogged belts, to reduce 
electricity consumption.
 
 Achieved annual reductions in electricity 
consumption through strategic upgrades 
and optimisation.
T 
 Total energy savings of 28,66,285.19 kWh achieved 
in the reporting period across the Group.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
We have undertaken targeted investments and strategic 
execution, resulting in an increase in the share of 
renewable energy in our overall energy mix to 15%, as 
compared to 7.4% in the previous financial year. 
In the Hospitality vertical, the share of renewable energy 
increased by 84%. During FY24, we initiated Power 
Purchase Agreements for both the Hospitality and 
Lease Rental segments. The successful procurement 
of renewable power has enabled renewables to 
account for 26% of the Hospitality sector’s total 
energy consumption. 
We are making steady progress towards our goal of 
sourcing 100% of our energy from renewable sources, 
driven by a commitment to scalable and long-term 
solutions. As it is, 100% of our development projects 
incorporate onsite renewable energy by design. 
Sustainable by Design:  
Green Building Certification
Our commitment to sustainable and energy-efficient 
design is demonstrated through our robust green 
building portfolio, which has now exceeded 16.35 Million 
sq. ft. In the reporting year alone, 2.09 Million sq. ft. was 
added, including 2.15 Million sq. ft. of space certified as 
green buildings.
89.4768
10.072
31.4338
FY22
FY23
FY24
FY25
Renewable Energy Consumption 
in GJ (‘000)
2.09 Mn sq. ft.
Green building pre-certified
2.15 Mn sq. ft.
Green building certified
16.35 Mn sq. ft.
Cumulative Total certified  
green building  portfolio
7.762
Brigade Group wins 11th IGBC Green Champion Award 
for leading India’s Green Homes movement.
99
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 302-1 ,4, 5
GHG Emissions
As part of our commitment to environmental leadership, 
Brigade has made emission reduction a core pillar 
of its sustainability strategy. Through a combination 
of innovation and responsible design and efficient 
operations, we are driving tangible progress towards a 
low-carbon future for real estate.
Our greenhouse gas emissions are calculated in 
accordance with the globally recognised Greenhouse 
Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) methodology.
Scope 1 (Direct Emissions)
Emissions from controlled sources, including on-site 
fuel combustion in generators and vehicles, as well as 
fugitive emissions from refrigerants and fire suppression 
systems, are accounted as Scope 1 emissions and 
are rigorously managed at Brigade. In line with strict 
environmental standards, we prohibit the use, import, or 
export of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) like CFC-11. 
This proactive approach reflects our commitment to 
minimising environmental impact and protecting the 
ozone layer while ensuring operational sustainability.
6524 tonnes of CO2e were emitted by the Brigade Group 
representing a marginal reduction compared to the 
previous year’s emissions. 
Scope 2 (Indirect Emissions)
Electricity consumption across our Corporate Offices, 
Real Estate and Hospitality segments represents a 
key area for emission reduction. We prioritise the 
adoption of renewable energy and the implementation 
of innovative efficiency measures to reduce our 
Scope 2 emissions. 
For Brigade Group, scope 2 emissions totalled 32,323 
tonnes of CO2e, marking a substantial increase from 
the previous year. This rise is primarily attributed to 
increased electricity consumption, driven by a greater 
number of projects, hospitality units and lease rental 
properties in operation. 
Total Operational Emissions
26.69
37.16
6.4
6.54
30.76
20.15
Total Operational 
Emissions
Scope 1
Scope 2
Emissions in tCO2e (‘000)
FY24
FY25
Scope 1
Scope 2
24.51%
75.49%
83.30%
16.70%
FY24
FY25
Scopewise Emissions (% age)
0.0005
0.0011
FY24
FY25
Operational Emission Intensity
 (kg CO2e/Sq Ft)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
100
GRI 305 - 1, 2, 4
Scope 3 (Indirect Emissions)
We track Scope 3 emissions from purchased goods 
and services, capital assets, embedded fuel and energy 
emissions, business travel, employee commutes, 
upstream and downstream logistics, use-phase and 
operational waste. Including these emissions is vital to 
fully capture our environmental footprint. 
As part of our long-term climate strategy, we have 
undertaken a structured, data-driven initiative to assess 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across our value chain. 
Scope 3 emissions, those arising from upstream and 
downstream activities, constitute a significant portion of 
our overall environmental impact. Our value chain includes 
the procurement of goods and services, construction and 
logistics and post-handover tenant operations. Mapping 
emissions across such a complex, multi-tiered system 
presents challenges, particularly in areas where we lack 
direct control or where data availability is limited.
This year, the emissions for Scope 3 include use phase 
(category 11) added to the total emissions compared 
to previous years, therefore leading to a substantial 
increase in overall Scope 3 emissions. These emissions 
have been calculated based on a building life of 50 
years, 60% occupancy, as per the sanctioned load and 
emission intensity aligned with the projected Indian 
grid emission factor.
346.64
446.2
FY24
FY25
Value Chain Footprint 
(Emissions tCO2e (‘000))
Value Chain Emission Intensity 
tCO2e ('000)/Sq Ft
Brigade Group
Real Estate
Hospitality
Lease Rentals
Buzzworks
Corporate
0.0011
0.0374
0.0154
0.0072
0.0154
0.013
In FY25, our Scope 3 emissions are 92% of 
the total emissions 
This report reflects our Commitment to holistic and 
transparent sustainability disclosure. Continuing 
our effort to institutionalise sustainability, we have 
implemented a SaaS-based ESG A data platform 
to strengthen the accuracy, consistency, and 
traceability of our disclosures. We have also achieved 
our target of finalising reports aligned with TCFD (IFRS 
2) and TNFD frameworks, reinforcing our commitment 
to transparent climate- and nature-related risk 
reporting. In parallel, we have completed our target- 
setting exercise and are now ready to submit our 
science-based targets for validation to SBTi, marking 
a decisive step towards aligning our decarbonisation 
pathway with global climate goals.
Mr Vijayakumar N
Corporate Lead – Environment, 
Sustainability & ESG
101
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-22; 305 - 3, 4
Notes/Statements – GHG Accounting
 •
Real Estate: As the area executed under Brigade Plus 
could not be mapped for this reporting year, Brigade 
Plus has been kept outside the reporting boundary 
for this period.
 •
We have refined our Lease Rentals accounting 
approach based on operational control principles. 
Under this methodology, we allocate environmental 
impacts according to the level of operational control 
we have over each facility. This approach ensures 
a more accurate representation of our direct 
environmental responsibilities.
 •
BuzzWorks facilities are part of the Lease Rentals 
buildings. Consequently, energy, waste and water 
data are subtracted from lease rental totals to 
prevent double-counting of environmental impacts.
 •
We exclude BuzzWorks Hyderabad from intensity 
calculations for this reporting period due to non-
occupancy status. No operational data is available 
for this facility during the reporting timeframe.
 •
The Corporate Office and Regional offices are 
located within the Lease Rental facilities.  The 
energy, water and waste data for these offices are 
generally included within the respective lease rental 
building metrics. For certain offices, we have been 
able to map individual office-level energy data, 
which has been subtracted from the corresponding 
lease rental totals to avoid duplication. However, 
for offices where individual office-level energy 
data could not be mapped, this data has not been 
reported separately under the corporate vertical, 
as it is already included within the respective lease 
rental buildings to prevent double accounting. 
Additionally, we were unable to map individual 
office-level waste data; as a result, waste figures 
have not been subtracted and may be subject to 
double accounting. Furthermore, water data could 
not be captured for all offices, which may have led to 
underreporting in this category.
 •
The Gujarat office is part of the Brigade International 
Financial Center, which is included within the 
Hospitality vertical. Accordingly, the environmental 
data for the Gujarat office is already captured within 
the respective hospitality building’s reporting for this 
period. As office-level environmental data for the 
Gujarat office could not be mapped this year, it has 
not been additionally included under the corporate 
vertical for this reporting year; however, the data 
for this office remains fully reported under the 
Hospitality vertical.
 •
The Hyderabad regional office commenced 
operations in March 2025. Accordingly, it has been 
excluded from the corporate reporting boundary 
for this reporting period. From the next reporting 
year, data from this office will be included within the 
corporate boundary.
 •
The Dubai corporate office is comparatively small 
in scale and is not expected to have a significant 
environmental impact. As data for this location could 
not be mapped during the current reporting year, it 
has been excluded from the reporting boundary for 
this period.
 •
We collectively monitor business travel and 
employee commute data across the entire Brigade 
organisation. Accordingly, while Scope 3 Category 6 
(Business Travel) and Scope 3 Category 7 (Employee 
Commute) emissions are reported under the 
corporate vertical, these figures represent emissions 
for the entire Brigade organisation.
 •
We extrapolate employee commute emissions 
for all permanent employees across the Group 
based on available data. This methodology ensures 
consistent coverage whilst acknowledging data 
availability constraints.
 •
For certain material purchases where only 
expenditure details are available, we employ a cost-
to-tonne conversion rate deduced from current 
Indian market scenarios. We use this approach 
to determine the tonnage of input materials, 
enabling more comprehensive environmental 
impact assessment where direct quantity data 
is unavailable.
 •
During this reporting year, the Ibis Styles Mysuru 
property was transferred from the Real Estate 
segment to the Hospitality segment and similarly, 
Brigade Twin Tower was transferred from Real Estate 
to Lease Rental. Data for each property has been 
reported under the respective vertical for the period 
in which they were part of that segment. However, 
for intensity calculations, the area of both properties 
has been considered in both relevant verticals.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
102
GRI 2-25; 3-3; 201-2
Climate Risk Mitigation Strategy
TCFD: Approach and overall effort 
on climate risk assessment and 
management
At Brigade Group, we understand the impacts of our 
operations across the entire value chain and we have 
committed to net-zero emissions by 2045. We are 
working towards achieving the net-zero targets by 
aligning and committing to the Science-Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi). 
Sustainability Governance
Brigade follows a three-line sustainability governance 
model as outlined in the Governance section of 
the report. Climate governance, including oversight 
of climate-related risks and opportunities, is 
led by the Chairman; and the Board-level Risk 
Management Committee. 
Brigade conducts regular risk assessments to evaluate 
both current and emerging climate-related risks. With 
defined targets for lowering emissions, it is essential 
that all investment decisions are assessed through the 
lens of climate risk and long-term resilience. 
Approach: Vulnerability 
Assessment
The initial vulnerability assessment of the Company’s 
assets was conducted using the World Bank 
ThinkHazard! tool to evaluate the probability of extreme 
weather events and related physical climate risks.  The 
assessment focused on key parameters such as water 
scarcity, heat stress, flooding, extreme heat, cyclones 
and landslides. These factors were analysed using 
historical data to identify highly vulnerable sites across 
the portfolio. 
Additionally, stakeholder consultations with various 
departments to understand potential mitigation 
measures and assess their impact on operations, 
considering both severity and likelihood. Following this, 
a scoring system was implemented to prioritise the 
most vulnerable assets for further scenario analysis.
Strategy
In line with TCFD guidelines, we consider both low-
emission (SSP1-RCP 2.6) scenarios and high-emission 
scenarios (SSP5-RCP 8.5) for assessing physical 
climate risks. We also undertook a bespoke scenario 
aligned with a 1.5 degrees or lower warming trajectory 
to evaluate transition risks.
To support this analysis, we utilised open-source tools 
and datasets, including the World Bank’s Think Hazard! 
World Bank Climate Knowledge Portal and Climate 
Impact Explorer models, to obtain relevant scenario-
based raw data.
Short-term
IPCC Scenarios
RCPs
SSPs
Scenarios Considered for  
Brigade's Scenario Analysis
RCP-2.6  
(Paris-aligned)
RCP-8.5  
(Business-as-
Usual)
SSP1 
(Sustainability or 
Paris-aligned)
SSP5  
(Fossil-fuelled 
Development)
Time Horizon
1-3 years
Medium-term
3-5 years
Long-term
5-10 years
103
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Climate Risk Management
Our risk management framework reinforces our ability to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, thereby strengthening 
our long-term resilience and stability. The three-line Sustainability Governance model consists of a governing body, 
the ESG council and the potential for independent external assurance providers. The risk management is discussed 
in detail on Page No. 62.
Risk Type
Risk 
Description
Impact 
Area
Existing 
Controls
Additional 
Mitigation 
Measures
Physical Risks
Water Scarcity
Long-term water 
shortages due to climate 
change could increase 
operational costs, lead 
to water rationing and 
reduce productivity and 
production capacity due to 
limited water availability
1. Increased 
direct costs
2. Decreased revenue
1. Testing of water is 
being monitored and has 
clearance from IIT Madras, 
which will help in reducing 
the water footprint
1. Associate with other 
construction companies 
to share the surplus 
treated wastewater for 
optimised utilisation.
2. Enhanced O&M 
efficiency of STPs at 
labour camps for an 
increase in the quality of 
treated water for use in 
construction activities
Change in 
precipitation 
patterns/ 
flooding
Changes in precipitation 
can cause water shortages, 
structural damage and 
inadequate drainage, 
requiring innovative 
water management, 
waterproofing, flood-
proofing and emergency 
repairs, while posing risks 
to workers.
1. Increased 
direct costs
2. Increase in 
insurance claims
3. Decreased 
property value
1. Water sensor taps 
and aerators
2. RWH
3. STP-100% recycling
4. Filtration plants for 
Swimming pools and 
water bodies (to reduce 
discharge)
5. Monsoon preparedness 
plans, mock-up drills
6. Monsoon 
preparedness checklist
1. Flood Barriers
2. Contingency plan
Cyclones
These events can cause 
structural damage, power 
outages and operational 
disruptions, requiring 
reinforcement and repairs 
and posing risks to workers.
1. Increased 
direct costs
2. Increase in 
insurance claims
1. Proactive monitoring of 
weather reports
2. ERT
3. Securing loose items
4. Structural surveys audit
5. Windowpanes 
for seepages.
6. Rainwater pumps 
are checked
1. Strengthening of 
structures based on past 
damage or incidents
Heat stress  
and labour 
productivity
Heatwaves increase energy 
consumption and strain 
HVAC systems, leading to 
higher maintenance costs. 
Extreme heat poses health 
risks to workers, causing 
fatigue and heat-related 
illnesses and reducing 
overall productivity.
1. Increased 
indirect costs
2. Increase in 
insurance claims
1. Staggered working hours
2. Resting places
3. Food & Beverages 
for workers
4. CPM (Chiller plant 
manager for energy 
optimisation), VRF system 
(Variable Refrigerant 
Flow) optimises 
power consumption.
1. Further optimisation of 
energy usage
2. ISO 50001 Energy 
Audit to identify further 
opportunities for reducing 
energy consumption
Key Climate-related Risks
Brigade Enterprises Limited
104
GRI 201 - 2
Risk Type
Risk 
Description
Impact 
Area
Existing 
Controls
Additional 
Mitigation 
Measures
Transition Risks
Carbon Tax
If widely adopted, 
developers may face a 
carbon tax on energy 
consumption and 
regulatory pressure to 
mitigate scope 3 emissions. 
Compliance with the 
Perform, Achieve & Trade 
(PAT) Scheme is essential 
to avoid legal challenges.
1. Increased 
Direct Costs
2. Regulatory Risk
3. Reputational risk 
(due to perceived 
lack of environmental 
responsibility)
1. Net Zero 
Decarbonisation Roadmap
2. SBTi Targets
1. Internal Carbon Pricing 
Strategy    
2. Supply Chain 
Decarbonisation for 
Scope 3
3. Preparedness wrt 
emerging carbon taxation 
regulations (Carbon credit 
trading scheme to be 
launched in 2026 in India)
Building 
codes
Acts and regulations such 
as the Energy Conservation 
Act (Amendment) 2022, 
which empowers the 
Central Government 
to specify energy 
codes for buildings for 
energy efficiency and 
conservation, may get more 
stringent and might cause 
additional costs in order to 
abide by such regulations 
1. Decreased Revenue
1. Efficient design change
1. Adherence to 
changing building codes 
& regulations
Commodity 
Price 
Fluctuations
Key raw materials like 
steel, iron, cement, wood, 
copper and aluminium 
are important for the 
development of any 
building. The price and 
availability of these 
materials depend highly 
on the socio-economic 
scenario of the world and 
difficulty in procuring any 
of the materials will lead 
to a direct hindrance in 
the development project 
at Brigade
1. Indirect 
increased costs
1. Sustainable Procurement 
2. Local Sourcing 
1. Regularly monitor market 
trends and conduct 
thorough market analysis to 
anticipate price movements 
and adjust procurement 
strategies accordingly
105
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 201 - 2
Key Climate-related Opportunities
Opportunity 
Type
Opportunity 
Name
Impact 
Area
Opportunity 
Description
Technological 
Opportunity
Boost towards low-
carbon technology
1. Increase in revenue
Low carbon technology will drive research 
in areas like renewable energy and emission 
capture, which will help the Company meet 
strict regulations and make the Company a 
leader in sustainable technology
Physical Risk 
Opportunity
Exploration of low-
carbon materials 
1.  Increased revenue
2. Increased asset value
Exploring and investing in lower carbon 
materials like bamboo, recycled steel or 
other locally sourced materials may reduce 
the carbon footprint and increase the brand 
reputation for Brigade
Market 
Opportunity
Change in 
consumer preferences
1. Increased revenue
Shifting towards greener facilities with 
enhanced environmental features can result in 
increased revenues for the Company as a new 
market segment 
Impact on Capitals
Both acute and chronic physical risks impact multiple 
capitals within the Integrated Reporting framework: 
such as droughts, floods, heatwaves and poor air 
quality, impact multiple IR capitals by disrupting 
operations (manufactured capital), increasing costs 
and reducing productivity (financial and human 
capital) and straining community relations and natural 
resources (social and natural capital). Chronic risks 
such as extreme heat and water stress also degrade 
efficiency and raise operational expenses.
Transition risks, including rising carbon costs, 
evolving regulations and shifting market demands, 
affect financial and intellectual capital through 
compliance costs, technology upgrades and the need 
for innovation.
Failing to adapt can harm reputation, stakeholder trust 
and long-term value across all capitals.
Impact on Stakeholders
 •
Employees face health and safety challenges 
 •
Communities may experience water stress, 
compounding effects from resource depletion and 
pollution. and disrupted access to services.
 •
Customers may experience delays or higher costs 
due to production inefficiencies.
 •
Suppliers and logistics partners may be affected by 
transport or infrastructure breakdown. 
Metrics and Targets
As part of our commitment to climate leadership and 
transparent emissions reduction, Brigade Group has 
adopted a science-based approach to setting both 
near-term and net-zero targets. Our decarbonisation 
strategy is aligned with the Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi), the globally recognised framework for 
ensuring that emissions reduction goals are consistent 
with limiting global warming to 1.5°C and the Building 
sector guidance, released in 2024 for setting the 
targets for our in-use operational emissions as well as 
upfront embodied emissions. 
In 2025, Brigade Group conducted a comprehensive 
applicability assessment of its real estate portfolio 
in relation to the SBTi Corporate and Building Sector 
Near-term and Net-zero Target Setting Guidance. 
Based on the findings, we are finalising our near-
term and net-zero targets and will submit them for 
validation shortly. This allows the Group to continue 
monitoring and reducing emissions at the asset level, 
ensuring alignment with industry best practices and 
enabling data-driven, practical emissions management. 
The details of the near-term and net-zero targets 
are discussed under the section Brigade’s journey 
to Net-zero.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
106
GRI 201-2
Water Withdrawal
Our water withdrawal patterns vary across our key 
verticals—Real Estate, Lease Rentals and Hospitality, 
each with distinct water requirements driven by their 
operational intensity. We remain firmly committed 
to responsible sourcing practices, ensuring that 
all water withdrawal is conducted sustainably 
and in full compliance with local regulations and 
environmental standards.
Water 
At Brigade Group, the Water management approach 
is proactive and purpose driven. Through strategic 
conservation practices, efficiency-focused 
technologies and continuous performance monitoring, 
we ensure that water is used wisely, minimally 
and sustainably across our projects. From design 
through to execution, we remain committed to 
reducing consumption, recycling wherever possible 
and preserving this essential resource for future 
generations to come.
Our Water Footprint 
Water Consumption
At Brigade Group, total water consumption across all 
verticals for the reporting period stood at 1,642.58 
Million litres (ML), reflecting a 20% increase compared 
to the previous year.  This rise is primarily attributed to 
the expansion in our project portfolio, in line with overall 
business growth. 
1,364.59
1,412.34
1,727.65
1,782.47
FY24
FY24
FY25
FY25
Water Consumption by  
Brigade Group in Mn Litres
Water Withdrawal by Brigade Group 
in Mn Litres
Water Intensity (Mn Litres per 000' sq. ft.) 
2024-25
Brigade Group
Real Estate
Hospitality
Lease rentals
Buzzworks
Corporate
0.0753
0.1195
0.032
0.0505
0.0377
0.026
Water Consumption across Verticals (%)
Lease Rentals
Real Estate
Hospitality
Buzzworks
Corporate
16.97%
0.63%
0.16%
40.35%
41.89%
FY25
107
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI - 303-3,5
Recycling and Reuse Achievements
In FY25, we successfully recycled 898.3 Million liters 
(ML) of wastewater, accounting for 53% of our total 
water consumption. Treated water from Sewage 
Treatment Plants (STPs) has played a key role in 
reducing our freshwater demand, with recycled water 
being used for construction activities, landscaping and 
other non-potable purposes. 
We have taken active steps to reduce freshwater 
abstraction and contributed to groundwater 
replenishment through our treatment systems and 
recharge pits, resulting in an additional 45.69 Million 
litres of water restored. 
52% of water use met through recycling 
(872.6 Million litres) up 13.6% from last year
Recharge pits 45.69 Million litre, which is a 
21% increase from the previous year
19.52%
0.61%
0.15%
39.11%
40.61%
FY25
Water Withdrawal Across Verticals (%)
Lease Rentals
Real Estate
Hospitality
Buzzworks
Corporate
Real Estate: Sustainable Water Management 
Before initiating any construction activity, we conduct 
comprehensive site assessments, considering local 
water stress levels, rainfall trends and proximity to 
natural water sources. This strategy is designed to 
minimise disruption to the local ecosystem and ensure 
full compliance with municipal and environmental 
regulations in every city we operate.
By reducing extraction and deploying smart water 
systems, we are not only conserving vital resources 
but also contributing to the development of 
sustainable infrastructure.
Rainwater Harvesting Solutions
At Brigade Group, rainwater harvesting is more than 
a conservation measure; instead, it is one of the 
cornerstones of climate-resilient design. Every project 
incorporates site-specific systems that extend beyond 
basic storage to support groundwater recharge, reuse 
and long-term water security. For instance, a 65KL 
rainwater harvesting tank has been installed at Brigade 
Southfield. At Brigade Tech Gardens, sensor-based 
irrigation optimises water use, while double-treatment 
systems at Brigade Cornerstone Utopia enhance 
efficiency and reuse. 
Newer projects such as Ebony at Brigade Orchards and 
our luxury development in Mysuru are redefining best 
practices by adopting hybrid solutions that integrate 
traditional methods with modern technology. 
Efficient Wastewater Management
Waste Water Recycling 
Brigade Group sets a high benchmark in water 
stewardship through the deployment of advanced 
wastewater recycling systems. 
In FY25, total water discharged amounted to 3.2% 
of overall water consumption. Of this, 100% was 
discharged through third-party treatment, primarily 
within the Hospitality vertical. 
On-site treatment plants are established before 
construction begins and are regularly monitored by 
NABL-accredited laboratories to ensure regulatory 
compliance. As part of our Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) 
initiative, we have implemented closed-loop systems 
and third-party recycling, conserving resources while 
protecting local ecosystems. 
At Brigade Insignia and Utopia, we have implemented 
a digitised water quality analysing station that 
continuously monitors key parameters such as pH level, 
Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) and Total Bacterial Density 
(TBD). This real-time monitoring ensures water quality 
meets required standards for construction purposes, 
enhancing quality control and promoting sustainable 
water use.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
108
GRI 303- 1, 2, 3, 5
Commercial and Hospitality: 
Water Use Optimisation
At Brigade Group, smart water-saving solutions are 
integrated across our commercial and hospitality 
properties to ensure efficient usage without 
compromising comfort. 
From sensor-based fixtures, aerators and low-flow 
systems to the use of recycled water for cooling, 
flushing and landscaping, every element is designed to 
maximise performance and minimise waste. 
Brigade Tech Gardens, a LEED Platinum-rated IT 
SEZ park in Bengaluru, serves as a benchmark for 
sustainability. The property utilises smart irrigation 
systems and wastewater recycling to maintain its 
extensive green cover and amenities. These practices 
reflect Brigade Group's ongoing commitment to water 
conservation and environmentally responsible design 
across all verticals. 
Community Engagement for Conservation
Brigade Group advances water conservation by actively 
engaging communities within its commercial spaces. 
From welcome kits offering practical water-saving 
tips to real-time water usage displays and NGO-led 
awareness workshops, we empower tenants and guests 
to adopt sustainable behaviours. 
Innovative Water Management Solutions
Our developments increasingly feature IoT-enabled 
water meters and real-time monitoring systems 
that track usage patterns, detect leaks and provide 
actionable data to both residents and facility teams. 
To optimise outdoor water use, we deploy intelligent 
irrigation systems that adapt to weather forecasts 
and soil moisture levels, ensuring precise watering 
only when and where needed-minimising waste and 
promoting landscape health. 
We are also investing in advanced greywater 
technologies, enabling the reuse of water for flushing 
and cooling purposes, further reducing dependence 
on freshwater. Looking ahead, Brigade is exploring AI-
based platforms and predictive analytics to identify 
inefficiencies and optimise decision-making. 
Projects such as Brigade Citrine exemplify this vision, 
designed to be 66% water self-sufficient, significantly 
reducing reliance on water tankers and supporting 
long-term sustainability and cost efficiency.
Water Management and 
Conservation Initiatives
Water conservation is a critical component of 
sustainable real estate development, addressing the 
growing scarcity of water resources amid increasing 
urbanisation. Some of the water conservation initiatives 
practised across the Group are listed. These measures 
not only protect local ecosystems and comply with 
regulations, but also lower operational costs and 
enhance property value, meeting the rising demand for 
environmentally responsible living spaces.
 
 Installed aerators on all taps, showers, washbasins, 
kitchen sinks and health faucets to reduce water 
flow without compromising functionality.
 
 Sensor-based taps and urinals have been 
installed in public and common areas to prevent 
unnecessary water wastage.
 
 Low-flow fixtures have been used to replace 
conventional high-flow ones, leading to significant 
water savings.
 
 Rainwater harvesting systems and recharge pits 
have been implemented at multiple locations to 
promote groundwater restoration.
 
 Recycled water is utilised for non-potable 
purposes, such as flushing, gardening and 
HVAC operations, through on-site STPs and the 
centralised STP network.
 
 Innovative water-saving techniques, such as 
mulching in garden areas and replacing piped 
wash lines with tubs, have further contributed to 
water use reduction.
 
 Usage of TCCA90 chemicals in water bodies has 
reduced algae formation and cleaning frequency, 
saving substantial volumes of water monthly.
 
 In the reporting period, we achieved total water 
savings of 2,52,531 kL across the Group, with the 
best practices followed.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
109
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 303-1 , 2
Waste
Waste Optimisation and Resource 
Efficiency Strategies
Brigade Group remains steadfast in its commitment 
to embedding circular economy principles across all 
projects. Our approach to waste management is both 
proactive and data-driven, starting with early-stage 
estimation of construction and operational waste, 
allowing us to integrate reduction strategies into design 
and execution phases.
During FY25, we reinforced our commitment to 
minimising landfill contributions through material 
optimisation, on-site waste segregation and strategic 
partnerships for recycling and reuse. 
Waste Reduction Strategy 
We implement proactive strategies from the design 
phase, emphasising waste minimisation, material reuse 
and efficient resource management throughout the 
lifecycle of our projects. In FY25, over 85.9% of the total 
waste was diverted from landfills through recycling and 
reuse strategies, marking steady progress toward our 
circularity goals.
To accurately assess our efforts with precision, we 
monitor waste intensity, defined as 12.23 tonnes 
of waste generated per Million ₹ of revenue in the 
reporting year.
Reduce waste at source
Waste utilisation (45%)
Reprocessing of waste (41%)
Utilisation of waste 
to energy
Waste to landfill (14.1%)
Total Waste Generated: 620,618.79 tonnes
Hazardous Waste: 28.93 tonnes (0.0047%)  
of the total waste 
Paint Waste 
0
Oil Waste (used oil, oil filters, 
oil-soaked cotton)
11.21
Battery Waste 
10.66
E Waste 
2.2
Other Waste
4.8
Non–Hazardous Waste: 6,20,589 tonnes 
(99.99%)
Construction & Demolition Waste 
316,268.27
Plastic Waste 
14.12
Other Waste 
304,427.70
85.9% of the project waste diverted from 
landfills through effective reuse and 
recycling strategies ;
Achieved a 3.3X increase in recovered 
waste volumes year-on-year 
85.9% 
Waste recovered (435,627.80)
14.1% 
Waste disposed (184,991.00)
Reduce
Reuse
Recycle
Energy 
recovery
Disposal
Most preferred
Least preferred
Brigade Enterprises Limited
110
GRI 306 -1,2,3,4,5
Waste Management Practices
Effective waste management enhances environmental 
sustainability by reducing pollution, conserving 
resources and lowering greenhouse gas emissions. It 
supports cleaner cities and promotes responsible use 
of materials. Some of the best practices followed at our 
projects and facilities are:
 
 Secure and efficient on-site storage solutions with 
protective roofing and labelled bins to minimise 
material wastage and contamination, preserve 
material integrity and support effective waste 
segregation and recycling efforts.
 
 Wet and dry waste is segregated at source and 
responsibly managed through authorised vendors, 
in line with BBMP and KSPCB and other applicable 
State guidelines.
 
 Repurposing excavated topsoil for on-site 
landscaping eliminates the need for external 
soil procurement, conserves natural resources, 
reduces emissions from transportation and 
enhances local biodiversity in alignment with our 
environmental stewardship goals.
 
 Organic waste is processed on-site using 
Organic Waste Converters (OWCs), with the 
generated compost used for internal landscaping 
and gardens.
 
 Battery and used oil waste are disposed of 
as per hazardous waste norms, aligning with 
ESG commitments.
 
 Initiatives to reduce landfilling include the in-house 
treatment of waste and reducing dependency on 
third-party disposal.
 
 Awareness campaigns and regular engagements 
with occupants have been conducted to 
improve segregation practices and minimise 
waste generation.
The best practices followed helped us minimise waste 
by 1,06,577 kg across the Group.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
At Brigade Group, waste management is a 
core element of our broader sustainability 
commitment. We continuously seek 
innovative, data-driven solutions to reduce 
our environmental footprint and make smarter, 
more responsible decisions.
By working closely with stakeholders and 
embedding circular practices across all our 
projects, we aim not only to minimise waste but 
to actively contribute to a more sustainable 
future for both our communities and the planet.
A striking example of this philosophy in action 
is the unveiling of a 25-foot mural created 
entirely from e-waste by renowned artist 
Vishwanath Mallabadi Davangere, showcased 
at Orion Mall, Brigade Gateway, Bengaluru, 
on World Environment Day—a celebration of 
creativity, awareness and our commitment to 
environmental stewardship.
Case Study
Sustainable Waste 
Management: Shaping 
a Greener Future
111
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 306 -2
Materials 
Guided by our overarching sustainability framework, we 
proactively addressed material reduction, prioritised 
eco-friendly alternatives and strengthened traceability 
within our supply chains.
Material Selection - Balancing Health and 
Environmental Impact
Our material selection approach prioritises both 
human well-being and environmental sustainability. 
By choosing low-emission, ethically sourced materials 
with reduced embodied carbon, we strive to create 
healthier, more resilient built environments.
Aligned with our pursuit of WELL Certification for office 
buildings, we incorporate materials that support clean 
air, thermal comfort and occupant well-being. We have 
transitioned to low-VOC paints and adhesives, which, 
according to studies by the Environmental Protection 
Agency, greatly improve indoor air quality and reduce 
health risks.
We also give preference to eco-friendly materials with 
recycled content, such as steel, cement, RMC, laminate 
flooring, tiles and various other materials and have 
third-party certifications to increase transparency 
and accountability.
Responsible Sourcing
Our Sustainable Procurement Policy includes a 
comprehensive "Red List" which identifies and excludes 
conflict materials and hazardous substances from our 
supply chain.
In FY25, we made considerable progress in sustainable 
material management by reducing the use of virgin 
material and increasing the incorporation of reclaimed 
and recycled materials alternatives. We successfully 
utilised 37,961.2 tonnes of reused and recycled 
materials, further advancing our goals for resource 
circularity and environmental stewardship.
Embracing Local Procurement for 
Sustainable Development
61%
Increase in green materials compared 
to previous year 
27%
of procurement expense is for 
green material
During FY25, 99.87% of our material was sourced locally, 
supporting our efforts towards minimising carbon 
emissions, boosting local economies and fostering 
community relations. 
99.87%
of our procurement is from  
local sources 
25.7% 
Increase in renewable materials
Reused Materials 
Tonnes 
Reused concrete waste  
1,583.9
Re-used Steel 
151 
Recycled wood, fly ash and GGBS
36,226
Brigade Enterprises Limited
112
GRI 301-1,2
ibis Styles Mysuru
Sustainable Supply Chain
At Brigade, we recognise that a sustainable supply 
chain is vital to achieving our environmental and 
social sustainability goals. We prioritise sourcing from 
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and, 
thereby, support local entrepreneurship and drive 
economic growth in the regions where we operate. 
By empowering such enterprises, we promote 
regional resilience and create common value for the 
stakeholders involved.
We take a proactive approach to supplier engagement 
by fostering collaboration and promoting sustainable 
practices in the supply chain. The interaction is in 
the form of offering training programmes, sharing 
best practices and joint efforts in developing 
innovative solutions that reduce the environmental 
footprint. Through such alliances, we are committed 
to establishing a more resilient, responsible and 
sustainable built environment for future generations.
A few of the significant material reuse practices 
followed at our projects are:
 
 Excavated earth and concrete waste used for 
backfilling and landscaping, reducing disposal and 
procurement costs.
 
 Recycled aluminium is used for formwork, 
promoting circular material use.
 
 Recycled concrete blocks are used for tile 
marking lines.
 
 Nova Formworks was adopted in place of 
traditional plywood for reusability.
 
 Waste blocks repurposed for planters, avoiding 
demolition and yielding cost savings. 
 
 Granite counter cuttings repurposed for OWC 
flooring applications.
 
 Waste playboards are reused for on-site signage 
and informational boards.
 
 Polymer materials are reused for trenching in 
diaphragm wall construction.
 
 Tile protection sheets repurposed as mats in on-
site plant nurseries.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
113
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 301 - 1, 2
Biodiversity
Brigade Group does not have any operational sites 
that are owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to 
protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 
outside protected areas.
TNFD: Our approach and Overall 
Effort on Nature Risk Assessment 
and Management
Launched in 2021, the Taskforce on Nature-related 
Financial Disclosures (TNFD) aims to integrate 
nature into corporate and financial decision-making, 
supporting a shift towards nature-positive outcomes. 
Brigade Group, as a leading real estate developer, aligns 
with TNFD to manage nature-related risks and seize 
nature-related opportunities. Our operations impact 
ecosystems, water resources and biodiversity, making 
TNFD adoption crucial for assessing dependencies and 
impacts, enhancing risk management, complying with 
ESG regulations, attracting responsible investment and 
strengthening our brand reputation.
Sustainability Governance Framework
Brigade follows a three-line model of sustainability 
governance, as detailed in the Governance section. 
Nature-related risks and opportunities are overseen by 
the Chairman and the Board-level Risk Management 
Committee. This committee is responsible for reviewing 
any significant nature-related risks and opportunities 
that may affect our operations. By integrating 
nature-related considerations into our governance 
framework, we ensure these issues are addressed 
at the highest level of decision-making, maintaining 
accountability and driving continuous improvement in 
our sustainability performance.
TNFD LEAP Approach
Aligned with the TNFD framework, Brigade Group 
focuses on nature-related risks, dependencies and 
opportunities across its value chain. We have adopted 
the Locate-Evaluate-Assess-Prepare (LEAP) approach 
to systematically evaluate and assess nature-related 
issues at both business and site levels.
LOCATE
EVALUATE
ASSESS
PREPARE
Interface 
with Nature
Dependencies 
and Impacts
Material Risks and 
Opportunities
Respond and  
Report
 •
Sector-specific 
nature-related 
dependencies 
and impacts were 
identified using the 
ENCORE and WWF 
BRF risk filter.
 •
Conducted validation 
to assess the 
materiality of the 
identified impacts 
and dependencies 
with different  
departments.
 •
The prioritised list 
of impacts and 
dependencies from 
the “Evaluate” phase 
was assessed to 
determine nature-
related Physical & 
Transitional risks 
and opportunities.
 •
The TNFD report 
and Biodiversity 
Action Plan are 
being developed 
basis the LEAP 
approach applied for 
TNFD assessment.
 •
26 out of 93 
project locations 
were identified by 
evaluating their 
interface with 
sensitive locations.
 •
Assessed based on: 
Key Biodiversity Areas 
(KBA), Protected 
Areas (PA), water 
stress areas and 
the IUCN list of 
threatened species.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
114
GRI 304 - 1
For the current LEAP assessment, 93 project locations 
were scoped, including 44 Developmental Projects, 
15 Estate Management, 18 FM Retail and 16 Hospitality 
sites. Sector-specific dependencies and impacts 
were screened using the ENCORE and WWF-BRF 
tools, while the SBTN tool identified high-impact 
commodity materials. 
Flora and fauna were identified through EIA reports. 
Twenty-six locations were evaluated for interfaces with 
sensitive areas, considering Key Biodiversity Areas, 
Protected Areas, water stress regions and the IUCN 
threatened species list. 
Ecosystem services were identified via secondary 
research and stakeholder discussions. Dependency and 
impact analyses utilised the ENCORE tool, Biodiversity 
Risk Filter and WRI’s Ecosystem Services Review, 
assessing both size and scale. 
Brigade has recognised impacts on operations, 
biodiversity and local communities as material for 
risk and opportunity identification across property 
management, construction and hotel management. 
These findings will inform the Biodiversity Action Plan, 
including resource allocation and a target to increase 
biodiversity by 10% in real estate development sites 
by 2025. Assessment results will be reported in the 
“Strategy” and “Metrics & Targets” sections of the TNFD 
report, with ongoing disclosure of nature-related risks 
and opportunities following TNFD recommendations.
Risk Management
Effective risk management is crucial for addressing 
nature-related risks identified through our TNFD 
assessment. Our approach involves a thorough 
analysis of potential risks to our operations and the 
ecosystems we interact with. We have established a 
robust framework to identify, assess and mitigate these 
risks, ensuring that our business remains resilient and 
sustainable. Our risk management strategy includes:
 •
Identification: Recognising nature-related risks such 
as biodiversity loss, ecosystem degradation and 
climate change impacts.
 •
Assessment: Evaluating the severity and likelihood 
of these risks, considering both direct and 
indirect effects.
 •
Mitigation: Implementing measures to reduce 
or eliminate identified risks, including habitat 
restoration, sustainable resource management and 
climate adaptation strategies.
 •
Monitoring: Continuously tracking and reviewing the 
effectiveness of our risk management actions.
Actual pic from the site
115
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Impacts/
Dependencies
Ecosystem 
Services
Risk/Opportunity
Classification
Impacts
Land clearance, 
habitat fragmentation 
and degradation
Increased regulation on building design, 
locations, etc. to meet regulatory guidelines 
(e.g. required rerouting of infrastructure or 
densification of urban areas).
Transition: Policy
Buffer zones with restored habitats created 
around built environments.
Ecosystem protection, 
restoration and regeneration
Depletion of water resources
Increased investment required in water 
efficiency measures to address demands to 
reduce water use.
Transition: Policy, Market
Installation of water efficiency measures may 
save costs.
Resource Efficiency
Dependencies
Water Availability/
Water Supply
Risk of disruption to access to water as the 
water cycle is disrupted by climate change 
and other actors’ withdrawals, holding 
up construction.
Physical: Chronic
Protection from floods, 
storms, landslides and 
soil erosion
Landslides, water level rise due to climate 
change and flooding due to loss of protective 
ecosystems, both as a result of wider 
degradation and the company’s actions (e.g. 
habitat conversion, soil sealing).
Physical: Acute
Mitigation of urban heat 
island effect
Increased cooling costs as habitat degradation 
and hard surfacing exacerbates urban heat 
island effect.
Physical: Chronic
Increased demand for properties with access 
to green space and therefore moderated 
temperature and reduced operating costs.
Resource Efficiency
Impacts/
Dependencies
Ecosystem 
Services
Risk/opportunity
Classification
Impacts
Green Space Management
Supporting the recovery of local species and 
biodiversity can improve the organisation’s 
reputation and provide amenity benefits for the 
real estate assets and occupants
Sustainability performance: 
Ecosystem protection, 
restoration and regeneration
Depletion of water resources
Areas of water scarcity see increased 
restrictions on water use or competition for the 
water that is available, pushing up prices.
Transition: Policy, Market
Adopt micro-irrigation practices for landscaped 
areas to reduce water use and costs.
Business Performance: 
Resource Efficiency
Dependencies
Benefits of green and blue 
space to air quality, noise 
mitigation and cultural value
Reduced value of urban assets due to pollution 
or lack of green space deters potential tenants 
and buyers.
Physical: Chronic
Increased demand for properties with access 
to green space.
Business performance: 
Products and Services
Water Availability/
Water Supply
Risk of disruption to access to water as the 
water cycle is disrupted by climate change and 
other actors’ withdrawals.
Physical: Chronic
Nature-related Risks and Opportunities for Developmental Projects:
Nature-related Risk and Opportunities for Estate Management, FM, Retail, & Hospitality:
Opportunity
Risk
Brigade Enterprises Limited
116
GRI 304 - 2
Metrics & Targets
To ensure transparency and accountability in our 
nature-related disclosure, we have established 
specific metrics and targets to measure our progress 
in managing nature-related impacts, dependencies, 
risks and opportunities. These metrics and targets are 
aligned with our sustainability goals and provide a clear 
framework for tracking our performance.
Key metrics include biodiversity indicators, ecosystem 
services measures, risk metrics and opportunity 
metrics. Our targets aim to achieve no net loss of 
biodiversity, enhance biodiversity conservation and 
ensure the sustainability of ecosystem services.
Environmental Initiatives by Brigade Group
 
 Native Tree Planting: We have planted 1,04,570 
native species trees.
 
 Urban Forest Development: Large-scale plantation 
of native species to enhance local biodiversity, 
reduce urban heat and support pollinators and 
bird habitats. 
 
 Water Recharge & Drainage Solutions: Sustainable 
water management practices improve 
groundwater levels and aquatic biodiversity.
 
 Biodiversity Conservation: Site-level surveys and 
ongoing monitoring show an increasing presence 
of butterflies, birds and pollinators.
 
 Green Outdoor Spaces and Walking Paths: Shaded 
walkways and lung spaces promote healthy 
lifestyles and community interaction with nature.
 
 Emphasis on native and diverse plant 
species,through a landscape design that carefully 
integrates new trees with existing landscapes, 
minimising disruption to the natural environment.
 
 Sustainable Mobility Infrastructure: Enhanced last-
mile connectivity and pedestrian-friendly paths 
reduce private vehicle dependency.
 
 Organic and Eco-Friendly Landscaping: Use of 
Panchagavya organic fertiliser and natural pest 
control wherever feasible.
 
 Tree Transplantation Programmes: Relocation 
and preservation of mature trees at sites such 
as Brigade Woods, Brigade Xanadu, Brigade Twin 
Towers, Brigade Atmosphere Pearl and Brigade 
Tech Gardens.
 
 Resident Engagement in Conservation: Community 
involvement in biodiversity photography and 
reporting builds awareness and connection to 
local ecosystems.
Way Forward
In response to the insights gained from our TNFD 
assessment, we are committed to developing a 
comprehensive Biodiversity Action Plan. This plan will 
address the nature-related impacts, dependencies, 
risks and opportunities identified during the 
assessment. Our Biodiversity Action Plan will include 
specific, measurable actions to:
 •
Protect and enhance biodiversity in our 
operational areas.
 •
Ensure the sustainability of ecosystem services 
critical to our business.
 •
Mitigate identified nature-related risks.
 •
Leverage opportunities for positive environmental 
impact and sustainable development.
By integrating these strategies into our business 
operations, Brigade Group aims to contribute to a more 
sustainable and resilient future.
Restatements
 •
From this reporting year, the methodology for built 
area metrics has been modified for the Hospitality 
and Estate Management verticals. Previously, the 
Super Built-up Area (SBA) was reported; however, 
the current reporting now utilises Built-up Area 
(BUA). This change in metrics may result in higher 
intensity values for this year compared to the 
previous reporting period.
 •
In the previous reporting year, an error was identified 
in the greenhouse gas (GHG) accounting, where fuel 
data for the Hotels was incorrectly calculated as 
CNG instead of LPG. This data constituted a very 
small proportion of the total values. The necessary 
correction has been made in the current reporting 
year. As a result of this adjustment, last year’s 
reported emissions would have increased by 0.83%, 
and energy consumption by 0.02%.
 •
The employee hiring and turnover figures reported 
for the last year (24% & 17.2%) have been revised 
due to the identification and correction of a 
computational error. The updated hiring rate is 
43% and the turnover rate is 30.4% among the 
permanent employees.
The data presented in this report accurately reflects 
the corrections for the above data points and 
demonstrates our commitment to transparency and 
data integrity.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
117
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GRI 2-4, 2-25, 3041-4
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
FY 2024-25
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. 
Details of listed entity
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of 
the Listed Entity
L85110KA1995PLC019126
2
Name of the listed entity
Brigade Enterprises Limited (BEL)
3
Year of incorporation
November 8, 1995
4
Registered office address
29th & 30th Floor, World Trade Center,
Brigade Gateway Campus, 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, 
Malleswaram-Rajajinagar, Bengaluru - 560 055
5
Corporate office address
29th & 30th Floor, World Trade Center,
Brigade Gateway Campus, 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, 
Malleswaram-Rajajinagar, Bengaluru - 560 055
6
E-mail
investors@brigadegroup.com
7
Telephone
91-80-41379200
8
Website
https://www.brigadegroup.com/
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2024-25
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are 
listed
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE);
BSE Limited.
11
Paid-up Capital
INR 2,44,37,46,040
12
Name and contact details (telephone, email 
address) of the person who may be contacted in 
case of any queries on the BRSR report
Name: P. Om Prakash Telephone: 91-80-4137 9200
Email: investors@brigadegroup.com
13
Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under 
this report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only 
for the entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for 
the entity and all the entities which form a part  
of its consolidated financial statements,  
taken together)
Consolidated
14
Whether the company has undertaken
reasonable assurance of the BRSR core
No
15
Name of assurance provider
Not Applicable
16
Type of assurance obtained
Not Applicable
II. 
Products/Services
17. 
Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. 
No.
Description of the main activity
Description of business activity
% of Turnover of 
the entity
1
Real Estate
(Property Development)
The real estate (property development) segment is 
involved in the development of residential, commercial- 
office spaces, and mixed-use projects.
67
2
Lease Rentals (Property 
Management)
In the lease rentals segment, the Group develops 
commercial - office and retail spaces and leases out the 
same to third parties.
23
3
Hospitality
The hospitality segment develops hotel projects which are 
operated by leading international operators.
10
Brigade Enterprises Limited
118
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
18. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover):
S. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC code
% of total Turnover 
contributed
1
Real Estate (Property Development)
45201
67
2
Lease Rentals (Property Management)
70106
23
3
Hospitality
55101
10
III. Operations
19. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
Nil
7
7
International
Nil
2
2
20. Markets served by the entity:
a. 
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (no. of states)
5
International (no. of countries)
2
b. 
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turn over of the entity?
 
As Brigade Group is engaged in real estate development and lease rentals business, exports is not applicable.
c. 
A brief on types of customers
 
 We serve to varied clientele base across the different vertical operations. For instance, in the real estate vertical, 
our customers are individual home buyers or property owners. By contrast, the commercial and hospitality 
vertical deals with organisational clientele like multinational corporations, retailers, and similar enterprises.
IV. Employees
21. Details as at the end of the Financial year
a. 
Employees and workers (including differently abled)
S. 
No
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
Employees
1
Permanent (D)
3,043
2,478
81.43%
565
18.57%
2
Other than permanent (E)
2,484
2,003
80.64%
481
19.36%
3
Total employees (D + E)
5,527
4,481
81.07%
1,046
18.93%
Workers
4
Permanent (F)
0
0
0
0
0
5
Other than permanent (G)
17,209
15,850
92.10%
1,359
7.90%
6
Total employees (F + G)
17,209
15,850
92.10%
1,359
7.90%
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
119
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
b. 
Differently abled employees and workers:
S. 
No
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
Differently Abled Employees
1
Permanent (D)
17
13
76.47%
4
23.53%
2
Other than permanent (E)
10
9
90.00%
1
10.00%
3
Total employees (D + E)
27
22
81.48%
5
18.52%
Differently Abled Workers
4
Permanent (F)
0
0
0.00%
0
0.00%
5
Other than permanent (G)
5
5
100.00%
0
0.00%
6
Total employees (F + G)
5
5
100.00%
0
0.00%
22. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Details
Total
No. and Percentage  
of Females
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
12
4
33.33%
Key Management Personnel*
10
5
50%
 
 *Amongst the total, 2 Executive directors form part of KMP and are covered under the Board of Directors. 
23. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (disclose trends for the past 3 years)
FY (2025)  
current year
FY (2024) 
previous year
FY (2023) 
(year prior to previous FY)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent employees
30.75%
28.32%
30.30%
31%
29%
30%
18%
23%
19%
Permanent workers
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
NA
NA
NA
36%
31%
35%
V. 
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
24. a. 
Names of holding/Subsidiary/Associate companies/Joint Ventures (JV)
S. 
No.
Name of the holding/subsidiary/associate companies/JV (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares held by 
listed entity
Entities' 
participation 
in Business 
Responsibility 
Initiatives
1
Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
2
Brigade Estates & Projects Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
3
Brigade Infrastructure & Power Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
4
Brigade Hospitality Services Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
5
SRP Prosperita Hotel Ventures Limited
Subsidiary
50.01
Yes
6
WTC Trades & Projects Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
7
Brigade Properties Private Limited
Subsidiary
51
Yes
8
BCV Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
68.75
Yes
9
Brigade (Gujarat) Projects Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
10
Perungudi Real Estates Private Limited
Subsidiary
51
Yes
11
Mysuru Projects Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
12
Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
13
Augusta Club Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
14
Tandem Allied Services Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
15
Brigade Flexible Office Spaces Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
16
Celebrations Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
No
Brigade Enterprises Limited
120
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
S. 
No.
Name of the holding/subsidiary/associate companies/JV (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/
Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares held by 
listed entity
Entities' 
participation 
in Business 
Responsibility 
Initiatives
17
Vibrancy Real Estates Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
18
Venusta Ventures Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
19
Zoiros Projects Private Limited
Joint Venture
50
Yes
20
Brigade Innovations LLP
Subsidiary
94
Yes
21
Propel Capital Ventures LLP
Subsidiary
94
Yes
22
Tetrarch Developers Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
23
BCV Real Estates Private Limited
Subsidiary
68.75
No
24
Tetrarch Real Estates Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
Yes
25
Ananthay Properties Private Limited
Subsidiary
51
No
26
Brigade HRC LLP
Subsidiary
67
No
VI. CSR DETAILS
25. i. 
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No) - Yes
Turnover (in Rs.)
53,13,54,42,628
Net worth (in Rs.)
59,15,34,35,610
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
26.  Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism 
in Place 
(Yes/No)
If Yes, then 
provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redress policy
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes
here4you@
brigadegroup.
com
984
Nil
Complaints 
resolved
Nil
Nil
-
Investors 
(Other than 
shareholders)
Yes
investors@
brigadegroup.
com
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil Complaints 
resolved
Shareholders
Yes
investors@
brigadegroup.
com
3
Nil
Complaints 
resolved
1
Nil Complaints
resolved
Employees 
and workers
Yes
here4you@
brigadegroup.
com
Nil
Nil
-
2
Nil
Employee 
complaints 
were 
related to IT
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
121
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism 
in Place 
(Yes/No)
If Yes, then 
provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redress policy
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Customers
Yes
here4you@
brigadegroup.
com
1,163
51
-
12,530
248
Customer 
cases 
across all 
verticals 
included
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes
here4you@
brigadegroup.
com
Nil
Nil
Nil from 
both 
procurement 
and 
contractors
Nil
Nil
-
Regulators 
(Consumer 
Court, KSPCB/ 
BBMP/other 
regulatory 
bodies)
Yes
investors@
brigadegroup.
com
75
3
-
119
2
This 
includes 
cases from 
Consumer 
court /
Labour 
dept/ 
KSPCB/ 
BBMP/
SEIAA/
KGWA
27. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues.
 
 Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental 
and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, 
approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format
S. 
No
Material Issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
1
Water 
Management
Risk and 
Opportunity
Water is a critical 
operational resource 
for Brigade Group, 
across construction, 
lease rental, and facility 
management activities. 
The Group recognises 
both the strategic 
value and risk of water. 
Significant steps to 
embed sustainable water 
management practices 
across the value chain 
are taken.
Brigade demonstrates its strategic 
water management approach:
• Increase water efficiency, 
rainwater harvesting
• Adopting water-saving 
technologies, curing compounds, 
and widespread wastewater 
recycling has enhanced 
circularity
• Achieve water positivity by 2030
• Increase wastewater recycling 
by 10% YoY
• Conservation through 
partnerships and awareness 
programs
• Use reclaimed water for flushing, 
cooling, and cleaning operations 
across projects.
Positive and 
Negative 
Implications
Brigade Enterprises Limited
122
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
S. 
No
Material Issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
2
Green House 
Gas Emissions 
(GHG)
Risk and 
Opportunity
Brigade Group 
recognises that climate 
change presents both 
a material risk and a 
strategic opportunity.
Addressing greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions is 
central to the company’s 
long- term sustainability
vision and Net Zero 
commitment.
The pathway toward a detailed 
decarbonization roadmap to 
achieve Net Zero by 2045 consists:
• Rigorous measurement and 
management of Scope 1 & 2 
emissions
• Track Scope 3 emissions
• Align with evolving regulations 
and investor expectations on 
climate risks
• Scale up certified green spaces 
under LEED, IGBC and other 
frameworks
• Support 100% renewable-
powered operations by 2040 by 
embracing long-term PPAs and 
expanding on-site solar thus 
increasing overall renewable 
energy consumption
• Support cleantech innovation 
through REAP
Positive and 
Negative 
Implications
3
Business 
Conduct and 
Compliance
Opportunity
Transparent governance, 
strong stakeholder 
trust, and integrity 
enable Brigade to drive 
sustainable growth and 
long-term value. High 
ethical and compliance 
standards position 
the Group to enhance 
its reputation, attract 
responsible investors, 
and deepen stakeholder 
confidence.
Brigade’s approach to business 
conduct and compliance embraces:
• Employees and suppliers 
training on the Code of Conduct 
to foster ethical practices and 
build stakeholder trust.
• Uphold the highest standards 
of business ethics and full 
regulatory compliance.
• Implement a comprehensive 
ESG Policy
• Enhance transparency and 
stakeholder confidence through 
regular disclosures and investor 
engagement.
• Achieve financial health to 
enable compliant, strategic 
investments
Positive 
Implications
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
123
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
S. 
No
Material Issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
4
ESG
Governance
Risk and 
Opportunity
Brigade Group 
creates long-term 
value, enhances 
transparency, and 
meets rising stakeholder 
expectations. By 
embedding ESG 
principles across 
strategy and operations, 
the Group not only 
mitigates risks but 
also reinforces ethical 
leadership, drives 
sustained impact, and 
strengthens its position 
as
a responsible and 
future-ready
business.
Brigade has strategized an effective 
and strong ESG governance 
approach that embraces:
• A three-line ESG governance 
model to ensure accountability 
and transparency.
• High ethical and governance 
standards to drive responsible 
growth
• Embed ESG principles into 
core operations to strengthen 
stakeholder engagement.
Positive and 
Negative 
Implications
5
Health and 
Safety
Risk and 
Opportunity
Commitment to strong 
workforce health and 
safety is imperative both 
legally and operationally, 
and is essential for 
building a strong 
reputation. Failure to 
achieve this may lead to 
employee distrust and 
increased liabilities.
Brigade’s proactive approach 
toward health and safety of 
workforce includes:
• 100% workforce training in OHS, 
as a part of 2025 target.
• Maintain zero fatality record and 
minimise injuries.
• Boost employee morale through 
visible, proactive and preventive 
safety measures.
• Counselling and wellness 
programmes for strong mental 
health of workforce
• Advanced initiatives for 
continuous safety improvements 
at sites
• WELL certification target for all 
commercial (lease and rentals) 
by 2028.
Positive and 
Negative 
Implications
Brigade Enterprises Limited
124
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
S. 
No
Material Issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
6
Human Rights
Risk
Brigade Group has 
a large and diverse 
stakeholder base, 
making adherence to 
human rights not only a 
significant responsibility 
but also an essential 
aspect of compliance. 
Failure to uphold or 
improve human rights 
standards could lead to 
reputational damage, 
legal liabilities, and 
reduced stakeholder 
trust, particularly in 
socially conscious 
markets and among 
investors, posing a 
substantial risk to the 
organisation.
Brigade Group emphasises it’s 
ongoing approach that involves:
• Human Rights Policy covering 
100% of employees
• Implement a structured HR 
& Admin guide to enhance 
employee experience and query 
resolution.
• Maintain zero tolerance for 
complaints, child labour, forced 
labour, or PoSH breaches.
• Conduct human rights 
due diligence for all major 
contractors.
• Progress toward achieving 
SMETA certification by 2025.
• Align with UN Guiding Principles 
on Business and Human Rights.
• Prepare to participate in the  
UN Global Compact.
• Strengthen internal safeguards, 
build stakeholder trust, and 
attract socially responsible 
investors.
Negative 
Implications
7
Tenants and 
Community
Risk and 
Opportunity
Brigade’s customer 
centric operations, 
responsible 
procurement,
and meaningful 
community engagement 
enhances its brand 
value, stakeholder trust 
and long-term resilience
The company’s exceptional 
customer experience is driven by:
• Customised leasing solutions, 
ESG- integrated design, 
premium amenities and 
refreshing older infrastructure.
• Implementation of Group-
wide Net Promoter Score (NPS) 
system by 2025.
• Environmental commitment by 
adding Green clause in our lease 
rental contracts.
• CSR initiatives in health, 
education, and skill development 
to strengthen social ties,
• ESG training, supplier 
assessments, and the use of 
green-certified materials for 
a responsible supply chain 
approach.
Positive and 
Negative 
Implications
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
125
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
S. 
No
Material Issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
8
Human 
Capital 
Development
Opportunity
The culture of 
continuous learning, 
inclusivity, and 
performance- driven 
engagement empowers 
our workforce to drive 
innovation and long- 
term value creation.
Brigade’s holistic human capital 
development approach involves:
• Leadership training, mentoring, 
skill- building, cross-functional 
collaboration, and employee 
well-being
• Women-centric leadership 
program enhancing gender 
diversity and high return-to-
work rate for women post- 
maternity leave
• SAP CONCUR tool for better 
operational efficiency
• Supplier education and 
VCP training to promote 
sustainability and compliance
Positive 
Implications
9
Materials
Risk
Harmful substances 
used in building 
materials pose a great 
risk to the health, safety 
and sustainability of our 
environment.
Brigade’s approach minimises 
environmental impact and empower 
local economies:
• Sustainable procurement policy
• Prioritise green materials, low 
VOCs
• Eliminate harmful materials 
through a stringent “Red List”
• Embrace local procurement to 
strengthen local economies and 
reduce environmental impact
• Identify and exclude conflict 
materials from the supply chain
• Create healthier, more resilient 
space by progressing toward 
use of “green certified” material 
target.
Negative 
Implications
10
ESG Risk 
Management
Risk and 
Opportunity
Robust risk and 
crisis management is 
essential for long- term 
financial stability and 
organisational agility. 
ESG risk management, 
in particular, plays a 
critical role in enhancing 
organisational resilience, 
aligning strategy, and 
enabling informed 
decision-making.
• Risk awareness improve decision 
making, organisation resilience 
and strategic alignment
• Integrate relevant ESG risks 
and opportunities within the 
risk framework to prevent 
reputational harm and mitigate 
operational challenges.
• Capitalise on sustainability 
opportunities, and drive long-
term value creation.
• Publish TCFD report to enhance 
transparency on climate-related 
risks and opportunities.
Positive and 
Negative 
Implications
Brigade Enterprises Limited
126
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
S. 
No
Material Issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the 
risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications)
11
Waste 
Management
Risk and 
Opportunity
Improper disposal 
and excessive 
generation of waste 
can result in significant 
environmental, social, 
and reputational 
consequences. In 
particular, hazardous 
waste poses a serious 
risk to organisations and 
becomes a liability if not 
managed and treated 
responsibly. Effective 
waste management, 
particularly in handling 
hazardous waste, 
enables organisations 
to optimise resource 
utilisation, reduce 
operational costs, and 
demonstrate leadership 
in environmental 
stewardship.
Brigade has adopted a 
comprehensive approach to 
reducing water consumption and 
enhancing resource recovery, which 
includes:
• Five-step waste hierarchy
• Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) 
practices to ensure water is 
recycled within a closed-loop 
system
• Secure storage solutions to 
minimise material wastage and 
leakage
• Reuse excavated topsoil for 
landscaping and support local 
biodiversity
Positive and 
Negative 
Implications
12
Biodiversity
Risk
Land conversion 
from agricultural use 
to commercial or 
residential purposes in 
development projects 
can negatively impact 
biodiversity.
Additionally, climate 
change contributes to 
biodiversity decline 
by altering ecological 
habitats and increasing
the frequency of 
extreme weather
events.
Brigade is committed to promoting 
biodiversity within its operations 
through a range of initiatives, 
including:
• Comprehensive biodiversity 
policy
• Afforestation drives, seedball 
campaigns, and protect 
biodiversity across all project 
sites
• Restoration projects and strong 
partnerships
• Commitment to TNFD framework
Negative 
Implications
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
127
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
At Brigade, we have developed a three-line governance model, adapted from the World Business Council for 
Sustainable Development (WBSCD). This enables us to align with the NGRBC (National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct) Principles and integrate the rigor needed to manage ESG and Sustainability effectively, top- down, 
and bottom-up.
The Group is committed to delivering its best in an ethical, and responsible way and this includes a governance 
approach - aligned with our company philosophy. Our transparent and principled business practices continue to 
hold us accountable and protect the interests of our stakeholders, including customers and employees.
ESG COUNCIL
Manages actions to achieve organisational ESG objectives
Internal Assurance Team
Independent 
Assurance services
Representatives of Departments
Facilities, HR, Engineering, Contracts, IT, Finance, Marketing, EHS, CSR
ESG MANAGEMENT TEAM
ESG Working Committee
Strategic ESG Impacts
• Water Management
• Carbon Neutrality
• Business Ethics
• ESG Governance
• Health & Safety
• Human Rights
• Tenants & Community
• Human Capital Development
• Materials
• ESG Risk Management
• Waste Management
• Biodiversity
GOVERNING BODY
Managing Director, Joint Managing Director 
Risk Management Committee  
of the Board of Directors Accountability  
to stakeholders for ESG oversight  
Corporate and Brand communication
Steering Committee Business 
Segments - Development, 
Facilities Operations
Functional teams Marketing, 
Facilities, Engineering 
Contract, Finance, HR
Brigade Enterprises Limited
128
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Sustainability Governance at the Brigade Group
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1. a.  Whether your entity’s policy/policies 
cover each principle and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs.
 
 
(Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
b.  Has the policy been approved by the 
Board? (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
c. Web Link of the Policies, if available
https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/corporate-governance/
policies
2.  Whether the entity has translated the 
policy into procedures. (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3.  Do the enlisted policies extend to your 
value chain partners? (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
4.  Name of the national and international 
codes/ certifications/labels/standards (e.g., 
Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rain 
forest Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g., SA 
8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your 
entity and mapped to each principle
1.  ISO 9001 – 2015 for Quality Management System (QMS)
2.  ISO 14001 – 2015 for Environmental Management 
System (EMS)
3. ISO 45001 – 2018 for Occupational Health and Safety
4. ISO 27001: 2022 Information Security Management System
5.  National Building Code (NBC) – 2016 for construction 
and development
6.  LEED-USGBC (US Green Building Council) and IGBC (Indian 
Green Building Council) Green Building Certification
7.  “Great Place to Work” Certificate
5.  Specific commitments, goals, and targets 
set by the entity with defined timelines 
if any
Under our environmental pillar, “Scaling sustainable operations for 
the planet” we aim to:
1.  Report on all waste to and diverted from landfill.
2.  Increase the overall waste reuse year-on-year.
3.  Increase the use of “green certified” materials year-on-year 
across all new construction.
4.  Increase in wastewater recycling by 10% year-on-year.
5.  To increase biodiversity by 10% in real estate development 
sites by 2025.
6.  Publish Brigade’s first Task Force on Nature-related Financial 
Disclosures (TNFD) Report in 2025.
7.  Implement afforestation initiatives by 2026 for carbon offset.
8.  Be a member of the Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) by 
2024, which is achieved.
9.  Be Water Positive by 2030.
10.  Adopt green building norms across all prospective projects 
by 2030.
11.  Operations to be 100% renewable energy powered by 2040.
12.  Achieve Net Zero emissions by 2045.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
129
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Under our social pillar “Scaling livable spaces for communities”. 
Our targets are:
1.  Increase women-centric leadership programmes.
2.  Increase investment in workforce training.
3.  Increase employee inclusion initiatives.
4.  More than 50% of the materials to be locally sourced.
5.  100% Workforce trained on Occupational health and safety 
by 2025.
6.  Implement Group-wide Net Promoter Score by 2025.
7.  SMETA certified by 2025.
8.  All contracts under the Lease Rentals portfolio will include 
“Green” clauses from 2027.
9.  All Lease Rental properties to be WELL Health-Safety certified 
by 2028.
10.  UN Global Compact member by 2028.
Under our governance pillar “Scaling good governance for 
shareholders”. Our targets are:
1.  Our approach is to progressively integrate ESG risks in our 
enterprise risk strategy which was initiated in 2024.
2.  100% of employees and suppliers to be trained on the Code of 
Conduct in 2024.
3.  Publish Brigade’s first Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures Report (TCFD) in 2025.
4.  50% women representation at the Board of Director level 
by 2028.
6.  Performance of the entity against the 
specific commitments, goals, and targets 
along-with reasons in case the same are 
not met
Brigade Group has taken up these public commitments during 
the year 2022-23 and it will monitor & report the performance 
against these focus areas year on year going forward.
Material Topic
Target by Date
Status 
(2024-25)
Environmental pillar: Scaling sustainable operations for the planet
Water Management
Be Water Positive by 2030
On track
10% year-on-year increase in wastewater recycling
Achieved
Green House Gas (GHG) 
Emissions*
Be a member of the Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) by 2024
Achieved
Adopt Green Building norms across all new projects by 2030
On track
Operations to be 100% renewable energy powered by 2040
On track
Achieve Net Zero emissions by 2045
On track
Materials
Implement Brigade’s Sustainable Procurement Policy by 2024
Achieved
Increase the use of “green certified” materials year-on-year across ALL 
new construction
Achieved
Waste Management
Report all waste to and diverted from landfill by 2024
Achieved
Increase overall waste reuse year-on-year
Achieved
Brigade Enterprises Limited
130
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Material Topic
Target by Date
Status 
(2024-25)
Biodiversity
Implement Biodiversity Policy by 2024
Achieved
Increase biodiversity by 10% in real estate development sites by 2025
On track
Publish Brigade’s first Task Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures 
(TNFD) Report by 2025
Achieved
Implement afforestation initiatives - for carbon offset sequestration 
by 2026
On track
Social pillar: Scaling livable spaces for communities
Health & Safety
100% workforce trained on occupational health and safety by 2025
Achieved
All lease rentals properties to be WELL Health-Safety certified by 2028
Action initiated
Human Rights
Implement Human Rights Policy by 2024
Achieved
Be a SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) certified organisation 
by 2025
Action initiated
Align labour standards with UNGP, ILO, and the Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work framework by 2026
Action initiated
UN Global Compact member by 2028
Action initiated
Tenants & Community
Source more than 50% of materials locally
Achieved
Implement a Group-wide Net Promoter Score (NPS) by 2025
Action initiated
All contracts under the Lease Rentals portfolio will include Green 
clauses by 2027
Action initiated
Human Capital 
Development
Increase investment in workforce training
On track
Increase women-centric leadership programmes
On track
Increase employee inclusion initiatives
On track
Governance pillar: Scaling good governance for shareholders
Business conduct and 
compliance
All employees and suppliers are trained on the Code of Conduct by 
2024
Employees: 
Achieved 
Suppliers:  
On track
Implement an ESG Policy by 2024
Achieved
ESG Governance
Establish a strong and diverse governance framework for ESG by 2028
Achieved
ESG Risk Management
Integrate ESG risk into enterprise risk strategy by 2024
Achieved
Publish Brigade Group’s first Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures Report (TCFD) by 2025
Achieved
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7. 
 Statement by the director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related 
challenges, targets, and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
 
 Sustainability is fundamental to long-term business resilience, stakeholder trust, and value creation. Brigade 
Enterprises Limited, guided by the Integrated Reporting Framework, is taking a balanced approach to the 
enhancement of the six capitals: Financial, Manufactured, Human, Social & Relationship, Intellectual, and Natural, 
while continuing to prioritize responsible, inclusive, and future-ready growth.
 
 In the reporting year, significant progress was made in deepening ESG integration across operations and decision-
making processes, with alignment to leading global standards as the primary target. Formal submission of 
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) targets is planned in FY 2025-26, building on our filed commitment to set 
science-based net-zero targets. Our goal is to achieve 100% renewable energy usage across operations by 2040. 
We are also targeting water positivity by 2030, with a year-on-year 10% increase in wastewater recycling already 
on track. In addition, sustainable procurement policies have been implemented, and initiatives to increase 
the use of green-certified materials are underway. A biodiversity policy has been formulated, with a target to 
enhance biodiversity by 10% across real estate development sites.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
131
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 Climate-related risk management is being elevated in alignment with the recommendations of the Task Force 
on Climate- related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), enabling robust evaluation of transition and physical risks 
through advanced scenario analysis. In parallel, internal assessments aligned with the Taskforce on Nature-
related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) have been initiated, reflecting the organisation’s recognition of emerging 
nature-related risks and opportunities.
 
 Beyond environmental commitments, Brigade continues to prioritize workforce well-being, responsible land use, 
innovation-led construction practices, community development, and transparent stakeholder engagement, all 
contributing to holistic, long-term value creation. We have achieved 100% training coverage for employees on 
occupational health and safety, and continue to strengthen women-centric leadership programs, simultaneously, 
there is a year-on-year increase in total training hours. A target has been set to achieve WELL certification for 
all lease and rental buildings by 2028, reinforcing our focus on healthier spaces for occupants.
 
 While challenges around Scope 3 data capture, evolving regulatory expectations, and balancing short-term 
operational needs with long-term sustainability investments persist, Brigade remains attentive to these issues 
with focused leadership and collaborative action.
 
 Strong governance remains a cornerstone of the ESG agenda. The Board and its Sustainability Committee provide 
ongoing oversight, ensuring ESG priorities are deeply embedded into business strategy, risk management, and 
performance evaluation frameworks. Business is conducted with high ethical standards and active monitoring 
of material ESG risks to ensure continued progress.
 
 As the sustainability journey advances, Brigade remains focused on responsible growth, disciplined governance, 
and continuous alignment with evolving global sustainability frameworks, reinforcing its commitment to building 
resilient communities and delivering enduring value for all stakeholders.
8. 
 Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility 
policy (ies).
 
DIN: 08133119
 
Name: Ms. Pavitra Shankar Designation: Managing Director
9. 
 Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes/No). If yes, provide details.
 
 Yes. Brigade Group has implemented a structured three-tier ESG governance framework. The Board’s Risk 
Management Committee holds overall responsibility for ESG oversight and stakeholder interests. Supporting 
this is the ESG Council, comprising the Managing Director, Directors, and functional heads, which formulates 
and drives ESG strategy across the organisation. Execution is led by the ESG Management Team, Reporting 
Team, and Internal Audit Team, ensuring effective implementation, monitoring, and transparent disclosures. This 
structure enables proactive management of ESG risks and opportunities while aligning sustainability goals with 
business strategy. External assurance partners are supported and can be engaged when necessary to enhance 
the credibility of ESG reporting.
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director/ Committee of the 
Board/ Any other Committee
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
 
 Performance against above policies and 
follow up action
The review is undertaken by the Committee of the Board. As a 
practice, the company’s policies are reviewed periodically or as 
required. During this assessment, the efficacy of the policies is 
reviewed, and necessary changes to policies and
procedures are implemented.
 
 Compliance with statutory requirements of 
relevance to the principles, and rectification 
of any non-compliances
That is carried out by the Committee of the Board.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
132
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
Subject for Review
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any other – please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
 
 Performance against above policies and 
follow up action
That is carried out by the Committee of the Board annually. There 
are no instances of non-compliance with respect to statutory
requirements that are pertinent to the principles.
 
 Compliance with statutory requirements of 
relevance to the principles, and rectification 
of any non-compliances
The company performs this task annually.
11.  Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ 
evaluation of the working of its policies by an 
external agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide the name 
of the agency.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
12.  If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not ALL 
Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be 
stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the principles 
material to
its business (Yes/No)
Not Applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is able 
to formulate and implement the policies on 
specified principles
(Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human 
and
technical resources available for the task (Yes/
No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial 
year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
133
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is 
Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
Brigade Group upholds a strong commitment to integrity, ethics, transparency, and accountability through a 
comprehen- sive governance framework aligned with legal and regulatory standards. The organisation enforces 
stringent codes of conduct, fosters ethical business practices, and maintains open, transparent communication with 
all stakeholders. Regular audits and proactive stakeholder engagement reinforce accountability across operations. 
Brigade Group views sound corporate governance as fundamental to building stakeholder trust and sustaining its 
reputation within the industry.
Essential Indicators
1. 
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics/principles covered under the training and its 
impact
%age of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors
11
• Code of conduct
• Ethical business practices, Anti-bribery & 
Anti-corruption, Conflict of interest ESG/
Sustainability
• Environment & Climate risks Skill up-gradation
• PoSH
• Inclusivity
• Data privacy & cyber security
83%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
42
80%
Employees other 
than BoD and KMPs
3,546
• Leadership & Management Development Food 
Safety & Hygiene (incl. HACCP, FSSAI)
• Digital Guest Experience & Customer 
Interaction
• Skill Development & Certification Business, 
Finance & Compliance Training Health, Safety 
& Hygiene
• Risk Management & Code of Conduct 
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) Sensitisation
• Onboarding & Organisational Culture Anti-
Harassment & Human Rights Awareness
• Environmental & Social Responsibility
• Hospitality Service Excellence
100%
Workers
24,537
• Health, Hygiene & Welfare
• Behavioral Safety & Specialized Training
• Fire Safety & Emergency Response
• Environmental Management & Waste 
Reduction
• Operational Safety
100%
Brigade Enterprises Limited
134
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
2. 
 Details of fines/penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings 
(by the entity or by directors/KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the 
financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as 
specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as 
disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount (In INR)
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
Integrity, 
Ethics, 
Transparency, 
and 
Accountability
National Consumer 
Disputes Redressal 
Commission
Rs. 3,54,900.
The delay in 
handover of unit 
was due to the 
National Green 
Tribunal (NGT) 
ordering the 
buffer from lake 
to be 75 metres.
Yes
Settlement
Nil
Nil
Nil
Compounding fee
Nil
Nil
Nil
Non-Monetary
NGRBC Principle
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement 
agencies/judicial institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Imprisonment
Nil
Punishment
3. 
 Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
Appeal No. 854 of 2024- Mr. M R Jaishankar 
v/s LT. Col. L.D. Shiggon and anr
National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission
Appeal No. 855 of 2024- Mr. M R Jaishankar 
V/s Brig. C R Reddy and anr
National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission
4. 
 Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
 
 Yes, the Group’s Code of Ethics Policy encompasses comprehensive provisions on anti-corruption and anti-
bribery, applicable to all employees. The policy strictly prohibits the acceptance of bribes, with violations 
resulting in immediate termination of employment. Additionally, employees are advised to exercise discretion 
and sound judgment when accepting gifts, ensuring alignment with ethical standards and organisational values. 
The policy link: https://cdn.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/code-of-ethics/brigade-code-of-ethics.pdf
5. 
 Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Employees
Workers
6. 
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2024-25 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the Directors
Nil
Nil
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
135
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
7. 
 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
 
 There have been no incidents of corruption or conflict of interest during the reporting period.
8. 
 Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable * 365)/Cost of goods/services procured) in the 
following format:
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Accounts payable * 365 days
2,86,80,605
2,77,42,555
Cost of goods/services procured
2,94,384
1,79,883
Number of days of accounts payables
97
154
9. 
Open-ness of Business
 
 Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-
with loans and advances & investments, with related parties:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24
(Previous Financial Year)
Concentration 
of Purchases
a.
Purchases from trading houses as % 
of total purchases
Nil
Nil
b.
Number of trading houses where 
purchases are made from
Nil
Nil
c.
Purchases from top 10 trading 
houses as % of total purchases from 
trading houses
Nil
Nil
Concentration 
of Sales
a.
Sales to dealers/distributors as % of 
total sales
Nil
Nil
b.
Number of dealers/distributors to 
whom sales are made
Nil
Nil
c.
Sales to top 10 dealers/distributors 
as % of total sales to dealers/
distributors
Nil
Nil
Share of RPTs 
in
a.
Purchases (purchases with related 
parties)
186*
77*
Total purchases
2,94,384*
1,79,883*
Purchases (purchases with related 
parties) as % of total purchases
0.063%
0.04%
b.
Sales (sales to related parties)
88*
5,608*
Total sales
5,31,354*
5,06,415*
Sales (sales to related parties) as % 
of total sales
0.02%
1.11%
c.
Loans & advances (loans & 
advances given to related parties)
Nil
375*
Total loans & advances
Nil
38,438*
Loans & advances (loans & 
advances given to related parties) 
as % of total loan & advances
0.00%
0.98%
d.
Investments (investments in related 
parties/total Investments made)
Nil
Nil
 
* All absolute values are in INR lakhs
Brigade Enterprises Limited
136
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topics/principles covered under 
the training
%age of value chain partners covered (by value of business 
done with such partners) under the awareness programmes
200
• Importance of sustainable 
procurement
• Brigade 2045 Net-
zero Target Brigade’s 
Procurement Policy
50%
2. 
 Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? 
(Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same.
 
 Yes. In order to maintain transparency and to avoid potential conflicts of interest within the Board, all members 
have to submit annual disclosures and declarations. These would report any changes in the directorship, 
committee roles, or shareholding. Whenever a conflict of interest occurs, such Directors must recuse themselves 
from participation in discussions or decisions related to agenda items in which they have a personal interest. This 
strengthens the organisation’s commitment to fairness, integrity, and impartiality in its governance processes.
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe.
Brigade Group focuses on innovative real estate solutions in ways that are safe and sustainable. We have embraced 
sustainable solutions in meaningful ways by practicing sustainable approaches, implementing new energy efficiency 
practices, and sustainable design. Brigade Group is committed to quality and safety, and is willing to create 
excellent, environmentally aware properties and leasing, as we dialogue with our responsibility as leaders in the real 
estate industry.
Essential Indicators
1. 
 Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively.
Particulars
Current 
Financial Year
Previous 
Financial Year
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D
Nil
Nil
-
Capex
0.07%
4.6%
Environmental clearance, Consent to establishment and 
consent to operation
2. 
a. 
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
 
 
 Yes, Brigade Group maintains a strict sourcing policy that is aligned with climate action and other social 
and governance objectives across its real estate portfolios. Brigade Group encourages health, safety, and 
well-being and calls on suppliers to reduce their negative social impact by following these guidelines in 
their entire supply chain. Brigade Group prioritizes sustainable sourcing by clearly outlining contracts of 
work from every supplier.
 
 
 Brigade Group is committed to sourcing responsibly and ethically, which translates into sustainable 
development across its operations. The Sustainable Sourcing Policy ensures:
• A zero-tolerance approach to conflict materials, restricted chemicals or resources, child labour, forced 
labour, workplace harassment or discrimination, bribery, fraud, or theft.
• Support for responsible rural development and recycling, replenishment, and use of innovative means 
and technologies, where possible.
• Guidance for suppliers to improve their sustainability performance with regular feedback and monitoring 
by Brigade Group.
• Identification and collaboration with suppliers dedicated to sustainability principles.
• Encouragement for local employment by sourcing materials as locally as possible, with a particular focus 
on Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to encourage local economic growth.
 
 
Link to the Sustainable Sourcing Policy:
 
 
 https://cdn.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/policies/brigade-sustainable-sourcing-
policy-23062023.pdf
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
137
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
b. 
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
 
 
 Yes, supporting the “Make in India” movement by the Government of India, Brigade Group sourced 99.87% 
of the required input materials domestically.
3. 
 Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end 
of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) b) e-waste c) Hazardous waste d) Other waste
 
 As a real estate developer and lease rental service provider, our operations primarily focus on the development 
and management of built spaces. No reclamation activities were undertaken during the reporting period.
4. 
 Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to 
Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
 
 As Brigade Group is a real estate developer and lease rentals provider, Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) 
does not apply to our business activities.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
NIC 
Code
Name of 
Product /
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the Life Cycle 
Perspective /Assessment was 
conducted
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes/No)
If yes, provide the web-link.
45201
Brigade 
Citrine
0
Cradle to Grave
Yes
No
2. 
 If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal 
of your products/services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) or along-with action 
taken to mitigate the same through any other means, briefly describe the same
Name of product/
service
Description of risk/concern
Action taken
Brigade Citrine
Embodied carbon from 
cement
Replacing 30% of the cement used in non-structural works 
and concrete with Granulated Blast Furnace Slag (GGBS)
Embodied carbon from steel
Incorporating steel with 60% recycled scrap content
Energy consumption during 
use-phase
Optimised building design with insulated texture paint, 
High-performance glazing, and efficient fixtures
3. 
 Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for 
manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry)
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
GGBS
1.36%
1.83%
Fly Ash
0.02%
0.08%
Recycled Wood
0.00%
0.0002%
Reused concrete waste
0.06%
0.19%
Reused content in steel
0.01%
0.02%
4. 
 Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, 
recycled, and safely disposed, as per the following format:
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Re-used
Recycled
Safely 
disposed
Re-used
Recycled
Safely 
disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
Nil
Nil
e-waste
Hazardous waste
Other waste
Brigade Enterprises Limited
138
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
5. 
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products sold in 
respective category
Not Applicable. Brigade Group is a real estate and lease rentals provider.
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in 
their value chains.
Essential Indicators
1. 
a 
Details of measures for the well-being of employees
Category
Total 
(A)
% of employees covered by
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day care Facilities
Number 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
% 
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male
2,478
2,478
100.00%
2,478
100.00%
Nil
Nil
2,478
100.00%
Nil
Nil
Female
565
565
100.00%
565
100.00%
565
100.00%
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total
3,043
3,043
100.00%
3,043
100.00%
565
18.57%
2,478
81.43%
Nil
Nil
Other than Permanent Employees
Male
2,003
2,003
100.00%
2,003
100.00%
Nil
Nil
Female
481
481
100.00%
481
100.00%
481
100.00%
Total
2,484
2,484
100.00%
2,484
100.00%
481
19.36%
 
b. 
Details of measures for the well-being of workers
Category
Total 
(A)
% of workers covered by
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity Benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day care Facilities
Number 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
% 
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent Workers
Male
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Female
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Other than Permanent Workers
Male
15,850
15,850
100.00%
15,850
100.00%
Nil
Nil
15,850
100.00%
20
0.13%
Female
1,359
1,359
100.00%
1,359
100.00%
1,359
100.00%
Nil
Nil
20
1.47%
Total
17,209
17,209
100.00%
17,209
100.00%
1,359
7.90%
15,850
92.10%
40
0.23%
 
c. 
 Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other 
than permanent) in the following format.
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of 
total revenue of the company
0.42%
0.30%
2. 
Details of retirement benefits, for current FY and previous FY
Benefits
FY 2024-25 (Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24 (Previous Financial Year)
No. of employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % of 
total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with  
the authority  
(Y/N/NA)
No. of employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % of 
total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with  
the authority  
(Y/N/NA)
PF
100%
100%
Yes
100%
NA
Yes
Gratuity
100%
13.88%
Yes
100%
NA
Yes
ESI
NA
9.05%
Yes
5%
100%
Yes
Workmen 
compensation 
policy (WCP)
NA
77.51%
Yes
NA
100%
Yes
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
139
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
3. 
 Accessibility of workplaces - Are the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees 
and workers, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any 
steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
 
 Yes. Each of our buildings is designed to meet the accessibility standards set by the National Building Code of 
India, ensuring that the needs of differently abled individuals are fully accommodated. We prioritize inclusivity 
by integrating key features such as wheelchair ramps at entry and exit points, designated parking spaces, and 
smooth, non-slip footpaths with tactile guidance. Furthermore, all elevators are equipped with braille-enabled 
buttons or voice guidance systems, ensuring ease of access for all.
4. 
 Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
 
 Brigade Group is an equal opportunity employer, fully compliant with the PWD Act, 2016. We do not discriminate 
based on gender, caste, race, religion, sexual orientation, age, nationality, disability, or other personal 
characteristics. Selection is based solely on performance and merit, ensuring equal opportunities for all.
 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Policy
 
https://cdn.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/policies/brigade-del-policy-23062023.pdf
5. 
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Benefits
Permanent Employees
Permanent Workers
Gender
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100%
100%
-
-
Female
88.89%
90%
-
-
Total
98.72%
90%
-
-
6. 
 Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Category FY 2024-25 (Current Financial Year)
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Employees
Yes
Other than Permanent Employees
Yes
Permanent Workers
Yes
Other Than Permanent Workers
Yes
 
 We have established a comprehensive, time-bound grievance policy to effectively address and resolve employee 
concerns. The process includes the following key steps:
 
 Step 1: Employees can raise grievances by email to: emp-grievance@brigadegroup.com, using the internal 
grievance module, or by informing their Reporting Manager with a copy to the HOD and the grievance email. If 
the grievance involves the Reporting Manager or HOD, it can be submitted directly to the grievance email. For 
confidential matters, grievances may be sent directly to the Head HR or the Grievance Redressal Committee 
(GRC). The complaint must include the employee’s name, ID, department, details of the grievance, and any 
supporting documents. Anonymous complaints are generally not entertained unless supported by valid evidence.
 
 Step 2: Upon receiving the grievance, the concerned redresser will acknowledge its receipt within 24 hours. The 
employee is informed of the next steps and the estimated timeline for resolution.
 
 Step 3: The HR department, in coordination with the relevant functional head, investigates the grievance through 
discussions, document checks, and consultations with involved stakeholders. Based on the complexity, the 
grievance is resolved within 3 working days (for minor issues), 15 working days (for internal investigations), 
or 30 working days (for senior management-level matters). The outcome and any corrective measures are 
communicated to the complainant.
 
 Step 4: If the employee is not satisfied with the resolution, the matter can be escalated first to the CHRO (Level 
1), and if needed, to the Grievance Redressal Committee (Level 2) for further review and action.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
140
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
7. 
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity
Category
FY 2024-25 (Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24 (Previous Financial Year)
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category 
(A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (D)
% (D/C)
Total Permanent Employees
3,043
Nil
2,588
Nil
Male
2,478
2,144
Female
565
444
Total Permanent Workers
NA
NA
Male
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
8. 
Details of training given to employees and workers
Category
FY 2024-25 (Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24 (Previous Financial Year)
Total 
(A)
On Health & Safety 
Measures
On Skill upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health & Safety 
Measures
On Skill upgradation
Number 
(B)
% (B/A)
Number 
(C)
% (C/A)
Number 
(E)
% (E/D)
Number 
(F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Male
4,481
4,481
100.00%
4,481
100.00%
3,568
3,568
100%
3,568
100%
Female
1,046
1,046
100.00%
1,046
100.00%
1,024
1,024
100%
1,024
100%
Total
5,527
5,527 100.00%
5,527 100.00%
4,592
4,592
100%
4,592
100%
Workers
Male
15,850
15,850
100.00%
15,850
100.00%
11,424
11,424
100%
11,424
100%
Female
1,359
1,359
100.00%
1,359
100.00%
657
657
100%
657
100%
Total
17,209
17,209 100.00%
17,209 100.00%
12,081
12,081
100%
12,081
100%
9. 
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2024-25 (Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24 (Previous Financial Year)
Total (A)
Number (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
Number (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Male
4,481
1,750
39.05%
3,568
1,823
51.09%
Female
1,046
426
40.73%
1,024
459
44.82%
Total
5,527
2,176
39.37%
4,592
2,282
49.70%
Workers
Male
15,850
80
0.50%
11,424
141
1.23%
Female
1,359
16
1.18%
657
13
1.98%
Total
17,209
96
0.56%
12,081
154
1.27%
10. Health and safety management system:
 
a. 
 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the 
entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage such system?
 
 
 As a property development and management entity, we prioritize the health and safety of all stakeholders 
through a robust Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Management System. Our system is designed to 
mitigate health and safety risks effectively across both office environments and construction sites. With 
an ISO 45001:2018 certification, we follow a structured approach to identifying, assessing, and managing 
risks and opportunities related to health and safety.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
141
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 
 Our health and safety assessments use a standardized framework to evaluate risks based on severity and 
likelihood, guiding the creation of appropriate mitigation strategies. Regular performance reviews across all 
office spaces and construction sites help identify areas for improvement, ensuring continuous enhancement 
of our safety practices.
 
 
 Additionally, our OHS Management System extends comprehensive coverage to all employees, including 
those contracted within the property development sector, underscoring our commitment to a safe and 
healthy workplace for all.
 
b. 
 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-
routine basis by the entity?
 
 
 Brigade Enterprises Ltd. takes a rigorous approach to recognising and controlling workplace hazards and 
risks holistically, encompassing people, processes, physical environment, equipment, chemical agents, and 
biological agents. This includes risks associated with machinery, hazardous substances, noise, stress, and 
ergonomic factors. Our Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) management system, which is ISO 45001:2018 
accredited, lays out detailed procedures and protocols at all construction sites and managed properties 
to comply with relevant legislation and regulations.
 
 
 The OHSMS clearly identifies and groups potential hazards and risks by severity and likelihood. We use 
leading and lagging indicators measuring incident reductions, near misses, unsafe conditions, etc., to assess 
safety performance and improvements. We conduct routine and non-routine HIRA at all development sites, 
pre-start prior to any activities taking place, with reviews every six months to amend as required.
 
 
 The control measures we implement include elimination, substitution, engineering controls, and PPE, such 
as safety nets, fall arrestors, and lifelines on construction sites. We conduct daily inspections at our sites 
to confirm compliance.
 
 
 For our managed properties, we delivered comprehensive safety training, established emergency response 
procedures, and conducted occasional mock drills to ensure readiness to respond to events, such as fires, 
earthquakes. Regular maintenance checks on elevators, escalators, and other equipment help safeguard 
the well-being of employees, tenants, and visitors alike.
 
c. 
 Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. (Y/N)
 
 
 Yes. Brigade Enterprises Ltd. fosters active worker participation in occupational health and safety through 
joint management-worker committees, which include representatives from all job levels. These committees 
ensure that consultation is a two-way process, allowing both employers and workers to openly discuss and 
raise health and safety concerns. Feedback from workers is integral to decision-making, ensuring that their 
views and concerns are considered before any actions are taken.
 
 
 Workers have access to multiple communication channels, including direct reporting systems and informal 
methods such as toolbox talks, site walks, and safety committee meetings. These platforms encourage 
open dialogue between workers and supervisors, ensuring that safety concerns are addressed promptly 
and effectively.
 
d. 
 Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare 
services? (Yes/ No)
 
 
 Yes. The company has a holistic view of worker health and well-being. They ensure access to healthcare by 
offering doctors twice a week, medical camps once a month, and onsite medical rooms with trained nurses 
at each project site. In an emergency, the project has tie-ups with local hospitals where workers can go for 
immediate access to specialized treatment.
 
 
 In addition, the company proactively targets health initiatives to prevent lifestyle conditions. These initiatives 
highlight the potential impact of a commitment to healthier behaviours with regard to food, exercise, use of 
substances, and overall health and wellness.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
142
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
11. 
Details of safety related incidents, in the following format
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 
(per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
0
0
Workers
2
3
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
High consequence work-related injury or 
ill-health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place
 
 The organisation provides a safe and healthy working environment through a variety of mechanisms including 
the organisation’s infrastructure, training, and health initiatives:
• Health & Safety Training: All employees and workers undergo training on health and safety through a series 
of comprehensive training, including induction and PPE training.
• EHS Requirements: EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) requirements are included in project tenders, with 
contractors receiving a briefing in project kick-off meetings.
• On-site Medical Professional: Each site has a medical room, staffed with a nurse and supported by weekly 
doctor visits, monthly camps, and hospital tie-ups for emergencies.
• Emergency Preparedness: All sites have an Emergency Response Plan (ERP) in place, with trained teams and 
conducted mock drills, with clear lines of communication and reporting.
• Wellness Initiatives: The organisation has various wellness initiatives that target nutrition, substance abuse 
prevention, smoking cessation and physical activity.
• Statutory Compliance: We fully comply with the statutory norms around safety, through regular inspections 
and certifications for the equipment that is classified as essential.
• Processes in Continuous Improvement: We regularly hold “Engineer’s Meet” to address EHS based problems 
and to establish possible mitigation plans.
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of the 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of the 
year
Remarks
Working Conditions
74
Nil
35% reduction 
in cases
114
Nil
37% reduction 
in cases
Health & Safety
36
Nil
44% reduction 
in cases
64
Nil
53% reduction 
in cases
14. Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health & Safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
143
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
15.  Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
 
 No safety-related incidents or significant risks were reported during the assessments for FY2024- 25 regarding 
health, safety practices, and work conditions. This outcome demonstrates Brigade Group’s continued 
commitment to a safe and healthy working environment through the following:
• Ensuring provision of safe equipment, appropriate resources and procedures provided that enable training 
for all staff.
• Active supervision at sites that enables actions that monitor health and safety risks.
• Regular reviews and audits area made to evaluate performance to improve health, safety and well-being.
• Health and safety to all workers, both directly and indirectly, including at labour camps.
• Regular assessments of all workers and sharing the results with stakeholders enable timely corrective actions.
• Workers are to operate in accordance with agreed and approved safe work methods with control measures 
enforced and maintained, using work permits and safety checklists.
• Work is to be undertaken in accordance with the Group’s Health, Safety and Well-being Policy to ensure 
standards are in line with all of the Group’s operations.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) 
Employees (Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N)
 
(A)  Yes, the Group ensures that its employees and their family members are covered under the Company’s 
medical insurance.
 
(B)  Yes, all Workers and their family members are also covered under the worker’s compensation policy and 
the Building and Other Construction Workers Act 1996.
2. 
 Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and 
deposited by the value chain partners.
 
 Yes, statutory compliances are tracked through the Group’s Compliance Management System, with all invoices 
verified for compliance before processing.
3. 
 Provide the number of employees/workers having suffered high consequence work related injury/ill-health/ 
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in 
suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment.
Total no. of affected employees/ workers
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated 
and placed in suitable employment or whose family 
members have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Employees
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
4. 
 Does the entity provide transition assistance programmes to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
 
 Yes. Brigade Group offers transition assistance programmes to support continued employability. Retired 
employees may be engaged as consultants on a retainer basis, while those facing termination are provided 
with two-month advance notice.
5. 
Details on assessment of value chain partners
% of your value chain partners (by value of business done with 
such partners) that were assessed
Health & Safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
 
 *A declaration of 100% compliance with all assessments is obtained from the contractor for contract staff and workers. Our project 
team regularly monitors adherence to these requirements.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
144
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
6. 
 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising 
from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
 
 Throughout the year, the evaluation of health and safety practices across all value chain partners did not 
reveal any significant hazards or concerns. Brigade Group ensures that all its suppliers comply with applicable 
occupational health and safety regulations and standards.
 
 To uphold these expectations, the Group conducts both scheduled and unscheduled audits to assess 
compliance. In instances where a supplier is not compliant, the Group sets out corrective actions which are 
carefully constructed, made clear, mutually agreed, and adhered to with respect to time. This confirms our 
commitment to ensuring a safe, responsible, and resilient supply chain.
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders.
Brigade Group values the interests of all stakeholders and seeks to identify those interests through a collaborative 
and cocreated process. In the Group’s commitment to stakeholder engagement and transparency, it publishes 
newsletters regularly to share updates about project developments, and the property management services for 
external stakeholders.
Structured feedback mechanisms are in place to ensure stakeholders can share their views openly and securely, 
enabling continuous improvement. Internally, employees are encouraged to voice their perspectives through both 
direct and anonymous channels. Brigade Group also works meaningfully with local communities to promote social 
development with the Brigade Foundation, which addresses local needs.
Ultimately, Brigade Group aims to build and maintain trustworthy relationships with all of its stakeholders through 
corporate social responsibility engagement efforts.
Essential Indicators
1. 
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
 
 To identify key stakeholder groups, Brigade Group follows a structured and inclusive process guided by its 
Stakeholder Engagement Policy. The Group defines stakeholders as individuals, groups, or organisations 
that either impact or are impacted by its operations and overall performance. Stakeholder identification 
begins with mapping all entities connected to the business ecosystem, followed by evaluating their level of 
influence and interest. This collaborative, co-created process ensures a comprehensive understanding of 
stakeholder expectations.
2. 
 List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
vulnerable & 
marginalized 
Group 
(yes/ no)
Channels of 
communication
Details of Other 
Channels of 
Communication
Frequency of 
engagement
Details 
of Other 
Frequency of 
engagement
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during such engagement
Board of 
Directors
No
Other
• Board 
meetings 
and annual 
general 
meetings
• Annual
• Others, 
please 
specify
• Regular
Consultation, participation and 
sharing of information on:
• Ensuring regulatory 
compliance.
• Driving growth and 
profitability.
• Maintaining fiduciary 
accountability to 
shareholders.
• Defining company strategy 
for the company and the 
corporate governance including 
ESG.
• Managing enterprise risks.
• Discussion on CSR initiatives.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
145
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
vulnerable & 
marginalized 
Group 
(yes/ no)
Channels of 
communication
Details of Other 
Channels of 
Communication
Frequency of 
engagement
Details 
of Other 
Frequency of 
engagement
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during such engagement
Channel 
Partners
No
Other
• Meetings and 
feedback
• Quarterly
• Others, 
please 
specify
• Weekly
• Monthly
Consultation and information on:
• Gaining insights into customer 
needs and market trends.
• Understanding the 
competitive landscape.
• Identifying suitable tenants, 
assessing creditworthiness, 
and aligning space 
requirements with property 
offerings.
• Leveraging market insights, 
tenant demand trends, and 
negotiation expertise to 
maximize deal value for both 
parties.
• Developing strategies for 
property promotion, tenant 
outreach, and market 
penetration.
Contractual 
Workforce
Yes
Other
• Induction 
program
• Toolbox 
meetings
• Job-specific 
EHS training 
and other 
awareness 
sessions – 
BOCW etc.
• Health Camps 
Hazard 
identification 
and Risk 
assessment
• Safety 
committee 
meeting
• Incident 
investigation
• National 
safety week 
celebration
• Road safety 
week
• Fire service 
week
• World 
environment 
day 
celebrations 
for planting 
trees
• Others, 
please 
specify
• Regular
• Weekly
• Need-
based
• Consultation on knowledge 
transfer and job training.
• Creating awareness of 
EHS and other statutory 
compliances.
• Discussing issues related to 
the workplace and working 
environment.
• Sharing Information on 
changes required in internal 
processes.
• Identifying the exact root 
cause of the incident
• Construction activity 
Operational control 
procedures.
• Conducting tree plantation 
drives
• Sharing benefits of registering 
as BOCW beneficiary
• Statutory compliances
Brigade Enterprises Limited
146
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
vulnerable & 
marginalized 
Group 
(yes/ no)
Channels of 
communication
Details of Other 
Channels of 
Communication
Frequency of 
engagement
Details 
of Other 
Frequency of 
engagement
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during such engagement
Contractual 
Workforce
• Height 
work safety 
demonstration
• Emergency 
demonstration 
and 
conducting 
mock drills.
• Safety poster 
painting 
competition 
explain about 
BOCW act.
• Conducting kick off meeting 
before commencing the 
project
• Workshop mode training for 
EHS implementation and 
monitoring
• For all the construction 
activities Hazard identification 
and risk assessment
• Demonstrating construction 
emergency
• Celebrating Road Safety 
week, National safety week, 
Fire safety weeks
• EHS concern meeting
Customers
No
Other
Here4You (online 
feedback) Belong 
Community App 
for
(1.  Visitor 
management
2.  Complaint 
management
3.  Automatic 
no. plate 
recognition
4.  Access 
control via 
Bluetooth
5.  Community 
engagement
6.  Notice Board
7.  Amenity 
booking) 
Expos and 
Events 
Meetings 
Webinar
• Quarterly
• Others, 
please 
specify
• Monthly
Consultation and sharing 
information on
• Understanding customer 
preferences, behaviors, and 
expectations.
• Discussing areas for 
improvement
• Celebratory engagement 
during important days and 
festivals, fostering community 
and cultural inclusion.
• Creating a dedicated help 
desk for managing feedback 
and resolving complaints
• Biannual customer 
satisfaction (C-Sat) surveys 
for structured performance 
assessment.
• Monthly client meetings for 
updates and discussions
• FM Insight- our monthly 
newsletter to share updates, 
initiatives and achievements.
• Conducting safety focused 
activities including periodic 
evacuation drills
• Engaging informally through 
flea markets, sports events 
and blood donation camps.
• Organising occasional 
community meals such as 
gala dinners and lunches to 
enhance relationship building
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
147
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
vulnerable & 
marginalized 
Group 
(yes/ no)
Channels of 
communication
Details of Other 
Channels of 
Communication
Frequency of 
engagement
Details 
of Other 
Frequency of 
engagement
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during such engagement
Employees
No
Other
• Town Halls
• Team building 
activities
• Leadership 
talks
• Engineer’s 
Meet
• Surveys and 
Feedback
• Celebration of 
festivals
• Mentoring and 
Counselling
• Virtual and 
Physical 
training
• Team Lunch/ 
Dinners
• Sports Events
• Quarterly
• Half 
Yearly
• Annual
• Others, 
please 
specify
• Weekly
• Need-
based
Consultation, participation and 
sharing of information on
• Promoting health, safety, and 
overall wellbeing across all 
operations
• Investing in upskilling, 
training, and continuous skill 
development opportunities
• Advancing diversity, equity, 
and inclusion across roles and 
functions
• Ensuring an equal opportunity 
workplace that respects all 
individuals.
• Reinforcing the importance of 
collaboration and teamwork 
to drive performance and 
innovation
• Sharing regular updates on 
business performance to align 
teams with organisational 
goals
• Organising team- building 
activities to strengthen 
cohesion and morale
• Providing clear and accessible 
grievance redressal channels 
to foster a culture of trust and 
accountability
Government 
and 
Regulators
No
Other
• CREDAI CII
• MCA SEBI 
Stock 
Exchanges
• Annual
• Others, 
please 
specify
• Need-
based
Consultation and sharing 
information on
• Regularly renewing permits/
consents
• Regularly submitting 
compliance reports.
• Understanding the impact 
of current and upcoming 
regulations.
• Exchanging sector-related 
experiences, opportunities, 
and challenges.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
148
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
vulnerable & 
marginalized 
Group 
(yes/ no)
Channels of 
communication
Details of Other 
Channels of 
Communication
Frequency of 
engagement
Details 
of Other 
Frequency of 
engagement
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during such engagement
Investors and 
Shareholders
No
Other
• Annual 
General 
Meeting 
Conferences 
Investor 
meetings 
Press 
Release/
Media 
Interaction
• Others, 
please 
specify
• Regular
Consultation and sharing 
information on
• Assessing operational and 
financial performance
• Defining long-term business 
strategy
• Evaluating business model 
capability to generate value.
• Building strategic 
collaborations and 
partnerships.
• Discussing quarterly investor 
presentation on all the above.
Non- 
Government 
organisation 
(NGOs)
Yes
Other
• ESG Steer 
co Meetings 
ESG Working 
Committee 
Meetings 
Monthly ESG 
Bulletin ESG 
Training and 
Awareness 
Workshops 
Feedback
• Others, 
please 
specify
• Regular
Participation, consultation and 
sharing of information on
• Identifying levers to reduce 
sustainability risks and create 
a positive impact in the long 
run
Suppliers 
and Vendors
No
Other
• Meetings 
Press 
Conferences 
Media kit
• Others, 
please 
specify
• Regular
Participation, consultation and 
sharing of information on
• Understanding business 
product and service 
requirements
• Enhancing supply chain 
resilience and risk 
management
• Gaining insights from their 
respective industries
• Aligning expectations on 
sustainability integration 
via goods and services 
purchased or procured.
• Adopting updated software 
for digitalizing the data 
collection process from 
vendors on their green 
practices.
• Training vendors to use 
updated software to 
regularize the data collection 
process
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
149
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
 
 Brigade Group has established a structured and multi-level process to facilitate consultation between 
stakeholders and the Board on key economic, environmental, and social matters. In FY 2022–23, the Group 
conducted a comprehensive materiality assessment, involving in-depth stakeholder consultations to identify 
and prioritise sustainability topics. These discussions addressed a wide range of economic, environmental, 
and social issues and ensured alignment with global frameworks such as GRI, SASB, S&P Global, and MSCI. 
The process considered regulatory trends, industry dynamics, competitive context, and evolving stakeholder 
expectations, including those of customers, investors, employees, and partners.
 
 Stakeholder engagement is embedded within Brigade’s governance framework. The Risk Management Committee 
plays a key role in integrating sustainability-related risks into the Group’s broader risk management system and 
offers a platform for stakeholder perspectives on emerging risks. Additionally, the CSR Committee focuses on 
community-related issues and develops initiatives that are presented to the Board for review and approval. 
Feedback and insights gathered through these governance mechanisms are regularly communicated to the 
Board, ensuring that stakeholder concerns and priorities are effectively reflected in strategic decisions and the 
overall sustainability agenda.
2. 
 Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, 
and social topics (Yes/No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders 
on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
 
 Yes. In FY 2022–23, Brigade Group undertook targeted stakeholder consultations to identify the most significant 
and business relevant sustainability topics. Insights from these engagements were instrumental in shaping a 
focused set of priority issues that form the foundation of the Group’s ESG strategy. As a result, three strategic 
ESG pillars were defined, supported by 31 clearly measurable targets spanning environmental, social, and 
governance dimensions.
 
 These strategic focus areas have served as a guiding framework for the Group throughout the current reporting 
period, ensuring alignment with stakeholder expectations, consistency in ESG efforts, and meaningful progress 
toward long- term sustainable value creation.
3. 
 Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups.
 
 Brigade Group places strong emphasis on upholding the rights and well-being of vulnerable and marginalised 
stakeholder groups through a proactive and inclusive approach. The Group has established a comprehensive 
Human Rights Policy that outlines clear expectations across its roles as an employer, supplier, and business 
partner. This policy strictly prohibits child labour and workplace discrimination, while actively promoting diversity, 
equity, and equal opportunity.
 
 To build awareness and accountability, Brigade’s employees have received foundational training on human 
rights, antidiscrimination, and child labour prevention along with 100% coverage of employees and workers on 
Human Rights policy. Beyond internal efforts, the Brigade Foundation plays a key role in supporting marginalised 
communities by focusing on skill development initiatives and providing access to essential healthcare services. 
Additionally, a formal grievance redressal mechanism is in place, enabling stakeholders to confidentially raise 
concerns and ensuring their voices are heard and addressed effectively.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
150
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
Human rights are a fundamental principle of Brigade Group, which incorporates fairness, dignity, and inclusivity 
across all aspects of the company. Brigade is pledged to provide equal opportunity and safe work conditions for all 
of its employees. Brigade also provides fair compensation and is committed to opposing any form of discrimination 
based on race, gender, or religion.
By asserting these values, Brigade fosters a workplace culture built on respect, equity, and empowerment, reinforcing 
its dedication to ethical and responsible business conduct.
Essential Indicators
1. 
 Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy (ies) of the entity, 
in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25 (Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24 (Previous Financial Year)
Total (A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Permanent
3,043
3,043
100.00%
2,588
2,588
100%
Other than permanent
2,484
2,484
100.00%
2,004
0
Nil
Total employees
5,527
5,527
100.00%
4,592
2,558
56.36%
Workers
Permanent
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Not 
Applicable
Other than permanent
17,209
17,209
100.00%
12,081
12,081
100%
Total workers
17,209
17,209
100.00%
12,081
12,081
100%
 
 Training was conducted in the areas of code of conduct, and sexual harassment as part of the Human Rights 
training during the reporting period. This training is mandatory for all employees and workers.
2. 
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25 (Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24 (Previous Financial Year)
Total (A)
Equal to Minimum 
wage
More than Minimum 
wage
Total (D)
Equal to Minimum 
wage
More than 
Minimum wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Permanent
3,043
3,043
100%
3,043
100%
2,588
2,588
100%
2,588
100%
Male
2,478
2,478
100%
2,478
100%
2,144
2,144
100%
2,144
100%
Female
565
565
100%
565
100%
444
444
100%
444
100%
Other than 
permanent
2,484
2,484
100%
2,484
100%
2,004
2,004
100%
2,004
100%
Male
2,003
2,003
100%
2003
100%
1,424
1,424
100%
1,424
100%
Female
481
481
100%
481
100%
580
580
100%
580
100%
Workers
Permanent
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Other than 
permanent
17,209
17,209 100.00%
17,209 100.00%
12,081
12,081
100%
12,081
100%
Male
15,850
15,850 100.00%
15,850 100.00%
11,424
11,424
100%
11,424
100%
Female
1,359
1,359 100.00%
1,359 100.00%
657
657
100%
657
100%
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
151
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
3. 
Details of Remuneration/salary/wages in the following format
a. 
Median remuneration/wages:
Category
Male
Female
Number
Median 
remuneration/
salary/ wages 
of respective 
category (in Rs.)
Number
Median 
remuneration/
salary/ wages 
of respective 
category (in Rs.)
BOD - EDs*
4
1,67,00,000
2
1,35,00,000
BOD - IDs*
4
20,00,000
2
20,00,000
KMP*
5
85,18,574
5
10,88,654
Senior Managers Personnel**
27
1,21,62,376
1
87,18,000
Other employees**
1,100
10,73,700
282
9,63,200
Workers**
13,895
2,40,000
926
2,40,000
 
 * Amongst the total, 2 Executive Directors form part of the KMP and are covered under the Board of Directors. 
 
** The data for senior manager personnel, other employees and workers is restricted to real estate vertical
b. 
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Gross wages paid to females as
% of total wages*
16.23%
15.43%
 
* The boundary for this data is restricted to Real Estate vertical.
4. 
 Do you have a focal point (individual/committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (yes/no)
 
 Yes. Brigade Group’s Human Rights Policy outlines clear expectations for upholding human rights across 
its operations and value chain. The following personnel are designated to ensure effective implementation, 
monitoring and compliance with the policy:
Name
Designation
Mr. Chidambar R S
Chief Human Resources Officer
Mr. Nagaraj M
Associate General Manager, Human Resources and Administration
Ms. Aishwarya N
Associate General Manager, Learning and Development
Mr. Mahesh Naik
General Manager, Administration
 
 We have a whistleblower policy, and the whistleblower committee looks after any violations that is brought to 
the notice of the committee. Safety violations are taken care of by the safety committee. These committees 
have Board level traction. The HR department is the designated focal point responsible for addressing any sort 
of Human Rights-related concerns and impacts.
 
Customers 
 
here4you@brigadegroup.com 
 
Investors and Shareholders 
 
investors@brigadegroup.com 
 
Employees and Management
 
mail to: ethicscommittee@brigadegroup.com or mail to: chairmanauditcommitteebel@gmail.com
Brigade Enterprises Limited
152
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
5. 
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
 
 Brigade Group acknowledges the critical importance of managing human rights issues, given the potential 
financial, operational, and reputational risks of non-compliance. Brigade has developed an overall internal 
framework to identify, assess and resolve human rights issues effectively and efficiently.
 
 The Whistleblower Policy is overseen by a prescribed committee to investigate all reported violations, while 
safety-related issues are reviewed by the safety committee. Both committees operate with Board-level 
oversight. In addition to these committees, the HR department acts as a single point of contact for any human 
rights-related complaints or impacts throughout the organisation.
 
Human Rights Compliance:
 
 Human rights are integrated into the Group’s risk management framework, with internal operations evaluated 
against both national and international standards, such as:
• United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
• International Labour Organisation Declaration on the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work
• National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
 
 These human rights standards are also extended to external partners. The Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct 
enables all value chain partners to adhere to regulations such as:
• Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act 1970
• Minimum Wages Act 1948
• Payment of Wages Act 1936 and other local regulations related to fair wages, health, safety, and worker welfare
 
Grievance Redressal System:
 
 Brigade Group ensures clear and accessible channels for raising human rights concerns. Customers can reach 
out to the Ethics Committee by emailing here4you@brigadegroup.com or directly via written communication. 
Shareholders are encouraged to send their grievances directly to investors@brigadegroup.com. Brigade Group’s 
Whistleblower Policy lays out the contact information, including physical address, email, telephone numbers, 
etc., for its internal stakeholders (employees and directors). All concerns are thoroughly investigated and the 
outcomes are communicated to the relevant parties within 45 days of receipt.
 
Escalation Matrix:
 
 Serious complaints are escalated to the Audit Committee for independent review. In cases of policy violations, 
the Ethics Committee recommends that the Human Resources Department, led by the Chief Human Resources 
Officer, undertake suitable action. For highly sensitive matters, employees have the option to report directly 
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee at chairmanauditcommitteebel@gmail.com. Any complaints to the 
Audit Committee will remain confidential and will ensure a senior member of the Committee is involved in the 
review process.
 
Training and Awareness:
 
 All employees and workers receive training in human rights. These sessions include information on the 
organisation’s confidentiality policy and protection against retaliation for complainants. Training programmes 
conducted during the reporting period include:
 
1. 
Prevention of Sexual Harassment (PoSH) e-learning course
 
2. 
PoSH refresher
 
3. 
Internal Committee (IC) Refresher training
 
4. 
Labour compliances
 
 Department heads are required to communicate the whistleblower policy details to their teams, and the Human 
Resources department ensures new hires are informed. The policy is also available on the HR Connect platform 
and the company website.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
153
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
6. 
Number of complaints on the following made by the employees and workers
Details
FY 2024-25 (Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24 (Previous Financial Year)
Filed during 
 the year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of the year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of the year
Remarks
Sexual harassment
Nil
Nil
Discrimination at 
workplace
Child labour
Forced labour/ 
Involuntary labour
Wages
Other Human rights 
related issues
7. 
 Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013, in the following format
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment 
on of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013 (PoSH)
Nil
Nil
Complaints on PoSH as a % of female employees/workers
Complaints on PoSH upheld
8. 
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases
 
 Brigade Group is dedicated to protecting individuals who report harassment, discrimination, or unethical 
conduct. We have put together a strong framework for all persons to contribute towards a safe and inclusive 
environment free from retaliation.
 
 Key policies such as the Code of Ethics, Whistleblower Policy, and Human Rights Policy identify unacceptable 
behaviours, encourage reports of unacceptable behaviours, and ensure confidentiality. The Whistleblower Policy 
ensures individuals are protected from retaliation including harassment, intimidation, discrimination, negative 
transfer, or denial of promotion. Furthermore, a temporary suspension from work during the pendancy of the 
complaint. These policies uphold our accountability, fairness, and respect throughout the organisation.
 
Reporting systems
 
 Brigade Group’s grievance redressal mechanism operates on a structured due diligence process to assess 
the legitimacy of complaints. Emphasizing a dialogue-driven approach aimed at achieving mutually agreeable 
solutions, while taking corrective action to improve the grievance redressal mechanism and prevent future 
occurrences. The Ethics Committee and the Internal Committee facilitate the grievance process to ensure 
all parties act with fairness and respect, and that outcomes are aligned with both national regulations and 
international best practices.
9. 
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
 
 Yes. Brigade Group requires all suppliers, contractors, sub-contractors and their affiliates to comply with Brigade 
Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct and all applicable local and international laws. This includes compliance 
with regulations in relation to work hours, wages, child and forced labour, suitable working conditions and non-
discriminatory practices in employment.
 
 Suppliers shall also develop internal grievance mechanisms for their workforce to raise concerns directly to 
them. Brigade Group has the right to conduct scheduled and un-scheduled audits to verify compliance. Should 
the Contractor not comply, they shall take corrective action within specified timeframes.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
154
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
10. Assessment of the year
Details
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
100%
Forced/involuntary labour
100%
Sexual harassment
100%
Discrimination at workplace
100%
Wages
100%
Others - please specify
Not applicable
 
 A declaration of 100% compliance with all assessments is obtained from the contractor for contract staff and 
workers. Our project team regularly monitors adherence to these requirements.
11. 
 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 10 above.
 
 For FY 2024-25, there were no major human rights risks or violations reported. The Brigade Group’s Internal Audit 
department regularly reviews adherence to relevant human rights regulations in its operations. The Group also 
requires all value chain partners to uphold these standards, with compliance serving as a key criterion in supplier 
evaluation and onboarding.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result if addressing human rights grievance / 
complaints
 
 During the reporting period, we included a clause in the work association documents to ensure human rights 
are not violated in our value chain.
2. 
 Details of the scope and coverage of any Human Rights due-diligence conducted
 
 Contracts with major suppliers include specific clauses requiring adherence to human rights. Although formal 
human rights due diligence was not conducted during the reporting period, declarations of compliance were 
obtained from all suppliers. The organisation remains firmly committed to its Human Rights Policy.
3. 
 Is the premise /office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the 
Rights of Persing with Disabilities Act, 2016?
 
 Yes, all Brigade Group office buildings and properties are designed to meet the National Building Code of 
India (NBC) and the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, which aims to address the needs of Persons 
with Disabilities.
 
Some of the features include:
• Non-slip ramps at all entrances and exits to support wheelchair users and individuals with walking aids.
• Reserved parking spaces for differently abled people
• Elevators with braille-enabled buttons and voice guidance
• Wheelchair-accessible restrooms with necessary support features
4. 
Details on assessment of value chain Partners
 
 A human rights assessment was conducted for 50 value chain partners. However, the Group requires all value 
chain partners to adhere to statutory laws related to human rights for which a declaration of 100% compliance 
with all assessments is obtained from all the contractors for contract staff and workers. Adherence to these 
requirements is regularly monitored by our project team.
Details
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with 
such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
1.97%
Discrimination at workplace
Child labour
Forced labour/involuntary labour
Wages
5. 
 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising 
from the assessments at Question 4 above.
 
No significant risks/ concerns were identified during the assessment conducted during the reporting period.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
155
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment.
Essential Indicators
1. 
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Revenue from operations (in Rs.)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
50742100000.00
48966871767.00
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
Current Financial
Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
Gigajoule (GJ)
89,476.78
31,433.85
Total fuel consumption (B)
Gigajoule (GJ)
0.00
0.00
Energy consumption through 
other sources (C)
Gigajoule (GJ)
0.00
0.00
Total energy consumed from 
renewable sources (A+B+C)
Gigajoule (GJ)
89,476.78
31,433.85
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
Gigajoule (GJ)
4,30,153.87
3,09,701.63
Total fuel consumption (E)
Gigajoule (GJ)
1,06,440.32
81,430.43
Energy consumption through 
other sources (F)
Gigajoule (GJ)
0.00
0.00
Total energy consumed from 
non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
Gigajoule (GJ)
5,36,594.19
3,91,132.06
Total energy consumed 
(A+B+C+D+E+F) 
Gigajoule (GJ)
6,26,070.97
4,22,565.91
Energy intensity per rupee 
of turnover (Total energy 
consumed/Revenue from 
operations)
Gigajoule (GJ)
0.0000123383
0.0000086296
Energy intensity per rupee of 
turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP) (Total energy 
consumed/Revenue from 
operations adjusted
for PPP)
Gigajoule (GJ)/ 
Revenue from 
operations
adjusted for PPP
0.000254909165
0.0001763028479
Energy intensity in terms of 
physical output
Gigajoule (GJ)/Built 
up Area in Square 
Feet
0.0183
0.0083
 
 Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
 
No independent Assessment, evaluation or assurance has been carried out by an external agency in this reporting period.
2. 
 Does the entity have any sites/facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under 
the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action 
taken, if any.
 
 No, Brigade Group does not operate any sites or facilities classified as Designated Consumers (DCs) under the 
Government of India’s Perform, Achieve, and Trade (PAT) Scheme.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
156
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
3. 
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
13,799
Nil
(ii) Groundwater
4,88,875.40
6,07,860
(iii) Third party water*
12,76,427.10
8,03,100
(iv) Seawater/desalinated water
Nil
Nil
(v) Others
3,370
1,380
Total volume of water withdrawal
(in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
17,82,471.50
14,12,340
Total volume of water consumption
(in kilolitres)
17,27,647.50
13,64,590
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Total water 
consumption in kilolitres/Revenue from
operations)
0.0000340476
0.0000278676
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted 
for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total water 
consumption/Revenue from
operations adjusted for PPP)
0.0000007034237189
0.0000005693339126
Water intensity in terms of physical output (Total water 
consumption/Built up Area in
Square Feet)
0.0505
0.0000269590
 
* Third party water also includes water from municipal authorities which may include surface water for which the data is not available
 
 Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
 
No independent assessment/evaluation/assurance conducted in the reporting period.
4. 
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) To Surface water
 
- No treatment
Nil
Nil
 
- With treatment - please specify level of 
treatment
Nil
Nil
(ii) To Ground water
 
- No treatment
Nil
Nil
 
- With treatment - please specify level of 
treatment
Nil
Nil
(iii) To Sea water
 
- No treatment
Nil
Nil
 
- With treatment - please specify level of 
treatment
Nil
Nil
(iv) Sent to third-parties
 
- No treatment- sent to Campus STP
54,824
3,625
 
- With treatment - please specify level of 
treatment
Nil
Nil
(v) Others
 
- No treatment
Nil
Nil
 
- With treatment - please specify level of 
treatment
Nil
44,125
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
54,824
47,750
 
 Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
 
No independent assessment, evaluation or assurance has been carried out by an external agency in this reporting period.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
157
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
5. 
 Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
 
 Yes, Brigade Group follows Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) practices, ensuring that wastewater is treated and reused 
within a closed-loop system. As a result, we have recycled water in-house with only 3.17 % of the water treated 
by a third-party facility. The overall goal of ZLD is to have the least amount of environmental impact and protect 
groundwater and local ecosystems.
6. 
 Please provide details of air emissions (other than Green House Gas (GHG) emissions) by the entity, in the 
following format:
Parameter
Please Specify Unit
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
NOx
kg
355.33
508.79
SOx
kg
191.73
236.55
Particulate Matter (PM)
kg
636.49
683.19
Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP)
NA
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC)
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP)
Others – please specify
 
 Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
 
No independent assessment, evaluation or assurance carried out by an external agency.
7. 
 Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the 
following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-
up of the Green House Gas 
(GHG) into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
tCO2e
6,400.85
6,542
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-
up of the Green House Gas 
(GHG) into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
tCO2e
30,756.80
20,147
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2  
emissions per rupee of turnover
tCO2e/Total 
Revenue from 
operations in INR
0.0000007323
0.000000545
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emission intensity per rupee of 
turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP)
tCO2e / Revenue 
from operations 
adjusted for PPP
0.000015129
0.0000111352
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity in terms of physical output
tCO2e/Built up 
Area in Square 
Feet
0.0011
0.0005
 
 Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
 
No independent assessment, evaluation or assurance carried out by an external agency.
8. 
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
 
 Yes, Brigade Group recognises the risks around greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and is proactively striving to 
achieve net-zero emissions by 2045 and 100% renewable energy by 2040. In FY 2024-25, the Group completed a 
comprehensive accounting of its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and consistent efforts in the inventory process 
for Scope 3 emissions, to be used for a focused decarbonization journey.
 
 To reduce GHG emissions at Brigade Citrine, we adopted a holistic strategy combining energy efficiency, 
renewable energy, and sustainable materials. Passive design measures such as natural ventilation, daylight 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
158
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
analysis, and high- performance glazing to lower energy demand, while optimised lighting and other efficiency 
measures to further enhance energy efficiency. A 110 kWp solar PV system powers 100% of common area lighting, 
cutting grid reliance and emissions. On the materials front, we incorporated 30% GGBS in concrete, used Portland 
Slag Cement for non-structural works, and sourced steel with 60% recycled content, significantly reducing 
embodied carbon. In the use phase, we are adopting insulated textures, high SRI paints and tiles, efficient pumps, 
and low-flow fixtures that will collectively reduce energy consumption by over 10%. These integrated measures 
ensure substantial GHG emission reductions throughout the building’s lifecycle.
 
Key GHG reduction initiatives undertaken during the reporting period include:
 
 Energy Efficiency and Conservation:
 
 Energy conservation and environmental protection are embedded in Brigade Group’s approach to real estate 
design and development. The organisation focuses on creating energy-efficient spaces to reduce Green House 
Gas (GHG) emissions by:
• Designing energy-efficient buildings using sun path analysis, daylight simulation, and passive architectural 
strategies to reduce heat gain and enhance natural lighting.
• Using Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) Star-rated electro-mechanical equipment (e.g., pumps, drives, 
compressors) in projects.
• Adopting LEED and IGBC norms across all projects to promote sustainability.
• Implementing effective rooftop rainwater and stormwater harvesting systems in all projects to conserve 
water and reduce energy needs.
• Installing energy-efficient light fixtures, and LED lights with motion sensors, timers, and dimmers across 
all projects.
• Using occupancy sensors in rarely used areas such as restrooms, changing rooms, corridors, staircases, 
parking, and basements.
• Incorporating passive architectural features for enhanced thermal comfort through shading devices, reflective 
roofing materials, and strategic landscaping to reduce cooling loads.
• Supporting clean mobility by offering EV charging infrastructure at project sites.
 
Use of Renewable Energy:
 
 Indirect GHG emissions from purchased electricity remain a key concern. To address this, Brigade Group has 
taken the following steps:
• Sourced 14.30% of total energy consumption from renewable sources during the reporting period.
• Implemented solar energy solutions for water heating and lighting and has installed solar PV panels at all 
commercial projects.
• Entered long-term green power contracts with renewable energy developers to drive clean energy uptake 
and ensure that clients and occupants have a sustainable source of energy.
 
Sustainable Procurement:
 
 The Group has adopted a Sustainable Sourcing policy that emphasizes using green-certified materials 
and prioritizing local sources. During the reporting period, the Group sourced 99.87% of its construction 
material domestically.
9. 
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
Tonnes
14.12
21.86
E-waste (B)
Tonnes
2.20
0.71
Bio-medical waste (C)
Tonnes
Nil
Nil
Construction and demolition waste (D)
Tonnes
3,16,268.27
3,28,732
Battery waste (E)
Tonnes
10.66
1.3
Radioactive waste (F)
Tonnes
Nil
Nil
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, 
if any. (G)
Tonnes
16.07
140.92
Other Non-hazardous waste generated 
(H). Please specify, if any. (Break-up by 
composition i.e. by materials relevant to 
the sector)
Tonnes
3,04,427.70
5,992
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
Tonnes
62,06,739.02
3,34,888.79
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
159
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25 Current 
Financial Year
FY 2023-24 Previous 
Financial Year
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Total waste generated/Revenue from 
operations)
Waste 
Generated 
in Tonnes/
Revenue 
from 
operations
in INR
0.0000122332
0.0000068391
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover 
adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 
(Total waste generated/Revenue from 
operations adjusted for PPP)
Total waste 
generated/ 
Revenue 
from 
operations 
adjusted 
for PPP
0.0002527382206
0.0002589845833
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
Total waste 
generated 
in Tonnes/ 
Built up 
Area in 
Square 
Feet
0.0181
0.0066
 
 For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery 
operations (in metric tonnes)
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25 Current 
Financial Year
FY 2023-24 Previous 
Financial Year
Category of waste
(i) Recycled
Tonnes
2,255.81
68,225.00
(ii) Re-used
Tonnes
2,79,064.79
91,566.00
(iii) Other recovery operations
Tonnes
2,52,065.07
202.00
Total
Tonnes
5,33,385.67
1,59,993.00
 
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25 Current 
Financial Year
FY 2023-24 Previous 
Financial Year
Category of waste
(i) Incineration
Tonnes
0.00
1.29
(ii) Landfilling
Tonnes
87,353.34
1,74,923.00
(iii) Other disposal operations
Tonnes
0.00
0.00
Total
Tonnes
87,353.34
1,74,924.29
 
 Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
 
No independent assessment, evaluation or assurance has been carried out by an external agency in this reporting period.
10.  Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes 
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
 
Waste Management Strategy:
 
 Brigade Group’s waste management strategy, aligned with ISO 14001:2015, ensures segregation of hazardous and 
non- hazardous waste, with proper treatment and disposal. Teams are guided through documented recycling 
methods, and regular awareness programs are held to strengthen compliance. A waste hierarchy is established, 
outlining the hierarchy order that drives actions and initiatives. which is as follows:
Brigade Enterprises Limited
160
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
Reduce:
• Minimising over-ordering and wastage of construction materials.
• Using construction and design methods to minimise polystyrene use where possible.
• Selecting formwork designs that enable more reuse of standard wooden panels or using other materials such 
as steel or plastic.
• Installing ECOSTP systems - power-free, chemical-free and self-operating wastewater treatment solutions.
• Reducing curing water by spraying collected wastewater and using hessian cloth covers.
• Maintaining a ‘Red List’ to avoid the use of hazardous chemicals and construction materials.
• Reducing resource wastage through better handling and storage to reduce the loss of material.
 
Reuse:
• Reusing inert demolition debris as general fill material.
• Encouraging suppliers to use recyclable packaging and collaborating with contractors to reuse it.
• Repurposing excavated topsoil for landscaping and green zone development.
 
Recycle:
• Maintaining project-wise records of recyclable waste and using labelled bins for paper, aluminium, and plastic 
to support solid waste segregation and recycling.
• Ensuring waste generated at project sites is recycled through authorised recyclers.
 
Disposal:
• Construction and demolition waste is deposited in waste facilities approved by the State Pollution Control 
Board (SPCB) through assigned collectors from the SPCB’s list of registered collectors.
• Sewage is disposed of only by authorised and approved contractors.
• All e-waste is collected for disposal in a responsible manner through SPCB approved vendors.
11. 
 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hot-spots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) 
where environmental approvals/clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
 
 No, Brigade Group does not engage in operations or developments in ecologically sensitive areas. The Group is 
committed to preserving biodiversity and its strict policy is not to undertake any construction in biologically 
sensitive areas which includes any wetland, forest, national park, wildlife sanctuary, biosphere reserve, 
biodiversity hotspot, IUCN protected area, World Heritage Site, and coastal regulation zone, in full compliance 
with statutory requirements.
S. 
No.
Location of operations/
offices
Type of operations
"Whether the conditions of environmental approval/ clearance 
are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, the reasons thereof and 
corrective action taken, if any."
Nil
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
161
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
12.  Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current financial year:
 
 Environmental impact assessments are being conducted for applicable projects as per EIA notification, 2006 
(for built-up area over 1,50,000 Sq. Mt)
Name and brief details of project
EIA
Notification No
Date
Whether 
conducted 
by 
independent 
external 
agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public 
domain (Yes/
No)
Relevant Web link
Name of project: Brigade 
Insignia Total site area:
35.83 Acres (1.45 lakh 
Sq.m) Total built-up-area: 
24.61thousand Sq.m Details: 
The proposed project is the 
construction of an expansion 
and modification of Brigade 
Residential Development for 
600 flats and a clubhouse.
SIA/KA/
INFRA2/431415/2023
02-08-
2024
Yes
Yes
https://
parivesh.nic.in/
newupgrade/#/
trackYourProposal
Name of project: Proposed 
Brigade Residential 
Development, Yelahanka
Total site area:
14.65 Acres
(59.29 thousand Sq.m)
Total built-up-area:
3.32 lakh Sq.m Details: 
Township development 
consisting of 1,600
apartments and 1 clubhouse.
SIA/KA/
INFRA2/466067/2024
22-06-
2024
Yes
Yes
https://
parivesh.nic.in/
newupgrade/#/
trackYourProposal
13.  Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection 
act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
 
Yes, Brigade Group is 100% compliant with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and guidelines in India.
• Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and Environment (Protection) Amendment Rules, 2022
• The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974
• The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and the Amendment Act, 1987
• Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016
• Bio Medical Waste Management Rules – 2016
• Solid Waste Management Rules-2016
S. 
No.
Specify the law /regulation 
guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details of the  
non-compliance
Any fines /penalties/actions taken 
by the regulatory agencies such as 
pollution control board or by courts
Corrective action 
taken if any
No non-compliance
Brigade Enterprises Limited
162
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
 
For each facility/plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
 
(i) 
 Name of the area: Brigade Group has its development projects Pan-India as mentioned in section A of 
the report.
 
(ii)  Nature of operations: Property development, facility management and hospitality.
 
(iii)  Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
13,799
Nil
(ii) Groundwater
4,88,875.40
6,07,860
(iii) Third party water*
12,76,427.10
8,03,100
(iv) Seawater/desalinated water
Nil
Nil
(v) Others
3,370
1,380
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
17,82,471.50
14,12,340
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
17,27,647.50
13,64,590
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water 
consumed/ turnover)
0.0000340476 kilo 
Litres/ Total Revenue 
in INR
0.00002786 kilo Litres/ 
Total Revenue 
in INR
 
 
 *Third party water also includes water from municipal authorities which may include surface water for which the data is not 
available.
Parameter
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) Into Surface water
- No treatment
Nil
Nil
-  With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment
Nil
Nil
(ii) Into Groundwater
- No treatment
Nil
Nil
-  With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment
Nil
Nil
(iii) Into Seawater
- No treatment
Nil
Nil
-  With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment
Nil
Nil
(iv) Sent to third-parties
- No treatment - sent to Campus STP
54,824
3,625
-  With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment
Nil
Nil
(v)  Others (Drained out to concerned city drainage 
system after tertiary treatment)
- No treatment
Nil
Nil
-  With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment
Nil
44,125
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
54,824
47,750
 
 
 Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, 
name of the external agency.
 
 
No independent assessment, evaluation or assurance carried out by an external agency.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
163
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
2. 
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25 
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24 
Previous Financial Year
Total Scope 3 emissions
(Break-up of the Green House 
Gas (GHG) into CO
2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
tCO2e
4,46,203.70
3,46,637
Total Scope 3 emissions per 
rupee of turnover (Revenue from 
operations)
tCO2e/Total 
Revenue from 
operations in INR
0.0000087936
0.00000708
Total Scope 3 emission intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may 
be selected by the entity
tCO2e/Built up 
Area in Square 
Feet
0.013
0.0068
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
No independent assessment, evaluation or assurance carried out by an external agency.
3. 
 With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide 
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention 
and remediation activities.
 
 Throughout the reporting period, Brigade Group’s operations had no significant direct or indirect impact on 
biodiversity. The organisation remains proactive in safeguarding biodiversity through the following measures:
• Assessing potential biodiversity impacts during site assessments.
• Incorporating designs to conserve ecosystems and native plants and animals.
• Restoring degraded sites and prioritizing indigenous plants and habitat.
• Strictly avoiding ecologically sensitive areas such as wetlands, forests, wildlife sanctuaries, national parks, 
biosphere reserves, IUCN protected zones, World Heritage Sites, and coastal regulation zones in line with 
statutory norms.
• Collaborating with local communities to aid in supporting and enhancing biodiversity protection.
4. 
 If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions/effluent discharge/waste generated, please provide 
details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
S. 
No
Initiative 
undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be 
provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1
Green 
buildings
In line with its commitment to sustainable 
development, the Group has integrated green 
building standards, adhering to LEED and 
IGBC guidelines, across all its projects.
• Overall certified green building 
delivered 16.35 million sq. ft.
• 2.15 million sq. ft certified green 
building in the reporting period.
• 2.09 million sq. ft pre certified green 
building area under development in 
the reporting period.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
164
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
S. 
No
Initiative 
undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be 
provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
2
Water 
efficiency
• Groundwater recharge through dedicated 
systems
• Reuse of treated wastewater from STPs 
for flushing and cooling tower operations
• Use of curing compounds during 
construction to minimise water usage
• Regular maintenance and rectification 
to prevent leaks in flush tanks, health 
faucets, and cooling tower makeup lines.
• Installation of water flow restrictors in 
guest rooms and public areas to control 
consumption
• Aerators fitted in all washbasins taps and 
health faucets to reduce water flow
• Rainwater used for irrigation purpose.
• Use of TCCA90 chemicals at water bodies 
to prevent algae formation reduced the 
cleaning sequences.
• Drip irrigation systems employed for 
efficient landscaping water use
• 251.53 million litres conserved in this 
reporting period
• 45.69 million litres of water conserved 
through the implementation of 
recharge pits.
• 14.23 million litres of water conserved 
through the restoration and creation 
of wells and ponds
3
Energy 
efficiency 
and 
conservation
• Replaced incandescent and CFLs with 
LED lighting and optimised lighting usage 
through regular monitoring.
• Optimisation of common area power 
consumption by introducing timer based 
control.
• Installed additional timers and 
integrated BMS schedules to reduce 
operational hours of equipment such 
as water features, fresh air units, and air 
conditioning systems.
• Installed VFDs in the restaurant and lobby 
CSUs.
• Fresh air units installed.
• Installed motorised valves and timers in 
Air Handling Units(AHUs) to lower chiller 
energy consumption.
• Installed the photo light sensor in 
streetlights.
A total of 10318.63 GJ of energy was 
saved.
4
Waste 
Reduction
• Waste minimisation was achieved through 
awareness campaigns and regular client 
meetings to promote properwaste 
segregation and responsible disposal 
practices.
• All wet waste generated on-site is 
processed using Organic Waste Converter 
(OWC) machines.
• Compost is used for in-house gardening 
and landscaping, supporting circular 
waste management.
A total of 106.58 Mt of waste has been 
reduced in this reporting period
5
Technological 
Integration
Implemented new data collection software 
to enable real-time monitoring and improve 
the accuracy, efficiency, and transparency of 
sustainability-related data.
Enabled proactive decision-making, 
streamlined ESG compliance, and 
reduced manual errors and resource 
usage in data management.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
165
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
5. 
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
 
 Yes. Brigade Group has an established Business Continuity and Disaster Management Policy intended to minimise 
downtime and maintain operational resilience. The policy outlines procedures to mitigate the affected functions 
in an emergency situation and to recover swiftly to business as usual. The policy protects people, data, and 
property, and continuity of services along the entire value chain resources during disruptive situations.
 
 Key components include risk identification, mitigation strategies, disaster response and recovery plans, and 
maintaining seamless communication with clients, partners, and stakeholders. The policy ensures compliance 
with all legal, regulatory, and contractual requirements, enabling the organisation to respond effectively to 
unforeseen events while preserving business integrity.
 
 The Policy on Business Continuity and Disaster Management can be accessed at
 
 https://cdn.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/policies/brigade-business-continuity-and-disaster-
management-policy-23062023.pdf
6. 
 Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation oradaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
 
No significant adverse impact on the environment in the reporting period, arising from the value chain.
7. 
 Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts:
 
1.97% of value chain partners were assessed during the reporting period.
8. 
How many Green Credits have been generated or procured:
 
Nil
 
a. 
By the listed entity: Nil
 
b. 
By the top ten (in terms of value of purchases and sales, respectively) value chain partners: Nil
Brigade Enterprises Limited
166
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a 
manner that is responsible and transparent.
Essential Indicators
1. 
a. 
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
 
 
The Brigade Group is affiliated with 10 trade and industry chambers/associations.
 
b. 
 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of 
such body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry 
chambers/ associations 
(State/National)
1
Bengaluru Chamber of Industry and Commerce
State
2
Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry
State
3
Institute for Research Development and Training of Construction Trades 
and Management (INSTRUCT)
State
4
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
5
National Safety Council (NSC)
National
6
Confederation of Real Estate Development Association of India (CREDAI)
National
7
Federation of Indian Export Organisation
National
8
Indian Green Building Council (IGBC)
National
9
Export Promotion Council for EOUs and SEZ
National
10
World Trade Centers Association, New York
International
2. 
 Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- competitive conduct by 
the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
 
 We have had no cases for which corrective action had to be undertaken on any issues related to anti-competitive 
conduct by the Brigade Group, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
Nil
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
S. 
No.
Public policy advocated
Method resorted for 
such advocacy
Whether information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review 
by Board Annually/
Half yearly/Quarterly/ 
others/please specify)
Web Link/If Available
NA
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
167
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
Brigade Group promotes inclusive growth and equitable development through its CSR arm, Brigade Foundation. 
With Mr. M R Jaishankar as Managing and Lifetime Trustee, the Foundation operates within a structured hierarchy 
of review and executive committees for effective delivery of programmes. Key areas include support to education 
institutions, access to health care facilities, environmental sustainability and community development which aligns 
to a positive impact against eight of the UN Sustainable Development Goals respectively. All activities are focused 
within education, health, skill devel- opment and welfare by the Brigade Foundation.
Essential Indicators
1. 
 Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current financial year.
Name and brief details 
of project
SIA
Notification No.
Date of 
notification
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No)
Relevant Web Link
Name of project: 
Brigade Insignia 
Total site area:
35.83 Acres
(1.45 lakh Sq.m) 
Total built-up-
area:
24.61 thousand 
Sq.m Details: 
The proposed 
project is the 
construction of 
an expansion and 
modification of 
Brigade Residential 
Development for 
600 flats and a 
clubhouse.
SIA/KA/
INFRA2/431415/2023
02-08-
2024
Yes
Yes
https://
parivesh.nic.in/
newupgrade/#/
trackYourProposal
Name of project: 
Proposed Brigade 
Residential 
Development, 
Yelahanka
Total site area:
14.65 Acres
(59.29 thousand 
Sq.m) Total
built-up-area:
3.32 lakh Sq.m 
Details: Township 
development 
consisting of 1,600 
apartments
and 1 clubhouse.
SIA/KA/
INFRA2/466067/2024
22-06-
2024
Yes
Yes
https://
parivesh.nic.in/
newupgrade/#/
trackYourProposal
Brigade Enterprises Limited
168
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
2. 
 Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being 
undertaken by your entity, in the following format:
S. 
No.
Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs covered 
by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs 
in the FY (In INR)
There was no Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) undertaken by the organisation
3. 
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
 
 Brigade Group is committed to a relationship-based approach to community engagement, ensuring opportunities 
for open dialogue and feedback.
 
Pre-commencement of projects
 
 Before project initiation, Brigade Group conducts detailed assessments to evaluate potential community 
impacts. Identified concerns are addressed through appropriate mitigation measures. Formal procedures are 
in place to collect feedback and manage complaints effectively.
 
Ongoing projects
 
 The Group maintains regular engagement with the local community during project development, promptly 
addressing concerns and taking appropriate actions to ensure community well-being.
 
Community feedback mechanism
 
 The Group has provided a dedicated email for community concerns: here4you@brigadegroup.com. Each 
project site also has a committee, led by the respective project manager, to promptly address and resolve 
local grievances.
4. 
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
44%
32%
Sourced directly from within the district and 
neighbouring districts
80%
98%
5. 
 Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent/on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost*
Location
FY 2024-25
Current Financial Year
FY 2023-24
Previous Financial Year
Rural
-
-
Semi-Urban*
8.5%
10.36%
Urban*
1.5%
1.51%
Metropolitan*
90%
88.13%
(Place to be categorised as per RBI Classification System - rural/semi-urban/urban/metropolitan)
 
* The boundary for this data is restricted to Real Estate vertical.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
NA
2. 
 Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational 
districts as identified by government bodies:
S. No
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (in INR)
NA
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
169
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
3. 
(a)  Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
 
 
No.
 
 
 According to its Sustainable Procurement Policy, Brigade Group focuses on sourcing from MSMEs and 
fostering local development and employment. For the reporting period, 44% of input material had been 
sourced directly from MSMEs or small producers, which may have included MSMEs in vulnerable and 
marginalized groups.
 
(b)  From which marginalised /vulnerable groups do you procure?
 
 
 Brigade’s current procurement process does not track the specific categories of MSME suppliers it 
purchases from.
 
(c) 
What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
 
 
 During the reporting period, the Group sourced 44% of its input materials from MSMEs. However, it does 
not currently categorise these suppliers into marginal and vulnerable groups
4. 
 Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity 
(in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge
S. 
No
Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned/Acquired (Yes/No)
Benefit Shared (Yes/No)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
NA
5. 
 Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
NA
6. 
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. 
No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefited from 
CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalized
groups
1
Construction of St John’s Hospital at Brigade Meadows
2,267*
10
 
* St. John’s Hospital commenced operations in November 2024.
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible 
manner.
Brigade Group acknowledges the profound impact real estate has on people’s lives and takes its responsibility to 
customers seriously. As part of its customer-centric approach, it focuses on creating high-quality spaces and is 
continuously getting better at it by incorporating feedback from customers. Brigade Group believes in developing 
long- term relationships that are mutually based on trust, care, and excellence by making sure that the client’s 
complaints are resolved in a timely manner, ensuring openness and transparency, which leads to the satisfaction of 
all its customers.
Essential Indicators
1. 
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
 
 Brigade Group is dedicated to delivering top-tier real estate developments and professional property 
management services. Valuing customer feedback as a key driver for continuous improvement, the Group has 
implemented a robust multi-channel system to capture and address consumer concerns. This approach ensures 
prompt, transparent, and effective resolution of complaints, while strengthening customer trust and enhancing 
overall satisfaction across every touchpoint.
 
Customer engagement channels:
 
 The organisation engages with customers through the following channels to foster trust, strengthen transparency, 
and respond to their concerns and inquiries:
• Walk-ins at head office and site offices
• Email address (here4you@brigadegroup.com)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
170
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
• Social media (Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, Instagram)
• Customer web portal (https://www.brigadegroup.com/mykey)
• Telephone (1800 102 9480/NRI: +91 96112 18222)
• Brigade Group Chat (Customer chat bot)
• Qwikspec (App made for customers to check and give feedbacks on their purchased deals)
• 24/7 Customer Care Services
 
Customer feedback mechanism:
 
 All customer queries and concerns are systematically logged into the complaint management system and routed 
to the relevant departments, such as Customer Relationship Management (CRM), Customer Care Services (CCS), 
Estate Management (EM), Sales, and Brigade Plus, for timely and effective resolution.
 
During this reporting period, the Group’s customer complaints resolution rate was 95.61%.
2. 
 Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry 
information about:
As a percentage of total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
100%
Safe and responsible usage
100%
Recycling and/or safe disposal
100%
 
 Brigade Group operates across real estate (property development), lease rentals (property management) 
and hospitality vertical. Its products and services are oriented towards livable and functional space. From 
development to maintenance, all Brigade Group Projects have a strict adherence to environmental and social 
compliance, and new projects are developed after obtaining all clearances and permissions from the relevant 
authorities. Key environmental compliance details are made available to customers at the time of launch through 
marketing brochures so that the end-user is fully informed.
3. 
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
Details
FY 2024-25 (Current Financial Year)
FY 2023-24 (Previous Financial Year)
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of the 
year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of the 
year
Remarks
Data privacy
7
Nil
Nil
11
Nil
Nil
Advertising
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Cyber security
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Delivery of essential services
459
Nil
266
Nil
Restrictive Trade Practices
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Unfair Trade Practices
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Other
697
51
12,519
248
 
 Customer complaints from all verticals are captured. It also includes customer regulatory cases, including Legal, 
RERA & Consumer court.
4. 
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Nil
Nil
Forced recalls
Nil
Nil
5. 
 Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If 
available, provide a web link of the policy.
 
 Yes. Brigade Group is aware that cybersecurity threats have the potential to disrupt business, damage reputation, 
and result in financial and data loss. The Brigade Group has implemented several safeguards to protect sensitive 
information to improve security over all aspects of its organisation, including financial integrity, intellectual 
property protection, and maintain trusted dealings with customers and vendors. Brigade is committed to 
investing in technology continuously and ensuring overall digital security across its organisation.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
171
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
Our Cyber Security, Information Security, and Information Privacy Policy:
 
 Brigade Group implemented cyber security, information security and information privacy policies to proactively 
manage cybersecurity risks and data privacy. They provide the framework for protecting, maintaining, and 
managing sensitive information in the organisation. The Policies conform to applicable local regulations and best 
practices and provide safeguards against data breaches and ensure adequate protections for the information 
asset. Regular reviews by the Group’s Risk, Internal Audit, and IT International Transfer Indirect Tax teams ensure 
that the policies remain robust, relevant, and responsive to evolving threats.
 
 The policies can be accessed at https://cdn.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/policies/cyber-security-
policy-15072023.pdf
 
Oversight:
 
 Brigade Group has appointed a Vice President – Digital & IT Systems to lead information management and 
cybersecurity initiatives. The Chief Information Security Officer has led to the implementation of an Information 
Security Management System (ISMS) that aligns with the Group’s Cyber Security, Information Security, and 
Information Privacy Policies. These systems ensure monitoring and management of all electronic data and 
documents in accordance with local laws and internal policies, securing sensitive information and supporting 
business continuity.
 
Training:
 
 Brigade Group empowers employees as the first line of defense against cyber threats through regular, focused 
training. Specifically designed training on cloud security, data governance, and cyber risk awareness for teams 
to be vigilant, compliant, and ready to protect digital assets and stakeholder trust.
 
 The Policy relating to cyber security can be accessed at https://cdn.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/
policies/cyber-security-policy-15072023.pdf
6. 
 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery 
of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product 
recalls; penalty/action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/services.
 
 During the reporting period, no issues or penalties were recorded related to advertising, restrictive trade 
practices, and unfair trade practices. However, the Group received 7 complaints related to cybersecurity and 
data privacy, and 459 complaints concerning the delivery of essential services. All complaints were resolved 
within the stipulated timeline, with none pending at the end of the period.
7. 
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
 
a. 
Number of instances of data breaches:
 
 
 In the reporting period, there were a total of 7 cases related to customer data breaches. All the cases were 
closed, and no cases are pending.
 
b. 
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identiﬁable information of customers:
 
 
0.31%.
 
c. 
Impact, if any, of the data breaches:
 
 
No significant impact
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Channels/platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web 
link, if available).
 
 Brigade Group provides multiple channels to access information on the products and services provided by the 
entity. The major channels are:
 
1. 
Brigade website: https://www.brigadegroup.com/
 
2. 
RERA website: https://rera.karnataka.gov.in/
 
3. 
Customer Portal (MyKey): https://www.brigadegroup.com/mykey
Brigade Enterprises Limited
172
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
2. 
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
 
 The organisation encourages the safe and responsible use of its spaces by providing readily available user guides, 
product brochures, and online information. These materials are made accessible to customers through multiple 
engagement channels, including newsletters, social media, webinars, and more.
 
Some initiatives are listed below:
 
1. 
 Residents are informed about safety protocols through the Belong property management app.
 
2. 
 Occupants are provided with emergency contact details for paramedics, ambulance, police, and fire services.
 
3. 
 Both completed and under-construction properties are equipped with fire safety systems such as smoke 
and CO alarms, sprinklers, extinguishers, and hose reels.
 
4. 
 Clear signage is installed near amenities like elevators, swimming pools, escalators, and gyms to guide 
safe usage.
 
5. 
 Safety Data Sheets (SDS) and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) are maintained for all applicable 
products to ensure safe use, regulatory compliance, and efficient facility management.
 
6. 
 All visitors must comply with EHS protocols at project sites, including wearing hard hats.
3. 
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
 
 Brigade Group ensures timely communication of service disruptions through the Belong App, emails, and 
association committees. The Facility Management team alerts residents about planned outages, maintenance, 
or emergencies and conducts regular safety drills to prepare for incidents like fires, floods, or pandemics, 
webinars, and more.
4. 
 Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local 
laws? (Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with 
regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products/services of the entity, significant locations of 
operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
 
Product Information:
 
 Yes. Brigade Group’s core offerings encompass real estate development, lease rentals, and hospitality. Key 
project compliance details—such as type, location, size, layout, features, amenities, technology, security, parking, 
connectivity to public transport, and proximity to healthcare, schools, and shopping centers—along with RERA 
approval status and Green Building certifications, are transparently communicated via corporate websites, social 
media, brochures, and pamphlets.
 
Consumer Satisfaction
 
Yes, the Group conducts customer satisfaction surveys across its business verticals:
 
Real Estate (Property Development):
 
 Yes. Regular feedback is gathered through interactions with Associations, Adhoc Committees, and individual 
customers via random engagements. This helps in addressing concerns promptly and improving overall service 
quality. The customer service team of the organisation conducts surveys during the onboarding stage and also 
six months after the handover of the unit.
 
Lease Rentals (Property Management):
 
 The Facility Management team conducts regular online Customer Satisfaction (CSAT) surveys to engage with 
occupants and tenants, gather feedback, and evaluate the quality of services. The feedback is used to improve 
user experience and proactively address complaints. These surveys are conducted every six months.
 
Hospitality:
 
 As part of the customer experience monitoring, feedback forms are collected from the guests at the time 
of checkout.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
173
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Management Discussion and Analysis
1. 
ECONOMIC OVERVIEW
 
 In FY 25, the global economy experienced steady but 
uneven growth across regions. While manufacturing 
slowed down particularly in Europe and parts of 
Asia due to ongoing supply chain disruptions and 
subdued external demand, the services sector 
provided much of the momentum. Inflationary 
pressures eased in most countries, although services 
inflation remained persistent. Although commodity 
prices have stabilised, the risk of synchronised price 
increases persists. These dynamics have led central 
banks to adopt varied approaches to monetary 
easing, increasing uncertainty around future interest 
rates and inflation paths. Geopolitical tensions and 
trade related uncertainties also continued to weigh 
on global economic prospects.
 
 In this global context, India displayed steady 
economic growth. This growth was buoyed by 
strong agricultural output, especially due to record 
Kharif production and favorable rural conditions, 
as well as the steady expansion of the services 
sector. Although the manufacturing sector faced 
global headwinds and seasonal slowdowns, 
stable private consumption and adherence to 
fiscal discipline bolstered overall macroeconomic 
stability. Additionally, a strong services trade 
surplus and rising remittances helped maintain a 
healthy external balance, reinforcing India’s growth 
momentum amid global uncertainties.
 
 According to the Second Advance Estimates by 
the National Statistics Organisation (NSO), India’s 
GDP growth is expected at 6.5% in FY 25, much 
lower than 9.2% GDP growth in FY 24. The growth 
is attributable to strong rural demand, supported 
by favourable monsoon conditions, and increased 
government spending. The construction sector 
recorded the highest growth at 8.6%, followed by 
financial, real estate, and professional services at 
7.2%, and trade, hotels, transport, communication, 
and broadcasting-related services at 6.4%. Private 
final consumption expenditure (PFCE) rose by 7.6%, 
reflecting a rebound in consumer spending.
 
 The Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation for FY 25 is 
estimated at 4.8%, reflecting an improvement from 
5.4% in FY 24. To address liquidity challenges, the 
Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee 
(MPC) reduced the repo rate by 25 basis points 
to 6.25% on 7th February 2025, marking the first 
rate cut since May 2020. The government’s strong 
commitment to foster economic growth, strengthen 
financial resilience, and create an inclusive 
development environment– Viksit Bharat bodes well 
for economic development.
1.1 
Outlook
 
 RBI has estimated the annual GDP growth rate at 6.7% 
for FY 26 led by revival in industrial activity, heightened 
household consumption aided by tax reliefs in Union 
Budget 2025-26, and good agricultural produce. An 
uptick in agricultural and industrial output, coupled 
with resilient rural demand, is expected to support 
India’s growth trajectory. Retail inflation has been 
pegged at 4.2% for FY 26. The government’s push 
for digital transformation, financial inclusion and 
ease of doing business has created a favourable 
environment to attract foreign direct investment. 
This is further aided by the attractive production-
linked incentive (PLI) schemes aimed at boosting 
domestic manufacturing.
 
 The real estate sector is expected to maintain 
stable growth in FY 26, backed by key drivers like 
urbanisation, infrastructure push, capital market 
reforms, and digital adoption. Despite global 
challenges and affordability pressures, the sector 
is likely to progress toward more institutionalised, 
tech-enabled, and sustainable development.
2. INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
 
 The real estate industry in India plays an integral 
role in the economy, accounting for over 7% of the 
overall Gross Value Added (GVA) in the past decade. 
Following two challenging years of pandemic-related 
lockdowns and economic instability, the real estate 
sector, the second-highest employment generator, 
has undergone a robust recovery. Several factors 
have contributed to the sector’s growth, including 
rapid urbanization, rising income levels, enabling 
government reforms, the growing tech sector 
and improved credit availability for developers. 
Moreover, the stronger-than-anticipated growth 
afforded the RBI leeway to keep the repo rate 
unchanged at 6.5%, demonstrating a prudent and 
measured approach to ensure that inflation aligns 
durably and sustainably with the target of 4%. These 
promising indicators signal favourable conditions 
for the real estate sector to thrive and expand in 
the coming years.
 
 Real estate sector growth is to a great extent fuelled 
by strong government policies leading to increased 
transparency, greater compliance, investment and 
inclusivity through policies like FDI policies, the Real 
Estate Regulation and Development Act (RERA), 
Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT) guidelines, the 
Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Amended Act, 
the Goods and Services Tax (GST), Smart Cities 
Mission, Housing for All, and AMRUT (Atal Mission 
for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation).
 
 India’s real estate market, comprising four sub-
sectors – residential, retail, hospitality and 
commercial- witnessed remarkable growth in FY 25, 
with record-breaking leasing and sales, and a growing 
appetite for new launches. Equity investments in the 
sector are projected to reach USD 10 billion in FY 25, 
driven by robust inflows in commercial spaces and 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
174
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
a strong momentum in residential real estate. The 
momentum in the residential segment sustained 
through FY 25 with annual sales volumes scaling 
a 12-year high at 0.35 million units sold during the 
year, representing a healthy 7% YoY growth. Sales 
are at a multi-year high in Hyderabad and Pune. NCR 
was the only market that saw sales dip marginally, 
though on a high base. There is a remarkable shift 
in homebuyers’ preferences towards products 
that enable an upgraded lifestyle with more space, 
amenities and differentiated experiences.
 
 Similar growth momentum was seen in other 
segments, including office spaces, malls, co-working, 
co-living and industrial & warehousing. The positive 
sentiment around the economy is a major driver of 
occupier activity in the office market, sustaining the 
momentum gathered since 2022. Office markets 
beat the previous high in 2019, with leasing activity 
surging to 71.9 million sq. Ft. (square feet). The Indian 
office market is firmly back on the growth trajectory 
it was set on before the pandemic.
 
 Retail, hospitality, and commercial real estate are 
also growing significantly, providing the much-
needed infrastructure for India’s growing needs. 
Flexible office spaces and the adoption of the 
Core + Flex model continue to remain popular. With 
more employees returning to offices, the demand 
for office spaces has risen steadily. Consequently, 
overall vacancy rates have dropped 17% - the lowest 
recorded in 14 quarters. In FY 25, retailers leased 
8.1 million sq. ft. in shopping malls and prominent 
high streets across India’s top seven cities. During 
the year, the industrial & warehousing segment 
accounted for the highest share in overall real estate 
investment volumes at 39%, surpassing the office 
segment. There is a sustained rise in demand for 
superior quality Grade A developments and evolving 
supply-chain models.
2.1 Residential Segment
 
 The Indian residential market’s strong growth 
momentum persists, with the fourth quarter of the 
FY 25 recording the highest-ever sales across all 
metro cities combined. Notably, 86% of new project 
launches originated from Mumbai Metropolitan 
Region, Hyderabad, Delhi-NCR, Pune, and Bangalore, 
which also accounted for 86% of total residential 
sales during the period.
 
 The fourth quarter witnessed total sales of 88,274 
units which was 2% YoY growth with Mumbai, Delhi-
NCR, and Pune leading the supply.
 
 The Bengaluru market saw the most growth in 
launches during the quarter at 26% YoY. Mumbai 
and Bengaluru saw the highest volume of units 
launched in Q4 FY 25 and together constituted 
44% of the units launched. Sales in the ₹ 10-20 mn 
segment grew by 2% YoY and those in the ₹ 20-50 
mn category have grown by 28% YoY respectively.
 
 However, sales lagged in NCR and Bengaluru by 8% 
and 5% YoY respectively. Interestingly, both markets 
have also seen the highest growth in prices which 
has contributed to the dip in volumes in these 
markets. Price levels in Bengaluru and NCR saw 
exceptional growth at 16% and 12% YoY as the focus 
sharpened toward development of premium, high-
rise properties.
 
 Government’s thrust on mega-infrastructure 
projects will catalyze the growth across all real 
estate sectors.
 
 FY 25 was a historic year which witnesses the highest 
numbers in terms of sales revenue, collections and 
registrations owing to price hikes and larger unit 
sizes in most categories. We have strategically 
streamlined our sales cycle, prioritizing the sale of 
a significant portion of our inventory at launch to 
capitalize on strong demand.
 
 We have a robust pipeline of upcoming launches 
across Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, and 
Mysore, positioning us to further expand our market 
share in FY 26. With major projects like Brigade 
Cornerstone Utopia, Brigade El Dorado, Brigade 
Xanadu, and Brigade Citadel reaching completion, 
our commitment to enhancing livability remains 
strong. Additionally, new developments such as 
Brigade Insignia, Brigade Icon, and Brigade Gateway 
(Neopolis) will further strengthen our super 
luxury portfolio.
2.2 Office Segment
 
 India’s commercial office real estate sector reached 
a significant milestone in FY 25, with leasing activity 
across the top six cities totalling 68.6 Mn sq. ft., 
reflecting an 11% year-on-year growth. Bengaluru led 
this surge, achieving its highest-ever leasing volume 
of 22.2 Mn sq. ft., a remarkable 36% increase from 
the previous year. Hyderabad also demonstrated a 
robust performance, with leasing activity reaching 
11.3 Mn sq. ft., surpassing the 10 Mn sq. ft. mark for 
the first time.
 
 FY 25 witnessed a notable shift in demand 
dynamics, with domestic firms playing a crucial 
role alongside multinational corporations. Global 
Capability Centres (GCCs) reinforced India’s 
position as a global business hub, with occupiers 
prioritizing quality and sustainable office spaces. 
On the supply side, developers demonstrated 
strategic agility by delivering premium assets to 
meet evolving needs, despite challenges posed by 
rising construction costs.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
175
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 Rental trends in FY 25 exhibited a 5-8% increase 
in prime markets such as Bengaluru, primarily due 
to the demand for Grade A spaces. This trend is 
anticipated to persist in FY 26, driven by robust 
GCCs and flexible workspace demand, limited prime 
supply, and occupiers’ preference for sustainable, 
modern, amenity-rich, tech-enabled spaces that 
continue to command premium pricing rates.
 
 The commercial office segment of Brigade Group 
achieved stable results in FY 25, with demand 
primarily driven by Engineering & Manufacturing 
and Technology firms. Brigade Twin Towers in 
Yeshwanthpur experienced a rise in interest with 
increased demand for sales from investors and 
leasing from manufacturing, flex space, and retail 
tenants highlighting the growing demand for office 
spaces in the North-West Bangalore micro-market.
 
 In FY 25, Brigade launched ~2 Mn sq. ft. of commercial 
office space development and continues to focus 
on further developments in FY 26. With the rising 
demand for Grade A office spaces in Tier II cities 
and encouraging support from respective state 
governments, Brigade planned for its new upcoming 
launches in Ahmedabad, Kochi, Trivandrum, 
Coimbatore, Mysore, including its primary Tier I 
focus cities Bangalore, Chennai, and Hyderabad.
 
 The FY 26 outlook is supported by India’s projected 
economic growth of 6.5-7% and anticipated policy 
support, including potential interest rate cuts by 
the Reserve Bank of India to boost investment. 
While challenges such as inflationary pressures 
on construction costs and global economic 
volatility could temper growth, the sector’s 
diversified demand and adaptive supply dynamics 
offer resilience.
2.3 Retail Segment
 
 Driven by changing consumer behaviour and rising 
e-commerce competition, malls are becoming an 
experience-driven destination, where shopping is 
just one part of a larger lifestyle offering. Brands 
are focusing on experiential retail, integrating AR/
VR shopping and interactive flagship stores. Another 
growing trend is that of Direct-to-Consumer (D2C) 
brands shifting from local stores to malls, leveraging 
higher footfalls and omnichannel fulfilment.
 
 For Shopping Malls, entertainment and leisure have 
become the key drivers, with VR gaming zones, 
escape rooms, and trampoline parks drawing 
visitors. Live performances, movie premieres, and 
art exhibitions are turning malls into cultural hubs. 
The F&B sector is expanding, with gourmet food 
halls and microbreweries replacing traditional 
food courts.
 
 Technology is enhancing customer experience 
through AI-driven navigation, smart parking, 
and contactless payments. Malls are adopting 
omnichannel strategies, such as self check-out 
services and digital-first stores, to integrate online 
and offline retail.
 
 Orion Malls are continuously evolving with these 
trends, ensuring they remain dynamic and engaging 
destinations for both consumers and retailers. 
Through strategic upgrades and tenant churn, 
we are enhancing the shopping experience and 
maximizing performance. Despite a muted market 
in FY 25, which was after a strong growth in the prior 
year, and the underperformance of multiplexes, our 
proactive approach has driven approximately 5% 
growth in consumption, led by Electronics, Specialty 
Lifestyle, Watches, and Accessories.
2.4 Hospitality Segment
 
 The Hospitality and Tourism sector witnessed 
a transformative period in FY 25, surpassing 
expectations and setting new benchmarks. It 
was truly a year when recovery transformed into 
reinvention. With the continued surge in travel 
demand, and as travellers increasingly sought 
meaningful, sustainable, and immersive experiences, 
hotels and resorts experienced record occupancy 
rates—indicating the dynamic growth potential of 
India’s hospitality industry. The country is growing in 
importance as a domestic hotel market, an inbound 
market, a destination for global brands, and now, an 
important outbound travel market.
 
 FY 25 continued the positive trend with record 
results and growth observed in the areas of 
Occupancy, Average Room Rate (ARR), and Revenue 
Per Available Room (RevPAR), due to sustained 
domestic leisure travel, demand from Meetings, 
Incentives, Conferences, and Exhibitions (MICE) 
including weddings and business travel, despite a 
temporary lull during the general elections in the 
first quarter. The industry also saw an increase in 
international arrivals despite global uncertainties, 
augmented by India hosting various global events.
 
 Domestic travel within the country increased as 
well, facilitated by expanded airport capacity and 
the return to work-from-office or hybrid mode 
policies for many IT companies. Between April 2024 
and March 2025, 410 million passengers (domestic 
and international) were handled by airports in India 
vs. 376 million in the previous year. As per current 
trends, India is projected to become the 3rd largest 
domestic and 5th largest outbound market in the 
world by 2027.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
176
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 Many city and state specific events such as 
Aero India 2025, IPL matches, IMTEX, the Global 
Investor Summit, pharma conferences, the STONA 
event at BIEC, and various music concerts helped 
increase occupancies in their respective cities. 
The government has also maintained its focus 
on promoting tourism in the country, benefiting 
states like Kerala, which saw increased tourism that 
positively contributed to the growth of its hospitality 
industry. Mysore has been growing as an industrial 
hub, primarily due to investments in manufacturing, 
logistics, and infrastructure. This trend suggests a 
rising demand for hospitality infrastructure beyond 
major metropolitan areas.
 
 The year also witnessed the largest increase in 
supply, with 14,400 new keys added. More projects 
from prominent operators are in the pipeline, 
indicating operator confidence in the continued 
growth of the industry. The ‘Make in India’ initiative’s 
push for manufacturing has driven economic 
growth, prompting several companies to establish 
new offices, outlets, and manufacturing units across 
the country.
 
 The trend of hosting weddings in city hotels or as 
destination weddings is expected to continue and 
in fact, gain momentum as the practice spreads 
to the mid-market segment. Additionally, the 
trend of giving greater importance to celebratory 
occasions (anniversaries and personal milestones) 
is generating social demand at both city hotels 
and resorts.
 
 Sport-based demand has also gained momentum 
and is likely to strengthen in the future. International, 
national, and league events across various sports 
(cricket, hockey, kabaddi, and football) are creating 
sizeable demand across various price segments. 
Newer formats and leagues are also launching, 
including those for women. Demand includes team 
members, officials, support staff, visiting spectators, 
and those training in the lead-up to tournaments.
 
 This remarkable growth of the industry has been 
largely driven by the increase in domestic travellers 
in both the business and leisure segments. As India’s 
economy continues its upward trajectory, business-
related travel remains strong. With 17 new airports 
added since 2020, exploring India has never been 
easier for both domestic and international tourists. 
Weddings, social events, and spiritual/religious 
tourism have all positively impacted the growth of 
the industry.
 
 In Q4 FY 25, India-wide occupancy surged, reaching 
66–68%—a 2–4 percentage point increase 
compared to the same period last year. In metro 
markets, occupancy rates surpassed 80%, an 
18–20% year-on-year increase. The hotel industry 
reported a 10–12% growth in ADRs nationwide. South 
Indian markets observed the highest RevPAR growth, 
with Bengaluru leading the charts. We expect this 
positive trend to continue into the new financial year.
2.5 Outlook:
 
 The overall outlook for our business segments 
remains positive supported by a continued focus 
on land acquisition in our key markets of Bengaluru, 
Chennai and Hyderabad. In FY 26, we are expecting to 
launch about 12.33 Mn sq. ft of residential business. 
In the Commercial segment we are expected to 
launch about 3.07 Mn sq. ft.
3. OPPORTUNITIES AND THREATS
 
 The Indian real estate market post-pandemic has 
exhibited strong resilience and is poised for greater 
opportunities in the coming decade, despite the 
global economic uncertainty.
 
Opportunities
 
 India’s housing market is booming, especially in 
mid to high-end segments. Premium and luxury 
homes are gaining popularity, outpacing demand 
for affordable housing. Integrated townships with 
modern amenities and smart homes featuring AI, 
automation, and sustainable energy are in high 
demand. Multigenerational living is also becoming 
a favoured choice, as families seek spaces that 
suit all age groups. With growing consumer interest 
and supportive financial conditions, the market is 
expected to maintain strong momentum.
 
 The commercial real estate market is on a steady 
growth path, driven by a resilient economy and 
rising demand from sectors like IT, finance, and 
manufacturing. Big cities like Bengaluru, Delhi NCR, 
and Mumbai lead the market, but tier-2 cities are 
also growing. Companies now prefer modern, 
smart, and eco-friendly offices. The popularity of 
flexible workspace models continues, supporting 
hybrid work trends as more professionals return to 
offices. With decreasing vacancy rates and business 
optimism on the rise, the sector is set for continued 
expansion in FY 26.
 
 As Consumer spending is raising in the Country, it is 
creating a strong growth opportunities in both retail 
and hospitality sectors. Retail demand is increasing 
in areas like fashion, food, and entertainment, with 
malls turning into experience centers that attract 
more visitors. With regard to hospitality, more travel 
and business activity are driving hotel demand 
and investment. With urbanization and changing 
lifestyles, these sectors are expected to grow 
further in FY 26.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
177
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
Threats for the real estate growth:
• Global economic uncertainty
• Cyclicity trends in the housing market
• Interest rate volatility
• Lack of availability and quality of infrastructure 
is crucial for residential set-ups and office real 
estate markets
• Limited access to financing options, high interest 
rates, and strict eligibility criteria for loans
• Complex regulatory environment
• Construction Quality and Delays
• Evolving Workplace Preferences
• Growing preference for green buildings
• Limited availability of prime land in major 
commercial hubs
 
 The Company remains committed to identifying and 
addressing all potential threats. Mitigation measures 
are implemented to minimize risks & threats and 
ensure business continuity.
4. PERFORMANCE
4.1 Business performance
 
 During FY 25, all our business segments exhibited 
robust performance with strong contributions from 
the residential, office, retail and hospitality segments. 
The year topped all our previous yearly performance, 
with the highest ever Presales and collections in 
Real Estate Segment. Demand remained solid, led by 
strong home sales, a recovery in the leasing industry 
and strong performance from our hotel business. 
We launched 11 projects totaling 9.5 Mn sq. ft in Real 
Estate segment. Further, launched 2 Mn sq. ft of 
commercial development. The overall launch was 
stronger than the previous year.
4.2 Business Segment
4.2.1. Real Estate
 
 In FY 25, Brigade Group achieved its highest ever Presales of ₹ 7,847 Crores with a sales volume of 7.05 Mn sq. ft. 
The Revenue has shown an increase of 31% YoY during FY 25. We saw a healthy contribution from Hyderabad and 
Chennai with each market contributing 18% & 12% respectively. We also launched a Net Zero Project – Brigade 
Citrine in East Bangalore as we move towards a sustainability focus. Brigade is committed to reach a Net Zero 
status by 2045.
 
 The average realization stood at ₹ 11,138/sq. ft. during FY 25, an increase of 40% over FY 24. Total collections 
stood at ₹ 7,250 Crores which grew by 23% over FY 24. 
 
 The projects that we launched in FY 25 are as follows:
#
Project
City
Segment
Project Area 
(in Mn sq. ft.)
BEL Interest 
(in Mn sq. ft.)
1
Brigade Insignia
Bengaluru
Residential
0.89
0.89
2
Brigade El Dorado – Cobalt
Bengaluru
Residential
0.51
0.51
3
Brigade Padmini - Tower B
Bengaluru
Commercial
0.73
0.37
4
Brigade Residences at WTC - Nebula
Chennai
Residential
0.07
0.04
5
Brigade Tech Boulevard
Chennai
Commercial
0.84
0.51
6
Brigade Valencia – Brillio
Bengaluru
Residential
1.19
0.85
7
Brigade El Dorado - Beryl
Bengaluru
Residential
0.43
0.43
8
Paradise @ Brigade Cornerstone Utopia
Bengaluru
Commercial
0.21
0.14
9
Brigade Icon
Chennai
Residential
0.62
0.62
10
Brigade Citrine
Bengaluru
Residential
0.70
0.70
11
Brigade Gateway - Tower A
Hyderabad
Residential
1.19
1.19
12
Brigade Vantage
Mysuru
Commercial
0.13
0.07
13
Brigade Altius
Chennai
Residential
1.42
1.42
14
Bigade Eternia
Bengaluru
Residential
2.05
1.25
15
Brigade Orchards - Ebony
Bengaluru
Residential
0.43
0.29
Total
11.41
9.28
Brigade Enterprises Limited
178
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
The projects under development as on March 31, 2025 (Million sq. ft.)
Projects
Project Area
Co. Share
LO/JV Share
Real Estate projects for sale
16.38
12.09
4.29
Brigade El Dorado*
3.60
3.60
-
Brigade Orchards*
1.54
1.06
0.48
Brigade Cornerstone Utopia*
1.51
1.00
0.51
Brigade Residences at WTC Chennai*
0.35
0.18
0.17
Total Real Estate
24.27
18.82
5.45
*Through Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs)
4.2.2. Lease Rental (Office & Retail)
 
 The Lease Rental business witnessed net absorption of more than 0.35 Mn sq. ft. during the year. The demand 
was driven Engineering & Manufacturing and Technology firms.
 
 Revenue stood at ₹ 1,16,493 lakhs during FY 25, a growth of 24% over FY 24. With 90% occupancy across 
operational office portfolio, of which ~100% leasing was observed in operational SEZ projects.
 
 The Orion Malls maintained an average occupancy of 91%, with our flagship property, Orion Gateway, achieving 
96% occupancy. Fashion and F&B emerged as the top-performing leasing categories, driven by a continued 
focus on premiumising the brand mix.
 
 Operating Office and retail projects as on March 31, 2025 are as follows:
(Million Sq. ft.)
Name of the Project
Location
Leasable Area
Leased
To be Transacted
Brigade Tech Gardens*
Bangalore
3.00
2.84
-
WTC Chennai*
Chennai
1.98
1.98
-
WTC Kochi*
Kochi
0.77
0.77
-
Brigade Twin Towers - Tower A & C
Bangalore
0.66
0.02
0.64
WTC Bangalore
Bangalore
0.62
0.62
-
Brigade Opus
Bangalore
0.30
0.30
-
Brigade Int’l Financial Center, GIFT City*
Gift City
0.27
0.27
-
Brigade Bhulwalka Icon
Bangalore
0.19
0.19
-
Brigade Southfield
Bangalore
0.16
0.16
-
Orion Gateway Mall
Bangalore
0.83
0.80
0.03
Orion Uptown Mall
Bangalore
0.27
0.24
0.03
Orion Avenue Mall
Bangalore
0.15
0.13
0.02
Brigade Vantage, Chennai
Chennai
0.06
0.06
-
Others
Bangalore
0.12
0.09
0.03
Total
9.38
8.47
0.75
 
* Special Economic Zone Projects
 
Projects under development as on March 31, 2025
(Million Sq. ft.)
Lease Rental Projects
Location
Project Area
Co. Share
LO/ JV Share
Brigade Square, Thiruvananthapuram
Thiruvananthapuram
0.19
0.19
-
Arcadia @ Brigade Cornerstone Utopia*
Bengaluru
0.12
0.08
0.04
Brigade Padmini Tech Valley- Tower B
Bengaluru
0.73
0.37
0.36
Brigade Tech Boulevard
Chennai
0.84
0.51
0.33
Brigade Vantage, Mysore
Mysuru
0.13
0.07
0.06
Total Leasing
2.01
1.22
0.79
 
*Through Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
179
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
4.2.3. Hospitality
 
 The hospitality segment continued its growth 
trajectory from last year’s revival and demonstrated 
record results. Our portfolio benefited from 
this positive trend, with occupancy rates and 
ADR witnessing healthy growth. Our portfolio’s 
occupancy rate for FY 25 grew to 76% from 72% the 
previous year. RevPAR for our portfolio saw a growth 
of 10% over the previous financial year. This led to 
overall revenue growth of 17% and an AGOP growth 
of 20% over FY 24.
 
 The segment’s positive trend was supported by 
increases in domestic leisure travel, MICE events, 
weddings, and foreign tourist arrivals.
 
 Looking ahead, domestic business and leisure 
travellers remain the primary demand drivers for the 
hotel industry. While international travel continues 
its steady recovery and contributes significantly 
through Global Distribution Systems, the focus will 
remain on attracting domestic travellers through 
competitive pricing and tailored experiences. The 
Indian hospitality industry is poised for continued 
growth this year, driven by robust domestic travel, 
a rebound in foreign tourism, and the expansion of 
the MICE segment.
5. FINANCIAL REVIEW
5.1 Equity Share Capital
 
 The Brigade Group has an authorised share capital 
of ₹ 25,000 Lakhs. As of March 31, 2025, the paid-up 
equity share capital was ₹ 24,437 Lakhs, compared 
to ₹ 23,110 Lakhs as of March 31, 2024.
5.2 Total Debt
 
 As of March 31, 2025, the net bank debt was ₹ 96,215 
Lakhs, compared to ₹ 2,59,030 Lakhs as of March 
31, 2024. The net debt-to-equity ratio was 0.14. The 
average cost of debt is 8.67%.
5.3 Credit Rating
 
 The credit rating upgrade for the credit facilities 
being availed from banks and financial institutions 
during the financial year 2024-25 is as follows:
Rating Agency
Present Rating & 
Outlook
Previous rating & 
Outlook
ICRA Limited
AA-/ Stable
AA-/ Stable
CRISIL Ratings AA-/ Positive
AA-/ Stable
 
 The credit rating upgrade is a testimony of the financial 
discipline as well as sound business performance.
5.4 Revenue
• We achieved our highest-ever sales and collection 
figures, with revenue from operations up by 3.63% 
to ₹ 5,07,421 Lakhs in FY25 from ₹ 4,89,669 Lakhs 
in FY24 growth is driven by better performance in 
segments of leasing and hospitality.
• The highest ever pre-sales of ~ 7.05 Million 
sq. ft. with a sales value of ₹ 7,84,564 Lakhs in 
FY25, an increase of 31% from FY24 with an 
increase in average realisation by 40% to ₹ 11,138 
per sq. ft. in FY25.
• Revenue from Real Estate segment recorded at 
₹ 3,33,325 Lakhs in FY25 compared ₹ 3,47,526 
Lakhs in FY24 and the revenue reduced for the 
year is due to lower project closures compared 
to last year.
• Revenue from leasing services climbed 26% in 
FY25 to ₹ 95,514 Lakhs from ₹ 75,933 Lakhs in 
FY24, owing to a higher leasing in Brigade Tech 
Gardens, WTC Chennai and Kochi.
• Revenue from hospitality services climbed 15% 
in FY25 to ₹ 51,905 Lakhs from ₹ 45,152 Lakhs 
in FY24.
• Our revenue from maintenance services increased 
by 28% ₹ 19,397 Lakhs in FY25 from ₹  15,160 
Lakhs owning to a higher leasing in Brigade Tech 
Gardens, WTC Chennai and Kochi.
• Other operational revenue has been increased by 
10% in FY 25 to ₹ 4,017 Lakhs from ₹ 3,066 Lakhs 
in FY24.
5.5 Other Income
 
 Other income increased by 43% in FY25 to ₹ 23,933 
Lakhs from ₹ 16,746 Lakhs in FY24. This increase was 
caused by an increase in bank deposit interest.
5.6 Expenses
• Sub-contractor cost: Our subcontractor cost 
increased by 10% in FY25, from ₹ 1,38,989 Lakhs 
in FY24 to ₹ 1,53,368 Lakhs in FY25.
• Cost of raw materials, components and stores 
consumed: Increased from ₹ 40,894 Lakhs in 
FY24 to ₹ 50,444 Lakhs in FY25, our cost of raw 
materials, components and stores consumed 
grew by 23% in FY25. This growth was the result 
of increased operations and the launch of 
new projects.
• Purchase of land stock: Our purchase of land 
stock cost was ₹ 1,62,672 Lakhs in FY 25 compared 
to ₹ 1,75,056 Lakhs in FY25, Increase is due to the 
acquisition of land in Bangalore and Chennai.
• Increase in inventories of flat stock, land stock 
and work-in-progress: Increase in inventories 
of flat stock, land stock and work-in-progress 
increased to ₹ 1,34,804 Lakhs in FY25 from ₹ 
81,113 Lakhs in FY24. This was attributed to higher 
number of new joint developments and new 
land acquisitions, which resulted in higher costs 
for inventories.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
180
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
• Employee benefits expense: Our employee 
benefits expense grew by 27% to ₹ 40,743 Lakhs 
in FY25 from ₹ 31,987 Lakhs in FY24, owing to an 
increase in employee cost due to increase in 
operations of all segments.
• Finance costs: Our finance costs increased by 
1% in FY25 to ₹ 49,549 Lakhs from ₹ 49,104 Lakhs 
in FY24.
• Depreciation and amortisation expense: From 
₹ 30,209 Lakhs in FY24 to ₹ 28,878 Lakhs in 
FY25, our depreciation and amortisation expense 
reduced by 4%, with asset additions of Brigade 
Twin towers and Ibis Styles Mysore.
• Other expenses: Our other expenses increased 
by 46% in FY25, from ₹ 64,421 Lakhs in FY24 
to ₹ 93,847 Lakhs in FY25. This was a result of 
an increase in Architect & Consultancy fees, 
Licence fees and plan approval charges, Sales 
and Marketing and Security charges.
5.7 Profit before taxes:
 
 In FY25, our profit before tax increased to ₹ 86,927 
Lakhs, up from ₹ 56,868 Lakhs in FY24. This is due 
to increase in all segments i.e. real estate, leasing 
and Hospitality.
5.8 Tax Expenses
 
 In FY25, Tax expenses increased to 18,880 lakhs from 
16,764 lakhs due to increase in profits.
5.9 Cash flows
(₹ in Lakhs)
FY25
FY24
Net cash flow from 
operating activities
99,531
33,398
Net cash flow used in 
investing activities
(58,990)
(37,946)
Net cash flow from 
financing activities
85,966
24,062
Net increase in cash 
and cash equivalents
1,26,507
19,514
5.10 Operating Activities:
 
 Net cash flow from operating activities was ₹ 99,531 
Lakhs for FY25 as compared to ₹ 33,398 Lakhs 
for FY24 due to better operating cashflows in all 
the segments.
5.11 Investing Activities:
 
 Net cash flow used in investing activities was 
₹ (58,990) Lakhs for FY25 as compared to net cash 
flow used in investing activities for FY24, which 
was ₹(37,946) Lakhs, the increase is due to higher 
investments in Fixed deposits/Investments from 
operating activities surplus.
5.12 Financing Activities:
 
 Net cash flow from financing activities was ₹ 85,966 
Lakhs for FY25 as compared to ₹ 24,062 Lakhs for 
FY24, this increase is due to Issue of equity shares 
pursuant to Qualified institutions placement 
(“QIP”) scheme.
 
Liquidity
 
 Our liquidity needs are primarily driven by our 
operating activities, capital expenditures for new 
project construction, loan repayment, and debt 
servicing obligations. Historically, our primary 
sources of funding have been cash from operations, 
short- and long-term bank borrowings, demand-
repayable overdraft facilities, cash and cash 
equivalents, and stock and financing provided 
by our shareholders. We have also entered into 
several revolving credits and other working capital 
arrangements, which offer adequate liquidity for our 
Company’s needs. Our cash and cash equivalents 
consist of cash in hand, cheques in hand, current 
accounts at banks, and other amounts kept with 
banks as short-term deposits. As of March 31, 
2025 and March 31, 2024, we had cash and cash 
equivalents of ₹ 3,26,100 Lakhs and ₹ 1,73,727 
Lakhs, respectively.
5.13 Capital Expenditure
 
 During FY25 and FY24, our total capital expenditure 
was ₹ 1,43,491 Lakhs and ₹ 30,440 Lakhs, respectively.
 
Segmental capital expenditure
(₹ in Lakhs)
Segment
FY25
FY24
Real Estate
2,952
1,125
Hospitality
20,357
11,878
Leasing
1,16,452
17,437
Total
1,39,761
30,440
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
181
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
5.14 Key financial ratios as per consolidated financial statements for FY25 compared with FY24
Particulars
FY25
FY24
Variance%
Rationale
Quick Asset Ratio
0.43
0.31
41%
Ratio is increased due to higher 
cash and cash equivalence on 
account of better collections
Cash Ratio
0.29
0.20
46%
Equity Ratio
0.55
0.40
38%
Ratio is higher due to issue of 
shares on account of QIP and 
increase in Profit for the year.
Debt Service coverage 
ratio
1,74
1.15
51%
Ratio is higher due to increase in 
Earnings before interest, tax and 
depreciation.
6.  RISK 
& 
ENTERPRISE 
RISK 
MANAGEMENT
 
 The business paradigm is continuously shifting 
owing to changes in customer expectations, 
regulatory updates, and volatility in the economic 
environment. Effective risk management enhances 
capital by reducing financial losses, improves 
investment decision, build confidence among 
stakeholders and strengthens stakeholder 
relationships by demonstrating a commitment to 
minimizing potential negative impacts and fostering 
trust. Our continuous focus towards achieving 
our vision “to be a world-class organization in 
products, processes, people, and performance” 
is dependent on recognizing and effectively 
addressing key risks that impact the business.
 
 Brigade operates across all sectors of real estate, 
including residential, commercial (office and 
retail leasing), and hospitality. The Company has 
constituted a Risk Management Committee of 
the Board which is responsible for monitoring and 
reviewing the risk management plan and ensuring 
its effectiveness. The Board of Directors have 
devised roles and responsibilities of the Committee, 
which are in line with the prevailing regulations and 
ensures that the whole process of risk management 
is well coordinated and carried out as per the risk 
management framework.
 
 Brigade has a robust risk management policy 
approved by the Board. The policy outlines the 
aims and principles of risk management, as well 
as an overview of the risk management process, 
procedures, and associated responsibilities of 
the Committee members that helps in identifying 
and assessing risks such as financial, operational, 
regulatory, reputational, extended enterprise, 
strategic, sectoral, cyber security and other risks.
 
Risk Management Approach and Framework
 
 Brigade has a comprehensive risk management 
framework that includes a well-defined governance 
structure, which is established keeping in mind the 
organization structure of the Company to ensure 
integration of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 
process. This ERM framework helps in identifying, 
assessing, monitoring, and reporting on risks arising 
out of internal and external categories. Internal risks 
encompass factors such as land bank management, 
project execution, and talent attraction and retention. 
External risks include macro-economic conditions 
and political uncertainties. Several management 
and leadership team members including Board of 
Directors periodically review the risk management 
policies and systems to incorporate any changes 
in the risk profile due to changes in the external 
environment and strategic priorities.
 
 Brigade has been prudent in pre-empting the 
potential risks, which can pose a challenge to 
the Company through its comprehensive risk 
management and mitigation strategy enabling it 
to withstand and navigate challenges. The Board 
of Directors is assisted by risk management team 
in monitoring the risk profile and effectiveness of 
mitigation plans to manage the identified business 
risks. The major risks identified by the business 
and functional head are systematically addressed 
through mitigating actions on a continuing basis.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
182
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 Outlined below are several major risks that could impact our operations, along with the corresponding mitigation 
measures we have implemented:
Risks
Significance and meaning
Mitigation
Market Risk Market risk, also known as systemic 
risk, refers to the potential for 
financial losses due to factors 
that 
impact 
overall 
market 
performance. These risks arise from 
macroeconomic variables such as 
interest rate fluctuations, foreign 
trade policies, industrial output 
indicators, 
political 
instability, 
natural disasters, and geopolitical 
events. 
While 
diversification 
cannot 
eliminate 
market 
risk, 
various hedging strategies can help 
mitigate its impact. Although such 
risks are not specific to our business 
or industry, they can influence 
investor 
sentiment 
and 
affect 
overall earnings performance.
Our residential and annuity businesses contribute to a solid 
business model. The residential business is directly exposed 
to market dynamics and risks, whereas the annuity business, 
which generates consistent revenue flows, will not be affected 
to the same extent. To mitigate this risk, we perform detail 
and thorough market research before making any investment 
decisions. This includes analyzing local economic indicators, 
population growth, employment rates, and market trends. We 
believe in investing and developing in diverse property types 
and different geographic locations which also help spread out 
market risk.
Raw 
Material 
Risks
Raw 
materials 
represent 
a 
significant cost component of 
our operations. Fluctuations in 
the price or availability of these 
materials can substantially impact 
our profitability, cash flow, and 
operational performance. As we do 
not currently engage in long-term 
vendor agreements or hedging 
strategies to mitigate commodity-
related risks, the volatility in fuel 
and logistics prices directly affects 
raw material costs, contributing to 
periodic inflation.
Brigade manages raw material costs by establishing fixed 
base prices at the time of contract award. Any subsequent 
price variations are tracked and reconciled throughout the 
procurement process, with adjustments made as necessary 
to ensure financial transparency and fairness.
At our project sites, we maintain optimal inventory levels of 
critical commodities such as steel, cement, copper, and 
aluminium. We continuously monitor trends in commodity 
pricing and availability, drawing on insights from various 
sources to inform our decision-making. To further mitigate 
the impact of cost increases, we adopt a range of proactive 
strategies, including efficient design, value engineering, 
and effective waste management and reduction practices. 
Additionally, our budgeting process includes a contingency 
allocation that accounts for potential price increases, ensuring 
financial flexibility in the face of market fluctuations.
Land 
Related 
Risk
Land is a critical input for our 
any construction projects. Non-
availability of suitable land at 
strategic locations and reasonable 
prices can drive up costs. Such 
price increases can have a negative 
impact on the company’s overall 
performance.
The Company takes strategic decisions with respect to 
land acquisition and has adopted hybrid model of outright 
acquisition, joint venture, and collaborative development. 
In circumstances when land costs are high, the option of 
developing the site through joint venture or joint development 
rather than outright acquisition is available to ensure that 
there is no significant outflow for acquiring land.
Further, our in-house Legal Department conducts extensive 
due diligence on land titles. Apart from that, experienced legal 
counsels specializing in the real estate sector are recruited for 
thorough due diligence before we sign any land acquisition, 
joint venture, or joint development agreement. Limited 
availability of land at strategic locations, and of the desired 
quality and acceptable prices always impact the ability to 
grow existing land bank. But using aggregators we maximize 
the leads which in turn maximize options of feasible lands and 
mitigate potential risks.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
183
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Risks
Significance and meaning
Mitigation
Execution 
Risk
Real estate projects are vulnerable 
to 
several 
implementational 
problems 
such 
as 
availability 
of raw materials and their cost, 
regulatory 
compliances 
which 
may cause project start up delays, 
construction delays, cost overruns 
and unavailability of skilled labor, 
weather 
conditions, 
logistics, 
accidents and quality gaps. 
• The act of execution, and its effective management, is 
paramount to ensuring successful project outcomes. 
Comprehensive Project Execution Plans (PEPs) are 
developed prior to commencement, and detailed 
project orientation sessions are conducted with all 
stakeholders. These initiatives are aimed at ensuring 
full awareness and alignment with the processes and 
procedures essential for execution and their subsequent 
implementation requirements.
• Throughout the development phase, we ensure strict 
adherence to established policies and procedures by all 
relevant stakeholders. Regular coordination and evaluation 
meetings are held with cross-functional teams to review 
progress, assess quality benchmarks, and address any 
challenges. We prioritize the engagement of reputable, 
best-in-class contractors and adopt a strategy-driven 
approach to planning and monitoring. Daily tracking 
mechanisms are in place to maintain project timelines and 
uphold high standards of quality.
• Health & Safety being the major risk, maximum construction 
fatalities result from falls from heights and being struck 
by moving vehicles, whilst most of non-fatal injuries result 
from slips, trips and falls, and from being struck by a moving 
or falling object. Having robust E&S policy and monitoring 
in place we mitigate these risks effectively.
Interest 
Rate Risk
We are exposed to market risk from 
fluctuations in interest rates on our 
borrowings. As all our borrowings 
are linked to floating interest rates, 
an increase in rates could elevate 
our finance costs and negatively 
impact 
earnings. 
These 
rates 
are influenced by changes in the 
Reserve Bank of India’s monetary 
policy, as well as broader economic 
factors 
such 
as 
inflationary 
pressures, many of which are 
beyond our direct control.
We maintain one of the lowest borrowing rates in the real 
estate industry. During development, we secure construction 
loans, which are repaid through project cash flows. Upon 
completion, loans for commercial projects are typically 
converted to low-interest lease rental discounting loans. 
Interest rate fluctuations may impact the overall returns on real 
estate investments, as rising rates could lead investors to seek 
higher returns elsewhere. To mitigate this risk, we diversify our 
real estate investments across various geographic locations 
and property types.
Inflation 
Risk
Inflationary pressures arise from 
various factors impacting both 
domestic and global economic 
growth, 
such 
as 
pandemic 
outbreaks 
and 
geopolitical 
tensions 
that 
disrupt 
supply 
chains. 
Domestic 
inflation 
can 
directly increase operational and 
procurement costs. Additionally, 
changes in monetary policy may 
lead 
to 
higher 
interest 
rates, 
indirectly raising the cost of debt 
servicing.
We proactively manage inflationary risks by incorporating an 
inflation premium into the interest rate or required rate of return 
(RoR) for investments, ensuring minimal impact on operations 
while maintaining a prudent and cautious approach.
IT Risk
Any disruption or delay in the 
functioning of our existing IT 
systems, or in the implementation 
of new systems, could impair the 
Company’s ability to effectively 
track, record, and analyze work in 
progress, potentially leading to the 
loss of critical data.
• Brigade is ISO 27000 certified organization with adequately 
defined policies and procedures that have been 
implemented across the organization.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
184
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
7. INTERNAL CONTROLS
 
 We have comprehensive processes, guidelines and 
procedures in to our internal control systems based 
on the scale, nature and complexity of our business. 
Strong internal controls assure the resilience and 
adaptability of business operations, resulting in high 
operational efficacy. A management information 
and monitoring system is in place to support 
internal controls.
 
 Our Internal Audit Department within the Company 
and external audit firm conduct periodic audits. 
Audits guarantee the integrity of internal control 
systems and adherence to management policies. 
The internal control system was designed with a firm 
commitment to complying with all applicable laws. 
The scope of work includes:
• Strict internal control review to verify accounting, 
productivity, and economy of operations;
• Submission of the internal auditor’s audit report 
to the Audit Committee;
• Suggesting improved practices by the 
internal auditors;
• Providing a status report on the implementation 
of their recommendations;
• Continuous review of various audit reports from 
our internal audit team, the Internal Auditors Audit;
• Committee and the Board to enhance the efficacy 
and efficiency of internal controls.
8. HUMAN RESOURCES
 
 At Brigade, we recognize that people are our most 
valuable asset. As we navigated a dynamic business 
environment in FY 25, the Human Resource (HR) 
function played a pivotal role in driving business 
resilience, innovation, and transformation. The HR 
strategy was anchored on four strategic pillars: Talent 
Acquisition & Development, Employee Experience 
& Engagement, Future-Ready Capabilities, and 
Digital HR Transformation. The year marked a shift 
towards a more agile, inclusive, and purpose-driven 
workforce. Through structured people initiatives, 
we ensured that our talent base remains aligned 
with evolving business goals, market dynamics, and 
stakeholder expectations.
a) 
Workforce Composition
 
 As of March 31, 2025, Brigade’s permanent employee 
strength is 3,043 across its core business segments 
like Residential, Commercial, Retail, Hospitality, 
Facility management, Engineering and corporate 
functions. The overall strength of employees at group 
level including both permanent and contractual 
employees is 5,527. This reflects a 20 % growth over 
the previous year.
• Gender Diversity:
 −Overall women representation: [18.93%]
 −Women in mid-to-senior leadership roles: [6%]
 
 We continued to maintain a balance of experienced 
professionals and young talent, fostering a healthy 
mix of expertise and innovation.
b) 
 Learning, Leadership & Capability Development
 
 Building internal capability remained a cornerstone 
of our HR agenda. Through a blend of classroom, 
experiential, and digital learning, we nurtured 
leadership potential and enhanced technical 
proficiency across functions.
 
Highlights from FY 2024–25:
 
i. 
Key training topics
• Code of Conduct.
• Ethical Business practices: Anti-bribery & 
Anti-Corruption
• Communication
• Conflict of interest
• ESG/Sustainability- Environment/
Climate Risk
• Skill-upgradation
• PoSH
• Business Continuity & Disaster 
Management plan
• Diversity Equity Inclusion 
Awareness workshops
• Customer Engagement
• Data Privacy & cyber security
• Design Thinking
• Financial Wellness
• Strategic Change Management
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
185
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
ii) 
 Training & Development Sessions: 28,136
 
iii) 
 Total training hours: 1,43,930 hours
 
iv) 
 Average training hours: 43.4 hours
c) 
Performance Management & Total Rewards
 
 Our performance management philosophy is 
anchored on transparency, development, and 
fairness. The appraisal system focuses on clear goal 
setting, ongoing feedback, and career conversations.
 
Highlights:
• Clearly defined Organisational and departmental 
Balanced Score card.
• Top aligned goal setting to align individual 
objectives with business goals.
• Integrated performance feedback with career 
development plans.
• Conducted Annual Compensation Benchmarking 
to ensure market competitiveness.
d) 
Digital HR & Process Transformation
 
 To support scale, agility, and experience, HR 
processes were digitally transformed across the 
employee lifecycle.
 
Initiatives:
• Deployed a new-generation cloud-based HRMS- 
HR Connect platform
• Enabled mobile HR services for leave, payslips, 
and helpdesk management.
• Launched SAP - Concur for Travel and 
claim reimbursement.
• Developed HR dashboards for insights on 
attrition, hiring, and productivity.
• Shifted 100% of appraisals and goal tracking 
to digital platforms, increasing transparency 
and auditability.
e) 
Employee Engagement & Culture Building
 
 Brigade prides itself on a high-trust, high-
performance culture. This year, we doubled down 
on engagement with initiatives that brought people 
together, celebrated achievements, and gave voice 
to employees across levels.
 
Our Engagement Framework:
 
 Our 
approach 
to 
engagement 
spans 
four dimensions:
 
1. 
 Connect– Strengthening emotional bonds and 
leadership accessibility
 
2. 
 Celebrate– Recognizing excellence and 
shared wins
 
3. 
 Care– Focusing on physical, mental, and 
emotional well-being
 
4. 
 Collaborate– 
Fostering 
team 
spirit 
and innovation
 
 Below is the glimpse of EE initiatives conducted in 
FY 25
 
a) 
 Annual Outbound Team Bonding: As part 
of this initiative, we have organised 3 days 
outbound team bonding activity for all the 
teams/departments across the organization. 
Approximately 800+ employees participated 
in this activity at Ocean Spray Resort at 
Pondicherry. As part of this event various team 
building activities were organized.
 
b) 
 Thankyou Card: A Small moment with Big 
Ripples of Camaraderie and Compassion 
among Brigadiers. Just a verbal thank you may 
not be enough to express the literal feeling of 
gratitude for fellow Brigadiers, hence our thank 
you cards act as a medium for all Brigadiers to 
express their feeling of perceptiveness in right 
words. We have designed physical and digital 
“Thank you” cards that are made available at 
ease at designated places and on the HRMS 
platform which makes exchange of gratitude 
very convenient.
 
c) 
 BRIGADE FIESTA: “Brigade Foundation Day” 
to Commensurate our 38 years of excellence 
and as a part of Founders Day, we organized 
an eventful week filled with Fun, laughter, and 
Togetherness for a week and that ended up 
with a Grand Celebration & we have named 
the event “BRIGADE FIESTA”. Employees across 
all the locations participated in this program 
that was scheduled from 21st to 26th October 
2024. We created curiosity among the staff 
by sending mailers, posters, and GIF images 
about the event. On the Brigade Fiesta Day, we 
had set up various zones all over including the 
grand Stage for employee performances. The 
icing on the cake was a performance by the Top 
Management which includes Chairmans Office. 
Event concluded with DJ on the dance floor.
 
d) 
 WOMONEYSTA: Financial Wellness program 
for women: A financially empowered person 
is both informed and skilled, understands how 
they spend their money, makes wise financial 
decisions, and have access to resources to help 
them reach their goals. In this context we have 
curated a financial wellness program for all the 
women employees of Brigade. In the journey 
of making women empowered and stronger, 
we are partnering with WOMONEYSTA to make 
Women@Brigade financially confident. There 
were six sessions conducted by WOMONEYSTA, 
every third Saturday of a month for a period of 
six months.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
186
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 
Following topics were covered.:
• To the world of Finance – Introduction
• Equity – Building Wealth
• Getting started with mutual funds
• Shortlisting your fund
• Investing in safe products
• Retirement, taxation and goal planning
 
 
 Post attending the program, women employees in 
Brigade had the below attributes.
• Knowledge of investment & Returns, Shares 
& Mutual funds.
• Knowledgeable sessions - clarity about the 
short-term and long-term investments & 
about mutual funds.
 
e) 
 GPTW Award- Brigade Group has been 
recognised as a Great Place to Work for 14 years 
in a row. The company ranked 38th and was also 
recognised as a laureate for being in the top 
100 workplaces 10 years in a row. It is one of 
the few real estate developers in the country 
to obtain such recognition. This is a positive 
testimonial from its employees. Brigade 
Enterprises has effectively built a Great Place 
to Work for all its employees by excelling in the 
five aspects of a High-Trust, High-Performance 
Culture viz. credibility, respect, fairness, pride, 
and camaraderie.
 
f) 
 Counselling sessions to Labours: We 
started conducting counselling session to 
our construction labourers across various 
construction projects. This initiative has been 
curated to support labourers to overcome 
psychological & emotional stress. During 
these sessions we found three of our labourers 
facing psychological issues & as per doctor’s 
suggestions mediations have been supported 
to the labourers.
 
g) 
 Mother to Be: Maternity Care & Rejoicing the 
“Motherhood”: We create a WOW experience 
for our women employees who are expecting 
bundle of joy by gifting “mother to be” card and 
box of chocolates.
 
h) 
 Birthday Gifts: We celebrate Birthday of 
our employees by delivering a gift, Book & 
personalised greeting card to their desk.
 
i) 
 Nadahabba-3.0– To bring out the talent in 
Brigadiers we conducted Best Dressed, Ethnic 
wear, under the banner of Nadahabba during 
Dasara festival. It’s a 2-day celebration filled 
with fun and joy.
 
j) 
 Women’s Day– Celebrating the elegance 
of Womanhood: As part of women’s day 
celebration, we organized various events for 
Women @ Brigade like motivational speech 
by renowned guests on the topic ‘importance 
of mental health’, & how to practice simple, 
easy & effective Yoga-Asanas. Women @ 
brigade reconnected again after six months 
to brainstorm the challenges faced by women 
employees. Based on the suggestions from 
Women folks in Brigade we curated programs 
like financial wellness, Women Leadership 
Program, Advanced Excel Training, AI based 
communication skills etc.
 
k) 
 Stories from Battlefield and Beyond: This 
event was a unique platform to highlight the 
experiences and reflections of our veteran 
employees, providing listeners with an engaging 
and insightful conversation on the significance 
of Independence Day. This event was very 
insightful and inspiring for all the Brigadiers.
 
l) 
 Celebrations of Festivals & Important 
days in the year: We celebrate various 
festivals & important days during the year to 
engage employees in a positive way & ensure 
employees come out of their daily routine & 
enjoy the same with fellow colleagues.
 
 
 Following celebrations were organised during 
this year:
• Earth Day
• Environment Day
• Safety Day
• Children’s Day
• Dasara, Christmas, Sankranthi, Ganesh 
Chaturthi, Christmas.
 
m) Employee Wellness Programs:
 
 
 Fitness@Brigade: “Fitness is not about being 
better than someone else … it’s about being 
better than what you used to be”, to ensure 
this, we conduct 28-day Fitness@Brigade 
competition to help Brigadiers lead a healthier, 
happier, and a more productive lifestyle. 
Split over four weeks, the challenge includes 
motivating participants to walk at least 10,000 
steps a day which are monitored digitally. All 
participants can track and check leaderboard 
for live updates. Winners will be announced on a 
weekly basis and overall championship winners 
will be announced at the end of the activity. 
This was a fun way to engage the employees, 
with the top performers walking away with 
interesting prizes.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
187
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
n) 
 Corporate Sponsorship for Sports: To 
encourage sportsmanship among brigadiers, 
we sponsor employees to participate in various 
corporate sports activities.
• SILA Corporate Box Cricket: We are two 
times champions in a row (2022 & 2023) in 
this tournament. 10 of our employees who 
are passionate about cricket were chosen 
to participate.
• TCS Bengaluru & Uru Marathon: We 
sponsored 35 Brigadiers to participate in 
this marathon.
• Shuttleboi Mix Corp Badminton League 
2: We sponsored Mr. Vivek, one of our 
Brigadier for this championship. He won 
across categories.
i) Men’s Doubles - 1st Place.
ii) Mixed Doubles & Men’s Singles - 2nd place.
 
o) 
 “Yoga for you”- online desk yoga sessions: 
We organized online Mindfulness & Meditation 
sessions on International Yoga Day. More than 
230 brigadiers participate in the yoga sessions.
 
p) 
 Corporate Sports Events: To ensure work life 
balance, we conduct corporate sports events.
• Brigade Premier League: BPL Is a 3-week 
cricket tournament which brings together 
all the cricket enthusiasts for a healthy 
competition. Winners are awarded a 
Championship trophy followed by recognizing 
individual performers. This year we had 44 
Teams participating in the championship. 
This event was conducted across Bangalore, 
Chennai & Hyderabad.
• Brigade Women Premier League: BWPL is 
a cricket tournament curated exclusively 
for women brigadiers. This was a Box cricket 
format with 6 members in each team this 
was launched for the first time and we had 
9 teams participating in the same & it was 
conducted during evening hours (4pm to 
6pm).
• Brigade Badminton Tournament: For this 
first time we have curated this sport for the 
Badminton enthusiasts. We conducted this 
event across four locations in Bangalore, 
Chennai, Hyderabad & Mysore. Under this 
program we planned Doubles & Mixed 
doubles tournaments & overall we had 220+ 
Brigadiers participating in this tournament.
 
q) 
 Service Desk: An Employee Service Desk is 
a centralized and accessible point of contact 
for employees to seek assistance. Timely 
responses to inquiries or issues contribute 
to a positive perception of the organisation’s 
commitment to employee wellbeing. In our 
continued commitment towards digitization, 
we are glad to announce the launch of “HR 
& Admin Helpdesk” on 5th July 2024 module 
integrated with our HRMS – “HR Connect”.
 
r) 
 CIEL HR Award - Brigade Group is pleased to 
be recognised as one of the Top 30 Future-
Ready Workplaces in India. This prestigious 
recognition was awarded by Fortune India in 
collaboration with CIEL HR. It further solidifies 
the company’s commitment to excellence 
in the workplace. This acknowledgment 
serves as evidence of Brigade’s dedication to 
cultivating a forward-thinking and captivating 
work environment.
 
 
Outlook for FY 2025–26
 
 
 In the coming year, we intend to focus on:
• Agility & Adaptability: Evolving org structures 
and skill sets to meet future business needs.
• Leadership 
Pipeline 
Development: 
Strengthening succession and cross-
functional growth.
• Digital Fluency: Embedding digital thinking 
and capabilities across roles.
• Culture of Purpose & Belonging: Deepening 
employee connection with Brigade’s vision 
and values.
 
 
 We are committed to building a workplace 
that inspires performance, promotes diversity, 
and supports the holistic well-being of 
every Brigadier.
9. AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
 
 As on date of this report, your Company and 
Management has received numerous awards and 
accolades which were conferred by reputable 
organizations. Some of the awards and recognitions 
received are as under:
• Recognised as a Great Place To Work for the 14th 
year in a row. Brigade Group was also recognised 
as a Laureate for being in the top 100 workplaces, 
10 years in a row.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
188
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
• Executive Chairman, M R Jaishankar, has 
been honoured with the prestigious ‘Lifetime 
Achievement Award’ by Karnataka Aryavysya 
Mahasabha at the 5th Vasavi Awards of 
Excellence 2024.
• Recognised in the Top 30 list of Future-ready 
Workplaces in India, 2024 by Fortune India and 
CIEL HR.
• Brigade El Dorado won the second prize at 
a state-level safety award  arranged by the 
Department of Factories, Boilers, Industrial 
Safety and Health, Karnataka on account of the 
53rd National Safety Day.
• Brigade Komarla Heights won the Bronze at the CII-
SR Excellence Awards 2023 for our commitment 
to Environment Health and Safety practices.
• Executive Chairman, M R Jaishankar, has been 
honored with the ‘Lifetime Achievement Award’ 
by CNBC Awaaz Real Estate Awards 2024.
• Executive Chairman, M R Jaishankar, has been 
honored with the ‘Real Estate Visionary of the 
Decade’ Award by HURUN INDIA and GROHE.
• Recognised as one of ‘India’s Top Builders’ at the 
CWAB Awards 2024
• World Trade Center Chennai is now a ‘Premier 
Accredited Member’ of the World Trade 
Centers Association, New York, the highest level 
of certification from WTCA for a WTC which 
specializes in Business and Member Services, 
Trade Services, Real Estate and Conference and 
Exhibition services. WTC Bengaluru is also a 
Premier Accredited Member since 2023. Out of 
320 WTCs globally, only 17 have attained ‘Premier 
Accredited’ status so far and this includes our 
two WTCs.
• Recognised among India’s Top 50 Best 
Workplaces for Millennials 2024.
• Pavitra Shankar, Managing Director and Nirupa 
Shankar, Jt. Managing Director were recognised 
by Business Today as the Most Powerful Women 
in Business 2024.
• Pavitra Shankar, Managing Director, was conferred 
with the Pride of India by Construction Week 
India Awards 2024.
• M R Jaishankar, Executive Chairman, was 
felicitated as the ‘Visionary Entrepreneur and 
Philanthropist of the Year.
• Pavitra Shankar, Managing Director and Nirupa 
Shankar, Jt. Managing Director were honored 
with the ‘Women Icon of the Year-South’ 
Award at the 16th Realty+ Conclave & Excellence 
Awards 2024.
• Executive Chairman, MR Jaishankar, was inducted 
into the Hall of Fame and conferred with the 
Pride of India by The Global Editorial Board 
of ITP Media Group at the Commercial Design 
Awards 2024.
• Brigade Cornerstone Utopia won ‘Residential 
Project of the Year’ at the GRI Awards India 2024.
• Brigade Twin Towers was conferred with the 
‘Outstanding Concrete Structure’ by the Indian 
Concrete Institute, Karnataka in the ‘Building 
Category Award’ 2024.
• Brigade Citadel won ‘Residential Project of the 
Year’ at the 2nd Realty+ Excellence and Conclave 
Awards – Hyderabad 2025.
• Brigade Tech Gardens has been awarded the 
‘Shotcrete and Waterproofing’ award by the 
American Shotcrete Association.
• Brigade Parkside North has been awarded the 
‘IIA Awards for Excellence in Architecture 
2023’ under the category ‘Architecture A1.1 – 
Residential’ by The Indian Institute of Architects.
• Brigade Group ranked 10th in the ‘Future Ready 
Employers 2024’ Survey by Fortune India 
powered by CIEL HR.
• Brigade 
has 
received 
following 
sustainability awards:
 − Sustainability Impact Award 2024 & Sustainable 
Initiative of the Year 2024 – Achieve Net Zero at 
the 4th Edition Sustainability Summit & Awards 
2024 by UBS FORUMS.
 − IGBC Green Champion Award at IGBCs’ flagship 
event, the 22nd Green Building Congress.
 − Corporate Excellence in Sustainable Business 
Practices Award from RIM’s Sustainability 
Summit-2024.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
189
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
10.  ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 
(EHS)
 
 The Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) policy 
of ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018 (OHS)-
certified Brigade outlines elaborate procedures for 
EHS operational controls. This demonstrates our 
sincerity and dedication to EHS. Through proactive 
periodic review of statutory approvals, we ensure 
adherence to all compliances and timely application 
of all extensions. Effective EHS management is 
achieved through a well-defined control mechanism 
that specifies the control’s objective, scope, and 
responsible departments/teams, followed by tested 
procedures and a list of required documents for 
the process. All foreseeable hazards, risks, and 
environmental impacts are managed in accordance 
with the procedures and EHS plans outlined in place.
 
 Our EHS Annual Activity Plan, which includes 
Safety Hazard and Risk Assessment (HIRA) 
and Environmental Aspect Impact Evaluation, 
Compliance to Statutory Requirement, monthly 
‘Helmet of Honour’ rating, internal audits, external 
audits, and a training calendar, identifies the key 
activities to be carried out during construction, as 
well as their frequency. Any activity affecting EHS is 
managed through HIRA. Before implementing any of 
the safe work method statements submitted by our 
vendor partners, we exhaustively examine each one. 
For high-rise buildings, we perform focused height 
work, deep excavation, and heated work, and we 
equip our employees with the necessary protective 
and safety equipment. In addition, we conduct 
periodic inspections and routine maintenance on 
all equipment with third-party certification.
 
 For worker and workplace safety, activity-specific 
protocols and permits are adhered to. In accordance 
with the tasks designated to the emergency 
response team, we compile a comprehensive 
emergency response plan for all construction 
emergencies. To ensure the resilience and readiness 
of the emergency response team, routine training 
and simulated exercises are conducted. Regular EHS 
awareness training is provided to vendor partners 
to inform them about system implementations, 
monitoring, and ensuring a safe workplace. Every 
employee receives an EHS orientation, job-specific 
training, and regular toolbox discussions. This 
enables us to educate them on the appropriate use 
of the applicable personal protective equipment 
and to raise awareness about the hazards and risks 
associated with the job.
 
 We hold monthly Safety Committee meetings with 
50% contractor participation to encourage EHS 
commitment among our vendor partners. In these 
meetings, all issues are recorded and resolved. 
Effective since 2009, the ‘Helmet of Honour’ 
rating evaluates the EHS system implemented 
at project sites and awards the highest-scoring 
contractors the Helmet of Honour at the monthly 
engineers’ meeting.
 
 Similarly, the ‘Brigade Platinum Star,’ ‘Golden Star,’ 
and ‘Silver Star’ are awarded for the finest EHS 
implementation on an annual basis.
 
 The EHS performance is enhanced by initiatives 
such as the Monthly Cross site audits, Monthly 
EHS activity plan, weekly activity plan, EHS training 
calendar and adhering to the planned activity 
and trainings, sharing of safety alerts time to 
time which helps in improving the EHS awareness 
and performance.
 
 As part of the safety week celebrations, skits, quiz, 
poster-painting competitions, athlete meets and 
displays of Personal Protective Equipment are held. 
This event is held annually in March and serves to 
motivate and educate the workforce. Also observed 
are World Environment Day, Road Safety Week, and 
Fire Safety Week.
 
 For workers well established workers colony with 
all welfare facility, premedical checkups, workers 
counselling programmes are held. During summer 
distribution of lemon juice and buttermilk, clean 
drinking water facility in multiple locations at site, 
workers rest area are provided.
 
 Regular visit to colony by male nurse to check the 
upkeep of colony, workers health condition and 
training on the hygiene.
11.  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
(CSR)
 
 The social and environmental commitment of the 
Brigade Group is ingrained into its very structure. In 
the spirit of being responsible developers, we have 
carried out significant environmental improvement 
projects within our projects as well as the 
surrounding community. These projects include the 
planting of trees within and around our projects, the 
revitalisation of lakes, the preservation of historic 
trees, and the creation of green lung areas within our 
projects. Brigade is fully committed to proactively 
support inclusive and environmentally sustainable 
growth in India.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
190
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 During the financial year, we undertook several 
initiatives for the enhancement of the lives of 
communities and the natural environment in and 
around our operation sites. Brigade Foundation 
carried out various developmental activities in the 
areas of:
 
a) 
Health
 
b) 
Skill Development/ Education
 
c) 
Promotion of music and other culture
 
d) 
Environment
 
Cautionary statement
 
 This report contains statements that may be 
‘forward-looking’, including, but without limitation, 
statements relating to the implementation of 
strategic initiatives and other statements relating 
to the Company’s future business developments 
and economic performance. While these forward-
looking statements indicate our assessment and 
future expectations concerning the development 
of our business, several risks, uncertainties, 
and other unknown factors could cause actual 
developments and results to differ materially from 
our expectations. These factors include, but are 
not limited to, general market, macroeconomic, 
governmental, and regulatory trends, movements in 
currency exchange and interest rates, competitive 
pressures, technological developments, changes 
in the financial conditions of third parties dealing 
with your Company, legislative developments and 
other key factors that could affect our business and 
financial performance. The Company undertakes 
no obligation to publicly revise any forward-
looking statements to reflect future/likely events 
or circumstances.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
191
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Board’s Report
Dear Members,
Your Directors have the pleasure in presenting the Thirtieth Board’s Report of the Company (“the Company” or 
“Brigade”) together with the Audited Financial Statements (Consolidated and Standalone) for the year ended March 
31, 2025.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS:
(₹ in Lakhs)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
Total Income
2,38,406
2,22,400
5,31,354
5,06,415
Operating Expenditure
1,68,222
1,57,240
3,66,000
3,70,234
Earnings before Interest, Tax Depreciation & 
Amortisation
70,184
65,160
1,65,354
1,36,181
Depreciation & Amortisation
7,978
7,824
28,878
30,209
Finance Costs
12,964
14,407
49,549
49,104
Profit before share of profit of joint venture
49,242
42,929
86,927
56,868
Share of profit of joint venture
-
-
-
-
Profit before tax
49,242
42,929
86,927
56,868
Tax expense
- Current tax
17,291
11,483
30,292
20,099
- Deferred tax (credit)
(13,579)
(373)
(11,412)
(3,335)
Total tax expense
3,712
11,110
18,880
16,764
Profit for the year
45,530
31,819
68,047
40,104
Other comprehensive income
(274)
(38)
(429)
(44)
Total comprehensive income for the year
45,256
31,781
67,618
40,060
Total comprehensive income for the year 
attributable to:
-
-
-
-
 
Equity holders of the parent
-
-
68,151
45,117
 
Non-Controlling interests
-
-
(533)
(5,057)
Details of Appropriations:
(₹ in Lakhs)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
Surplus in the retained earnings as per last 
financial statements
2,15,285
1,88,120
1,40,878
1,02,435
Total Comprehensive income for the year
(net of Non-controlling interest)
45,256
31,781
68,151
45,117
Cash dividends declared and paid
(4,623)
(4,616)
(4,623)
(4,616)
Other adjustments (Net)
-
-
(138)
(2,058)
Net Surplus in the statement of profit and loss 
carried forward
2,55,918
2,15,285
2,04,268
1,40,878
Brigade Enterprises Limited
192
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW:
During the financial year 2024-25, the Company has on a 
standalone basis, clocked a total revenue of ₹ 2,38,406 
Lakhs as compared to ₹ 2,22,400 Lakhs for the previous 
year ended March 31, 2024, an increase of 7% on a year-
on-year basis primarily due to the dividend income from 
subsidiaries. Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation 
and Amortization (EBITDA) has increased to ₹ 70,184 
Lakhs from ₹ 65,160 Lakhs, an increase of 8% primarily 
due to the dividend income from subsidiaries. Total 
Comprehensive income was at ₹ 45,256 Lakhs for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025 as compared to 
₹ 31,781 Lakhs for the previous year, an increase by 42% 
is mainly due to reduction of Interest and depreciation.
The consolidated revenue for the Company for the 
financial year 2024-25 was ₹ 5,31,354 Lakhs as compared 
to ₹ 5,06,415 Lakhs in the previous year, an increase of 
5% on year on-year basis due to better performance in 
leasing and hospitality segments. Earnings before Interest, 
Tax, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) increased to 
₹ 1,65,354 Lakhs as compared to ₹ 1,36,181 Lakhs for the 
previous year ended March 31, 2024, increase of 21% on a 
year-on-year basis due to better performance in leasing 
and hospitality segments. Total Comprehensive income 
was at ₹ 67,618 Lakhs for the financial year ended March 
31, 2025 as compared to income of ₹ 40,060 Lakhs for 
the previous year, an increase by 69% is primarily due to 
reduction of Interest and depreciation.
SUBSIDIARIES/JOINT 
VENTURES 
AND 
ASSOCIATES:
The Company has 17 direct subsidiaries, 5 step down 
subsidiaries, 1 Joint Venture and 3 limited liability 
partnerships as at March 31, 2025.
During the year under review:
a) 
 The Company has acquired additional 1.71% 
stake during the financial year in BCV Developers 
Private Limited, its subsidiary company from the 
erstwhile shareholders, thereby increasing its total 
shareholding to 68.75%.
b) 
 Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited (BTPL), a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the company, has incorporated 
“Brigade HRC LLP” a limited liability partnership 
(LLP) as a subsidiary to undertake development of 
real estate projects by way of capital contribution 
of ₹ 67 Lakhs (67%) in the LLP.
c) 
 Mysore Projects Private Limited (Material wholly 
owned Subsidiary of the Company ) and Brigade 
Tetrarch Private Limited (Wholly owned subsidiary 
of the Company) together acquired 49% and 2% 
respectively by way of allotment of equity shares in 
Ananthay Properties Private Limited which is in to 
real estate business. Due to this Ananthay Properties 
Private Limited has become a step down subsidiary 
of the Company with effect from December 16, 2024.
d) 
 Zoiros Projects Private Limited (Zoiros), a wholly 
owned subsidiary of the Company entered into a 
Joint Venture agreement with Gruhas Proptech 
LLP (Gruhas). Pursuant to this agreement, Zoiros 
allotted 39,50,000 equity shares of ₹ 10 each to 
the Company and 49,50,000 equity shares of ₹ 10 
each to Gruhas on March 18, 2025. Zoiros ceased to 
be a subsidiary company as the equity stake of the 
Company reduced from 100% to 50%.
e) 
 Scheme of Amalgamation for merger of Tandem 
Allied Services Private Limited, a stepdown 
subsidiary of the Company with WTC Trades & 
Projects Private Limited a wholly owned subsidiary 
of the Company filed with the Honorable Bengaluru 
Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal in the 
previous financial year is in final stages of hearing.
MATERIAL SUBSIDIARIES:
Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited has become a material 
subsidiary based on the thresholds on the audited 
consolidated financial statements of the Company 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 which 
was approved by the Audit Committee and Board on 
May 14, 2025.
As on March 31, 2025, The Company have 2 unlisted 
material subsidiary i.e Mysore Projects Private Limited 
and Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited as per the 
thresholds laid down under the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI 
Listing Regulations’).
The Secretarial Audit report of Mysore Projects Private 
Limited, Material Subsidiary is appended to and forms 
part of this Report as Annexure-4.
The Board of Directors of the Company has adopted a 
Policy for determining material subsidiaries in line with the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. The Policy is available at Company’s 
website at:
https://docs.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/
policies/policy_for_determining_material_subsidiaries.pdf
DRAFT RED HERRING PROSPECTUS FILED 
BY BRIGADE HOTEL VENTURES LIMITED:
Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited (‘BHVL’), a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the Company has filed draft red herring 
prospectus dated October 30, 2024 with Securities & 
Exchange Board of India for an initial public offering of 
equity shares of face value of ₹ 10 each (“Equity shares”) 
comprising of fresh issue of Equity shares aggregating 
upto ₹ 90,000 Lakhs.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
193
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
The Issue includes an offer (i) within India, to Indian 
institutional, non-institutional and retail investors in 
compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018, as amended (“SEBI ICDR Regulations”), 
and (ii) outside the United States in “offshore transactions” 
as defined in and in reliance on Regulation S under the 
United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended and the 
applicable laws of the jurisdictions where those offers 
and sales are made. In accordance with the provisions of 
the SEBI ICDR Regulations, the Issue includes reservation 
for subscription by certain eligible shareholders of the 
Company and certain eligible employees.
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS 
OF 
SUBSIDIARIES/JOINT 
VENTURES 
AND 
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES:
The consolidated financial statements of the Company 
for the year 2024-25 are prepared in compliance with the 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the 
Act’) including Indian Accounting Standards specified 
under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013. The 
audited consolidated financial statements together 
with the Auditors’ Report thereon form part of the 
Annual Report.
Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, a Statement containing 
salient features of the financial statements of each of the 
Subsidiaries Companies and Joint Venture Companies in 
the prescribed Form AOC-1 is appended as Annexure-1 
to this report.
Audited financial statements together with the related 
information and other reports of each of the subsidiary 
Companies is available on the website of the Company at:
https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/regulation-46/
financials-subsidiaries-and-associates
TRANSFER TO RESERVES:
The Company has not transferred any amount to General 
Reserves during the financial year 2024-25.
DIVIDEND:
The Board of Directors of the Company have 
recommended a final dividend of ₹ 2.50 /- per equity 
share (25%) of ₹ 10/- each which is subject to approval 
of the Members in the ensuing Annual General Meeting of 
the Company. The dividend, if approved by the members 
will involve a cash outflow of ₹ 6,110 Lakhs.
The dividend recommended is in accordance with the 
Dividend Distribution Policy of the Company. In terms 
of the provisions of Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, the Company has in place a Dividend Distribution 
Policy which is accessible at the Company’s website at:
https://cdn.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/
policies/dividend-distribution-policy-08042022.pdf
DEPOSITS:
The Company has not accepted any deposits from 
the public falling within the ambit of Section 73 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules framed thereunder 
during the year under review and no amount of principal 
or interest was outstanding as on the Balance Sheet date.
DEBENTURES:
During the year under review, the Company has not 
issued any Debentures. As on date, the Company does 
not have any outstanding Debentures.
DEPOSITORY SYSTEM:
The Company’s equity shares are tradable only in 
electronic form. As on March 31, 2025, nearly 100% of the 
Company’s total paid up equity share capital representing 
24,43,74,436 shares are in dematerialised form.
TRANSFER TO INVESTOR EDUCATION AND 
PROTECTION FUND (‘IEPF’):
Pursuant to applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act 2013, read with IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit, 
Transfer and Refund) Rules 2016 (‘the Rules’) all unpaid 
or unclaimed dividends are required to be transferred 
by the Company to the IEPF established by the Central 
Government, after completion of seven years. Further, 
according to the Rules, the shares in respect of which 
dividend has not been paid or claimed by the members for 
seven consecutive years or more shall also be transferred 
to the Demat account created by IEPF Authority.
Accordingly, 
the 
Company 
has 
transferred 
₹ 3,46,482.50/- to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund, the amount in Unpaid Dividend Account opened in 
2016-17 which was due/ payable and remained unclaimed 
and unpaid for a period of seven years. Further, 4986 
shares were transferred to the demat account of the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority as 
mentioned above.
The details of the above are provided on the website of 
the Company at:
https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/investor-
information/unclaimed-shares
EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION SCHEME:
The Company has in active two Employee Stock Option 
Scheme titled “Brigade Employee Stock Option Plan 
2017” implemented in the financial year 2017-18 and 
“Brigade Employee Stock Option Plan” implemented in 
the financial year 2022-23.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
194
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Disclosures as required under SEBI (Share Based 
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 
2021 is uploaded in the Company’s website and can be 
accessed at: 
https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/regulation-46/
regulation-30-disclosures
SHARE CAPITAL:
The authorised share capital of the Company is 
₹ 250,00,00,000/- divided into 25,00,00,000 equity 
shares of ₹ 10/- each. The Company has allotted 80,643 
equity shares under Employee Stock Option Scheme, 
2017 and 1,51,842 equity shares under Brigade Employee 
Stock Option Plan and 1,30,43,478 equity shares pursuant 
to the Qualified Institutions Placement during the year.
The issued, subscribed and paid–up equity share capital 
of the Company has increased from 23,10,98,641 equity 
shares of ₹ 10/- each to 24,43,74,604 equity shares of 
₹ 10/- due to the aforesaid allotment of equity shares 
during the financial year.
During the year under review, the Company has not 
issued shares with differential voting rights and sweat 
equity shares.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW:
Your Company is a leading real estate developer in South 
India, based in Bengaluru. With a vast experience close 
to four decades in building landmark structures across 
residential, commercial and hospitality sectors, the 
Company has garnered exceptional customer trust and 
brand equity in the real estate space. The operations of 
the Company can be classified into two main segments:
a) 
 Income from construction and development of Real 
Estate Projects
b) 
 Lease Rental Income from Office and Retail Assets
c) 
Income from Hotels
PROPOSED PROJECTS:
The group proposes to launch 15 mn. sq. ft. in the financial 
year 2025-26. This will comprise of 12.33 mn. sq. ft. of 
residential space, 3.07 mn. Sq. ft. of commercial space.
COMPLETED PROJECTS:
During the financial year 2024-25 a total of 7.22 mn. sq. 
ft. has been constructed.
ONGOING PROJECTS:
The Group is currently having ongoing projects 
aggregating to 26.28 mn. sq.ft. of saleable area. 
Residential aggregating to 24.27 mn. sq.ft. and Leasing 
Projects aggregating to 2.01 mn. sq.ft.
A detailed information of ongoing projects as on March 
31, 2025 has been given in the Management Discussion 
and Analysis Report which is forming part of the 
Annual Report.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
As at March 31, 2025, the Board of the Company 
comprises of 12 Directors of which 6 are Executive 
Directors and 6 are Non-Executive Independent 
Directors. The composition of the Board of Directors 
is in due compliance of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
BOARD 
OF 
DIRECTORS 
AND 
KEY 
MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
Change in Directorate
During the year under review, Mr. Aroon Raman 
(DIN: 00201205) and Mr. Bijou Kurien (DIN: 01802995) 
have completed their two terms of independent 
director with effect from August 4, 2024 and 
January 30, 2025 respectively.
During the year under review, Mr. Abraham George 
Stephanos (DIN: 06618882) was appointed as 
Independent Director of the Company with effect from 
May 28, 2024 for the term of 5 (five) consecutive years.
The above-mentioned appointment was duly approved 
by the Members of the Company on the Twenty Ninth 
Annual General Meeting held on August 6, 2024.
Further, at its meeting held on January 29, 2025, the 
Board approved the appointment of Ms. Padmaja 
Chunduru (DIN: 08058663) as an Independent Director 
of the Company for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years 
with effect from January 29, 2025. The appointment was 
duly approved by the Members through Postal Ballot on 
March 14, 2025.
Retirement 
by 
Rotation 
and 
Subsequent 
Re-Appointment
Mr. Amar Shivram Mysore (DIN: 03218587), Director and 
Ms. Nirupa Shankar (DIN: 02750342), Joint Managing 
Director are liable to retire by rotation at the ensuing 
Thirtieth Annual General Meeting and being eligible have 
offered their candidature for re-appointment.
As per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
Independent Directors are not liable to retire by rotation.
The Notice convening the Thirtieth Annual General 
Meeting includes the proposals for the re-appointment 
of the Directors. Brief resume of the Directors proposed 
to be re-appointed, nature of their expertise in specific 
functional areas and names of the Companies in which 
they hold directorship/ membership/ chairmanship of the 
Board or Committees, as stipulated under SEBI (Listing 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
195
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 and Secretarial Standard 2 issued by the Institute 
of Companies Secretaries of India have been provided as 
an annexure to the Notice convening the Thirtieth Annual 
General Meeting.
None of the Directors of the Company are disqualified 
under Section 164(2) of the Companies Act, 2013.
Key Managerial Personnel
There were no changes in the Key Managerial Personnel 
during the financial year.
Mr. M. R. Jaishankar, Chairman, Ms. Pavitra Shankar, 
Managing  Director, Ms. Nirupa Shankar, Joint Managing 
Director, Mr. Jayant B Manmadkar, Chief Financial Officer 
and Mr. P. Om Prakash, Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer are the Key Managerial Personnel in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 203 of the Companies Act, 2013.
REMUNERATION DETAILS OF DIRECTORS, 
KEY 
MANAGERIAL 
PERSONNEL 
AND 
EMPLOYEES:
Disclosures pertaining to remuneration and other details 
as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
are provided in the prescribed format and appended as 
Annexure-2 to this Report.
The details of employees who are in receipt of 
remuneration exceeding the limits prescribed under 
Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Rule 5(2) & 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is 
appended as Annexure-3. In terms of Section 136(1) of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made there under, 
the Annual Report is being sent to the shareholders and 
others entitled thereto excluding the aforesaid Annexure. 
Any shareholder interested in obtaining the same may 
write to the Company Secretary & Compliance Officer.
BOARD MEETINGS:
During the year under review, the Board of Directors of 
the Company met 11 (Eleven) times on the following dates:
• April 15, 2024
• May 9, 2024
• May 28, 2024
• August 5, 2024
• September 6, 2024
• October 19, 2024
• November 13, 2024
• January 7, 2025
• January 29, 2025
• March 22, 2025
• March 31, 2025
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013, a separate meeting of the Independent Directors 
and Non-Independent Directors of the Company was 
held on March 31, 2025.
A detailed note on the composition of various Committees 
of the Board and their meetings including the terms of 
reference are given in the Corporate Governance Report 
forming part of the Annual Report.
DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS:
The Company’s Independent Directors have submitted 
requisite declarations confirming that they continue to 
meet the criteria of independence as prescribed under 
Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 
16(1)(b) read with Regulation 25 of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
The Independent Directors have also given undertaking 
that they are not aware of any circumstance/situation, 
which exists or may be reasonably anticipated, that 
could impair or impact their ability to discharge their 
duties with objective independence.
POLICY ON DIRECTORS APPOINTMENT 
AND REMUNERATION:
Pursuant to Section 178(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the 
Board has formulated the criteria for identification 
and Board nomination of the suitable candidates as 
well as the policy on remuneration for Key Managerial 
Personnel and other senior employees of the Company. 
The Committee, while evaluating potential candidates 
for Board membership, considers a variety of personal 
attributes, including experience, intellect, foresight, 
judgment and transparency and match these with the 
requirements set out by the Board.
The Company’s Remuneration policy provides the 
framework for remunerating the members of the Board, 
Key Managerial Personnel and other employees of 
the Company. This Policy is guided by the principles 
and objectives enumerated in Section 178(4) of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
The Remuneration Policy for Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel and Senior Management Personnel 
is available on the website of the Company at: 
https://cdn.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/
policies/remuneration-policy-08042022.pdf
Brigade Enterprises Limited
196
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMME FOR 
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS:
The familiarization program implemented every year has 
proven instrumental in integrating new Directors into 
their roles and responsibilities, regulatory provisions 
and operational processes. Through a series of targeted 
orientations, training workshops, and interactive 
sessions, they gained comprehensive insights into our 
company’s values, mission, and daily workflows. The 
process has been aligned with the requirements under 
the Companies Act, 2013 and other related regulations. 
This process inter alia includes providing an overview of 
the Real Estate industry, the Company’s business model, 
the risks and opportunities and quarterly updates on 
the important changes in the regulatory environment 
along with the nomination of directors for various 
training programmes, etc. Details of the familiarisation 
programme are explained in the Corporate Governance 
Report and is also available on the Company’s website at:
https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/corporate-
governance/policies
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE BOARD:
In terms of the requirement of the Act and the Listing 
Regulations, an annual performance evaluation of the 
Board is undertaken where the Board formally assesses 
its own performance with the aim to improve the 
effectiveness of the Board and the Committees. The 
Board, along with the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, developed and adopted the criteria and 
framework for the evaluation of each of the Directors 
and of the Board and its Committees pursuant to the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Corporate 
Governance requirements under Regulation 25(4) of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
The Board evaluation was conducted through Structured 
assessment questionnaire designed with qualitative 
parameters and feedback based ratings through an 
online portal, it comprises of various aspects of the 
Board’s functioning in terms of structure, its roles and 
responsibilities, competency, quality, quantity and 
timelines of flow of information, transparency in the 
discussions amongst the Board, interest of shareholders, 
its meetings, strategy, corporate governance and other 
dynamics of its functioning besides the financial reporting 
process, level of independence, risk management, 
succession planning.
The evaluation of the Committees was based on their 
terms of reference fixed by the Board besides the 
dynamics of their functioning in terms of meeting 
frequency, effectiveness of contribution etc. Separate 
questionnaires were used to evaluate the performance of 
individual Directors on parameters such as attendance, 
familiarisation of Company values, policies, beliefs and 
code of conduct, effective communication, their level of 
engagement and contribution, objective judgement etc.
The Chairman/Managing Director/Joint Managing 
Director evaluation was based on the key aspects of their 
role, leadership qualities, commitment, strategic and 
financial planning, communication, engagement with the 
Board, compliance etc. The performance evaluation of 
the Independent Directors was carried out by the entire 
Board. The performance evaluation of the Chairman, 
the Board as whole and the Non-Independent Directors 
was carried out by the Independent Directors at their 
separate meeting held during the year.
The Independent Directors have expressed satisfaction 
at the robustness of the evaluation process through 
online portal, the Board’s freedom to express its views 
on matters transacted at the Meetings and the openness 
and transparency with which the Management discusses 
various subject matters specified on the agenda 
of meetings.
The consolidated Board evaluation report was provided 
to the Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee who briefs the Independent Directors and 
Board Chairperson on the same. The Board Chairperson 
discussed the results of evaluation of the individual 
Directors separately with them in detail and also 
the action areas identified in the process are being 
implemented to ensure a better interface at the Board/
Management level.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT:
The Board of Directors hereby confirms that:
a) 
 in the preparation of the annual financial statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025, the applicable 
accounting standards have been followed along with 
proper explanation relating to material departures;
b) 
 the Directors have selected such accounting policies 
and applied them consistently and made judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so 
as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company at the end of the financial year and 
of the profit of the Company for that period;
c) 
 the Directors have taken proper and sufficient 
care for the maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and for preventing and detecting 
fraud and other irregularities;
d) 
 the annual financial statements have been prepared 
on a going concern basis;
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
197
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
e) 
 proper internal financial controls were in place and 
that the financial controls were adequate and were 
operating effectively;
f) 
 the Directors have devised proper systems to 
ensure compliance with the provisions of all 
applicable laws and such systems are adequate and 
operating effectively.
STATUTORY AUDITORS:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 139 of the Act 
and Rules framed thereunder, M/s. Walker Chandiok & 
Co LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.: 
001076N/N500013) had been appointed as Statutory 
Auditors of the Company for a period of five years from 
the conclusion of Twenty Ninth Annual General Meeting 
held on August 6, 2024.
There are no qualifications or adverse remarks in the 
Statutory Auditor’s Report on the financial statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025 which requires any 
explanation from the Board of Directors.
SECRETARIAL STANDARDS:
The Board of Directors affirms that the Company has 
complied with the applicable Secretarial Standards (SS) 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT:
Pursuant to provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the 
Board of Directors of the Company have appointed 
M/s. BMP & Co. LLP, a firm of practicing company 
secretaries (LLPIN: AAI-4194) to conduct the Secretarial 
Audit for the financial year 2024-25. The report of the 
Secretarial Auditor is appended to and forms part of this 
Report as Annexure-4.
Further, the Board of Directors has recommended the 
appointment of M/s. BMP & Co. LLP a peer reviewed firm 
of practicing company secretaries (LLPIN: AAI-4194) 
as a secretarial auditor of the Company for a period 
of five years from the conclusion of Thirtieth Annual 
General Meeting.
M/s. BMP & Co. LLP a firm of practicing company 
secretaries (LLPIN: AAI-4194), has confirmed their 
eligibility and qualification required under the Act for 
holding the Office as Secretarial Auditors of the Company.
There are no qualifications, reservations or adverse 
remarks given by the Secretarial Auditor in the Report 
for the year ended March 31, 2025.
COST AUDITORS:
Pursuant to Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 
2014 and amendments thereof, the Company is required 
to maintain cost accounting records. Further, the cost 
accounting records maintained by the Company are 
required to be audited.
The Board of Directors of the Company have appointed 
M/s. Murthy & Co. LLP, Cost Accountants (LLP ID No. 
AAB-1402) as Cost Auditors to audit the cost accounting 
records maintained by the Company under the said Rules 
for the financial year 2024-25 at the fees of ₹ 1.45 Lakhs 
plus applicable taxes and out of pocket expenses subject 
to the ratification of the said fees by the Members at the 
Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, a resolution seeking the shareholder’s 
ratification of the remuneration payable to the Cost 
Auditor for the financial year 2024-25 is included in the 
Notice convening the Thirtieth Annual General Meeting.
MANAGEMENT 
DISCUSSION 
AND 
ANALYSIS REPORT:
The Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report for 
the year under review, as stipulated under SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 is forming part of the Annual Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT:
Your Company adheres to strong corporate governance 
practices, we enhance investor confidence, mitigate risks, 
and foster long-term sustainability. The Board of Directors 
reaffirm their continued commitment to good corporate 
governance practices. The fundamentals of Governance 
at Brigade include transparency, accountability, integrity 
and Independence.
In terms of Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, a separate section on Corporate 
Governance including a certificate from M/s. BMP & 
Co. LLP, (Firm Registration Number: L2017KR003200) is 
annexed to and forms an integral part of this Report.
BUSINESS 
RESPONSIBILITY 
AND 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (BRSR):
SEBI, vide its circular dated May 10, 2021, made BRSR 
mandatory for the top 1,000 listed companies (by market 
capitalization) from the financial year 2022-23.
The Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
for the financial year 2024-25 is annexed to this Annual 
Report. The Integrated Annual Report for the financial 
year 2024-25 is aligned with the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) principles and 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards and includes 
sector specific disclosures relating real estate sector. The 
Sustainability Report of the Company for the financial 
year 2024-25 is annexed to this Annual Report.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
198
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES 
OR INVESTMENTS:
The particulars of loans given, investments made, 
securities provided and guarantees given as required 
under Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
the Companies (Meetings of the Board and its Powers) 
Rules, 2014 are provided in Notes 7 and 8 read with Note 
34(b) and Note 36 of the standalone financial statements.
PARTICULARS 
OF 
CONTRACTS 
OR 
ARRANGEMENTS WITH RELATED PARTIES:
During the financial year 2024-25, all the transactions 
with related parties were entered into at arms’ length 
basis and in the ordinary course of business.
Further, there are no materially significant related party 
transactions made by the Company which may have 
a potential conflict with the interest of the Company 
at large.
Transactions with related parties entered during the year 
are listed out in Note 36 forming part of the standalone 
financial statements.
The Company’s policy on dealing with Related Parties 
as approved by the Board is available on the Company’s 
website at:
https://docs.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/
policies/policy_on_related_party_transactions.pdf
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL SYSTEM:
As per Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013, the term 
‘Internal Financial Controls’ (IFC) means the policies and 
procedures adopted by the Company for ensuring:
a) 
 orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to company’s policies,
b) 
 safeguarding of its assets,
c) 
 prevention and detection of frauds and errors,
d) 
 accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and
e) 
 timely preparation of reliable financial information.
The Company has adequate internal financial 
control systems in place with reference to the 
financial statements.
The Company’s internal financial controls are 
commensurate with the scale and complexity of its 
operations. The controls were tested during the year and 
no reportable material weaknesses identified either in 
their design or operations of the controls were observed.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD:
As on March 31, 2025, the Board has 7 Committees:
a) 
Audit Committee
b) 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
c) 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
d) 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
e) 
Risk Management Committee
f) 
Committee of Directors
g) 
Depositories Committee
AUDIT COMMITTEE:
The Audit Committee comprises five members. The 
Chairman of the Committee is an Independent Director. 
The Committee met nine times during the year. Details 
of the role and responsibilities of the Committee, the 
particulars of meetings held and attendance of the 
Members at such Meetings forms part of Corporate 
Governance Report annexed to this Report.
NOMINATION 
& 
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE:
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee comprises 
of three members, all being Independent Directors. The 
Committee met five times during the year. Details of the 
role and responsibilities of the Committee, the particulars 
of meetings held and attendance of the Members at such 
Meetings forms part of Corporate Governance Report 
annexed to this Report.
STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE:
The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee comprises 
four Members. The Committee met three times during 
the year. Details of the role and responsibilities of 
the Committee, the particulars of meetings held and 
attendance of the Members at such Meetings forms part 
of Corporate Governance Report annexed to this Report.
CORPORATE 
SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY 
COMMITTEE:
A Corporate Social Responsibility Committee has 
been constituted in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013. The Committee 
comprises four members. The Committee met three 
times during the year. The details of the constitution 
of the Committee, scope and functions are listed out 
in the Corporate Governance Report annexed to this 
Annual Report.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
199
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
The disclosures as required under Section 135 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8(1) & 8(3) of the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014 is appended as Annexure-5 to this Report.
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:
The Company has constituted a Risk Management 
Committee aligned with the requirements of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 21 of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, consisting of Executive Directors and Independent 
Directors to identify and assess business risks and 
opportunities. The Committee comprises five members. 
The Committee met three times during the year.
The details of the constitution of Committee and its terms 
of reference are set out in the Corporate Governance 
Report forming part of this Report.
COMMITTEE OF DIRECTORS:
The Company has constituted a Committee of Directors 
consisting of Executive Directors and Independent 
Directors and delegated powers relating to certain 
regular business activities. The Committee comprises 
four members. The Committee met six times during 
the year.
The particulars of meetings held and attendance of the 
Members at such Meetings forms part of Corporate 
Governance Report annexed to this Report.
DEPOSITORIES COMMITTEE:
The Company has constituted a Depositories 
Committee which considers & approves the request 
for dematerialization and rematerialisation of equity 
shares of the Company. The Committee comprises 
three members. During the year, Committee has received 
request rematerialisation of equity shares of the 
Company. The Committee met one time during the year 
for approval of rematerialisation request of equity shares.
WHISTLE 
BLOWER 
POLICY/VIGIL 
MECHANISM:
The Company has a well-established whistle blower 
policy as part of vigil mechanism for observing the 
conduct of Directors and employees and report 
concerns about unethical behaviour, actual or suspected 
fraud or violation of the Company’s Code of conduct to 
the Ethics Committee members or the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee.
This mechanism also provides for adequate safeguards 
against victimization of Director(s)/ employee(s) who avail 
of the mechanism and also provides for direct access 
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee in exceptional 
cases. The details of the Whistle Blower Policy and the 
Committee which oversees the compliance are explained 
in detail in the Corporate Governance Report.
There were no complaints received during the financial 
year 2024-25.
ANNUAL RETURN:
In accordance with the Section 92(3) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014, the Annual Return of the 
Company is available on the website of the Company at:
https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/regulation-46/
annual-return
STATEMENT OF DEVIATION AND VARIATION:
The details of the statement of deviation and variation 
pursuant to Regulation 32(1) of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 is 
available on the website of the company at:
https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/regulation-46/
regulation-30-disclosures
CODE OF CONDUCT:
Your Company has in place a Code of Conduct which 
helps to maintain high standards of ethics for the 
Company’s employees.
The Code lays down the standard of conduct which 
is expected to be followed by the Directors and by 
the senior management employees in their business 
dealings and in particular on matters relating to integrity 
in the work place, in business practices and in dealing 
with stakeholders.
The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct which 
applies to all its Directors and employees in terms 
of Regulation 17 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. All the Board 
Members and the Senior Management Personnel of your 
Company have affirmed their compliance with the Code 
of Conduct for the current year.
A declaration signed by the Managing Director and 
Chief Financial officer affirming compliance of the Code 
of Conduct by the Directors and senior management 
personnel of the Company for the financial year 
2024-25 is annexed and forms part of the Corporate 
Governance Report.
PREVENTION OF INSIDER TRADING:
The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for 
Prevention of Insider Trading (‘Code’) in accordance 
with SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 
2015 with a view to regulate trading in securities by 
the Directors, designated employees of the Company. 
The objective of this Code is to protect the interest of 
Shareholders at large, to prevent misuse of any price 
sensitive information and to prevent any insider trading 
activity by dealing in shares of the Company by its 
Directors and Designated Persons.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
200
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
The Code requires pre-clearance for dealing in the 
Company’s shares for all transactions by Directors and 
designated employees (together called Designated 
Persons) and prohibits the purchase or sale of Company’s 
securities by Designated Persons while in possession of 
unpublished price sensitive information in relation to the 
Company. Further, trading in securities is also prohibited 
for Designated Persons during the period when the 
Trading Window is closed. The Company Secretary 
is responsible for implementation and monitoring of 
the Code.
The Company also has in place a Code for practices 
and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price 
sensitive information which is available on the website 
of the Company at:
https://docs.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/
corporate-governance/code-of-conduct/code_for_
prevention_of_insider_trading.pdf
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION, 
FOREIGN 
EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS AND OUTGO:
The particulars in respect of conservation of energy, 
technology absorption and foreign exchange earnings 
& outgo, as required under Section 134(3)(m) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014 is appended as an Annexure-6 to this report.
HUMAN RESOURCES:
Your Company has diverse workgroup to take case 
of its growth plans. This will foster on engaging work 
environment, to constantly build the unique capabilities 
and skills of the people. Robust Human Resource 
policies are in place which enables building a stronger 
performance culture and at the same time developing 
current and future leaders.
The total permanent employee strength of the Company, 
at the end of FY i.e., March 31, 2025 was 3,043. The overall 
strength of employees at group level  including both 
permanent and contractual employees was 5,527.
Your Company has in place Code of Ethics for all the 
employees which serves as a common guide to employees 
and decision makers in the organisation. It specifies how 
the organisation expects its employees to behave, what 
kind of behavior it considers acceptable or unacceptable, 
the kind of business practices it endorses, the values that 
it holds in high regard. This enables a healthy corporate 
culture and makes it possible for individuals to exercise 
their judgment confidently, knowing the decisions they 
are making are in sync with the organisation’s point of 
view and systems of operation.
In order to provide women employees a safe working 
environment at workplace and also in compliance with 
the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women 
at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013 and Rules framed thereunder, the Company 
has formulated a well defined policy on prevention, 
prohibition and redressal of complaints relating to 
sexual harassment of women at the workplace. As an 
organization, the Company is committed to ensure that 
every employee is treated with dignity and respect and 
works in a conducive work environment, which promotes 
professional growth of employee and encourages 
equality of opportunity.
All women who are associated with the Company–either 
as permanent employees or temporary employees 
or contractual persons including service providers at 
Company sites are covered under the above policy. 
Further, to provide an empowering and enabling 
atmosphere to women employees the Company has 
continuously endeavored to build the work culture, 
which promotes the respect and dignity of all women 
employees across the organisation.
The Company has “Internal Committee’’ (IC) to consider 
and redress complaints relating to sexual harassment. 
Majority of the committee members are women staff. 
One of the female employees is the Chairperson of 
the Committee and there is one external member 
on the Committee who is a specialist in dealing with 
such matters.
No complaints pertaining to sexual harassment of 
women employees were received during the year ended 
March 31, 2025.
The Company believes that only way it can excel is 
by empowering its people and consistently providing 
opportunities to learn and grow. Our Learning & 
Development process for employees is focused on 
supporting high performance through various approaches 
driven comprehensively by HR, Business Excellence, QA/
QC, Safety & Technical training teams. The Company 
aims to contribute to the overall development of its 
employees through extensive training and motivational 
programs. The Board of Directors would like to express 
their appreciation to employees for their sincerity, hard 
work, dedication and commitment.
AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS:
As on date of this report, your Company has received 
numerous awards and accolades which were conferred 
by reputable organizations. The details of the awards and 
recognitions are set out in the Management’s Discussion 
and Analysis Report forming part of this Report.
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION 
TO 
SHAREHOLDERS:
All important information such as financial results, 
investor presentations, press releases, new launches and 
project updates are made available on the Company’s 
website https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor on a 
regular basis.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
201
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DISCLOSURES:
a) 
 No frauds were reported by the Auditors as specified 
under Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
b) 
 There are no Corporate Insolvency proceedings 
initiated against the company under Insolvency and 
Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
c) 
 There were no significant or material orders passed 
by the regulators or courts or tribunals impacting 
the going concern status and Company’s operations 
in future.
d) 
 There are no material changes and commitments 
affecting the financial position of the Company 
which have occurred between the end of the 
financial year till the date of this report.
e) 
 There is no change in the nature of the business of 
the Company.
f) 
 There are no differential voting rights shares issued 
by the Company.
g) 
 Neither the Executive Chairman, Managing Director 
including the Joint Managing Director nor the Whole-
time Directors have received any remuneration 
or commission from any of the subsidiaries or 
associates except Mr. Roshin Mathew, Whole-
time Director of the Company who has received 
commission of ₹ 106 lakhs from Mysore Projects 
Private Limited, Material Subsidiary of Company. 
Further, Mr. Roshin Mathew, Whole-time Director of 
the Company received commission of ₹ 103 lakhs 
from the Company.
h) 
 There were no sweat equity shares issued by 
the Company.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:
Your Directors would like to thank all stakeholders for the 
confidence reposed and faith in the Company and its 
management. Your Directors would also like to take this 
opportunity to thank customers, employees, suppliers, 
contractors, bankers, business associates, partners 
and statutory authorities for their continuous support, 
co-operation, encouragement and patronage.
By order of the Board
For Brigade Enterprises Limited
Pavitra Shankar
Nirupa Shankar
Place: Bangalore
Managing Director
Joint Managing Director
Date: May 14, 2025
DIN: 08133119
DIN: 02750342
Brigade Enterprises Limited
202
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure 1
FORM AOC-1
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of Subsidiaries/  
Associate Companies/Joint Ventures
PART “A”: SUBSIDIARIES
(₹ in Lakhs)
Particulars
Brigade Tetrarch 
Private Limited
Brigade Estates 
and Projects 
Private Limited
Brigade 
Infrastructure 
and Power 
Private Limited
Augusta Club 
Private Limited
Brigade 
Hospitality 
Services Limited
1
2
3
4
5
Date of Acquisition
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Reporting period
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
Reporting currency
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
Share capital
10
5
5
5
1,000
Other Equity
29,418
4,891
(117)
421
2,850
Total Assets
2,27,360
5,057
94,444
783
7,829
Total Liabilities
2,27,360
5,057
94,444
783
7,829
Investments
8,259
-
-
-
30
Turnover
69,818
-
1,949
380
4,924
Profit/(Loss) before Taxation
19,097
(22)
254
112
820
Provision for Taxation
(1,532)
-
32
21
277
Profit/ (Loss) after Taxation
20,629
(22)
222
91
543
Other Comprehensive income
(28)
-
9
(1)
12
Total Comprehensive income
20,601
(22)
231
90
555
Proposed Dividend
-
-
-
-
500
% of Shareholding
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
(₹ in Lakhs)
Particulars
SRP Prosperita 
Hotel Ventures 
Limited
WTC Trades and 
Projects Private 
Limited
Celebrations 
Private Limited
Brigade 
Properties 
Private Limited
Brigade Flexible 
Office Spaces 
Private Limited
6
7
8
9
10
Date of Acquisition
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Reporting period
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
Reporting currency
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
Share capital
40
601
30
3,827
100
Other Equity
6,107
9,354
(2)
(15,385)
(358)
Total Assets
13,134
16,942
33
1,43,183
5,426
Total Liabilities
13,134
16,942
33
1,43,183
5,426
Investments
6
5,103
-
-
-
Turnover
6,527
18,289
-
30,957
1,859
Profit/(Loss) before Taxation
1,263
3,836
(2)
179
(384)
Provision for Taxation
569
773
-
11
100
Profit/ (Loss) after Taxation
694
3,063
(2)
168
(284)
Other Comprehensive income
1
(3)
-
-
(1)
Total Comprehensive income
695
3,060
(2)
168
(285)
Proposed Dividend
-
1,501
-
-
-
% of Shareholding
50.01%
100%
100%
51%
100%
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
203
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
(₹ in Lakhs)
Particulars
BCV Developers 
Private Limited
Brigade
(Gujarat) 
Projects Private 
Limited
Perungudi Real 
Estates Private 
Limited
Mysore Projects 
Private Limited
Brigade Hotel 
Ventures 
Limited
11
12
13
14
15
Date of Acquisition
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Reporting period
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
Reporting currency
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
Share capital
2,850
200
12,457
400
28,143
Other Equity
17,773
3,431
(16,963)
48,174
(15,328)
Total Assets
1,03,065
12,192
2,25,659
1,31,029
90,448
Total Liabilities
1,03,065
12,192
2,25,659
1,31,029
90,448
Investments
10
-
-
2,448
8,867
Turnover
23,384
2,201
36,332
77,177
40,579
Profit/(Loss) before Taxation
504
268
(2,456)
15,245
3,188
Provision for Taxation
223
(144)
(237)
3,482
1,516
Profit/ (Loss) after Taxation
281
412
(2,219)
11,763
1,672
Other Comprehensive income
(4)
-
-
(24)
(35)
Total Comprehensive income
277
412
(2,219)
11,739
1,637
Proposed Dividend
-
-
-
-
-
% of Shareholding
68.76%
100%
51%
100%
100%
(₹ in Lakhs)
Particulars
Brigade
Innovations LLP
Tetrarch 
Developers 
Limited
Vibrancy Real 
Estates Private 
Limited
Venusta 
Ventures Private 
Limited
Propel Capital 
Ventures LLP
16
17
18
19
20
Date of Acquisition
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Reporting period
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
Reporting currency
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
Share capital
870
100
100
100
1
Other Equity
(336)
9,844
8
6
-
Total Assets
659
25,810
109
107
1
Total Liabilities
659
25,810
109
107
1
Investments
374
-
-
-
-
Turnover
1,000
4
7
7
-
Profit/(Loss) before Taxation
501
(1,260)
5
4
(1)
Provision for Taxation
57
(317)
1
1
-
Profit/ (Loss) after Taxation
444
(943)
4
3
(1)
Other Comprehensive income
(79)
-
-
-
-
Total Comprehensive income
365
(943)
4
3
(1)
Proposed Dividend
-
-
-
-
-
% of Shareholding
94%
100%
100%
100%
94%
Brigade Enterprises Limited
204
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
(₹ in Lakhs)
Particulars
 
Tandem Allied 
Services Private 
Limited
BCV Real Estates 
Private Limited
Tetrarch Real 
Estates Private 
Limited
Ananthay 
Properties 
Private Limited
Brigade HRC LLP
21
22
23
24
25
Date of Acquisition
30.06.2022
NA
13.01.2023
16.12.2024
NA
Reporting period 
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
2024-25
Reporting currency 
INR
INR
INR
INR
INR
Share capital
400
10
22
380
100
Other Equity
1,850
(1)
77
11,388
20,600
Total Assets
2,748
9
99
72,610
20,700
Total Liabilities
2,748
9
99
72,610
20,700
Investments
-
-
-
3,041
-
Turnover
2,869
-
5
49
-
Profit/(Loss) before Taxation
995
-
4
41
-
Provision for Taxation
256
-
1
10
-
Profit/ (Loss) after Taxation
739
-
3
31
-
Other Comprehensive income
-
-
-
-
-
Total Comprehensive income
739
-
3
31
-
Proposed Dividend
-
-
-
-
-
% of Shareholding
100%
68.76%
100%
51%
67%
Note:
1. 
No subsidiary was liquidated or sold during the year.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Pavitra Shankar
Nirupa Shankar
Managing Director
Joint Managing Director
DIN: 08133119
DIN: 02750342
Jayant B Manmadkar
P Om Prakash
Place: Bengaluru
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Date: May 14, 2025
Membership No: F47863
Membership No. F5435
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
205
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
PART “B”: JOINT VENTURES
Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2O13 related to Associate Companies and 
Joint Ventures
Name of Associates or Joint Ventures
Zoiros Projects Private Limited
1. Latest audited Balance Sheet Date
31st March, 2025
2.  Date on which the Associate or Joint Venture was associated or acquired
18th March, 2025
3.  No. Shares of Associate or Joint Ventures held by the company on 
the year end
49,50,000
 
Amount of Investment in Associates or Joint Venture
49,500,000
 
Extent of Holding (in percentage)
50
4.  Description of how there is significant Influence
Having control by way of 50% voting 
power and having the ability to 
influence business decisions.
5.  Reason why the associate/Joint venture is not consolidated.
N.A
6.  Net worth attributable to shareholding as per latest audited Balance 
Sheet
457.05
7. Profit or Loss for the year
Considered in Consolidation
(432.51)
Not Considered in Consolidation
N.A
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Pavitra Shankar
Nirupa Shankar
Managing Director
Joint Managing Director
DIN: 08133119
DIN: 02750342
Jayant B Manmadkar
P Om Prakash
Place: Bengaluru
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Date: May 14, 2025
Membership No: F47863
Membership No. F5435
Brigade Enterprises Limited
206
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE 2
Remuneration Details of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Employees
(Pursuant to Section 197 of the Act and Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of  
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014)
a) 
 Ratio of remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees and percentage 
increase in remuneration:
Sl 
No.
Name of Director/ KMP
Designation
Ratio of 
Remuneration 
to Median 
Remuneration
% Increase/ 
Decrease in 
Remuneration 
Y-O-Y
1.
Mr. M. R. Jaishankar
Executive Chairman
68.98 : 1
-4.46%
2.
Ms. Pavitra Shankar
Managing Director
32.55 : 1
16.04%
3.
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
Joint Managing Director
32.98 : 1
17.54%
4.
Mr. Roshin Mathew
Executive Director
34.11 : 1
-11.23%
5.
Mr. Amar Mysore
Executive Director
32.00 : 1
14.26%
6.
Mr. Pradyumna Krishna Kumar
Executive Director
24.28 : 1
268.20%
7.
Mr. Aroon Raman*
Vice-Chairman and Non-Executive 
Independent Director
NA
NA
8.
Mr. Bijou Kurien**
Non-Executive Independent Director
NA
NA
9.
Ms. Lakshmi Venkatachalam
Non-Executive Independent Director
NA
NA
10.
Mr. Pradeep Kumar Panja
Non-Executive Independent Director
NA
NA
11.
Dr. Venkatesh Panchapagesan
Non-Executive Independent Director
NA
NA
12.
Mr. V V Ranganathan
Non-Executive Independent Director
NA
NA
13
Mr. Abraham George Stephanos
Non-Executive Independent Director
NA
NA
14
Ms. Padmaja Chunduru
Non-Executive Independent Director
NA
NA
15.
Mr. Jayant B Manmadkar#
Chief Financial Officer
36.29:1
NA
16
Mr. P. Om Prakash
Company Secretary
9.41 : 1
6.93%
 
* Ceased as Director w.e.f. August 4, 2024 due to completion of two term
 
** Ceased as Director w.e.f. January 30, 2025 due to completion of two term
 
#Appointed as Chief Financial Officer w.e.f. April 18, 2024
b) 
 The Non-Executive Independent Directors were paid remuneration by way of commission apart from sitting 
fees for attending the Board/Committee Meetings.
c) 
 The median remuneration of employees during the financial year 2024-25 was ₹ 10.40 Lakhs.
d) 
 The percentage increase/(decrease) in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year 2024-25 was 
1.07% vis-à-vis (0.77)% in the financial year 2023-24.
e) 
 The number of permanent employees on the rolls of Company as on March 31, 2025 was 1138.
f) 
 Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the 
last financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification 
thereof and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:
• Average percentage increase in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel during 2024-
25 was 2.01%.
• Average percentage in remuneration of Key managerial personnel during 2024-25 was 8.80%
• Average percentage in remuneration of managerial personnel during 2024-25 was 11.8%
• *Average percentage in remuneration of Company Secretary & Chief financial officer during 2024-25 was 21.2%
Notes: *such remuneration includes gross salary and Employee Stock option Perquisite value.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
207
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
• The Average percentage increase in the salaries of employees is lower to managerial personnel due to increase 
in new joinees at junior level, where the Cost to Company (CTC) is lower and this drags down the average CTC, 
offsetting the hikes for existing employees.
• Justification including any exceptional circumstances for increase in managerial remuneration: The operational 
performance of the company at a consolidated level has improved significantly in FY25 as compared to FY24. 
Real estate sales have increased by 31% to 7,84,700 lakhs. The Office rental income grew 24% from ₹ 93,774 
lakhs in FY24 to ₹ 1,16,500 lakhs in FY25. Due to increase in adjusted net profits and based on the performance 
of each Executive Director for the financial year 2024-25 the remuneration of the managerial remuneration 
increased as compared to previous year.
g) 
 The remuneration is as per the Nomination and Remuneration Policy formulated by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board of Directors of the Company.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Pavitra Shankar
Nirupa Shankar
Place: Bengaluru
Managing Director
Joint Managing Director
Date: May 14, 2025
DIN: 08133119
DIN: 02750342
Brigade Enterprises Limited
208
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Form No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Brigade Enterprises Limited
CIN: L85110KA1995PLC019126
29th & 30th Floor, World Trade Centre, 
26/1, Brigade Gateway
Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar,
Bangalore-560055, Karnataka, India.
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the 
adherence to good corporate practices by Brigade 
Enterprises Limited (hereinafter called the “Company”). 
The Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner 
that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating 
the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, 
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and 
other records maintained by the Company and also 
the information provided by the Company, its officers, 
agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct of Secretarial Audit, we hereby report that in 
our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period 
covering the financial year ended on 31st March 2025, 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board processes 
and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed, and other records maintained by 
the Company for the financial year ended on 31st March 
2025 according to the provisions of:
i. 
 The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the Rules 
made thereunder;
ii. 
 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(‘SCRA’) and the Rules made thereunder;
iii. 
 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Byelaws framed thereunder;
iv. 
 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
Rules and Regulations made thereunder to the 
extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct 
Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;
v. 
 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’): -
 
 a. 
 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;
 
 b. 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
 
 c. 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
 
 d. 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018;
 
 e. 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021;
 
 f. 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) 
Regulations, 2008 and Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-
Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021; - Not 
Applicable as Company has not issued debt 
securities during the year under review;
 
 g. 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the 
Companies Act and dealing with the client - Not 
applicable as the Company is not registered as 
Registrar to an Issue and Share Transfer Agent 
during the financial year under review;
 
 h. 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 - 
Not applicable as the Company has not delisted 
its equity shares from any stock exchange 
during the financial year under review; and
 
 i. 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 - Not 
applicable as the Company has not done any 
buyback of its securities during the financial 
year under review.
ANNEXURE 4
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
209
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
vi. 
 The Company has identified the following laws as 
specifically applicable to the Company:
 
 1. 
 Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Act, 
2016 read with Karnataka Real Estate (Regulation 
& Development) Rules, 2017
 
 2. 
 Indian Contracts Act, 1872
 
 3. 
 Transfer of Property Act, 1882
 
 4. 
 Registration Act, 1908
 
 5. 
The Specific Relief Act, 1963
 
 6. 
The Environment (Protection) Act, 1986
 
 7. 
 The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) 
Act, 1974
 
8. 
 Energy Conservation Act, 2001 and other 
related State laws for Lifts, Escalators & 
Passenger Conveyors, Fire & Safety
 
 We have also examined compliance with the 
applicable clauses of the following:
 
(i) 
 Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India (ICSI)
 
(ii)  The Listing Agreements entered into by the 
Company with BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited
 
 During the period under review the Company 
has complied with the provisions of the Act, 
Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc. 
mentioned above.
 
 We further report that: -
 
 i. 
 The Board of Directors of the Company is 
duly constituted with a proper balance of 
Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors 
and Independent Directors. The changes in the 
compositions of the Board of Directors that 
took place during the period under review were 
carried out in compliance with the provisions of 
the Act.
 
 ii. 
 Adequate notice is given to all Directors to 
schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and 
detailed notes on agenda were sent at least 
seven days in advance, and a system exists for 
seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the 
meeting and for meaningful participation at 
the meeting.
 
 iii. 
 Majority decision is carried through while the 
dissenting members’ views, if any, are captured 
and recorded as part of the minutes.
 
 iv. 
 We further report that based on review of 
compliance mechanism established by the 
Company and on the basis of the Compliance 
Certificate(s) issued by the Company Secretary 
and taken on record by the Board of Directors 
at their meeting(s), we are of the opinion that 
the management has adequate systems and 
processes commensurate with its size and 
operations, to monitor and ensure compliance 
with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and 
guidelines; and
 
 v. 
 As informed, the Company has responded 
to notices for demands, claims, penalties 
etc. levied by various statutory/regulatory 
authorities and initiated actions for corrective 
measures, wherever necessary.
For BMP & Co. LLP,
Company Secretaries
CS Biswajit Ghosh
Designated Partner
Place: Bengaluru 
FCS No.: 8750 CP. No.: 8239
Date: May 14, 2025 
Peer Review Certificate No. 6387/2025
UDIN: F008750G000339731 
Firm Registration Number: L2017KR003200
This report to be read with our letter of event date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of 
this report.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
210
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
‘Annexure A’
To,
The Members,
Brigade Enterprises Limited
CIN: L85110KA1995PLC019126
29th & 30th Floor, World Trade Centre, 26/1, Brigade Gateway
Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar,
Bangalore, Karnataka, India, 560055
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1. 
 Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility 
is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2. 
 We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about 
the correctness of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure 
that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed 
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3. 
 We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of 
the Company.
4. 
 Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
5. 
 The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the 
responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6. 
 The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy 
or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
7. 
 We further report that, based on the information provided by the Company its officers, authorised representatives 
during the conduct of the audit and also on the review of quarterly compliance report by the respective 
departmental heads/Company Secretary/Managing Director & CEO, taken on record by the Board of the 
Company, in our opinion adequate systems and process and control mechanism exist in the Company to monitor 
compliance with applicable general laws like labour laws, & Environment laws and Data protection policy.
8. 
 We further report that the Compliance by the Company of applicable financial laws like Direct & Indirect tax 
laws has not been reviewed in this audit since the same has been subject to review by the statutory financial 
audit and other designated professionals.
For BMP & Co. LLP,
Company Secretaries
CS Biswajit Ghosh
Designated Partner
Place: Bengaluru 
FCS No.: 8750 CP. No.: 8239
Date: May 14, 2025 
Peer Review Certificate No. 6387/2025
UDIN: F008750G000339731 
Firm Registration Number: L2017KR003200
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
211
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT 
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Mysore Projects Private Limited,
29th Flr, World Trade Center,  
Brigade Gateway Campus 26/1,
Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar,
Bangalore - 560055, Karnataka, India.
CIN - U70102KA2010PTC054771
I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by Mysore Projects Private 
Limited (hereinafter called ‘the Company’). Secretarial 
Audit was conducted in a manner that provided 
me a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate 
conducts/statutory compliances and expressing my 
opinion thereon.
Based on my verification of the Mysore Projects Private 
Limited books, papers, minute books, forms and returns 
filed and other records maintained by the Company 
and also the information provided by the Company, its 
officers, agents and authorized representatives during 
the conduct of Secretarial Audit, I hereby report that in 
my opinion, the Company has, during the audit period 
covering the financial year ended on March 31, 2025 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder 
and also that the Company has proper Board-Processes 
and Compliance-Mechanism in place to the extent, in the 
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by 
Mysore Projects Private Limited (“the Company”) for the 
financial year ended on March 31, 2025 according to the 
provisions of:
(i) 
 The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules 
made there under;
(ii)  The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(‘SCRA’) and the rules made there under; ≠
(iii)  The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-Laws framed there under;
(iv)  Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to the 
extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct 
Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;*
(v)  The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):- ≠
 
 (a)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; ≠
 
 (b)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992; ≠
 
 (c)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2009; ≠
 
 (d)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee 
Stock Purchase Scheme) Guidelines, 1999; ≠
 
 (e)  The Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) 
Regulations, 2008; ≠
 
 (f) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the 
Companies Act and dealing with client; ≠
 
 (g)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; 
and ≠
 
 (h)  The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 1998.≠ 
(vi)  Other Laws as are applicable to the Real Estate 
Development Company:-
 
 1. 
 Foundational Laws such as Indian Contracts Act, 
1872, Transfer of Property Act, 1882, Registration 
Act, 1908, Specific Relief Act, 1963,
 
 2. 
 Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Act, 
2016 read with Karnataka Real Estate (Regulation 
& Development) Rules, 2017,
 
 3. 
 The Karnataka Stamp Act 1957, The Karnataka 
Land Revenue Act, 1964, The Karnataka Land 
Reforms Act, 1961, The Karnataka Rent Act, 1999,
 
 4. 
 The Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976 
and The Karnataka Municipalities Act, 1964,
Brigade Enterprises Limited
212
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 5. 
 The Bangalore Development Authority Act, 
1976,
 
 6. 
 Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, 
The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) 
Act, 1981, The Noise Pollution (Regulation and 
Control) Rules, 2000,
 
 7. 
 The Energy Conservation Act, 2001, The 
Karnataka Lifts, Escalators and Passenger 
Conveyors Act, 2012,
 
 8. 
 Other State Laws such as Municipal Laws, Rules 
and Procedures.
I have also examined compliance with applicable clauses 
of the following:
(i) 
 Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India;
(ii)  The listing Agreement entered into by the Company 
with the Stock Exchange(s), if applicable; ≠
During the period under review the Company has 
generally complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, 
Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc, mentioned above.
My opinion is based on audit evidence, explanations and 
information given to me during the audit.
I Further Report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted 
with Non-Executive Directors and Independent Director. 
The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors 
that took place during the period under review were 
carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate Notice is given to all Directors to schedule the 
Board Meetings, Agenda and detailed Notes on Agenda 
were sent at least seven days in advance, and a system 
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and 
clarifications on the agenda items before the Meeting 
and for meaningful participation at the Meeting.
Majority decision is carried through while the dissenting 
members’ views are captured and recorded as part of 
the Minutes.
I Further Report That there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
CS Gayathri Gurumurthy
ACS No.: A54289
Place: Bangalore 
CP No.: 21483
Date: May 3, 2025 
UDIN: U70102KA2010PTC054771
≠These Laws/Rules/Regulations/Guidelines/Standards are not 
applicable as the Company is an Unlisted Subsidiary of a Listed 
Company.
*Note - Not Applicable as there were no instances referred to in this 
point, during the period under review.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
213
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE - DISCLAIMER
To
The Members
Mysore Projects Private Limited,
29th Flr, World Trade Center, Brigade Gateway Campus 26/1,
Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar,
Bangalore - 560055, Karnataka, India.
This report is to be read in conjunction with this letter of even date and is subject to the following clarifications:
1. 
 The responsibility for maintaining secretarial and statutory records and ensuring compliance with applicable 
laws rests solely with the management of the company. My responsibility is limited to auditing these records 
and expressing an independent opinion based on the review conducted.
2. 
 The audit has been conducted in accordance with generally accepted secretarial audit practices and principles. 
Audit procedures have been applied on a test-check basis to ascertain compliance and accuracy of the 
records. Reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the audit provides an appropriate basis for the opinion 
expressed herein.
3. 
 This audit does not extend to the financial statements or the financial records of the company, and accordingly, 
no opinion is expressed thereon.
4. 
 The audit relies upon management representations obtained during the course of the verification process in 
respect of compliance matters and events, wherever direct evidence or documentation was not available.
5. 
 The scope of this report is confined to the examination of procedures and compliance mechanisms followed by 
the company during the audit period and does not extend to commenting on the effectiveness or efficiency of 
the management’s operational decisions.
6. 
 This report does not constitute an assurance regarding the company’s future performance, profitability, 
or sustainability, nor does it comment on the appropriateness of business decisions taken by the Board 
or management.
CS Gayathri Gurumurthy
ACS No.: A54289
Place: Bangalore 
CP No.: 21483
Date: May 3, 2025 
UDIN: U70102KA2010PTC054771
Brigade Enterprises Limited
214
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
CSR Initiatives undertaken by the Company during the financial year 2024-25
1) 
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
 
 The Company has in place Corporate Social Responsibility Policy in accordance with Section 135 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) Rules, 2014 together with Schedule VII of the Companies 
Act, 2013.
 
 The commitment of the Company is to set apart resources to support CSR initiatives aimed at enhancing 
socio–economic development. Typically, it constitutes an effort to improve living conditions of the local area in 
which the Company operates and to benefit society at large. The idea is to expend resources to create a positive 
impact in the community and on society, without seeking any commensurate monetary benefit.
 
 The Company is fully committed to proactively support inclusive and environmentally sustainable growth in 
India. It genuinely believes that the benefits of development should reach a larger number of people, especially 
the weaker sections of society, to whom greater access to opportunities is the surest way to enable all-round 
socio-economic progress. Likewise, it is committed to environmentally sustainable development in all areas, 
given the challenges of climate change that call for measures for mitigation and adaptation in a number of areas 
to preserve the environment for future generations.
 
FOCUS AREAS OF ENGAGEMENT:
 
The main focus areas of the Company’s initiatives pertain to:
 
a) 
Health,
 
b) 
Skill Development/ Education,
 
c) 
Promotion of music and other culture, and
 
d) 
Environment
 
 Company may also engage and spend in areas mentioned in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013, as amended 
from time to time, subject to requisite approval, if any.
2) 
The composition of the CSR Committee:
 
The composition of the CSR Committee is as follows:
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation / Nature of Directorship
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
held during the year
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
attended during the year
1.
Mr. M.R. Jaishankar
Chairman / Non-Independent 
Director
3
2
2.
Mr. Aroon Raman*
Member/ Independent Director
1
3.
Mr. Abraham George 
Stephanos#
Member/ Independent Director
1
4.
Ms. Lakshmi Venkatachalam
Member/ Independent Director
3
5.
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
Member / Non-Independent 
Director
3
 
*Ceased as director and member with effect from August 4, 2024
 
#became the member w.r.f. August 5, 2024
3) 
 Web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board are 
disclosed on the website of the company.
 
https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/corporate-governance/corporate-social-responsibility
 
https://cdn.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/policies/corporate-social-responsibility-policy-19042022.pdf
ANNEXURE 5
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
215
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
4) 
 Executive summary along with web-link of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-
rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable.
 
 The Company has carried out Impact Assessment on the applicable project. 
 
 The report of such assessment is available at:   
https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/corporate-governance/impact-assessment
 
A brief summary is provided below:
 
 Impact Assessment of St. John’s Medical College Hospital at Brigade Meadows (SJBM) 4th November 2024 
– 31st March 2025:
 
 This report presents the abstract of the impact assessment for St. John’s Medical College Hospital at Brigade 
Meadows (‘SJBM’), covering the period from 4th November 2024 to 31st March 2025. Established as a satellite 
centre of St. John’s Medical College Hospital, this community-based healthcare facility is the outcome of a 
strategic Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) partnership between Brigade Foundation and St. John’s Medical 
College Hospital, formalized through a Deed of Collaboration signed on 9th September 2024.
 
 Strategically located within the Brigade Meadows township, SJBM was conceived to bridge critical healthcare 
gaps for both urban residents and underserved rural populations along Kanakapura Road. Its establishment 
represents a shared vision to provide equitable, affordable, and high-quality healthcare in a region where medical 
infrastructure has historically been limited.
 
Healthcare Access and Community Impact
 
 Since its launch, SJBM has rapidly emerged as a pivotal healthcare provider in South Bangalore. Serving a 
diverse patient base including township residents, senior living communities, and nearby villages the hospital 
has significantly enhanced access to primary, specialty, and emergency care.
 
 Community surveys indicate a 73% satisfaction rate with SJBM’s location and multispecialty services, while 86% 
of respondents rated the quality of care as excellent or very good. The hospital has experienced a consistent 
increase in outpatient, inpatient, and ICU utilization, driven by positive patient experiences and word-of-mouth 
referrals. While the Google rating stands at 3.5, it reflects a healthy balance of feedback from diverse patient 
groups and stakeholders.
 
 In addition, the hospital’s preventive healthcare outreach including specialized health camps on diabetes, 
hypertension, and ophthalmology has further deepened its community engagement and strengthened its role 
in promoting public health.
 
Service Delivery and Patient-Centred Care
 
 SJBM offers extended OPD hours and a robust range of clinical services, including orthopaedics, dermatology, 
ENT, physiotherapy, and internal medicine. Patient feedback highlights a growing demand for additional super-
specialty services, particularly in cardiology and paediatrics, as well as the inclusion of insurance facilities to 
improve financial access.
 
 The hospital’s clinical and administrative systems are designed to ensure efficient admissions, timely discharges, 
and consistent evidence-based, patient-centred care, resulting in high levels of patient satisfaction and positive 
health outcomes.
 
Strategic Partnerships and Community Integration
 
 SJBM has successfully built collaborative relationships with senior living facilities, local Panchayats, educational 
institutions, and small-scale industries, expanding its healthcare reach. These partnerships have not only helped 
widen access but also established SJBM as a trusted healthcare hub for both urban and rural populations.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
216
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
Financial Performance and CSR Support
 
 SJBM operates under a CSR-supported model, with annual backing of approximately ₹ 1 crore from Brigade 
Foundation. Over the five-month review period, the hospital demonstrated a strong upward financial trajectory:
Month
Gross Billed 
Amount
Concession 
Amount
Net Receipt 
Amount
SJMCH 
Koramangala 
Amt Comparison
Nov
12,82,867
1,50,898
11,31,969
14,86,737
Dec
14,04,415
1,73,385
12,31,030
14,92,495
Jan
18,94,053
1,26,277
17,67,777
20,49,603
Feb
31,38,159
2,35,383
29,02,777
32,72,221
Mar
41,60,135
3,92,129
37,68,005
43,04,623
Grand Total
1,18,79,629
10,78,072
1,08,01,558
1,26,05,679
 
 This financial snapshot illustrates SJBM’s commitment to affordability—evident in the ₹ 10.78 lakh in patient 
concessions—while maintaining cost-effective operations and delivering outcomes on par with its flagship 
campus in Koramangala.
 
Conclusions and Recommendations
 
 SJBM has made a measurable and meaningful impact on South Bangalore’s healthcare landscape through its 
inclusive, accessible, and community-oriented model. To further strengthen its contributions, the following 
actions are recommended:
 
1. 
 Expand super-specialty services in high-demand areas such as cardiology and paediatrics.
 
2. 
 Introduce health insurance tie-ups to improve financial access for a broader population.
 
3. 
 Scale preventive healthcare programs and community education initiatives.
 
4. 
 Regularly monitor service data to align with changing healthcare trends and needs.
 
5. 
 Deepen local partnerships to foster sustainable, community-led healthcare engagement
 
Limitations of the Assessment
 
 This assessment covers a five-month pilot period and is based on data from hospital records/statistics, survey 
responses, stakeholder interviews, and financial reports. Due to the short timeframe and limited sample size, the 
findings offer a preliminary yet insightful snapshot of SJBM’s early impact. A more comprehensive evaluation 
over a longer duration is recommended to assess sustainability, long-term patient outcomes, and systemic 
healthcare improvements.
 
Final Note
 
 St. John’s Medical College Hospital at Brigade Meadows represents a successful public-private model of 
delivering ethical, high-quality healthcare within a cost-conscious and community-driven framework. It serves 
as a replicable blueprint for satellite healthcare centres aiming to enhance health outcomes and quality of 
life—especially in rapidly growing peri-urban regions like South Bangalore.
5) 
(a) Average net profit of the company as per section 135(5): ₹ 36,993.62 Lakhs
 
(b) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5): ₹ 739.87 Lakhs
 
(c) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: Nil
 
(d) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any: Nil
 
(e) Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: ₹ 739.87 Lakhs
6) 
(a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project: ₹ 740 Lakhs
 
(b) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: Nil
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
217
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
(c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Nil
 
(d) Total amount spent for the financial year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: ₹ 740 Lakhs
 
(e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Amount Unspent (₹ in lakhs)
Total Amount Spent for the Financial Year
(in ₹ lakhs)
Total Amount transferred to 
Unspent CSR Account as per 
sub-section 6 of section 135
Amount transferred to any fund specified 
under Schedule VII as per second proviso 
to sub-section 5 of section 135
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of 
the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
740
NIL
NIL
 
(f) 
Excess amount for set-off, if any:
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Amount
(₹ in Lakhs)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
739.87
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
740
(iii) Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
0.13
(iv) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous 
financial years, if any
-
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
0.13
7) 
Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
Sl.
No.
Preceding 
Financial Year
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
section 135 (6) 
(in ₹)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent 
CSR account 
under section 
135 (6) (in ₹)
Amount transferred to a fund as 
specified under Schedule VII as per 
second proviso to section 135(5), if any.
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
financial years
(in ₹)
Deficiency, 
if any
Name of the 
Fund
Amount
(in ₹)
Date of 
transfer
NIL
8) 
 Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount 
spent in the Financial Year:
 
Yes 
No
 
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/ acquired
 
 Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility 
amount spent in the Financial Year:
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s) 
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pincode of the 
property or 
asset(s)
Date of 
creation
Amount of 
CSR amount 
spent
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary  
of the registered owner
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
N.A.
9) 
 Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per subsection 
(5) of section 135: Not Applicable
For Brigade Enterprises Limited
Nirupa Shankar
M. R Jaishankar
Place: Bengaluru
Joint Managing Director
Chairman of CSR Committee
Date: May 14, 2025
DIN: 02750342
DIN: 00191267
Brigade Enterprises Limited
218
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
ANNEXURE 6
I.  CONSERVATION OF ENERGY
(a) Energy conservation measures taken:
 
 We continuously take efforts towards energy efficient 
construction for reducing energy consumption and 
promoting efficient use of natural resources like 
energy, land, water, and raw materials. By integrating 
energy conservation measures into building design, 
operations, and tenant engagement strategies, we 
can contribute significantly to reducing energy 
consumption, mitigating climate change impacts, 
and creating more sustainable built environments.
 
 Our strategy to mitigate environmental pollution and 
reduce environmental impact by way of conservation 
of Energy and Water is an integral part of Design and 
Development. The cost of power/fuel consumption 
doesn’t constitute a major cost of the project. This 
cost per se is the power and fuel purchased for 
construction process such as operation of cranes, 
lifts, conveyors lighting, welding, cutting, drilling 
and operation of other electrical instruments at the 
project sites. The buildings being Mega and High-
rise structures it is imperative to use power assisted 
gadgets for the safety of the workers.
 
 However, the Company has been taking energy 
saving measures viz.,
• Design of Energy Efficient Buildings by embedding 
sustainability into design and by carrying out 
building orientation, Energy, Fresh Air, Sun path 
and Day Lighting Simulation and Modeling.
• Reducing energy loss, such as by reducing heat 
loss through energy efficient building planning 
and by adopting engineered building insulation 
and envelope.
• Implementing a whole-building systems approach 
to new construction to achieve an energy efficient 
building. The whole-building approach treats the 
building as one energy system with separate, but 
dependent parts which affects the performance 
of the entire system (the whole-building).
• Designing of energy efficient buildings by 
considering the provision to allow for future 
retrofits without impacting the performance of 
the building.
• Installing energy efficient light fixtures, LED lights 
with motion sensor, timers, and dimmers across 
all our projects.
• Use of occupancy sensors in sparingly used area 
in the buildings, viz., Rest Rooms, Change Rooms, 
Corridors, Staircase, Car Parking / Basement 
Area, etc.
• Passive architectural features such as planting 
tall growing and large canopy trees for shading 
the building, design of fixed shading device on 
the building facade, cross ventilation for air 
circulation, solar reflective paints on the roof, etc. 
are used to reduce the energy demand for the 
Building cooling systems
• It is estimated that companies’ commercial 
projects save 15-20% energy when compared to 
base case of latest Energy Conservation Building 
Code (ECBC).
• The Window to Wall ratio in the buildings are 
optimized to reduce the Air conditioning energy 
demand at the same time does not increase the 
need for artificial lighting within the projects.
• The glazed glass facade used in the construction 
of the buildings are scientifically selected after 
many iterations of building material simulation 
to maximize the use of Daylight in offices and 
projects of the company and at the same time not 
increasing the air conditioning load by suitably 
shading the building.
• Selection of facade materials in commercial 
buildings with optimum U Value, VLT and SHGC 
to reduce building cooling requirements and 
subsequently ensure adequate day light.
• Non-air-conditioned buildings are designed with 
cross ventilation to minimize the dependency on 
fans, coolers, split air conditioners, etc.
• Utilization of solar energy wherever possible for 
water heating and lighting in all the projects of 
the company
• Solar PV Panels are installed in all commercial 
projects 
of 
the 
company 
to 
harness 
renewable energy sources to ensure reduced 
carbon emissions
• Green Power is purchased by getting into a long-
term agreement with Green Energy Developers, 
thus encouraging installation of renewable energy 
systems and catering clean energy for our clients/
occupants.
• Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) Star certified 
electro-mechanical equipment’s (Viz., Pumps, 
Drives, Compressors, etc.) are used in the project.
• Lifts are installed with non-conventional type, 
variable frequency, and regenerative drive 
technology. These lifts are energy efficient. 
Electricity used to power the motor is recaptured 
and stored. This energy will be used to help power 
the lift to move up or down to the nearest landing 
level to ensure the safety of passengers during 
power supply interruption.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
219
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
• Selection and use of Green Pro Certified 
construction materials to reduce the embodied 
carbon and there by reduction of carbon footprint 
of the buildings that we construct.
• Adopting Energy efficient Water-Cooled Air-
Conditioning System with high coefficient 
of performance in all Commercial Buildings 
developed by the company
• Use of low flow water fixtures, flow aerators 
to reduce the water demand and energy 
requirement for pumping water in all the projects 
of the company
• Installation and use of waterless urinals at all 
our offices to make sure the conservation and 
responsible use of precious water.
• Adopting Green Building norms as per LEED and 
IGBC in all our projects of the company
• The waste water generating out of our properties 
being scientifically treated through well designed 
inhouse Sewage treatment plants (STP’s) to 
meet the treated water quality beyond statutory 
discharge limits and to reuse for toilet flushing, 
landscaping, and Make-up water for water-
cooled air-conditioning systems. This reduces the 
dependency on municipal water supply which is 
pumped from far off location; indirectly saving 
energy and fresh water.
• Provision of Charging points for Electric vehicles 
to encourage use of alternative fuel, thereby 
reduced dependency on fossil fuels.
• The company’s projects are in close proximity to 
public transport or shuttle services are provided 
for free of cost to all the occupants to the nearest 
Bus station
• Design and adaptation of landscape with native 
and drought tolerant tree species to reduce the 
water demand and save energy for pumping
• Installation of smart app based electrical systems 
to control and optimize their use
• Reduce energy wastage due to distribution by 
designing the right sizing of copper cables and 
installation of copper wound transformers to 
reduce the losses.
• Optimizing the use of back-up power systems (DG 
Sets) by using synchronizing panels and sensors
• Planned Preventive maintenance for all electrical 
and electro-mechanical installations are 
prepared and handover to facilities team or to the 
respective buildings associations as guidelines to 
ensure right usage and long life of the systems
• IOT sensors for collection of data are installed 
for all water and energy consuming fixtures 
or devices.
• Interface with SCADA system of utilities (Use of 
Building Management Systems- BMS)
• Effective Rooftop Rainwater and Storm Water 
harvesting systems are implemented in all 
company projects to conserve water & energy. 
The Rooftop rainwater is collected in underground 
sumps and used for domestic purposes after 
suitable treatment
• Modern construction technologies (Viz., 
Precast/Prefabricated, Aluminum Form Work, 
etc) are adopted to minimize construction and 
demolition wastes. This also reduces the time 
taken for construction.
• Use of Manufactured Sand (M-Sand) instead 
of natural river sand in all our projects to avoid 
negative impacts of sand mining.
• Use of ready-mix concrete (RMC) along with 
curing agents for construction reduces the 
negative impact of Ambient Air and also conserves 
water respectively.
• Sourcing and use of locally available construction 
materials to cutdown the carbon emissions during 
material transportation.
• Usage of GGBS as recycled material content in 
building construction to reduce the dependency 
of virgin materials.
(b)  Additional 
investment 
and 
proposals, 
if 
any being implemented for reduction in 
consumption of energy.
 
 The Company as a matter of policy has a regular 
and ongoing programme for investments in 
energy saving devices, wherever possible, used in 
construction. Studies are being made to reduce 
energy consumption and make suitable investments 
in this area, if necessary.
 
 Some Solar Installations @ our projects: 1038.1KW 
from 23 installations.
 
 Few Wheeling energy taken for our projects 
under TPPA
 
 For Orion mall Gateway is availing 10,57,000 units 
of solar power per month on average
 
 For Orion Avenue mall is availing 1,72,500 units of 
solar power per month on average
 
 For Orion Uptown Mall & HIEX is availing 3,53,333 
units of solar power per month on average
Brigade Enterprises Limited
220
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 For WTC Bangalore is availing 1,30,000 units of 
solar power per month on average
 
 For Brigade Tech Park is availing 2,66,667 units of 
solar power per month on average.
 
 For our hotels & clubs we are availing Solar wheeling 
on monthly basis.
 
 Sheraton: is availing 5,87,250 units solar power on 
monthly basis.
 
 Holiday Inn Racecourse is availing 2,53,333 units of 
solar power on monthly basis.
 
 Signature Clubs & Resorts is availing 7,120 units of 
solar power on monthly basis.
(c)  Impact of measures taken at (a) and (b) above 
for reduction of Energy consumption and 
consequent impact of the same
 
 The impact of the measures taken cannot be 
quantified as the company is in the construction field.
 
 With all the above efforts put-in as explained 
above we will gone enhance our energy, water and 
resource efficiency with reduced waste and carbon 
emissions, thereby reduced environmental impacts 
of our business and operations.
(d)  Total 
energy 
consumption 
and 
energy 
consumption per unit as per form – A of the 
Annexure to the rules of industries specified in 
the schedule thereto:
 
Not Applicable.
II. TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION.
 
 Company works on a mechanized process to 
reduce cost and increase the efficiency of the 
operations. Company has from time to time 
engaged international architects and consultants in 
its integrated enclave projects for using the latest 
designs and technology.
 
 Company has implemented ERP package SAP for 
integrating the various process and operations of 
the Company.
 
 Modern Technology / Machinery is used by the 
Company from time to time to achieve maximum 
efficiency in operations.
 
 Brigade Real Estate Accelerator Program initiatives 
to encourage and invest in new technologies and 
promote sustainable developments, etc.
 
 Motion sensors are installed to regulate the lighting 
at board rooms, meeting rooms, and cabins to 
optimize the energy consumption across the 
corporate offices.
 
 Implementation of SaaS based ESG tool for monitoring 
and measurement of ESG performance aligned 
with adopted ESG reporting and rating with carbon 
accounting and NetZero-C roadmap capability
III. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
 More standardized building elements which adheres 
to quality standards
 
 More efficient and effective planning of construction 
activities for maintaining the quality.
 
 Green and less carbon intensive construction 
materials have been shortlisted based on the market 
survey from the embodied carbon perspective with 
openly available product/material information.
 
Benefits derived from R & D
 
 The buildings constructed adhere to highest 
standard of quality.
 
 Expecting to have less carbon intensive buildings 
ahead, based on the research effort explained above.
 
Expenditure on R & D
 
 It forms part of the project cost and cannot be 
quantified separately.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
221
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
IV.  FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS & OUTGO:
 
 The details of Earnings and Expenditure from Foreign Exchange during the year are as follows:
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
2024-2025
2023-24
Earnings:
Income from property development
144.83
94.32
Total
144.83
94.32
Expenditure:
i. 
Legal & Professional fees
1494.82
336.37
ii. Advertisement & Sales Promotion
214.25
61.90
iii. Employee benefits expense
604.89
496.90
iv. Others
338.72
159.48
GRAND TOTAL
2652.68
1054.66
By order of the Board
For Brigade Enterprises Limited
Pavitra Shankar
Nirupa Shankar
Place: Bengaluru
Managing Director
Joint Managing Director
Date: May 14, 2025
DIN: 08133119
DIN: 02750342
Brigade Enterprises Limited
222
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Report on Corporate Governance
PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
AT BRIGADE ENTERPRISES LIMITED
Strong corporate governance practices help to build an 
environment of trust, transparency and accountability. 
All these pillars are critical in successfully running an 
entity and forming solid professional relationships 
among its stakeholders which include board of directors, 
employees, customers, suppliers, regulators and most 
importantly, shareholders.
Accountability
Corporate 
Governance 
framework 
at Brigade
Fairness
Transparency
Responsibility
The Philosophy on Corporate Governance at Brigade 
Enterprises Limited are:
a) 
 To ensure highest levels of integrity and quality.
b) 
 To ensure strong legacy of fair, transparent and 
ethical governance practice.
c) 
 To ensure observance of highest standards & levels 
of transparency, accuracy, accountability, and 
reliability on the organisation.
d) 
 To ensure protection of wealth and other resources 
of the Company for maximising the benefits to the 
stakeholders of the Company.
Our Corporate Philosophy thrust upon Innovation, Quality 
and Trust. The vision, mission and values of the Company 
enshrine the aforesaid philosophy.
The Corporate Governance Report of the Company for 
the year ended March 31, 2025 is as follows:
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Company recognizes the importance of a diverse 
Board in its success. An active, well-informed, diversified 
and independent board is necessary to ensure the 
highest standards of corporate governance.
Our directors bring with them different thoughts, 
perspective and industry experience, which will ensure 
that the Company retains its competitive advantage.
The Company is headed by an effective Board of 
Directors (‘Board’) which is responsible for providing 
strategic supervision, overseeing the management 
performance and governance of the Company on behalf 
of the shareholders and other stakeholders.
We believe that our Board has an appropriate mix of 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors to maintain its 
independence and to separate its function of governance 
and management. The Board possesses an optimal mix of 
professionalism, knowledge and experience.
As on March 31, 2025, the Board of the Company 
comprises of 12 Directors i.e., 6 Executive Directors and 
6 Non-Executive Independent Directors.
All the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions 
specified in the applicable Regulations and are 
independent of the management.
The Board has seven committees – Audit Committee, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee, Risk Management Committee, 
Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’) Committee, 
Committee of Directors and Depositories Committee. 
The Chairperson of most of the Board Committees 
namely Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and Stakeholders Relationship Committee 
are Independent Directors.
ROLE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The primary role of the Board is that of trusteeship to 
protect and enhance shareholder value. As trustees, the 
Board has a fiduciary responsibility to ensure that the 
Company has clear goals aligned to shareholder value 
and its growth. Further, the Board is also responsible for:
• Exercising appropriate control to ensure that the 
Company manages efficiently to fulfill stakeholders’ 
aspirations and societal expectations.
• Monitoring the effectiveness of the Company’s 
governance practices and making changes 
as necessary.
• Providing strategic guidance to the Company and 
ensuring effective monitoring of the Management.
• Exercising independent judgment on corporate affairs.
• Assigning a sufficient number of non-executive 
members of the Board to tasks where there is 
a potential for conflict of interest, to exercise 
independent judgment.
• Reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, major plans 
of action, risk policy, annual budgets and business 
plans, setting performance objectives, monitoring 
implementation and corporate performance, and 
overseeing major capital expenditures, acquisitions 
and divestments.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
223
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Size and Composition of the Board of Directors are as follows:
S No. Category
Name of Director
% of Total Board size
1.
Promoter Directors
i. 
 M. R. Jaishankar
ii.  Pavitra Shankar
iii.  Nirupa Shankar
25%
2.
Executive Directors
i. 
 Amar Mysore
ii.  Roshin Mathew
iii.  Pradyumna Krishna Kumar
25%
3.
Non-Executive Independent Directors
i. 
 Lakshmi Venkatachalam
ii.  Pradeep Kumar Panja
iii.  Venkatesh Panchapagesan
iv.  V.V. Ranganathan
v.  Abraham Stephanos
vi.  Padmaja Chunduru
50%
Executive Director (50%)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Independent Director (50%)
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Men (67%) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Women (33%)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISCLOSURE REGARDING THE RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS
As per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Mr. Amar Mysore (DIN: 03218587), Executive Director and Ms. Nirupa 
Shankar (DIN: 02750342), Executive Director of the Company, will retire by rotation at the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting and being eligible, they seek reappointment.
The Board based on its evaluation, recommended their reappointment.
CERTIFICATION FROM COMPANY SECRETARY IN PRACTICE
M/s. BMP & Co. LLP, Company Secretaries, has issued a certificate as required under SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, confirming that none of Directors on the Board of the Company have 
been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as director of the Company by the SEBI/ Ministry 
of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory Authority. This Certificate forms part of the Annual Report.
KEY BOARD QUALIFICATIONS, EXPERTISE, SKILLS AND ATTRIBUTES
The Company’s Board comprises of qualified members who bring in the required skills, competence and expertise that 
allow them to make an effective contribution to the Board and its Committees. The Board Members are committed 
to ensure that the Company follows the highest standards of Corporate Governance.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
224
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
The table below summarises the key qualifications, skills and attributes which are taken into consideration while 
nominating to serve on the Board.
Criteria for Directors Qualifications
  
Finance
Recent Global Developments, coupled with economic conditions, have 
demonstrated that one can understand financial markets and the economy 
with understanding real estate markets and underwriting real estate risk.
  
Leadership
Extended Leadership experience for a significant enterprise, results in practical 
understanding of process, operation, goal setting, strategic planning and risk 
management in the advanced stage of risk mitigation.
 
Real Estate
Different level of experience and skill requirement and tend to rely more on 
expertise and local market knowledge in the real estate sector.
 
Industrial Development
Responsible for co-ordination of skill development efforts across various 
industries, building the skill upgradation, building of new industrial development 
skills and innovative thinking.
 
Sales & Marketing
Experience in developing strategies to grow sales and market share, build 
brand awareness and equity and enhance enterprise reputation.
 
Technology
A significant and considerable background in technology, technological 
developments and recent trends that enables the Company to implement the 
same in the business model.
In the table below, the specific areas of focus or expertise of individual Board Members have been highlighted. 
However, the absence of a mark against a member’s name does not necessarily mean the member does not possess 
the corresponding qualification or skill.
Name of the Director
Key qualifications, skills and attributes
Finance
Leadership
Real Estate
Industrial 
development
Sales & 
Marketing
Technology
Mr. M. R. Jaishankar
√
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Roshin Mathew
√
√
√
√
-
√
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
-
√
√
-
√
√
Ms. Pavitra Shankar
√
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Amar Mysore
√
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Pradyumna Krishna Kumar
√
√
√
-
√
√
Ms. Lakshmi Venkatachalam
√
√
√
√
-
√
Mr. Pradeep Kumar Panja
√
√
- 
-
√
√
Dr. Venkatesh Panchapagesan
√
√
√
-
-
√
Mr. V.V. Ranganathan
√
√
-
√
-
√
Mr. Abraham Stephanos
√
√
-
√
√
-
Ms. Padmaja Chunduru
√
√
-
√
-
√
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
225
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
BOARD MEETINGS
During the year under review, a total of 11 Board Meetings were held and the gap between two meetings did not exceed 
120 days. The meetings were held on the following dates:
April 15 2024, May 9, 2024, May 28, 2024, August 5, 2024, September 6, 2024, October 19, 2024, November 13, 2024, 
January 7, 2025, January 29, 2025, March 22, 2025 and March 31, 2025.
The Board meets at least once in every quarter to consider financial results, quarterly performance among other 
businesses of the Company. The necessary quorum was present in all the Board Meetings.
The attendance of Directors in Board Meetings, previous Annual General Meeting held during the FY 2024-25, 
Directorships and Committee Chair positions/ Memberships held by them in other Companies are as follows:
Name of the Director
Date of joining 
the Board
No. of shares 
held and 
percentage 
to paid up 
share capital
Board 
meetings 
attended in the 
financial year 
2024-25 (Total 
meeting held)
Attendance 
in the 29th 
Annual 
General 
Meeting held 
on August 6, 
2024
No. of other 
Directorships
No. of Committee 
positions held in other 
Companies
Chairman/
Chairperson Member
Mr. M.R. Jaishankar
08/11/1995
3,45,67,767
14.14%
10(11)
Yes
0
Nil
Nil
Mr. Roshin Mathew
07/11/2019
65,000
0.03%
10(11)
Yes
9
Nil
6
Ms. Pavitra Shankar
16/05/2018
20,73,094
0.85%
10(11)
Yes
9
3
3
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
16/05/2018
1,60,63,030 
6.57%
11(11)
Yes
9
Nil
4
Mr. Amar Mysore
16/05/2018
19,40,659
0.79%
11(11)
Yes
9
2
4
Mr. Pradyumna Krishna 
Kumar
12/07/2023
18,582
0.00%
11(11)
Yes
9
Nil
2
Mr. Aroon Raman
29/10/2013
Nil
2(3)*
NA
1
2
2
Mr. Bijou Kurien
31/01/2015
Nil
9(9)**
Yes
3
4
8
Ms. Lakshmi 
Venkatachalam
01/02/2016
Nil
10(11)
Yes
Nil
Nil
Nil
Mr. Pradeep Kumar Panja
16/05/2018
Nil
9(11)
Yes
2
1
2
Dr. Venkatesh 
Panchapagesan
16/05/2018
Nil
9(11)
Yes
Nil
Nil
Nil
Mr. V V Ranganathan
11/10/2022
Nil
11(11)
Yes
1
Nil
2
Mr. Abraham Stephanos
28/05/2024
Nil
9(9)***
Yes
1
Nil
1
Ms. Padmaja Chunduru
29/01/2025
Nil
3(3)****
NA
7
Nil
7
* Ceased to be a Non-Executive Independent Director and Vice Chairman w.e.f. August 4, 2024
** Ceased to be a Non-Executive Independent Director w.e.f. January 30, 2025
*** Appointed as a Director w.e.f. May 28, 2024.
**** Appointed as a Director w.e.f. January 29, 2025
• Inter se relationship amongst Directors: Ms. Pavitra Shankar & Ms. Nirupa Shankar are the daughters of 
Mr. M R Jaishankar. Mr. Amar Mysore is the nephew of Mr. M.R. Jaishankar. None of the other directors are related 
to any other director on the Board.
• The number of directorships, committee membership(s), Chair position(s) of all directors are within the 
limits prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
• Directorships in public companies whether listed or not are included for the purpose of directorships. Private 
Companies, Section 8 Companies and in foreign companies have been excluded.
• The Committee positions specified in the table above relates to only Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee of the Board in accordance with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
• None of the Non-Executive directors hold any shares or convertible instruments in the Company as specified 
under Schedule V (C) (f) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
226
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
DETAILS OF DIRECTORSHIPS
Disclosures of Directorship in various Listed Entities (excluding the Company) are as follows:
Name of Directors
List of Directorships in other listed entities
Category of Directorship
Mr. M.R. Jaishankar
Nil
Nil
Mr. Amar Mysore
Nil
Nil
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
Nil
Nil
Ms. Pavitra Shankar
Nil
Nil
Mr. Roshin Mathew
Nil
Nil
Mr. Pradyumna Krishna Kumar
Nil
Nil
Ms. Lakshmi Venkatachalam
Nil
Nil
Mr. Pradeep Kumar Panja
1.  Shriram Finance Limited
2.  The Karnataka Bank Limited
Independent Non-Executive
Independent Non-Executive
Dr. Venkatesh Panchapagesan
Nil
Nil
Mr. V V Ranganathan
Nil
Nil
Mr. Abraham Stephanos
Nil
Nil
Ms. Padmaja Chunduru
1. Atul Limited
Independent Non-Executive
CHANGES 
IN 
BOARD 
COMPOSITION 
DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2024-25:
During the year ended March 31, 2025, there were 
no changes in the Board composition other than as 
detailed below:
1. 
 Mr. Aroon Raman, Non-Executive Independent 
Director and Vice Chairman, ceased to be a Non-
Executive Independent Director and Vice Chairman 
of the Company w.e.f. closing business hours of 
August 4, 2024 on completion of two terms.
2. 
 Mr. Bijou Kurien, Non-Executive Independent 
Director, ceased to be a Non-Executive Independent 
Director of the Company w.e.f. January 30, 2025 on 
completion of two terms.
3. 
 Mr. Abraham Stephanos was appointed as an 
Additional Director in Non-Executive capacity 
with effect from May 28, 2024. The Shareholders 
in the Twenty Ninth Annual General Meeting held 
on August 6, 2024 appproved his appointment as 
a director of the Company for the first term of 5 
consecutive years with effect from May 28, 2024.
4. 
 Ms. Padmaja Chunduru was appointed as an 
Additional Director in Non-Executive capacity with 
effect from January 29, 2025. The Shareholders 
approved her appointment as a director of the 
Company through postal ballot on March 14, 2025 
for the first term of five consecutive years with 
effect from January 29, 2025.
CODE OF CONDUCT FOR BOARD AND 
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
The Board of Directors of the Company have laid down 
a Code of Conduct for all Board Members and Senior 
Management of the Company. Board Members and 
Senior Management of the Company have affirmed 
compliance to the Code for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2025. A  declaration to this effect by the 
Managing Director of the Company is annexed to this 
report. The Code of Conduct has also been posted on 
your Company’s website: 
https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/corporate-
governance/policies
The Company’s “Code of Internal Procedures and 
Conduct for prevention of Insider Trading in the 
Securities of Brigade Enterprises Limited” is applicable 
to all the Designated Persons of the Company and their 
immediate relatives and its subsidiaries. This Code aims 
at preserving and preventing misuse of unpublished 
price sensitive information.
All the Independent Directors of the Company at the time 
of their first appointment to the Board and thereafter in 
the first meeting of the Board in each financial year give a 
declaration that they meet the criteria of independence 
as provided under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the Companies 
Act, 2013.
FAMILIARISATION 
PROGRAMME 
FOR 
DIRECTORS
The Board Members are provided with Company’s 
publication Insight along with the corporate brochures, 
reports, documents, internal policies etc., highlighting 
the Company’s business, to familiarise the new members 
inducted with the culture, code, policies, procedures, 
and practices of the Company. The Managing Director 
and Chief Human Resource Officer make presentation 
to the new Directors inducted to give a birds’ eye view 
on the Company and Group in the first board meeting 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
227
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
attended by the Director. Presentations are made at the 
Board/ Committee meetings by the respective Strategic 
Business Unit (SBU) Heads and Functional Heads who 
provide updates on the financial and operational 
performance of the Company and strategies for the 
future. Site visits are also organised in order to provide 
an insight into various projects being developed by the 
Company/Group. The Company also nominates Directors 
for training programmes from time to time.
Quarterly updates on changes in the regulatory 
environment is presented to the Board by the functional 
heads. Apart from this, the statutory auditors as well as the 
internal auditors present to the Audit Committee/ Board 
on regular intervals on important regulatory changes. The 
Company’s policy on Familiarisation Programme of Board 
of Directors is disclosed on its website:
https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/corporate-
governance/policies
The above initiatives help the directors to understand 
the Company, its business, and the regulatory framework 
in which the Company operates and equips them 
to effectively fulfil their roles. In addition to above 
the board members are regularly briefed about the 
latest development/trends in Real Estate Industry and 
regulatory updates.
SEPARATE MEETING OF INDEPENDENT 
DIRECTORS
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 25(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, a separate 
meeting of the Independent Directors is being held every 
financial year. None of the Non-Independent directors, 
Members of the management or Key Managerial 
Personnel are present for this meeting. Independent 
Directors also meet the Strategic Business Unit (‘SBU’) 
Heads and Functional Heads separately without the 
presence of the Executive Directors.
During the financial year 2024-25 the meeting of the 
Independent Directors was held on March 31, 2025, 
to review the performance of the Non-Independent 
directors (including the Chairman, Managing Director & 
Joint Managing Director) and the Board as a whole.
One of the key functions of the Board is to monitor and 
review the Board evaluation framework. The Board works 
with the Nomination and Remuneration Committee to 
lay down the evaluation criteria for the performance 
of the Chairman, the Board, Board committees, and 
executive/non-executive/independent directors through 
evaluation, excluding the director being evaluated.
Based on SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and guidance note 
on the Board Evaluation, Independent Directors also 
reviewed the quality, content and timelines of the flow 
of information between the management and the Board 
and its Committees which is necessary to perform and 
discharge their duties effectively and reasonably.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD:
(A) AUDIT COMMITTEE
 
 The Audit Committee of the Company comprises of 
5 Non-Executive Independent Directors. All of them 
possess accounting knowledge, financial expertise, 
and exposure. The Audit Committee complies 
with the requirements of Regulation 18 of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 read with Section 177 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder.
 
 The Audit Committee was reconstituted on August 
5, 2024 and January 29, 2025 with the induction of 
Mr. Abraham Stephanos and Ms. Padmaja Chunduru 
in place of Mr. Aroon Raman and Mr. Bijou Kurien 
respectively. During the year under review, 9 Audit 
Committee Meetings were held and gap between 
two meetings did not exceed one hundred and 
twenty days. The necessary quorum was present 
for all the meetings. The meetings were held on the 
following dates:
 
 April 15, 2024, May 9, 2024, May 28, 2024, August 5, 
2024, October 19, 2024, November 13, 2024, January 
7, 2025, January 29, 2025 and March 22, 2025.
 
 The composition and attendance of the members for 
the Audit Committee meetings for the financial year 
2024-25 are as follows:
Name of the Director
Position in 
Committee
No. of Meetings 
attended (No. of 
meetings held)
Dr. Venkatesh 
Panchapagesan
Chairman
8 (9)
Mr. Pradeep Kumar 
Panja
Member
8 (9)
Mr. V V Ranganathan
Member
9 (9)
Mr. Abraham 
Stephanos
Member
5 (5)*
Ms. Padmaja 
Chunduru
Member
1 (1)*
Mr. Aroon Raman
Member
3 (3)*
Mr. Bijou Kurien
Member
9 (9)*
*Note:
 Mr. Abraham Stephanos was inducted as member w.e.f. 
August 5, 2024
 Ms. Padmaja Chunduru was inducted as member w.e.f. 
January 29, 2025
 Mr. Aroon Raman completed his two terms as Independent 
Director on August 4, 2024
 Mr. Bijou Kurien has completed his two terms as independent 
director on January 30, 2025
Brigade Enterprises Limited
228
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Mr. P Om Prakash, Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer is the Secretary to the Committee.
The Primary objective of the Audit Committee is to 
monitor and provide an effective supervision of the 
management’s financial reporting process to ensure 
accurate and timely disclosures, with the highest level of 
transparency, integrity, and quality of financial reporting. 
The Committee also oversees the work of the internal 
auditors and the independent auditors and review the 
process and safeguards employed by them.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee inter-alia 
includes the following:
1. 
 Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting 
process and the disclosure of its financial 
information to ensure that the financial statement 
is correct, sufficient and credible;
2. 
 Recommendation for appointment, remuneration 
and terms of appointment of Auditors of 
the Company;
3. 
 Approval of payment to Statutory Auditors for any 
other services rendered by the statutory auditors;
4. 
 Reviewing, with the Management, the quarterly/ 
half yearly/ annual financial statements, auditor’s 
report thereon before submission to the Board for 
approval, with reference to:
a) 
 Matters required to be included in the Directors’ 
Responsibility Statement to be included in the 
Board’s Report in terms of Section 134(3)(c) of the 
Companies Act, 2013;
b) 
 Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices 
and reasons for the same;
c) 
 Major accounting entries involving estimates based 
on the exercise of judgment by management;
d) 
 Significant adjustments made in the financial 
statements arising out of audit findings;
e) 
 Compliance with listing and other legal requirements 
relating to financial statements;
f) 
 Disclosure of any related party transactions;
g) 
 Modified opinion (s), in the draft audit report, if any.
5. 
 Reviewing, with the management, the statement of 
uses/application of funds raised through an issue 
(public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the 
statement of funds utilized for purposes other than 
those stated in the offer document/prospectus/
notice and the report submitted by the monitoring 
agency monitoring the utilisation of proceeds of a 
public issue or rights issue, and making appropriate 
recommendations to the Board to take up steps in 
this matter;
6. 
 Reviewing 
and 
monitoring 
the 
Auditor’s 
independence and performance and effectiveness 
of audit process;
7. 
 Approval or any subsequent modification of 
transactions of the Company with related parties;
8. 
 Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
9. 
 Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, 
wherever it is necessary;
10.  Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems;
11. 
 Reviewing, with the Management, the performance 
of statutory and internal auditors, and adequacy of 
the internal control systems;
12. 
 Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, 
if any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official 
heading the department, reporting structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit;
13. 
 Discussion with Internal Auditors of any significant 
findings and follow up there on;
14.  Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations 
by the Internal Auditors into matters where there is 
suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal 
control systems of a material nature and reporting 
the matter to the Board;
15.  Discussion with Statutory Auditors before the audit 
commences, about the nature and scope of audit as 
well as post-audit discussion to ascertain any area 
of concern;
16.  To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in 
the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors;
17. 
 To review the functioning of the Whistle 
Blower Mechanism;
18.  Approval of appointment of Chief Financial Officer 
after assessing the qualifications, experience, and 
background, etc. of the candidate;
19.  Reviewing the utilization of loans and/or advances 
from/investment by the holding company in the 
subsidiary exceeding rupees 100 crore or 10% 
of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever 
is lower including existing loans/advances/ 
investments existing;
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
229
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
20.  To consider and comment on rationale, cost-
benefits and impact of schemes involving merger, 
demerger, amalgamation etc., on the listed entity 
and its shareholders.
21. 
 Reviewing the appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors;
22.  Review compliance with the provisions of SEBI 
Prohibition of Insider Trading Regulations at least 
once in a financial year;
23.  Review of Management discussion and analysis of 
financial condition and results of operations;
24.  Review of Management letters/letters of internal 
control weaknesses issued by the Statutory Auditors;
25.  Review of Internal audit reports relating to internal 
control weaknesses;
26.  Review of the appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the chief internal auditor;
27.  Review of Statement of deviations:
• quarterly statement of deviation(s) including 
report of monitoring agency, if applicable, 
submitted to stock exchange(s) in terms of 
Regulation 32(1).
• annual statement of funds utilized for purposes 
other than those stated in the offer document/
prospectus/notice in terms of Regulation 32(7).
28.  Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in 
the terms of reference of the audit committee;
29.  In addition, the Committee is also required to 
discharge such other roles/ functions as envisaged 
under the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI Listing 
Regulations and other applicable laws, as amended 
from time to time.
 
 The powers of the Audit Committee includes 
the power:
 
 1. 
 To investigate activity within its terms 
of reference.
 
 2. 
 To seek information from any employee.
 
 3. 
 To 
obtain 
outside 
legal 
or 
other 
professional advice.
 
 4. 
 To secure attendance of outsiders with relevant 
expertise if it considers necessary.
(B)  NOMINATION & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
 
 The Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
comprises three Independent Directors. The 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee complies 
with the requirements of Regulation 19 of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 read with Section 178 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder.
 
 The Nomination and Remuneration Committee was 
reconstituted on August 5, 2024 and January 29, 
2025 with the induction of Ms. Padmaja Chunduru. 
During the year under review, 5 meetings of the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee were held. 
The meetings were held on the following dates:
 
 April 15, 2024, May 28, 2024, August 5, 2024, 
November 13, 2024 and January 29, 2025.
 
 The composition and attendance of the members 
in the Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
meetings for the financial year 2024-25 are 
as follows:
Name of the Director
Position in 
Committee
No. of Meetings 
attended (No. of 
meetings held)
Mr. V V Ranganathan
Chairman
5(5)
Dr. Venkatesh 
Panchapagesan
Member
5(5)
Ms. Padmaja 
Chunduru
Member
-*
Mr. Bijou Kurien
Member
5(5)*
Mr. Aroon Raman
Member
2(2)*
*Note:
Ms. Padmaja Chunduru was inducted as member w.e.f. January 
29, 2025
Mr. Aroon Raman and Mr. Bijou Kurien have completed their 
two terms as independent directors with effect from August 
4, 2024 and January 30, 2025 respectively.
 
 Company Secretary is the Secretary of 
the Committee.
 
 The terms of reference of the Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee inter–alia includes 
the following:
 
 1. 
 To formulate the criteria for determining 
qualifications, positive attributes and 
independence of a director and recommend to 
the Board a policy relating to the remuneration 
of the directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
(‘KMP’) and other employees;
 
 2. 
 To evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board and on the basis 
of such evaluation, prepare a description 
of the role and capabilities required of an 
independent director while shortlisting persons 
to be recommended to the Board for induction 
of Independent Directors. The Committee 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
230
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
to consider candidates from a wide range of 
backgrounds, having due regard to diversity, 
time commitments of the candidate and 
wherever required engage external agencies 
for getting independent director profiles.
 
 3. 
 To formulate criteria for evaluation of 
performance of independent directors and 
the Board;
 
 4. 
 To devise a policy on Board diversity;
 
 5. 
 To identify persons who are qualified to 
become directors and who may be appointed 
as key managerial personnel and in the senior 
managerial in accordance with the criteria laid 
down and recommend to the board of directors 
their appointment and removal;
 
 6. 
 To recommend the Board whether to extend 
or continue the term of appointment 
of the independent director, based on 
the report of performance evaluation of 
independent directors;
 
 7. 
 To recommend to the board all remuneration, in 
whatever form, payable to senior management;
 
 8. 
 To establish and review plans relating to orderly 
succession for appointment of the Board, KMP 
and SMP;
 
 9. 
 To assist the Board of Directors in the 
Board’s overall responsibilities relating to 
Employee Stock Options Plans, including the 
administration of Company’s ESOP Schemes;
 
 10.  To 
review 
Management 
depth 
and 
bandwidth across key group functions and 
Succession planning.
 
 11. 
 To review from time-to-time retention 
and attrition in top management and 
compensation benchmarking.
 
 12. 
 To 
review 
diversity 
benchmarks 
for 
the organization.
 
 13. 
 To review organization structure from time 
to time.
 
 14.  To review performance management system 
including rewards and ESOPs.
 
 15.  In addition, the Committee is also required 
to discharge such other roles/functions as 
envisaged under the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI 
Listing Regulations and other applicable laws, 
as amended from time to time.
 
 The Nomination & Remuneration Committee has 
laid down the Performance Evaluation criteria 
of Independent Directors in terms of Regulation 
19 read with Part D of the Schedule II of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
 
 The Remuneration Policy of the Company for the 
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and Senior 
Management Personnel is annexed to the Board’s 
Report and disclosed on its website:
 
 https://cdn.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/
policies/remuneration-policy-08042022.pdf
The details of remuneration paid/ payable to the Directors for the year ended on March 31, 2025 are as follows:
Name of the Director
Salary & 
Perquisites 
(₹ in Lakhs)
Sitting Fees 
(₹ in Lakhs)
Commission 
paid/ payable 
(₹ in Lakhs)
Total (₹ in Lakhs)
Mr. M.R. Jaishankar
171.00
-
678.00
849.00
Mr. Roshin Mathew*
259.00
-
297.00
556.00
Ms. Pavitra Shankar
133.00
-
255.00
388.00
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
138.00
-
254.00
392.00
Mr. Amar Mysore
131.00
-
254.00
385.00
Mr. Pradyumna Krishna Kumar**
134.00
-
170.00
304.00
Mr. Aroon Raman
-
5.00
6.50
11.50
Mr. Bijou Kurien
-
21.00
16.50
37.50
Ms. Lakshmi Venkatachalam
-
15.50
20.00
35.50
Mr. Pradeep Kumar Panja
-
21.50
20.00
41.50
Dr. Venkatesh Panchapagesan
-
19.00
20.00
39.00
Mr. V V Ranganathan
-
21.25
20.00
41.25
Mr. Abraham Stephanos
-
14.25
17.00
31.25
Ms. Padmaja Chunduru
-
4.75
3.00
7.75
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
231
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
*Mr. Roshin Mathew was granted 76,440 Stock options under Brigade Employees Stock Option Plan 2017 and all options vested as at March 
31, 2025 (42,555 was exercised during the previous years).
*Mr. Roshin Mathew was granted 45,859 Stock options under Brigade Employees Stock Option Plan and 21,116 options were vested as at 
March 31, 2025 (no options were exercised during the previous years).
** Mr. Pradyumna Krishna Kumar was granted 15,870 Stock options under Brigade Employees Stock Option Plan 2017 and all options vested 
as at March 31, 2025 (15,870 was exercised during the previous years).
** Mr. Pradyumna Krishna Kumar was granted 20,632 Stock options under Brigade Employees Stock Option Plan and 9522 options were 
vested as at March 31, 2025 (2500 was exercised during the previous years).
Apart from the commission and sitting fees paid by the 
Company, the Non-Executive Independent Directors, 
in their individual capacity, did not have any pecuniary 
relationship or transaction with the Company during the 
financial year 2024-25.
The tenure of Executive Directors is in line with the 
approval provided by the shareholders of the Company.
As per the terms of the appointment of the Executive 
Directors, the notice period is three months with no 
severance fee.
STAKEHOLDERS’ 
RELATIONSHIP 
COMMITTEE
The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee comprises of 
1 Executive Director and 3 Non-Executive Independent 
Directors. The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
is in due compliance of Regulation 20 of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 read with Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and the Rules made thereunder.
During the year under review, 3 meetings of the 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee were held.
The meetings were held on the following dates:
May 28, 2024, August 5, 2024 and November 13, 2024.
The composition and attendance of the members in the 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee meetings for the 
financial year 2024-25 are as follows:
Name of the Director
Position in 
Committee
No. of Meetings 
attended (No. of 
meetings held)
Ms. Lakshmi 
Venkatachalam
Chairperson
3(3)
Dr. Venkatesh 
Panchapagesan
Member
3(3)
Ms. Pavitra Shankar
Member
3(3)
Mr. Pradeep Kumar Panja
Member
3(3)
Mr. P Om Prakash, Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer is the Secretary to the Committee
The terms of reference of the Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee inter-alia includes the following:
1. 
 Investor relations and redressal of Shareholders/ 
Security holders’ grievances in general and relating 
to transfer/ transmission of shares, non-receipt of 
annual reports, non-receipt of dividends, interest 
and non- receipt of Balance Sheet, issue of new/ 
duplicate certificates etc.,
2. 
 Reviewing measures taken for effective exercise of 
voting rights by shareholders;
3. 
 Review of adherence to the service standards 
adopted by the Company in respect of various 
services being rendered by the Registrar & Share 
Transfer Agent;
4. 
 Review of the various measures and initiatives 
taken by the Company for reducing the quantum of 
unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of 
dividend warrants/annual reports/statutory notices 
by the shareholders of the Company;
5. 
 Proactively engaging with all shareholders at least 
once a year along with members of the Committee/
Board/KMPs, as required and identifying actionable 
points for implementation;
6. 
 Reviewing Internal Audit Report of Registrar and 
Transfer Agents, if any, from time to time;
7. 
 In addition, the Committee is also required to 
discharge such other roles/ functions as envisaged 
under the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI Listing 
Regulations and other applicable laws, as amended 
from time to time.
 
 Details of investor complaints received and 
redressed during the year 2024-25 are as follows:
Opening 
Balance
Received 
during the year
Resolved 
during the year
Closing 
balance
0
1
1
0
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Board of Directors of the Company has formed the 
Risk Management Committee to frame, implement and 
monitor the risk management plan for the Company.
The constitution of the Risk Management Committee 
is in line with Regulation 21 of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the 
Companies Act, 2013.
The Risk Management Committee was reconstituted 
on January 29, 2025. During the year under review, 3 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
232
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
meetings of the Risk Management Committee were held. 
The meetings were held on the following dates:
May 28, 2024, August 5, 2024 and November 13, 2024.
The composition and attendance of the members in the 
Risk Management Committee meeting for the financial 
year 2024-25 are as follows:
Name of the Director
Position in 
Committee
No. of Meetings 
attended (No. of 
meetings held)
Mr. M. R. Jaishankar
Chairman
2(3)
Mr. Pradeep Kumar Panja
Member
3(3)
Mr. Amar Mysore
Member
2(3)
Ms. Lakshmi 
Venkatachalam
Member
3(3)
Mr. Roshin Mathew
Member
3(3)
Mr. Bijou Kurien
Member
3(3)*
*Note:
Mr. Bijou Kurien have completed his two terms as independent 
director with effect from January 30, 2025.
Mr. P Om Prakash, Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer is the Secretary to the Committee.
The terms of reference to the Risk Management 
Committee are as follows:
1. 
 To formulate a detailed risk management policy for 
the Company which shall include;
 
 a) 
 A framework for identification of internal 
and external risks specifically faced by 
the listed entity, in particular including 
financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability 
(particularly, ESG related risks), information, 
cyber security risks or any other risk as may 
be determined by the Committee.
 
 b) 
 Measures for risk mitigation including 
systems and processes for internal control of 
identified risks.
 
 c) 
Business continuity plan.
2. 
 To ensure that appropriate methodology, processes 
and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate 
risks associated with the business of the Company;
3. 
 To monitor and oversee implementation of the 
risk management policy, including evaluating the 
adequacy of risk management systems and internal 
control systems;
4. 
 To review the internal control systems based on 
internal audit exercise done by the external internal 
auditors and the internal auditors in the Company 
from time to time;
5. 
 To identify, assess and mitigate the existing as 
well as potential risks to the Company and to 
recommend strategies to the Audit Committee/ 
Board to overcome them;
6. 
 To review the reports, develop and implement action 
plans to mitigate risks
7. 
 To periodically review the risk management 
policy, at least once in two years, including by 
considering the changing industry dynamics and 
evolving complexity;
8. 
 To keep the board of directors informed about 
the nature and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions to be taken;
9. 
 The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration 
of the Chief Risk Officer (if any) shall be subject to 
review by the Risk Management Committee.
10.  To monitor and review of Cyber Security;
11. 
 To perform such other tasks as may be requested 
by the Audit Committee/ Board;
12. 
 In addition, the Committee is also required to 
discharge such other roles/ functions as envisaged 
under the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI Listing 
Regulations and other applicable laws, as amended 
from time to time.
CORPORATE 
SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY 
COMMITTEE
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee comprises of 
four Directors out of which two are Independent Directors 
and two are Executive Directors. The Constitution 
of Corporate Social Responsibility Committee is in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 135 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Corporate Social Responsibility 
(‘CSR’) Rules, 2014 together with Schedule VII of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee was 
reconstituted on August 5, 2024 with the induction of 
Mr. Abraham Stephanos in place of Mr. Aroon Raman. 
During the year under review, 3 meetings of CSR 
Committee were held.
The meetings were held on the following dates:
May 28, 2024, August 5, 2024 and November 13, 2024.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
233
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
The composition and attendance of the members in the 
CSR Committee meetings for the financial year 2024-25 
are as follows:
Name of the Director
Position in 
Committee
No. of Meetings 
attended (No. of 
meetings held)
Mr. M. R. Jaishankar
Chairman
2(3)
Ms. Lakshmi 
Venkatachalam
Member
3(3)
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
Member
3(3)
Mr. Aroon Raman
Member
1(1)*
Mr. Abraham Stephanos
Member
1(1)*
*Note:
Mr. Aroon Raman has completed his two terms as independent 
director with effect from August 4, 2025
Mr. Abraham Stephanos was inducted as member w.e.f. 
August 5, 2024
Mr. P Om Prakash, Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer is the Secretary to the Committee.
The terms of reference of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee are as follows:
1. 
 Formulate and recommend to the Board for approval 
the CSR Policy and any amendments thereto;
2. 
 Advice the Board on the activities to be undertaken 
by the company as specified in the Act.
3. 
 Review and recommend the annual CSR plan and 
the concomitant budgetary outlays to the Board 
for approval;
4. 
 Monitor the CSR activities and compliance with the 
CSR Policy at regular intervals;
5. 
 Review and implement, as needed, any other matter 
related to CSR initiatives.
Primary Focus Areas of Engagement includes:
Health
Promoting health care includes sanitation 
and preventive health care
Skill 
Development/ 
Education
Promoting education, including special 
education and employment enhancing 
vocation skills especially among children, 
women, elderly, and the differently abled 
and livelihood enhancement projects
Promotion of 
music and 
other culture
Protection of national heritage, art and 
culture including restoration of buildings 
and 
sites 
of 
historical 
importance 
and works of art; setting up public 
libraries: promotion and development of 
traditional arts and handicrafts
Environment
Ensuring environmental sustainability, 
ecological balance, protection of flora 
and fauna, animal welfare, agroforestry, 
conservation of natural resources and 
maintaining quality of soil, air and water
The CSR activities undertaken by the Company during 
the financial year 2024-25 forms part of the Board’s 
Report in Annexure – 5.
COMMITTEE OF DIRECTORS:
The Board of Directors constituted the Committee of 
Directors and delegated powers relating to certain regular 
business activities. Having regard to the significant 
contributions that the committee make and assisting 
the Board of Directors in discharging its duties and 
responsibilities. The Committee of Directors comprises 
of four Directors out of which two are Independent 
Directors and two Executive Directors.
The Committee of Directors was reconstituted on 
January 29, 2025 with the induction of Mr. Abraham 
Stephanos in place of Mr. Bijou Kurien. During the year 
under review, 6 meetings of the Committee of Directors 
were held.
The meetings were held on the following dates: July 8, 
2024, August 16, 2024, September 2 , 2024, September 
5, 2024 (two meetings were held on same date) and 
January 28, 2025.
The composition and attendance of the members in the 
Committee of Directors meetings for the financial year 
2024-25 are as follows:
Name of the Director
Position in 
Committee
No. of Meetings 
attended (No. of 
meetings held)
Ms. Pavitra Shankar
Chairperson
6(6)
Mr. Pradeep Kumar Panja
Member
6(6)
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
Member
6(6)
Mr. Bijou Kurien
Member
4(6)*
Mr. Abraham Stephanos
Member
-*
*Mr. Bijou Kurien has completed his two terms as independent 
director
Mr. Abraham Stephanos has been inducted as member with effect 
from January 29, 2025
Mr. P Om Prakash, Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer is the Secretary to the Committee.
DEPOSITORIES COMMITTEE:
The Board of Directors constituted the Depositories 
Committee and delegated powers relating to approval 
of the share transfer and transmission of equity shares 
of the Company and the matters concerned there to. The 
Depositories Committee will consider request for both 
Dematerialization and Rematerialization of equity shares 
for approval.
The Depositories Committee comprises of three 
Directors all of whom are Executive Directors. During the 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
234
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
year under review, 1 meeting of Depositories Committee 
was held.
The composition and attendance of the members in the 
Depositories Committee meetings for the financial year 
2024-25 are as follows:
The composition of the Depositories Committee is 
as follows:
Name of the Director
Position in 
Committee
No. of Meetings 
attended (No. of 
meetings held)
Ms. Pavitra Shankar
Chairperson
1(1)
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
Member
1(1)
Mr. Pradyumna  
Krishna Kumar
Member
1(1)
Mr. P Om Prakash, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer is the 
Secretary to the Committee.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
As on March 31, 2025, the Company has 17 direct 
subsidiaries, 5 step down subsidiaries, 1 Joint Venture 
and 3 limited liability partnerships.
Mysore Projects Private Limited is a material subsidiary of 
the Company. In line with the Regulation 24 of the Listing 
Regulations requiring at least one Independent Director of 
the Company to be a Director on the Board of an unlisted 
material subsidiary, whether incorporated in India or not, 
Mr. Abraham Stephanos, Independent Director is on the 
Board of Mysore Projects Private Limited.
Further, Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited has become 
a material subsidiary based on the thresholds on 
the audited consolidated financial statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 
which was approved by the Audit Committee and Board 
on May 14, 2025.
Apart from the two mentioned above, the Company 
does not have any material Subsidiary Companies whose 
income or net worth exceeds 10% of the consolidated 
income or consolidated net worth of Brigade Enterprises 
Limited for the financial year 2024-25.
In terms of Regulation 16 (1) (c) of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the 
policy on determining material subsidiary has been 
formulated and is available on the Company’s website:
https://docs.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/
policies/policy_for_determining_material_subsidiaries.
pdf
The financial statements including the investments 
made by the unlisted Subsidiary Companies have been 
reviewed by the Board of Directors of the Company.
Copies of Minutes of the Board Meetings of the Subsidiary 
Companies are placed before the Board regularly for 
their attention.
GENERAL MEETINGS
ANNUAL GENERAL MEEING:
The details of the Annual General Meetings held during the last three years are as follows:
Year
No. of AGM
Day, Date & Time of AGM
Venue
2023-24
29
Tuesday, August 06, 2024 at 10.30 a.m.
Through Video Conferencing
2022-23
28
Monday, August 07, 2023 at 10.30 a.m.
Through Video Conferencing
2021-22
27
Tuesday, August 02, 2022 at 10.00 a.m.
Through Video Conferencing
Special Resolutions passed in the previous three Annual General Meetings are as follows:
No. of AGM
AGM date
Special Resolutions passed 
29
Tuesday, August 06, 2024 at 10.30 a.m.
Appointment of Mr. Abraham George Stephanos as an 
Independent Director of the Company
28
Monday, August 07, 2023 at 10.30 a.m.
Appointment of Mr. Pradyumna Krishna Kumar as Whole-time 
Director designated as Executive Director of the Company
27
Tuesday, August 02, 2022 at 10.00 a.m.
No Special Resolutions passed
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
235
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
There were no extraordinary general meetings held during the year.
POSTAL BALLOT
During the year, the Company had passed following resolutions through Postal Ballot through E-voting.
Date of Postal 
Ballot Notice
Resolutions Passed
Approval 
date
Scrutiniser
Link of Postal Ballot Notice and results
February 12, 
2025
Appointment of 
Ms. Padmaja Chunduru 
as an Independent 
Director of the 
Company
March 14, 
2025
Mr. Ajayan M 
P, Practicing 
Company Secretary
Postal Ballot Notice:
https://docs.brigadegroup.com/
assets/docs/investor/notice/
initmationofpostalballotnoticefinal.pdf
Postal Ballot Results:
https://docs.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/
investor/intimationtosepbresultfinal.pdf
The Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on January 29, 2025 approved the postal ballot notice for 
seeking shareholders’ approval for certain resolutions which are detailed in the table below.
Mr. Ajayan M P, Practicing Company Secretary, was appointed as the Scrutiniser for conducting the Postal Ballot/ 
e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner. The Notice of Postal Ballot dated January 29, 2025 was emailed 
to the shareholders on Wednesday, February 12, 2025 and the remote e-voting for the postal ballot was open from 
9:00 a.m. on Thursday, February 13, 2025 and closed at 5:00 p.m. on Friday, March 14, 2025 and the consolidated 
results of the same were announced on Friday, March 14, 2025. All the resolutions were passed with requisite majority.
The details of the remote e-voting pattern are as under:
Votes cast in favor of the 
Resolution (A)
Votes cast against the Resolution 
(B)
Abstain/ Invalid 
Votes
Less Voted
Total No. of Shares/ Votes Cast 
(A)+(B)
No. of Ballots
No. of Votes*
No. of Ballots
No. of Votes
No. of Votes
No. of Votes
No. of Ballots
No. of Votes
Resolution No: 01 - Appointment of Ms. Padmaja Chunduru as an Independent Director of the Company.
695
227183715
17
331047
116
0
712
227514762
* Includes Promoter & Promoter Group Shares
Procedure 
adopted 
by 
the 
Company 
for 
Postal Ballot:
MCA in terms of its various General Circulars, has advised 
the companies to take all decisions of urgent nature 
requiring shareholders’ approval, other than items of 
ordinary business or business where any person has 
a right to be heard, through the mechanism of Postal 
Ballot/ E-Voting in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder, 
without holding a general meeting that requires physical 
presence of members at a common venue.
Further, in terms of the General Circulars, the Company 
shall send Postal Ballot Notice by email to all its Members 
who have registered their email addresses with the 
Company or depository/ depository participants and the 
communication of assent / dissent of the Members shall 
only take place through the remote e-voting system.
Accordingly, the Company sent email of the Postal Ballot 
Notice, together with the documents accompanying the 
same, to all the Members whose names appeared in the 
Register of Members/ list of Beneficial Owners as received 
from the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL)/ 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL) or 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (“KFin Technologies 
Limited”) as on the cut-off date to their email IDs 
registered with the Company/ Depositories/ RTA.
The Company also published a notice in the newspaper 
giving details of the postal ballot, emails sent to the 
shareholders of the postal ballot notice and other 
requirements as mandated under the Companies Act, 
2013 and applicable Regulations.
In compliance with Sections 108 and 110 and other 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, read 
with related Rules, the Company provides electronic 
voting (e-voting) facility to all its members. The Company 
engages the services of KFin Technologies Limited 
(“KFintech/ Registrar”) for the purpose of providing 
e-voting. Voting rights are reckoned on the number of 
shares registered as on the cut-off date.
The Scrutiniser submitted his report to the Authorised 
Person after the completion of scrutiny, and the 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
236
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
consolidated results of the voting by postal ballot/ 
e-voting was then announced to the Stock Exchanges 
by the authorised person. The results were also 
displayed on the Company website and on the website of 
KFintech i.e., https://evoting.kfintech.com apart from the 
communication to BSE Limited and the National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited on which the shares of the 
Company are listed.
DISCLOSURES:
1) 
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
 All transactions entered into with the Related Parties 
as defined under the Act and Regulation 23 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations, during the financial year were in 
the ordinary course of business and on arm’s length 
basis. There are no materially significant related 
party transactions entered by the Company with 
related parties that may have a potential conflict 
with the interests of the Company.
 
 Transactions with related parties during the year 
were done with the prior approval of the Audit 
Committee and are listed out in note no. 34 forming 
part of the standalone financial statements.
 
 The Company has formulated a policy on Related 
Party Transactions under Regulation 23 of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and which is available on the 
website of the company:
 
 https://docs.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/
investor/policies/policy_on_related_party_
transactions.pdf
2) 
 DETAILS OF UTILIZATION OF FUNDS RAISED THROUGH PREFERENTIAL ALLOTMENT OR QUALIFIED 
INSTITUTIONS PLACEMENT AS SPECIFIED UNDER REGULATION 32 (7A)
 
 The Company has utilized the proceeds of ₹ 1068.71 Crores raised through the Qualified Institutions Placement 
(“QIP”) out of the total amount ₹ 1500 Crores raised in the issuance. The amount utilised is for the objects of 
the issue as stipulated the Placement Document. The details of utilisation of the proceeds raised through QIP 
is as under:
Sl 
No.
Particulars
Amount 
(₹ in Crores)
1
QIP funds raised 
1500
2.
Amount spent as on March 31, 2025:
• Repayment / pre-payment, in full or in part, of certain outstanding borrowings availed 
by the Company and/or some of the Subsidiaries 
447.75
• Part funding the costs for acquisition of land and other costs for entering into joint 
development agreements or joint venture agreements and obtaining the government 
and statutory approvals and payment of statutory taxes for such land by the 
Company and Subsidiaries 
245.97
• General Corporate Purposes 
342.82
• Issue expenses 
32.18
3.
Balance amount to be utilised as on March 31, 2025
431.28
3) 
COMPLIANCE
 
 The Company has duly complied with all the 
requirements of the Stock Exchange(s) and SEBI on 
matters relating to capital markets.
 
 There were no non-compliances by the Company 
and no instances of penalties or strictures which 
were imposed on the Company by SEBI, Stock 
Exchange(s) on which the shares of the Company 
are listed or any statutory authority on any matter 
related to the capital market during the last 3 years.
4) 
DISCLOSURE OF ACCOUNTING TREATMENT
 
 The Company has prepared the financial statements 
in due compliance of all material aspects with the 
accounting standards specified under Section 133 
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014. The significant accounting 
policies which are consistently applied have been 
set out in the Notes to the Financial Statements.
5) WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY/VIGIL MECHANISM
 
 The Company is committed to the high 
standards of Corporate Governance and 
stakeholder’s responsibility.
 
 The Company has adopted Whistle Blower Policy 
and established necessary vigil mechanism in line 
with Regulation 22 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, for 
directors, employees to report concerns about 
unethical Behaviour. No personnel have been denied 
access to Ethics Committee Members/ Chairman of 
the Audit Committee.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
237
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 The Company has established a vigil mechanism 
to promote ethical behaviour in all its business 
activities and has in place a mechanism for 
employees to report any genuine grievances, illegal, 
unethical behaviour, suspected fraud or violation of 
laws, rules and regulation or conduct to the Chief 
Vigilance Officer and the Audit Committee of the 
Board of Directors. The Policy also provides for 
adequate protection to the whistle blower against 
victimisation or discriminatory practices. The Policy 
is available on the website of the Company:
 
 https://docs.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/investor/
policies/whistleblower_policy_jan_2020.pdf
 
 During the Financial Year 2024-25, the company has 
not received any complaints.
6) 
 SEXUAL 
HARASSMENT 
OF 
WOMEN 
AT 
WORKPLACE 
(PREVENTION, 
PROHIBITION 
AND REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013:
 
 The Company has in place a well-defined policy on 
prevention, prohibition and redressal of complaints 
relating to sexual harassment of women at the 
workplace in compliance with the provisions of 
the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 
and Rules framed thereunder. The Policy is aimed 
at providing every woman at the workplace a safe, 
secure and dignified work environment. An “Internal 
Committee’’ (IC) has also been set up to redress 
such complaints if any.
 
 During the Financial Year 2024-25 the Company has 
not received any complaints.
7) 
FEES PAID TO STATUTORY AUDITORS
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2025 fees paid by 
the listed entity and its subsidiaries to the statutory 
auditor i.e., Walker Chandiok & Co LLP, Chartered 
Accountant, and all entities in the network firm/ 
network entity of which the statutory auditor is a 
part is ₹ 148.10 Lakhs excluding applicable taxes.
8) 
 PARTICULARS OF SENIOR MANAGEMENT INCLUDING THE CHANGES THEREIN
 
 The particulars of senior management as per Regulation 16(1) (d) of the Listing Regulations as on March 31, 2025 
are as follows:
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Employee
Designation
Department
CXOs Level
1.
Mr. Chidambar R S
Chief Human Resource Officer
Human Resource 
& Admin
2.
Mr. Hrishikesh R Nair
Chief Operating Officer
Kerala Operations
3.
Mr. Saroj Kumar Pati
President 
Construction Engineering
4.
Mr. Viswa Prathap Desu
Chief Operating Officer
Residential
5.
Mr. Manjunath Prasad
President
Engineering
6.
Mr. Sriramshetty Rajesh
Chief Operating Officer
Engineering - Hyderabad
7.
Mr. Subrata KC Sharma
Chief Business Officer
Chief Business Officer - Industrial 
& Integrated Development
8.
Mr. Balasubramanian Prabhu 
Chief Operating Officer
Chennai Operations
Key Managerial Personnel
1.
Mr. P Om Prakash
Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer
Secretarial
2.
Mr. Jayant B Manmadkar
Chief Financial Officer
Accounts
Other Senior Management Personnel
1.
Mr. Suresh B C
Sr. Vice President - Projects
Engineering
2.
Mr. Balasubramanian MN
Sr. Vice President - Projects
Engineering
3.
Mr. Anil Thomas
Sr. Vice President 
New Projects
4.
Mr. Suresh Yadwad
Sr. Vice President
Legal
5.
Mr. Ajay Koshy
Head 
Design & Development
6.
Ms. Priya Mallya
Vice President
Internal Audit
7.
Mr. Nikhil Shembekar
Sr. Vice President 
Digital & IT Systems
8.
Mr. Arvind Rao
Vice President
Commercial
9.
Mr. Ponappa P M
General Manager
Brigade Plus
10.
Ms. Miriam Macwana
General Manager
Corporate Communications
Brigade Enterprises Limited
238
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 The following are the changes in the Senior Management since the close of the previous financial year:
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Employee
Designation
Date of Change  
(Appointment/ Resignation)
Key Managerial Personnel
1.
Mr. Jayant B Manmadkar
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed with effect from  
18th April, 2024
CXOs Level
1.
Mr. Balasubramanian Prabhu
Chief Operating Officer - Chennai 
Operations
Appointed with effect from  
10th May, 2024
2.
Mr. Subrata K C Sharma
Chief Business Officer - Industrial & 
Integrated Development
Appointed with effect from  
25th October, 2024
Other Senior Management Personnel
1.
Mr. Nikhil Shembekar
Senior Vice President - IT & 
Systems
Appointed with effect from  
23rd May, 2024
2.
Mr. Subramanya Gupta Boda
Vice President, Digital & IT Systems
Resigned with effect from  
18th July, 2024
3.
Mr. Subrata K C Sharma
Chief Business Officer
Appointed with effect from  
25th October, 2024
4.
Mr. Suresh B C
Sr. Vice President - Projects
Retired with effect from  
31st March, 2025
9) 
 LOANS AND ADVANCES BY THE COMPANY 
AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES IN WHICH DIRECTORS 
ARE INTERESTED:
 
 The loans and advances made by the Company and 
its subsidiaries in which directors are interested 
during the year are listed out in note no. 32 forming 
part of the Consolidated financial statements and 
note no. 34 of Standalone financial statements.
10)  Disclosure of instances along with the reasons, 
where the Board of Directors had not accepted any 
recommendation of any committee of the Board 
which is mandatorily required, in the financial year 
2024-25:
 
 There was no instance during the financial year 2024-
25, where the Board of Directors did not accept the 
recommendation of any committee of the Board 
which it was mandatorily required to accept.
11)  The mandatory requirements laid down under SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 has been duly complied by the 
Company and the Company has duly fulfilled the 
following discretionary requirements as prescribed 
in Part E of schedule II of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015:
 
(i) 
The Board
 
 
 The Chairperson of the Company is an Executive 
Director and therefore the provision relating to 
Non-Executive Chairperson is not applicable.
 
(ii) 
Shareholder Rights
 
 
 The Company does not send half-yearly 
financial results, including summary of 
significant events in the last six months as the 
same are published in newspapers and is also 
posted on the website of the Company.
 
(iii) 
Audit Qualifications
 
 
 During the year, there was no audit qualification 
on financial statements of the Company.
 
(iv) Separate Post of Chairperson & CEO
 
 
 Mr. M R Jaishankar (DIN: 00191267) is the 
Executive Chairman of the Company upto 
March 31, 2027.
 
 
 Ms. Pavitra Shankar (DIN: 08133119), Executive 
Director is the Managing Director of the 
Company and Ms. Nirupa Shankar (DIN: 
02750342), Executive Director is the Joint 
Managing Director of the Company.
 
 
 Each business vertical of the Company is 
headed by a COO.
 
(v) 
Internal Auditor
 
 
 The 
internal 
auditor 
reports 
to 
the 
Audit Committee.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
239
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
The Company follows a robust process of communication 
with its stakeholders and investors. For this purpose, it 
provides multiple channels of communications. i.e. through 
dissemination of information on the online portal of Stock 
Exchanges and placing relevant information on its website.
FINANCIAL RESULTS & OTHER INFORMATION:
The unaudited quarterly results (both standalone and 
consolidated) are announced within forty-five days of 
the close of the quarter. The audited annual results are 
announced within sixty days from the close of the financial 
year, as required under SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. The aforesaid 
financial results are disseminated to the Stock Exchanges 
within thirty minutes from the close of the Board Meetings 
at which these are considered and approved.
The Financial Results of the Company are furnished to 
the Stock Exchanges on a periodic basis (quarterly, half 
yearly and annually) after the approval of the Board 
of Directors.
The results are published in “Business Standard”- English 
Newspaper and “Vijayavani”– Kannada Newspaper within 
48 hours after the approval by the Board.
The details of the Financial Results, Compliance Report 
on Corporate Governance, Investors Complaint Status 
Report, Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report, 
Shareholding pattern and other required information’s 
are hosted on the Company’s website: https://www.
brigadegroup.com under the investors and Regulation 
46 sections. All other official news and press releases 
are displayed on the same website.
Detailed Presentations are made to Investors/ Financial 
Analysts on the unaudited quarterly financial results 
as well as the annual audited financial results of the 
Company. These Presentations are also uploaded on 
the Company’s website https://www.brigadegroup.com 
under the Investors section.
The Audited Financial Statements form a part of the 
Annual Report which is sent to the Members within 
the statutory period and in advance of the Annual 
General Meeting.
The Company discloses to the Stock Exchanges, 
information required to be disclosed under Regulation 
30 read with Part A of Schedule III of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
including material information which have a bearing on the 
performance/operations of the Company or which is price 
sensitive in nature. All information is filed electronically 
on BSE’s on-line Portal – BSE Listing Centre and on NSE 
Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS), the on-
line portal of National Stock Exchange of India Limited.
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
1
Registration Details
Company is registered in the State of Karnataka and the Corporate Identity Number 
allotted by Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) is L85110KA1995PLC019126
2
Registered Office & 
Corporate Office
29th & 30th Floors, World Trade Center, Brigade Gateway Campus, 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar 
Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar, Bangalore – 560055
3
Compliance Officer
Mr. P. Om Prakash
4
Date, time & venue of 
the 30th AGM
Thursday, August 21, 2025 at 11.30 a.m. through Video Conferencing / Other Audio 
Visual Means as set out in the Notice convening the Annual General Meeting
5
Financial Year
2024-25
6
Date of Book Closure/ 
Record date
Wednesday, August 13, 2025
7
Dividend Payment date
On or before Friday, September 12, 2025
8
Listing in Stock 
Exchanges
The Equity Shares of the Company are listed in the following Stock Exchanges:
• The National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla Complex 
Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051
• BSE Limited 
P. J. Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai 400 001
9
Stock Code
• National Stock Exchange of India Limited – BRIGADE, series - EQ BE
• BSE Limited – 532929
10.
Listing Fees
Listing Fees as prescribed has been paid fully to all the Stock Exchanges where the 
shares of the Company are listed.
11.
Credit Ratings
1.  [ICRA] AA- (Stable) (ICRA double A minus Stable);
2.  [ICRA]A1+ (ICRA A one plus)
3.  CRISIL AA-/Positive
Brigade Enterprises Limited
240
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
12. Stock Performance
Month
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
BSE Limited
High (in ₹)
Low (in ₹)
Total Turnover
(in Crores)
High (in ₹)
Low (in ₹)
Total Turnover
(in Crores)
April 2024
1094.90
935.5
805.60
1092.65
938.25
36.34
May 2024
1331.45
990
1845.84
1331.15
994.80
63.69
June 2024
1453.10
1161.35
3273.38
1451.90
1159.05
66.91
July 2024
1429.00
1174.05
1166.68
1430.00
1175.00
52.67
August 2024
1282.85
1089.8
1078.69
1282.50
1105.40
92.52
Sept 2024
1448.70
1207.35
1467.92
1450.00
1203.90
40.00
October 2024
1437.00
1134
1091.21
1439.90
1134.35
24.73
November 2024
1284.70
1060
898.51
1300.00
1060.00
25.20
December 2024
1340.50
1220.05
768.37
1336.00
1216.95
26.35
January 2025
1314.35
984.3
815.39
1259.95
985.05
24.26
February 2025
1226.20
932.2
503.69
1225.00
934.70
15.36
March 2025
1057.85
914.85
930.40
1059.10
914.20
159.80
The performance of the stock in National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited for the period from 
April 1, 2024 to March 31, 2025 was as follows:
Exchange: NSE Date: April 01, 2024 End date: March 31, 2025
01-Apr-24
16000
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
20000
24000
28000
01-May-24
01-Jun-24
01-Jul-24
01-Aug-24
01-Sep-24
01-Oct-24
01-Nov-24
01-Dec-24
01-Jan-25
01-Feb-25
01-Mar-25
Nifty
Brigade
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
241
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
13 Dematerialisation of shares
 
 The ISIN for Equity Shares of the Company is 
INE791I01019. As on March 31, 2025, 100% of the 
Company’s shares are in dematerialised form. The 
details are as tabled below:
Mode
No. of Equity 
Shares
Percentage 
(%)
Demat Shares with 
NSDL
23,71,08,566
97.03
Demat Shares with 
CDSL
72,65,870
2.97
Physical Shares
168
0.00
Total
24,43,74,604
100.00
14 Registrars and Share Transfer Agents:
 
 For Share related matters, members are requested 
to correspond with the Companies registrar and 
Transfer Agents – KFin Technologies Limited 
(Formerly known as KFin Technologies Private 
Limited) quoting their folio no./ DP ID & Client ID at 
the following Address.
 
 KFin Technologies Limited
 
 (formerly KFin Technologies Private Limited)
 
 Unit: Brigade Enterprises Limited
 
 Selenium Tower B, Plot No. 31 & 32, Financial District
 
 Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Mandal,
 
 Hyderabad – 500 032
 
 Toll Free no. 1-800-309-4001
 
 Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
15 Share Transfer System:
 
 Members may please note that SEBI, vide its 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/
CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022, has mandated 
Listed Companies to issue securities in demat 
form only while processing service requests viz. 
Issue of duplicate securities certificate; claim from 
Unclaimed Suspense Account; Renewal/Exchange of 
securities certificate; Endorsement; Sub-division/
Splitting of securities certificate; Consolidation 
of securities certificates/folios; Transmission 
and Transposition. Accordingly, Shareholders are 
requested to make service requests by submitting 
a duly filled and signed Form ISR–4. the format of 
which is available on the website of the Company 
at https://cdn.brigadegroup.com/assets/docs/
investor/kyc-updation/form-isr-4-request-for-
issue-of-duplicate-certificate-11032022.pdf and 
website of the Company’s RTA at https://ris.kfintech.
com/clientservices/isc/isrforms.aspx. It may be 
noted that any service request can be processed 
only after the folio is KYC compliant.
 
 The Company obtains an annual certificate from a 
Company Secretary in Practice, as required under 
Regulation 40(9) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 to 
effect that all certificates have been issued within 
thirty days of the date of lodgment for transfer, sub-
division, consolidation & renewal and files a copy of 
the said certificate with the Stock Exchanges where 
the Company’s shares are listed.
Exchange: BSE Date: April 01, 2024 End date: March 31, 2025
20000
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
30000
40000
50000
60000
70000
80000
90000
Sensex
Brigade
01-Apr-24
01-May-24
01-Jun-24
01-Jul-24
01-Aug-24
01-Sep-24
01-Oct-24
01-Nov-24
01-Dec-24
01-Jan-25
01-Feb-25
01-Mar-25
Brigade Enterprises Limited
242
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
16  Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2025:
Sl. 
no
Category
No. of Cases
% of Cases
Amount 
% of Amount
1
1-5,000
126135
98.54
39442560.00
1.61
2
5,001- 10,000
831
0.65
5983500.00
0.24
3
10,001- 20,000
406
0.32
5768150.00
0.24
4
20,001- 30,000
132
0.10
3255900.00
0.13
5
30,001- 40,000
51
0.04
1776930.00
0.07
6
40,001- 50,000
51
0.04
2290710.00
0.09
7
50,001- 1,00,000
89
0.07
6349500.00
0.26
8
1,00,001 & Above
313
0.24
2378878790.00
97.35
 
Total
128008
100.00
2443746040.00
100.00
17 
Categories of Shareholders as on March 31, 2025: 
Category
No. of Shares
% to Total Shares
Promoter/ Promoter Group/ Promoter Body Corporate 
100542777
41.14
Mutual Funds
51213146
20.96
Foreign Portfolio/ Institutional Investors
49385120
20.21
Financial Institutions/ Banks
0
0.00
NBFC Registered with RBI
525
0.00
Non-Resident Indians
417927
0.17
Non-Resident Indian Non Repatriable 
118501
0.05
Indian Public
26394489
10.80
Trusts
7052
0.00
Clearing Members
593
0.00
Body Corporates
387452
0.16
IEPF
52071
0.02
Others (Alternative Investment Funds, Employees, Qualified Institutional 
Buyers, Insurance Companies, HUF, KEY Management personnel, Directors)
15854951
6.49
Total
244374604
100.00
 
 Promoters/ Promoter group have not pledged any equity shares of the Company held by them in the Company 
during the financial year 2024-25.
18. Transfer of Unclaimed/Unpaid Dividend and Shares
 
 Pursuant to Section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (Rules), all unpaid or unclaimed dividends are required to be 
transferred by the Company to the IEPF established by the Central Government, after completion of 7 (seven) 
years. Further, according to the Rules, shares in respect of which dividend has not been paid or claimed by the 
shareholders for 7 (seven) consecutive years or more shall also be transferred to the Demat account created 
by the IEPF Authority.
 
 The Shares Transferred to the IEPF can be claimed by the concerned members from the IEPF Authority after 
complying with the procedure prescribed under the IEPF Rules. The Details of the unclaimed dividends/unclaimed 
shares are available on the Company’s Website at: 
 
https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/investor-information/unclaimed-shares
 
 During the year, the IEPF has settled applications for claiming back shares pertaining to 85 shares to the 
respective shareholder. The Company has also transferred dividend amount of ₹ 3,46,483/- and 4,986 shares 
to IEPF during the year. As on March 31, 2025, IEPF holds 52,071 shares on account of transfer of shares under 
IEPF Rules (including Bonus issue of shares).
 
 The Company has appointed Mr. P. Om Prakash, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer as the Nodal Officer 
of the Company under the provisions of IEPF, the details of which are available on the website of the Company.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
243
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 The Company will be transferring the unclaimed/unpaid dividends as mentioned hereunder to the IEPF established 
by the Central Government, in terms of the provisions of Section 124 and 125 of the Companies Act, 2013.
 
 Due date for transfer of unpaid/ unclaimed dividend to IEPF is as follows:
Sl. 
No.
Financial Year
AGM Date at which the Dividend declared
Dividend per 
Share (in ₹)
Due date for transfer of unclaimed Dividend 
and shares relating to the same to IEPF
1
2017-18
23rd AGM –August 16, 2018
2.00
September 21, 2025
2
2018-19
24th AGM –August 14, 2019
2.00
September 19, 2026
3
2019-20
Declared Interim Dividend by Board at 
its meeting held on March 16, 2020.
1.00
April 21, 2027
4
2020-21
26th AGM – August 10, 2021
1.20
October 15, 2028
5
2021-22
27th AGM – August 2, 2022
1.50
September 2, 2029
6
2022-23
28th AGM- August 7, 2023
2.00
September 11, 2030
7
2023-24
29th AGM- August 6, 2024
2.00
September 10, 2031
 
 Note: Company shall transfer the unpaid/ unclaimed dividend and shares to IEPF within the statutory timeline 
i.e., 30 days from the above-mentioned due dates.
19. Equity Shares in the Suspense Account:
 
 In terms of Schedule V (F) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the 
Company reports that the no shares lying in the suspense account since shares lying in the suspense account 
earlier were transferred to IEPF account pursuant to notification dated October 13, 2017 and Investor Education 
and Protection Fund Demat circular dated October 16, 2017 issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs. Hence, the 
balance of equity shares in the suspense account is nil.
20. Financials Release Dates for Financial Year 2024-25
Quarter
Release Date (tentative & subject to change)
1st Quarter ending June 30, 2025
First week of August 2025
2nd Quarter ending September 30, 2025
Second week of November 2025
3rd Quarter ending December 31, 2025
Second week of February 2026
4th Quarter ending March 31, 2026
Third week of May 2026
 
 Internet access: https://www.brigadegroup.com/
 
 The website of the Company contains all relevant information about the Company. The Annual Reports, 
Shareholding pattern, un-audited quarterly results and all other material information are hosted in this site.
 
 Email Id for Investor Grievances
 
 Company has a dedicated e-mail id (investors@brigadegroup.com) for redressal of grievances of investors. 
Investors are requested to use this facility.
21. Plant Location
 
 The Company doesn’t have any manufacturing or processing plants. The registered office and corporate office 
address is mentioned in serial no. 2 above in the General Shareholder Information section.
22. Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities
 
 With reference to Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2018/0000000141 dated November 15, 2018 issued by 
SEBI, on disclosures regarding commodity risks by listed entities, the Company had no exposure in commodities 
and hence the disclosure pursuant to aforesaid Circular is not applicable.
23.  There are no agreements binding on the Company under Clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III of 
Securities & Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) 2015 regulations.
For and on behalf of Brigade Enterprises Limited
Pavitra Shankar
Nirupa Shankar
Place: Bangalore
Managing Director
Joint Managing Director
Date: May 14, 2025
DIN: 08133119
DIN: 02750342
Brigade Enterprises Limited
244
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE PURSUANT TO REGULATION 17(8) OF SEBI  
(LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
The Board of Directors,
Brigade Enterprises Limited
29th & 30th Floor, World Trade Center
Brigade Gateway Campus,
26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road,
Malleswaram-Rajajinagar, Bangalore – 560055
This is to certify that:
We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 and 
that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements 
that might be misleading;
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws, and regulations.
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered by the Company during the year ended 
March 31, 2025, which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s Code of Conduct.
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have 
evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting. We have 
not come across any reportable deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls.
We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee:
that there are no significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
that there are no significant changes in accounting policies during the year; and
that there are no instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware.
We further declare that all Board Members and Senior Management personnel have affirmed compliance with the 
Code of Conduct for the financial year 2024-2025.
For Brigade Enterprises Limited
Place: Bangalore
Pavitra Shankar
Jayant Bhalchandra Manmadkar
Date: May 14, 2025
Managing Director
Chief Financial Officer
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
245
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE REGARDING COMPLIANCE OF CONDITIONS OF  
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To,
The Members of
Brigade Enterprises Limited
CIN: L85110KA1995PLC019126
29th & 30th Floor, World Trade Center, 26/1, Brigade Gateway
Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar,
Bangalore, Karnataka, India, 560055
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Brigade Enterprises Limited (“the 
Company”) having CIN: L85110KA1995PLC019126, for the purpose of certifying of the Corporate Governance under 
Regulation 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) and paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 from the period April 01, 2024, to March 31, 2025. We 
have obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary 
for the purposes of certification.
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. Our examination 
was limited to the procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance 
with the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial 
statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the 
Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Regulations 17 to 27, clauses 
(b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations, as 
applicable of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the 
efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For BMP & Co. LLP,
Company Secretaries
CS Biswajit Ghosh
Designated Partner
Place: Bengaluru 
FCS No.: 8750 CP. No.: 8239
Date: May 14, 2025 
Peer Review Certificate No. 6387/2025
UDIN: F008750G000340268 
Firm Registration Number: L2017KR003200
Brigade Enterprises Limited
246
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members of
Brigade Enterprises Limited
CIN: L85110KA1995PLC019126
29th & 30th Floor, World Trade Center, 26/1, Brigade Gateway
Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar,
Bangalore, Karnataka, India, 560055.
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of 
Brigade Enterprises Limited having CIN - L85110KA1995PLC019126 and having registered office at 29th & 30th Floor, 
World Trade Center, 26/1, Brigade Gateway Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar, Bangalore, Karnataka, India, 
560055 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing 
this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification 
Number (DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by 
the Company & its officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated 
below for the Financial Year ending on 31st March 2025, have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or 
continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sr. 
No. Name of the Director
Director Identification 
Number (DIN)
Designation
Date of original 
appointment in 
Company
1.
Mr. M.R. Jaishankar
00191267
Executive Chairman
08/11/1995
2.
Ms. Pavitra Shankar
08133119
Managing Director
16/05/2018
3.
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
02750342
Joint Managing Director
16/05/2018
4.
Mr. Amar Shivram Mysore
03218587
Executive Director
16/05/2018
5.
Mr. Roshin Mathew
00673926
Executive Director
07/11/2019
6.
Mr. Pradyumna Krishna Kumar
07870840
Executive Director
12/07/2023
7
Ms. Lakshmi Venkatachalam
00520608
Non-Executive - Independent Director
01/02/2016
8.
Ms. Pradeep Kumar Panja
03614568
Non-Executive - Independent Director
16/05/2018
9.
Dr. Venkatesh Panchapagesan
07942333
Non-Executive - Independent Director
16/05/2018
10. Mr. Velloor Venkatakrishnan 
Ranganathan
00060917
Non-Executive - Independent Director
11/10/2022
11.
Mr. Abraham George Stephanos 06618882
Non-Executive - Independent Director
28/05/2024
12.
Ms. Padmaja Chunduru
08058663
Non-Executive - Independent Director
29/01/2025
Ensuring the eligibility of for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the 
management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This 
certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For BMP & Co. LLP,
Company Secretaries
CS Biswajit Ghosh
Designated Partner
Place: Bengaluru 
FCS No.: 8750 CP. No.: 8239
Date: May 14, 2025 
Peer Review Certificate No. 6387/2025
UDIN: F008750G000340158 
Firm Registration Number: L2017KR003200
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
247
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Brigade Enterprises Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements
Opinion
1. 
 We have audited the accompanying standalone 
financial statements of Brigade Enterprises Limited 
(‘the Company’), which comprise the Standalone 
Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2025, the Statement 
of Standalone Profit and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Income), the Standalone Statement 
of Cash Flow and the Standalone Statement of 
Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and notes 
to the standalone financial statements, including 
material accounting policy information and other 
explanatory information.
2. 
 In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, and 
based on the consideration of the reports of the 
other auditor as referred to in paragraph 16 below, 
the aforesaid standalone financial statements give 
the information required by the Companies Act, 
2013 (‘the Act’) in the manner so required and give 
a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) specified under 
Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and other 
accounting principles generally accepted in India, of 
the state of affairs of the Company as at 31 March 
2025, its profit (including other comprehensive 
income), its cash flows and the changes in equity 
for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3. 
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing specified under Section 
143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those 
standards are further described in the Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are 
independent of the Company in accordance with the 
Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit 
of the standalone financial statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the rules thereunder, and 
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements and the Code 
of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained together with the audit evidence obtained 
by the other auditor, in terms of their reports referred 
to in paragraph 16 of the Other Matter section below 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our opinion.
Emphasis of Matter
4. 
 We draw attention to Note 34(c)(i) to the standalone 
financial statement, in connection with ongoing legal 
proceedings with respect to certain outstanding 
land advances. Based on legal assessment of the 
matter, the management has considered these 
advances as good and recoverable.
 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Key Audit Matters
5. 
 Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in 
our audit of the standalone financial statements of 
the current period. These matters were addressed in 
the context of our audit of the standalone financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion 
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
248
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
6. 
 We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
1. Revenue recognition for sale of real estate property
Refer note 2.2(h)(i) and 24 to the accompanying standalone 
financial statements for the material accounting policy 
information on revenue recognition for sale of real estate 
property and related disclosures.
The Company applies Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts 
with Customers (‘Ind AS 115’) for recognition of revenue 
from sale of real estate property including revenue from 
joint development agreements.
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of 
residential/commercial units to customers for an amount 
which reflects the consideration the Company expects 
to receive in exchange for those units. The ‘transfer of 
control’ for the said revenue stream is determined to be 
earlier of either:
• on legal registration of the units; or
• on grant of unconditional physical possession of the 
units to the Customer
For revenue contracts forming part of joint development 
arrangements (‘JDA’) that are not jointly controlled 
operations and where the land owner is identified as 
a customer for the Company, the revenue from the 
construction services is measured at the fair value 
of the estimated construction service rendered by 
the Company to the land owner under the JDA. Such 
revenue is recognised over time in accordance with the 
requirements of Ind AS 115.
The above assessment requires significant judgment in 
determining when ‘control’ of the real estate property 
is transferred to the customer. Further, for projects 
executed through JDA, significant estimate is undertaken 
by management for determining the fair value of the 
estimated construction service.
Considering the significance of management judgements 
and estimates involved and the materiality of amounts 
involved, aforementioned revenue recognition is identified 
as a key audit matter for current year’s audit.
Our audit procedures on revenue recognised from 
sale of real estate property included, but were not 
limited to, the following:
• Evaluated the appropriateness of accounting 
policy for revenue recognition on sale of real 
estate property in terms of principles enunciated 
under Ind AS 115;
• Understood the revenue recognition process, 
evaluated the design and implementation, and 
tested the operating effectiveness of key controls 
over revenue recognition including determination 
of satisfaction of performance obligations as per 
Ind AS 115 and of fair value of construction service 
provided under the JDAs;
• Inspected, on a sample basis, underlying customer 
contracts, occupancy certificate, receipt of 
consideration, registered sale deed/ handover 
documents, as the case may be, evidencing the 
transfer of control of the residential/ commercial 
units to the customer based on which revenue is 
recognised at a point in time;
• For projects executed during the year as per 
JDAs, we have performed the following additional 
procedures on a sample basis:
 −Inspected the JDAs entered into by the 
Company, including addendums thereto, 
and identified the performance obligations 
under such contracts. Further, compared the 
ratio of constructed area/ revenue sharing 
arrangement between the Company and the 
landowner as mentioned in the agreement to 
the computation statement prepared by the 
management;
 −Obtained and examined the computation 
of the fair value of the construction service 
under JDA with reference to project cost 
estimates and profit mark-up considered by 
the management in such computation;
 −Tested the computation for recognition of 
revenue over time for revenue contracts 
forming part of JDA and management’s 
assessment of stage of completion of projects 
and project cost estimates.
• Assessed the adequacy of disclosures included 
in the standalone financial statements in 
compliance with the requirements of Ind AS 115.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
249
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
2.  Assessment of the recoverability of the carrying value of Investment property including investment 
properties under development and related fair value disclosures
Refer note 2.2(b) and 4 & 5 to the accompanying 
standalone financial statements for the accounting policy 
information on Investment property including investment 
property under development and related disclosures.
As at 31 March 2025, the carrying value of the Investment 
property is ₹ 130,835 lakhs and investment property 
under development is ₹ 145,333 lakhs. The carrying 
value of the investment property is carried at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment 
loss, if any. The Company is also required to disclose the 
fair value of the investment properties in accordance with 
the requirements of Ind AS 40, Investment Property (‘Ind 
AS 40’).
For investment properties where any impairment 
indicators are identified, the management performs 
an impairment testing by estimating the recoverable 
amounts, being higher of the fair value less costs 
of disposal and value-in-use. in accordance with 
the  principles of Ind AS 36, Impairment of Assets 
(‘Ind AS 36’).
The 
management 
determines 
value-in-use 
using 
discounted cash flow method, which requires management 
to make significant estimates and assumptions relating to 
project cash flows, long-term growth rate and selection of 
appropriate discount rates. The management determines 
the fair value of the investment properties using the 
principles of Ind AS 113, Fair value measurement (‘Ind AS 
113’) with the help of external valuation experts, which 
also requires management to make significant estimates 
and assumptions relating to the valuation methodology 
and other inputs used in the valuation model adopted, 
based on factors such as prevailing and expected future 
market conditions, and the individual nature, condition 
and location of each property.
Considering the materiality of the amounts involved and 
significant degree of judgement and subjectivity involved 
in the valuation and key assumptions used in determining 
the fair value/ value-in-use, we have determined 
assessment of recoverability of the carrying value of 
investment properties including investment properties 
under development and related fair value disclosures, as 
a key audit matter for current year’s audit.
Our audit procedures in assessing the recoverability 
of the carrying value of the investment properties 
including investment properties under development 
and related fair value disclosures included, but were 
not limited to, the following:
• Obtained 
an 
understanding 
from 
the 
management with respect to its process of 
determination of carrying value of investment 
properties including investment properties under 
development and related fair value disclosures, 
including assumptions used and estimates made 
by the management in determining whether 
any impairment indicators exist and related 
fair valuations;
• Evaluated the appropriateness of accounting 
policies with respect to initial recognition 
and 
subsequent 
measurement 
of 
investment properties;
• Evaluated the design and implementation, and 
tested the operating effectiveness of internal 
controls related to subsequent measurement and 
disclosures in respect of investment properties;
• Verified on test check the basis, the underlying 
property documents and other records for 
determination of the Company’s right over 
the properties;
• Evaluated the Company’s use of inputs and 
assumptions in future cash flow projections for 
the purpose of value-in-use computation and 
fair valuations with respect to revenue and cost 
growth trends for reasonableness thereof, basis 
our understanding of the business;
• Evaluated the competence and objectivity of the 
external specialist involved by the management, 
if any, in fair valuation of investment properties;
• Engaged auditor’s valuation experts to assess 
appropriateness of the valuation methodology 
applied and the reasonableness of the valuation 
assumptions used including discount rate and 
long-term growth rates;
• Performed sensitivity analysis on these key 
assumptions to assess the degree of estimation 
uncertainty involved in the estimates; and
• Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness 
of disclosures made by the management in the 
standalone financial statements in accordance 
with the accounting standards.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
250
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
3.  Assessing the recoverability of carrying value of Inventories, advances paid towards land procurement and 
deposits paid under joint development arrangements (‘JDAs’)
Refer note 2.2(f), 2.2(g), and 11, 10 & 9 to the standalone 
financial statements for accounting policy information on 
inventories, advances paid towards land procurement and 
deposits paid under JDAs (financial asset) and related 
disclosures.
As at 31 March 2025, the carrying value of the inventory 
is ₹ 488,656 lakhs, land advances is ₹ 5,352 lakhs and 
refundable deposits paid under JDA is ₹ 33,432 lakhs, 
represents a significant portion of the Company’s total 
assets.
The inventories are carried at lower of cost and net 
realisable value (‘NRV’). The determination of the NRV 
involves estimates based on prevailing market conditions, 
estimated future selling price, cost to complete projects 
and selling costs.
Advances paid by the Company to the seller/ intermediary 
towards outright purchase of land is recognised as ‘land 
advance’ disclosed under other current/non-current 
assets until the legal title is transferred to the Company, 
whereupon it is recognised as ‘land stock’ under 
‘Inventories’. Further, deposits paid under JDAs are in 
the nature of non-refundable/refundable deposits made 
by the Company for acquiring the related development 
rights under such JDAs. On the launch of the project, the 
non-refundable amount is transferred as land cost to 
work-in-progress.
The aforesaid deposits and advances are carried at the 
lower of the amount paid/payable and net recoverable 
value, which is based on the management’s assessment 
of the expected dates of commencement and completion 
of the project, and the estimate of sale prices and 
construction costs related to such projects.
We identified the assessment towards recoverability of 
carrying value of inventory, land advances and deposits 
paid under JDA as a key audit matter due to the 
significance of the balance to the standalone financial 
statements as a whole and the involvement of estimates 
and judgement in the assessment.
Our audit procedures in assessing the recoverability 
of carrying value of the inventories, land advances 
and deposits paid under JDA included, but were not 
limited to the following:
• Evaluated the appropriateness of accounting 
policies with respect to inventories, land 
advances and deposits paid under JDAs as per the 
principles of applicable accounting standards;
• Evaluated the design and implementation, and 
tested the operating effectiveness of internal 
controls related to recoverability assessment 
of inventory, land advances and deposits paid 
under JDAs;
• Understood and reviewed key assumptions used 
by the management in determination of the net 
recoverable value;
• For inventory balance:
 −Compared the NRV to recent sales made of 
units of the project or to the estimated selling 
price;
 −Compared the estimated construction costs 
to complete each project with the Company’s 
updated budgets; and
• For land advances/ deposits paid under JDA:
• Obtained an update on the status of the 
land acquisition/ project progress from the 
management and verified the underlying 
documents for related developments and 
expected recoverability of advances paid on test 
check basis;
• Carried out external confirmation procedures on 
sample basis to obtain evidence supporting the 
carrying value of land advance and deposits paid 
under JDA.
• Assessed the adequacy of disclosures included in 
the standalone financial statements in compliance 
with the applicable accounting standards.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
251
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
4. Assessment of the recoverability of Investments in and loans given to subsidiaries
Refer note 2.2(s)(xii), 2.2(t) and 7 & 8 to the accompanying 
standalone financial statements for material accounting 
policy information on impairment for Investments in and 
loans given to subsidiaries and for related disclosures.
As at the balance sheet date, the carrying amount of 
investment in and loans given to subsidiaries amount to 
₹ 241,491 lakhs and ₹ 65,582 lakhs represents a significant 
portion of the Company’s total assets as on such date, 
respectively.
The recoverability of the above-mentioned balances 
is dependent on the operational performance of the 
subsidiaries. At each reporting date, management regularly 
reviews whether there are any indicators of impairment as 
per Ind AS 36, Impairment of Assets (‘Ind AS 36’) and a 
possible increase in credit risk with respect to loans as 
per the principles of Ind AS 109, Financial Instruments.
The Management has assessed the recoverability of the 
said investment and loans, by carrying out a valuation 
of the underlying investment properties of certain 
subsidiaries with the help of an external valuation expert 
using discounted cash flow method and estimation 
of projected cash flow from the ongoing real estate 
projects, which requires management to make significant 
estimates and assumptions relating to forecast of future 
business performance and selection of the discount rates 
to determine the recoverable value to be considered for 
impairment testing of the carrying value of the investment.
Considering the materiality of amounts, complexities 
and judgement involved, and significant auditor attention 
required to test the management assessment, we have 
identified this as a key audit matter for current year audit. 
Our audit procedures in assessment of recoverability 
of investments in and loans given to subsidiaries 
included, but were not limited to, the following:
• Assessed the appropriateness of the Company’s 
accounting policy as per the principles of 
applicable accounting standards;
• Obtained an understanding of the management 
process and controls implemented by the 
Company for identification of possible 
impairment indicators and determining 
impairment in the value of investment in / loans 
recoverable from subsidiaries, and evaluated 
the design and implementation, and tested the 
operating effectiveness of such controls;
• Assessed the financial condition of entities to 
whom loans were granted by inspecting the 
most recent audited financial statements of 
such entities;
• Performed inquiries with management on the 
project status and future business plans of entities 
in which investments were made and loans were 
granted to evaluate their recoverability;
• Assessed the competence and objectivity 
of management’s expert involved by the 
management in determining the fair value of 
the underlying investment properties in the 
subsidiary companies;
• Assessed the valuation methodology and 
valuation assumptions used by management’s 
expert to estimate the recoverability of investment 
with the help of auditor’s valuation experts;
• Evaluated the appropriateness of assumptions 
applied in determining key inputs such as 
discount rate and growth rates, based on our 
knowledge of the business and relevant external 
market conditions;
• Tested mathematical accuracy of the projections 
and applied independent sensitivity tests to the 
key assumptions mentioned above to consider 
the impact of estimation uncertainty; and
• Assessed the appropriateness and adequacy 
of disclosures made by the management in the 
standalone financial statements in accordance 
with applicable accounting standards.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
252
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Information other than the Standalone Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report thereon
7. 
 The Company’s Board of Directors are responsible 
for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Annual 
Report, but does not include the standalone financial 
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The 
Annual Report is expected to be made available to 
us after the date of this auditor’s report.
 
 Our opinion on the standalone financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
 
 In connection with our audit of the standalone 
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information and, in doing so, consider whether 
the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the standalone financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated.
 
 When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we 
are required to communicate the matter to those 
charged with governance.
Responsibilities of Management and Those 
Charged with Governance for the Standalone 
Financial Statements
8. 
 The accompanying standalone financial statements 
have been approved by the Company’s Board 
of Directors. The Company’s Board of Directors 
are responsible for the matters stated in Section 
134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation 
and presentation of these standalone financial 
statements that give a true and fair view of the 
financial position, financial performance including 
other comprehensive income, changes in equity and 
cash flows of the Company in accordance with the 
Ind AS specified under Section 133 of the Act and 
other accounting principles generally accepted in 
India. This responsibility also includes maintenance 
of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of 
the assets of the Company and for preventing and 
detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection 
and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; and design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation 
of the standalone financial statements that give 
a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
9. 
 In preparing the standalone financial statements, the 
Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless the Board of Directors either 
intends to liquidate the Company or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to 
do so.
10.  The Board of Directors is also responsible 
for 
overseeing 
the 
Company’s 
financial 
reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
11. 
 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the standalone financial statements as 
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report 
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a 
high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an 
audit conducted in accordance with Standards on 
Auditing will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, individually or in 
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of these standalone financial statements.
12. 
 As part of an audit in accordance with Standards 
on Auditing, specified under Section 143(10) of the 
Act we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. 
We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the standalone financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control;
• Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act 
we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the Company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls;
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
253
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management;
• Conclude on the appropriateness of Board 
of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the Company’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that 
a material uncertainty exists, we are required 
to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the 
related disclosures in the standalone financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, 
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based 
on the audit evidence obtained up to the date 
of our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Company to cease to 
continue as a going concern;
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the standalone financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
standalone financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner 
that achieves fair presentation; and
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the business activities and financial 
statements of the Company which includes 
financial information of its limited liability 
partnership (LLP), to express an opinion on 
the standalone financial statements. We are 
responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audit of financial statements 
of the Company, of which we are the independent 
auditors. For the other LLP included in the 
standalone financial statements, which have been 
audited by the other auditors, such other auditors 
remain responsible for the direction, supervision 
and performance of the audits carried out by 
them. We remain solely responsible for our 
audit opinion.
13. 
 We communicate with those charged with 
governance regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies 
in internal control that we identify during our audit.
14.  We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
15.  From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters 
that were of most significance in the audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the current 
period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should 
not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably 
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
Other Matters
16.  The standalone financial statements include the 
Company’s share in the net profit (including other 
comprehensive income) of ₹ 418 lakhs for the year 
ended 31 March 2025, in respect of one LLP, whose 
financial statements have not been audited by us. 
The financial statements has been audited by the 
other auditor whose report has been furnished 
to us by the management, and our opinion on the 
standalone financial statements, in so far as it relates 
to the amounts and disclosures included in respect 
of this LLP, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) 
of Section 143 of the Act in so far as it relates to the 
aforesaid LLP, is based solely on the report of such 
other auditor.
 
 Our opinion above on the standalone financial 
statements, and our report on other legal and 
regulatory requirements below, are not modified 
in respect of the above matter with respect to our 
reliance on the work done by and the report of the 
other auditor.
17. 
 The standalone financial statements of the Company 
for the year ended 31 March 2024 were audited by 
the predecessor auditor, S.R. Batliboi & Associates 
LLP, who have expressed an unmodified opinion on 
those standalone financial statements vide their 
audit report dated 28 May 2024.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
18.  As required by Section 197(16) of the Act based on 
our audit, we report that the Company has paid 
remuneration to its directors during the year in 
accordance with the provisions of and limits laid 
down under Section 197 read with Schedule V to 
the Act.
19.  As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) 
Order, 2020 (‘the Order’) issued by the Central 
Government of India in terms of Section 143(11) of 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
254
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
the Act we give in the Annexure I a statement on the 
matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, 
to the extent applicable.
20.  Further to our comments in Annexure I, as required 
by Section 143(3) of the Act based on our audit, we 
report, to the extent applicable, that:
 
a) 
 We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purpose of our audit of the accompanying 
standalone financial statements;
 
b) 
 In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law have been kept by the Company 
so far as it appears from our examination of 
those books except for the matters stated in 
paragraph 20 (h)(vi) below on reporting under 
Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended);
 
c) 
 The standalone financial statements dealt with 
by this report are in agreement with the books 
of account;
 
d) 
 In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with Ind AS specified under 
Section 133 of the Act;
 
e) 
 On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors and taken on 
record by the Board of Directors, none of the 
directors is disqualified as on 31 March 2025 
from being appointed as a director in terms of 
Section 164(2) of the Act;
 
f) 
 The qualification relating to the maintenance 
of accounts and other matters connected 
therewith are as stated in paragraph 20(b) 
above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) 
of the Act and paragraph 20(h)(vi) below on 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended);
 
g) 
 With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements of the Company as on 31 
March 2025 and the operating effectiveness 
of such controls, refer to our separate report 
in Annexure II wherein we have expressed an 
unmodified opinion; and
 
h) 
 With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with rule 
11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the 
best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
 
 
i. 
 The Company, as detailed in note 34 to 
the standalone financial statements, has 
disclosed the impact of pending litigations 
on its financial position as at 31 March 2025;
 
 
ii. 
 The Company did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts for 
which there were any material foreseeable 
losses as at 31 March 2025
 
 
iii. 
 There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Company during the year ended 31 
March 2025;
 
 
iv. 
a. 
 The management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in note 45(iii) to 
the standalone financial statements, 
no funds have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from 
borrowed funds or securities 
premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the Company to or 
in any persons or entities, including 
foreign entities (‘the intermediaries’), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the Company (‘the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
 
 
 
b. 
 The management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in note 45(iv) to 
the standalone financial statements, 
no funds have been received by the 
Company from any persons or entities, 
including foreign entities (‘the Funding 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
255
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Parties’), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the Company shall, 
whether directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding 
Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or 
provide any guarantee, security or 
the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries; and
 
 
 
c. 
 Based on such audit procedures 
performed as considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances, 
nothing has come to our notice that 
has caused us to believe that the 
management representations under 
sub-clauses (a) and (b) above contain 
any material misstatement.
 
 
v. 
 The final dividend paid by the Company 
during the year ended 31 March 2025 in 
respect of such dividend declared for the 
previous year is in accordance with Section 
123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
payment of dividend.
 
 
 
 As stated in note 17 to the accompanying 
standalone financial statements, the 
Board of Directors of the Company have 
proposed final dividend for the year ended 
31 March 2025 which is subject to the 
approval of the members at the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting. The dividend 
declared is in accordance with Section 
123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
declaration of dividend.
 
 
vi. 
 As stated in note 46 of the standalone 
financial statements and based on our 
examination which included test checks, 
the Company, in respect of financial year 
commencing on 1 April 2024, has used an 
accounting software for maintaining its 
books of account which has a feature of 
recording audit trail (edit log) facility and 
the same has been operated throughout 
the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the software at the application 
level. The accounting software is operated 
by a third-party software service provider 
and in the absence of any information 
on the existence of audit trail (edit 
logs) feature at database level in the 
Independent Service Auditor’s ‘Type 2 
report’ issued in accordance with ISAE 
3402, Assurance Reports on Controls at 
a Service Organization, we are unable to 
comment on whether audit trail feature at 
the database level of the said software was 
enabled and operated throughout the year. 
Further, during the course of our audit we 
did not come across any instance of audit 
trail feature being tampered with, where 
such feature is enabled. Furthermore, 
the audit trail has been preserved by 
the Company as per the statutory 
requirements for record retention, where 
such feature is enabled.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Manish Agrawal
Partner
Membership No.: 507000
UDIN: 25507000BMMKPS5856
New Delhi
14 May 2025
Brigade Enterprises Limited
256
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure I 
referred to in paragraph 19 of the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of Brigade Enterprises 
Limited on the standalone financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2025
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us 
and given by the Company and the books of account and 
records examined by us in the normal course of audit, and 
to the best of our knowledge and belief, we report that:
(i) 
(a) (A)  The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars, including 
quantitative details and situation of 
property, plant and equipment, investment 
property, investment property under 
development and relevant details of right-
of-use assets.
 
 
(B)  The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars of 
intangible assets.
 
(b)  The Company has a regular programme of 
physical verification of its property, plant 
and equipment, investment property and 
relevant details of right-of-use assets under 
which the assets are physically verified in a 
phased manner over a period of three years, 
which in our opinion, is reasonable having 
regard to the size of the Company and the 
nature of its assets. In accordance with this 
programme, certain property, plant and 
equipment, investment property and relevant 
details of right-of-use assets were verified 
during the year and no material discrepancies 
were noticed on such verification. Further, 
the investment property under development 
comprises of multiple multi-story building 
under development. Having regard to the 
nature of the property, the management has 
conducted physical verification by way of title 
deeds, site visits conducted and continuous 
project progress monitoring by competent 
persons, at reasonable intervals during the year 
and no material discrepancies were noticed on 
such physical verification.
 
(c)  The title deeds (registered sale deed/ 
transfer deed/ registered joint development 
agreements) of all the immovable properties 
(including investment properties) held by 
the Company (other than properties where 
the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the 
lessee), disclosed in Note 4 to the standalone 
financial statements, are held in the name of 
the Company. For title deeds of immovable 
properties in the nature of 8 land and buildings 
situated at multiple cities in India with gross 
carrying values of ₹ 1,54,816 lakhs as at 31 
March 2025, which have been mortgaged as 
security for loans or borrowings taken by the 
Company, confirmations with respect to title of 
the Company have been directly obtained by us 
from the respective lenders.
 
(d)  The Company has adopted cost model for 
its Property, Plant and Equipment (including 
right-of-use assets) and intangible assets. 
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(i)(d) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
 
(e)  No proceedings have been initiated or are 
pending against the Company for holding 
any benami property under the Prohibition of 
Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 (as 
amended) and rules made thereunder.
(ii) (a)  The inventories held by the Company primarily 
comprise of stock of units in completed projects, 
work in progress of projects under development 
(including land stock). Having regard to the nature 
of inventory, the management has conducted 
physical verification of inventory by way of 
verification of title deeds, site visits conducted 
and continuous project progress monitoring 
by competent persons, at reasonable intervals 
during the year and no material discrepancies 
were noticed on such physical verification. The 
other inventories comprising of raw material has 
been physically verified by the management 
at reasonable intervals during the year. In our 
opinion, the coverage and procedures of such 
verification by the management is appropriate 
and no discrepancy of 10% or more in aggregate 
for each class of inventory were noticed as 
compared to book records.
 
(b)  The Company has not been sanctioned working 
capital limits in excess of ₹ 5 crore rupees by 
banks or financial institutions on the basis of 
security of current assets at any point of time 
during the year. Accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(ii)(b) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
257
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
(iii)  The Company has not provided any guarantee or security or granted any advances in the nature of loans to 
companies, firms, limited liability partnerships during the year. Further, the Company has made investments in, 
and granted unsecured loans to companies, firms, during the year, in respect of which-
 
(a)  The Company has provided loans to Subsidiaries during the year as per details given below:
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Loans
Aggregate amount provided/granted during the year:
Subsidiaries
19,005
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date in respect of above cases:
Subsidiaries
87,542
 
(b)  The Company has not provided any guarantee or given any security or granted any advances in the nature 
of loans during the year. However, the Company has made investment in six (number) entities amounting 
to ₹ 32,987 lakhs (year-end balance ₹ 2,43,811 lakhs) (undiscounted) and has granted interest-free loans to 
six (number) entities, amounting to ₹ 19,005 lakhs (year-end balance ₹ 87,542 lakhs) (undiscounted) and 
in our opinion, and according to the information and explanations given to us, such investments made and 
loans granted are, prima facie, not prejudicial to the interest of the Company.
 
(c)  According to the information and explanations given to us, interest free loans granted by the Company 
amounting to ₹ 25,543 lakhs are repayable on demand. Further, such loans have not been demanded 
for repayment as on date. In respect of remaining interest free loans amounting to ₹ 61,999 lakhs 
(undiscounted), the schedule of repayment of principal has been stipulated and principal amount is not 
due for repayment currently.
 
(d)  There is no overdue amount in respect of loans granted to such companies, firms, LLPs or other parties.
 
(e)  The Company has not granted any loan which has fallen due during the year. Further, no fresh loans were 
granted to any party to settle the overdue loans that existed as at the beginning of the year.
 
(f) 
 The Company has granted loans which are repayable on demand, as per details below:
(₹ in lakhs)
Particulars
Related parties
Aggregate of loans
- Repayable on demand
25,543
Percentage of loans to the total loans
39%
(iv)  In our opinion, and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has complied with 
the provisions of sections 185 of the Act in respect of loans, guarantees and security provided by it, as applicable. 
As the Company is engaged in providing infrastructural facilities as specified in Schedule VI of the Act, provisions 
of section 186 except sub-section (1) of the Act are not applicable to the Company. In our opinion, and according 
to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has complied with the provisions of sub-section 
(1) of section 186 of the Act in respect of investments, as applicable.
(v)  In our opinion, and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not accepted 
any deposits or there are no amounts which have been deemed to be deposits within the meaning of sections 73 
to 76 of the Act and the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 (as amended). Accordingly, reporting 
under clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(vi)  The Central Government has specified maintenance of cost records under sub-section (1) of section 148 of the 
Act in respect of the products of the Company. We have broadly reviewed the books of account maintained 
by the Company pursuant to the rules made by the Central Government for the maintenance of cost records 
and are of the opinion that, prima facie, the prescribed accounts and records have been made and maintained. 
However, we have not made a detailed examination of the cost records with a view to determine whether they 
are accurate or complete.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
258
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
(vii) (a)  In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, undisputed statutory dues 
including goods and services tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax, sales-tax, service 
tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value added tax, cess and other material statutory dues, as applicable, 
have generally been regularly deposited with the appropriate authorities by the Company, though there 
have been slight delays in a few cases. Further, no undisputed amounts payable in respect thereof were 
outstanding at the year-end for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
 
(b)  According to the information and explanations given to us, we report that there are no statutory dues 
referred in sub-clause (a) which have not been deposited with the appropriate authorities on account of 
any dispute except for the following:
(₹ in lakhs)
Name of the 
statute
Nature of 
dues
Gross amount (₹)
Amount paid
under protest (₹)
Period to which 
the amount 
relates
Forum where dispute 
is pending
Income tax 
Act, 1961
Income tax
9
-
2012-13
Commissioner of Income 
tax (Appeals)
Income tax 
Act, 1961
Income tax
4
-
2013-14
Income tax appellate 
tribunal
Finance 
Act,1994
Service tax
97
-
2006-08
Customs Excise and 
Service tax appellate 
Tribunal
1,607
-
2005-10
Commissioner of service 
tax appeals
699
52
2009-12
Customs Excise and 
Service tax appellate 
Tribunal
376
28
2008-12
Customs Excise and 
Service tax appellate 
Tribunal
129
11
2011-12
Customs Excise and 
Service tax appellate 
Tribunal
28
2
2017-18
Customs Excise and 
Service tax appellate 
Tribunal
Karnataka 
Value added 
tax, 2003
Value 
added tax
163
163
2008-09
The High Court of 
Karnataka
48
48
2009-10
The High Court of 
Karnataka
435
237*
2010-11
Karnataka Appellate 
Tribunal
839
250
2010-11
The High Court of 
Karnataka
 
 
(*) Excluding bank guarantee of ₹ 198 Lakhs provided by the Company
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
259
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
(viii)  According to the information and explanations 
given to us, we report that no transactions were 
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year 
in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 
1961 (43 of 1961) which have not been previously 
recorded in the books of accounts.
(ix) (a)  In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company 
has not defaulted in repayment of its loans 
or borrowings or in the payment of interest 
thereon to any lender.
 
(b)  According to the information and explanations 
given to us including representation received 
from the management of the Company, and on 
the basis of our audit procedures, we report that 
the Company has not been declared a willful 
defaulter by any bank or financial institution or 
government or any government authority.
 
(c)  In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, money raised by 
way of term loans were applied for the purposes 
for which these were obtained.
 
(d)  In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, and on an overall 
examination of the financial statements of the 
Company, funds raised by the Company on 
short term basis have, prima facie, not been 
utilised for long term purposes.
 
(e)  In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us and on an overall 
examination of the financial statements of the 
Company, the Company has not taken any 
funds from any entity or person on account of 
or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries or 
joint venture.
 
(f) 
 In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company has 
not raised any loans during the year on the 
pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries or 
joint venture.
(x) (a)  The Company has not raised any money by 
way of initial public offer or further public offer 
(including debt instruments), during the year. 
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(x)(a) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
 
(b)  During the year, the Company has made private 
placement of shares (representing offering of 
its equity shares through a qualified institution 
placement). In our opinion and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, the 
Company has complied with the requirements 
of section 42 and section 62 of the Act and 
the rules framed thereunder with respect to 
the same. Further, the amounts so raised were 
used for the purposes for which the funds were 
raised, though idle/surplus funds which were 
not required for immediate utilisation have been 
invested in readily realisable liquid investments.
(xi) (a)  To the best of our knowledge and according to 
the information and explanations given to us, 
no fraud by the Company or no fraud on the 
Company has been noticed or reported during 
the period covered by our audit.
 
(b)  According to the information and explanations 
given to us including the representation made 
to us by the management of the Company, 
no report under sub-section 12 of section 
143 of the Act has been filed by the auditors 
in Form ADT- 4 as prescribed under rule 13 of 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
with the Central Government for the period 
covered by our audit.
 
(c)  According to the information and explanations 
given to us including the representation made 
to us by the management of the Company, there 
are no whistle-blower complaints received by 
the Company during the year.
(xii)  The Company is not a Nidhi Company and the Nidhi 
Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it. Accordingly, 
reporting under clause 3(xii) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
(xiii)  In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, all transactions entered 
into by the Company with the related parties are 
in compliance with sections 177 and 188 of the Act, 
where applicable. Further, the details of such related 
party transactions have been disclosed in the 
standalone financial statements, as required under 
Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 24, Related 
Party Disclosures specified in Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 as prescribed 
under section 133 of the Act.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
260
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
(xiv) (a)  In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the Company has 
an internal audit system which is commensurate 
with the size and nature of its business as 
required under the provisions of section 138 of 
the Act.
 
(b)  We have considered the reports issued by the 
Internal Auditors of the Company till date for 
the period under audit.
(xv)  According to the information and explanation given to 
us, the Company has not entered into any non-cash 
transactions with its directors or persons connected 
with its directors and accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(xv) of the Order with respect to compliance 
with the provisions of section 192 of the Act are not 
applicable to the Company.
(xvi)  The Company is not required to be registered under 
section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
1934. Accordingly, reporting under clauses 3(xvi)
(a), (b) and (c) of the Order are not applicable to 
the Company.
 
(d)  Based on the information and explanations given 
to us and as represented by the management 
of the Company, the Group as defined in 
Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) 
Directions, 2016 does not have any CIC.
(xvii)  The Company has not incurred any cash losses in 
the current financial year as well as the immediately 
preceding financial year.
(xviii)  There has been no resignation of the statutory 
auditors during the year. Accordingly, reporting 
under clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
(xix)  According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, 
ageing and expected dates of realisation of financial 
assets and payment of financial liabilities, other 
information in the standalone financial statements, 
our knowledge of the plans of the Board of Directors 
and management and based on our examination of 
the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing 
has come to our attention, which causes us to 
believe that any material uncertainty exists as on 
the date of the audit report indicating that Company 
is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at 
the date of standalone balance sheet as and when 
they fall due within a period of one year from the 
standalone balance sheet date. We, however, state 
that this is not an assurance as to the future viability 
of the Company. We further state that our reporting 
is based on the facts up to the date of the audit 
report and we neither give any guarantee nor any 
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date, will 
get discharged by the company as and when they 
fall due.
(xx)  According to the information and explanations given 
to us, the Company does not have any unspent 
amounts towards Corporate Social Responsibility in 
respect of any ongoing or other than ongoing project 
as at the end of the financial year. Accordingly, 
reporting under clause 3(xx) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
(xxi)  The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is 
not applicable in respect of audit of standalone 
financial statements of the Company. Accordingly, 
no comment has been included in respect of said 
clause under this report.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Manish Agrawal
Partner
Membership No.: 507000
UDIN: 25507000BMMKPS5856
New Delhi
14 May 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
261
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure II
Independent Auditor’s Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the standalone financial statements 
under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)
1. 
 In conjunction with our audit of the standalone 
financial statements of Brigade Enterprises Limited 
(‘the Company’) as at and for the year ended 31 
March 2025, we have audited the internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements of the Company as at that date.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged 
with Governance for Internal Financial Controls
2. 
 The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on the internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements 
criteria established by the Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated 
in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls over Financial Reporting (‘Guidance Note’) 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (‘ICAI’). These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of the Company’s business, 
including adherence to the Company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the 
Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements
3. 
 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing issued by the ICAI prescribed 
under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements, 
and the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we 
comply with ethical requirements and plan and 
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements 
were established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects.
4. 
 Our audit involves performing procedures to 
obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of 
the internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements includes obtaining an understanding of 
such internal financial controls, assessing the risk 
that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the standalone financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5. 
 We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our audit opinion on the Company’s internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Standalone Financial Statements
6. 
 A company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements is a 
process designed to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of standalone financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s 
internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements include those 
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) 
provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
standalone financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that 
receipts and expenditures of the company are being 
made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, 
use, or disposition of the company’s assets that 
could have a material effect on the standalone 
financial statements.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
262
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial 
Controls with Reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements
7. 
 Because of the inherent limitations of internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements, including the possibility of 
collusion or improper management override of 
controls, material misstatements due to error 
or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of the internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements to future periods are subject to the risk 
that the internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or 
that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8. 
 In our opinion, the Company has, in all material 
respects, adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements and 
such controls were operating effectively as at 31 
March 2025, based on the internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements 
criteria established by the Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in 
the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Manish Agrawal
Partner
Membership No.: 507000
UDIN: 25507000BMMKPS5856
New Delhi
14 May 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
263
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone Balance Sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note
As at
March 31,2025
As at 
March 31, 2024(*)
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3
 3,650 
 2,633 
Investment properties
4
 1,30,835 
 1,31,356 
Investment property under development
5
 1,45,333 
 66,995 
Other intangible assets
6
 31 
 27 
Financial assets
(i)  Investments
7
 2,41,522 
 2,49,670 
(ii) Loans
8
 40,039 
 36,379 
(iii) Other financial assets
9
 11,059 
 8,056 
Other non-current assets
10
 10,039 
 10,836 
Deferred tax assets (net)
21
 3,849 
 - 
Income tax assets (net)
21
 793 
 714 
 5,87,150 
 5,06,666 
Current assets
Inventories
11
4,88,656 
3,95,591 
Financial assets
(i) Investments
7
620 
4,705 
(ii) Trade receivables
12
39,420 
22,521 
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents
13
1,10,938 
9,401 
(iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above
14
73,843 
56,378 
(v) Loans
8
25,543 
9,942 
(vi) Other financial assets
9
36,831 
35,572
Other current assets
10
26,125 
14,016 
8,01,976 
5,48,126
Total assets
13,89,126 
10,54,792 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity 
Equity share capital
15
24,437 
23,110 
Other equity
16
5,87,071 
3,98,923 
Total equity
6,11,508 
4,22,033 
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i) Borrowings
18
1,48,015 
1,66,763 
(ii) Lease liabilities
35
1,588 
- 
(iii) Other financial liabilities
19
2,587 
3,839 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
21
- 
9,823 
Other non-current liabilities 
22
159 
436 
1,52,349 
1,80,861 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i) Borrowings
18
8,890 
7,843 
(ii) Lease liabilities
35
298 
- 
(iii) Trade payables
23
 
- 
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
9,177 
7,570 
 
- 
 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
28,753 
27,037 
(iv) Other financial liabilities
19
43,866 
39,352 
Other current liabilities 
22
5,32,972 
3,68,256 
Provisions
20
1,313 
638 
Current tax liabilities (net)
21
- 
1,202 
6,25,269 
4,51,898 
Total equity and liabilities
13,89,126 
10,54,792 
(*) Refer note 47
Material accounting policy information 
 
 
 
 
 
         
      2.1
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 001076N/N500013 
Manish Agrawal
M.R. Jaishankar
Pavitra Shankar
Partner
Chairman 
Managing Director
Membership no.: 507000
DIN: 00191267
DIN: 08133119
Jayant Bhalchandra Manmadkar
P. Om Prakash
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
Membership No: 047863
Membership No:F5435
New Delhi
Bengaluru
May 14, 2025
May 14, 2025
Brigade Enterprises Limited
264
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 001076N/N500013 
Manish Agrawal
M.R. Jaishankar
Pavitra Shankar
Partner
Chairman 
Managing Director
Membership no.: 507000
DIN: 00191267
DIN: 08133119
Jayant Bhalchandra Manmadkar
P. Om Prakash
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
Membership No: 047863
Membership No:F5435
New Delhi
Bengaluru
May 14, 2025
May 14, 2025
Note
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024(*)
Income
Revenue from operations
24
2,11,693 
2,02,536 
Other income
25
26,713 
19,864 
Total income
2,38,406 
2,22,400 
Expenses
Sub-contractor costs
87,496 
68,781 
Cost of raw materials, components and stores consumed
26
24,247 
17,544 
Land purchase cost (including development rights)
90,075 
1,50,009 
Changes in inventories of stock of flats, land stock and work-in-
progress 
27
(1,04,771)
(1,21,949)
Employee benefits expense
28
23,840 
17,719 
Finance costs
29
12,964 
14,407 
Depreciation and amortization expenses
30
7,978 
7,824 
Other expenses
31
47,335 
25,136 
Total expenses
1,89,164 
1,79,471 
Profit before tax
49,242 
42,929 
Tax expense
21
Current tax
17,291 
11,483 
Deferred tax credit
(13,579)
(373)
Total tax expense
3,712 
11,110 
Profit for the year
45,530 
31,819 
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss 
 
Re-measurement (losses) on defined benefit plans
(366)
(51)
 
Income tax relating to above
92 
13 
Other comprehensive income (‘OCI’)
(274)
(38)
Total comprehensive income for the year
45,256 
31,781 
Earnings per share
32
Earnings per equity share [nominal value per share ₹10 each]
Basic (`)
19.09 
13.78 
Diluted (`)
19.04 
13.75 
(*) Refer note 47
Material accounting policy information   
 
 
 
 
 
     2.1
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
265
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone Cash flow Statement 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024 (*)
A. Cash flows from operating activities
 
Profit before tax
49,242
42,929
 
Adjustments for: 
 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
7,978
7,824
 
Finance costs
12,964
14,407
 
Interest income from financial assets at amortized cost
(21,344)
(8,195)
 
Gain on sale of investments in mutual fund
(80)
(260)
 
Modification gain on financial instruments through profit and loss
(436)
(1,357)
 
Loss/(profit) on sale of property, plant and equipment, net
17
(14)
 
Loans and advances written off
67
23
 
Expected credit loss on financial assets 
1,643
-
 
Provisions for contract losses
35
-
 
Provision  no longer required written back
(330)
-
 
Dividend income 
(3,340)
-
 
Share in (profits)/ loss of Limited liability Partnership (LLP)
(418)
106
 
Share based payments to employees
671
907
Operating profit before working capital changes
46,669
56,370
Movements in working capital in :
Trade payables
3,652
(1,249)
Other financial liabilities
1,682
(173)
Other liabilities
1,32,541
77,700
Provisions
675
(70)
Trade receivables
(16,899)
2,914
Inventories
(1,04,920)
(1,22,254)
Other financial assets
(1,662)
5,257
Other assets
(9,841)
(9,612)
Cash generated from operations
51,897
8,883
Direct taxes paid, net
(18,668)
(11,421)
Net cash flow generated from/(used in) operating activities (A)
33,229
(2,538)
B. Cash flows from investing activities
 
 Purchase of property, plant and equipment, investment property 
(including investment property under development) and intangible assets 
(37,966)
(5,813)
 
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
-
94
 
Loans given to subsidiaries
(18,930)
(21,888)
 
Loans repaid by subsidiaries
2,454
20,214
 
Redemption of mutual funds
16,464
14,115
 
Purchase of mutual funds
(12,300)
(12,950)
 
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures
(4,941)
(13,251)
 
Redemption of investments in subsidiaries 
18,360
-
 
Investments in bank deposits, net
(19,496)
(12,905)
 
Interest received
11,682
20,414
 
Dividend received
3,340
-
 
Net cash flow (used in) investing activities (B)
(41,333)
(11,970)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
266
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Standalone Cash flow Statement 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024 (*)
C. Cash flows from financing activities
 
 Proceeds from issue of equity shares (including securities premium), net 
of transaction cost
1,48,002
821
 
Proceeds from borrowings
27,735
1,01,479
 
Repayment of borrowings
(45,436)
(69,360)
 
Payment of interest portion of lease liability
(162)
-
 
Interest paid
(15,873)
(13,247)
 
Dividends paid (including unclaimed dividend)
(4,625)
(4,616)
 
Net cash flow generated from financing activities (C)
1,09,641
15,077
Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A + B + C)
1,01,537
569
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
9,401
15,953
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (refer note 13)
1,10,938
16,522
(*) 
Refer note 47
 
Note:
(i) 
Refer note 18 for reconciliation of movement of liabilities to cashflow arising from financing activities.
(ii) 
 The above Statement of Cash Flow has been prepared under the “Indirect Method” as set out in Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 
7, “Statement of Cash Flow”.
Material accounting policy information 
 
 
2.1
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 001076N/N500013 
Manish Agrawal
M.R. Jaishankar
Pavitra Shankar
Partner
Chairman 
Managing Director
Membership no.: 507000
DIN: 00191267
DIN: 08133119
Jayant Bhalchandra Manmadkar
P. Om Prakash
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
Membership No: 047863
Membership No:F5435
New Delhi
Bengaluru
May 14, 2025
May 14, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
267
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
A)   Equity share capital (*)
Amount
As at April 1, 2023
 23,073 
Changes in equity share capital during the year
Shares options excercised
 37 
As at March 31, 2024
 23,110 
As at April 1, 2024
 23,110 
Changes in equity share capital during the year
Shares options excercised
 23 
Issue of equity shares pursuant to QIP (refer note 44)
 1,304 
As at March 31, 2025
 24,437 
(*)  Also refer note 15
B. Other equity(^)
`
Reserves and surplus
Total
General 
reserve
Securities 
premium 
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account
Retained 
earnings
As at April 1, 2023
 10,149 
 1,70,834 
 726 
 1,88,120 
 3,69,829 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 31,819 
 31,819 
Other comprehensive loss (**)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (38)
 (38)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 31,781 
 31,781 
Transactions with owners in their capacity as 
owners
Equity settled share based payment (net of cross 
charge to subsidiaries)
 - 
 - 
 1,143 
 - 
 1,143 
Dividends paid (refer note 17)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4,616)
 (4,616)
Share options excerised 
 - 
 1,362 
 (576)
 - 
 786 
As at March 31, 2024
 10,149 
 1,72,196 
 1,293 
 2,15,285 
 3,98,923 
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
268
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
`
Reserves and surplus
Total
General 
reserve
Securities 
premium 
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account
Retained 
earnings
As at April 1 2024
 10,149 
 1,72,196 
 1,293 
 2,15,285 
 3,98,923 
Profit for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 45,530 
 45,530 
Other comprehensive loss (**)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (274)
 (274)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 45,256 
 45,256 
Transactions with owners in their capacity as 
owners
Equity settled share based payment (net of cross 
charge to subsidiaries)
 - 
 - 
 841 
 - 
 841 
Dividends paid (refer note 17)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4,623)
 (4,623)
Share options excerised 
 - 
 1,233 
 (523)
 - 
 710 
Securities premium on issue of equity shares (net 
of share issue expenses)
 - 
 1,45,964 
 - 
 - 
 1,45,964 
As at March 31, 2025
 10,149 
 3,19,393 
 1,611 
 2,55,918 
 5,87,071 
(^) 
 Also refer note 16
(**)  The Company has elected to present ‘remeasurement of defined benefit plans’ as a part of retained earnings in accordance with 
option provided under Division-II to Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013.
 
Material accounting policy information  
 
 
2.1
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 001076N/N500013 
Manish Agrawal
M.R. Jaishankar
Pavitra Shankar
Partner
Chairman 
Managing Director
Membership no.: 507000
DIN: 00191267
DIN: 08133119
Jayant Bhalchandra Manmadkar
P. Om Prakash
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
Membership No: 047863
Membership No:F5435
New Delhi
Bengaluru
May 14, 2025
May 14, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
269
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
1. 
Corporate information
 
 Brigade Enterprises Limited (‘BEL’ or the ‘Company’) 
is a public company domiciled in India, and it was 
incorporated on 8 November 1995, under the 
provisions of the erstwhile Companies Act, 1956. 
The Company’s equity shares are listed on Indian 
Stock Exchanges viz., National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited and BSE Limited. The registered office 
of the Company is located at 29th and 30th Floors, 
World Trade Center, Brigade Gateway Campus, 
26/1, Dr Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar, 
Bengaluru - 560 055. The Company’s principal 
business comprises of development and sale of real 
estate, leasing and related services.
2.1 Basis of preparation
a. 
Statement of Compliance
 
 The standalone financial statements of the 
Company have been prepared in accordance with 
the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified 
under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the 
Act’) read with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015, (as amended) and other 
accounting principles generally accepted in 
India and presentation requirements of Division 
II of Schedule III to the Act, as applicable to the 
preparation of standalone financial statements.
 
 These standalone financial statements were 
authorized for issue in accordance with a resolution 
of the Board of Directors of the Company on 14 
May 2025. The revision to standalone financial 
statements is permitted by Board of Directors after 
obtaining necessary approvals or at the instance of 
regulatory authorities as per provisions of the Act.
b. 
Basis of measurement
 
 The standalone financial statements have been 
prepared on going concern basis in accordance 
with accounting principles generally accepted in 
India. The standalone financial statements have 
been prepared on the historical cost basis, except 
for certain financial instruments and Net defined 
benefit (asset)/ liability which are measured at fair 
values at the end of each reporting period, as further 
explained in the accounting policies below.
c. 
Functional and presentation currency
 
 The standalone financial statements are presented 
in Indian Rupees (‘₹’) which is also the functional and 
presentation currency of the Company. All values 
are rounded off to the nearest lakhs, except when 
otherwise indicated.
d. 
Use of estimates
 
 The preparation of standalone financial statements 
in conformity with Ind AS requires the management 
to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, 
assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent 
liabilities, at the end of the reporting period. Although 
these estimates are based on the management’s 
best knowledge of current events and actions, 
uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates 
could result in the outcomes requiring a material 
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets or 
liabilities. The effect of change in an accounting 
estimate is recognized prospectively. Please refer 
to 2.3 for details of significant judgments, estimates 
and assumptions.
e. 
Fair value measurement
 
 Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date, regardless of whether that price 
is directly observable or estimated using another 
valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of an 
asset or a liability, the Company takes into account 
the characteristics of the asset or liability if market 
participants would take those characteristics into 
account when pricing the asset or liability at the 
measurement date. Fair value for measurement and/
or disclosure purposes in these financial statements 
is determined on such a basis, except for leasing 
transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 
116, ‘Leases’, and measurements that have some 
similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such 
as net realisable value in Ind AS 2, ‘Inventories’, or 
value in use in Ind AS 36, ‘Impairment of assets’.
 
 Fair values are categorised into different levels in a 
fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the 
valuation techniques have been disclosed in note 
2.2(s)(xi).
f. 
Current versus non-current classification
 
 The Company presents assets and liabilities 
in the balance sheet based on current/ non-
current classification.
 
An asset is treated as current when it is:
• Expected to be realized or intended to be sold or 
consumed in normal operating cycle
• Held primarily for the purpose of trading
• Expected to be realized within twelve months 
after the reporting period, or
Brigade Enterprises Limited
270
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
• Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for 
at least twelve months after the reporting period
 
All other assets are classified as non-current.
 
A liability is current when:
• It is expected to be settled in normal operating 
cycle
• It is held primarily for the purpose of trading
• It is due to be settled within twelve months after 
the reporting period, or
• There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period
 
All other liabilities are classified as non-current.
 
 Deferred tax assets/liabilities are classified as non-
current.
 
 The operating cycle is the time between the 
acquisition of assets for processing and their 
realization in cash and cash equivalents. The 
Company has evaluated and considered its operating 
cycle as below and has accordingly classified its 
assets and liabilities into current and non-current:
• Residential/ commercial/mixed use projects for 
real estate development period ranging upto 
5 years
• Leasing business: 1 Year
 
 Assets and liabilities relating to such projects/ 
business segments are classified as current based 
on an operating cycle as defined above. All other 
assets and liabilities are classified as current to 
the extent they are expected to be realized/ are 
contractually payable within 12 months from the 
Balance Sheet date, and non-current, in other cases.
2.2 Summary of material accounting 
policies
(a) Property, plant and equipment
 
Recognition and initial measurement:
 
 Property, plant and equipment at their initial 
recognition are stated at their cost of acquisition. 
The cost comprises its purchase price, borrowing 
costs (if capitalization criteria are met), import duties, 
non-refundable taxes and directly attributable cost 
of bringing the asset to its working condition for the 
intended use. Trade discounts and rebates, if any 
are deducted in arriving at the purchase price. The 
Company identifies and determines cost of each 
component/ part of the asset separately, if the 
component/ part have a cost which is significant to 
the total cost of the asset and has useful life that is 
materially different from that of the remaining asset.
 
 The cost of a self-constructed item of property, 
plant and equipment comprises the cost of 
materials, direct labour, borrowing costs (if 
capitalization criteria are met) and any other costs 
directly attributable to bringing the asset to working 
condition for its intended use.
 
 Costs of assets not ready for use at the balance sheet 
date are disclosed under capital work- in- progress.
 
 Advances paid towards the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment outstanding at each balance 
sheet date is classified as capital advances under 
other non-current assets.
 
Subsequent measurement
 
 Items of property, plant and equipment are 
measured at cost, less accumulated depreciation 
and any accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
When significant parts of plant and equipment are 
required to be replaced at intervals, the Company 
depreciates them separately based on their specific 
useful lives.
 
Subsequent expenditure
 
 Subsequent expenditure related to an item of 
property, plant and equipment is added to its book 
value only if it increases the future benefits from its 
previously assessed standard of performance and 
cost can be measured reliably. All other expenses 
on existing property, plant and equipment, including 
day-to-day repair and maintenance expenditure 
and cost of replacing parts, are charged to the 
statement of profit and loss for the period during 
which such expenses are incurred.
 
Derecognition
 
 An item of Property, plant and equipment and any 
significant part initially recognized is de-recognized 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits 
are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss 
arising on de-recognition of the asset (calculated as 
the difference between the net disposal proceeds 
and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in 
the income statement when the Property, plant and 
equipment is de-recognized.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
271
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
Transition to Ind AS
 
 On transition to Ind-AS, the Company had elected to 
continue with carrying value of all its property, plant 
and equipment measured under the erstwhile Indian 
GAAP, as the deemed cost under Ind-AS.
(b) Investment property
 
Recognition and initial measurement
 
 Investment property is property exclusively held by 
the Company to earn rental income or for capital 
appreciation or for both and it predominantly 
generates cash flows independent of the other assets 
held by the Company. Investment property is not held 
for sale in the ordinary course of the business or for 
use in the production or supply of goods or services 
or for administrative purposes. Investment properties 
and Investment Property Under Development are 
initially measured at cost, including transaction costs. 
The cost comprises purchase price, borrowing cost, if 
capitalization criteria are met and directly attributable 
cost of bringing the asset to its working condition for 
the intended use. Any trade discount and rebates are 
deducted in arriving at the purchase price. The cost 
also includes the cost of replacing parts for long-
term construction projects if the recognition criteria 
are met.
 
 The cost of a self-constructed item of Investment 
property comprises the cost of materials, direct 
labour, borrowing costs (if capitalization criteria 
are met) and any other costs directly attributable 
to bringing the asset to working condition for its 
intended use.
 
Subsequent measurement
 
 Subsequent to initial recognition, investment 
properties are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment loss, 
if any. When significant parts of the investment 
property are required to be replaced at intervals, 
the Company depreciates them separately based 
on their specific useful lives.
 
Subsequent expenditure
 
 Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it 
is probable that the future economic benefits 
associated with the expenditure will flow to the 
Company and the cost of the item can be measured 
reliably. All other repair and maintenance costs are 
recognized in profit or loss as incurred.
 
Derecognition
 
 Investment properties are de-recognized when the 
entity transfers control of the same to the buyer. 
Further the entity also derecognises investment 
properties when they are permanently withdrawn 
from use and no future economic benefit is expected 
from their disposal. The difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset is recognized in profit or loss in the period of 
de-recognition.
 
Transfer from / to investment property
 
 Transfers are made to (or from) investment properties 
only when there is a change in use. Transfers 
between (a) investment property, (b) property, 
plant and equipment used in the ordinary course 
of the business and (c) inventories do not change 
the carrying amount of the property transferred and 
they do not change the cost of that property for 
measurement or disclosure purposes.
 
Fair value disclosure
 
 Though the Company measures investment 
property using cost-based measurement, the fair 
value of investment property is disclosed in the 
notes. Fair values are determined based on an annual 
evaluation performed by an accredited external 
independent valuer.
 
Transition to Ind AS
 
 On transition to Ind-AS, the Company had elected 
to continue with carrying value of all its investment 
properties as measured under the erstwhile Indian 
GAAP, as the deemed cost under Ind-AS.
(c)  Depreciation – Property, plant and equipment 
and Investment property
 
 Depreciation is calculated on written down value 
basis, except for lease hold land, using the useful 
lives as estimated by management, which are equal 
to those prescribed under Schedule II to the Act, 
except project specific assets estimated to have 
lower useful lives basis technical evaluation and 
planning usage thereof: 
Category of Asset
Useful lives 
(Years)
Building
15 - 60
Plant and machinery
5 - 15
Electrical Installation
10
Furniture and fixtures
5 - 10
Computer hardware
i. 
Computer equipment
3
ii. Servers and network 
equipment
6
Office equipment
5 - 10
Vehicles
6 – 8
Lease hold land [Straight Line 
Method]
Lease period
Brigade Enterprises Limited
272
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
 The residual values, useful lives and methods of 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment and 
investment property are reviewed at each financial 
year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
 
 Leasehold land is amortized on a straight-line basis 
over the balance period of lease.
 
 Freehold land is not depreciated and is stated at 
cost less impairment loss, if any.
(d) Leases
 
 The Company evaluates each contract or 
arrangement, whether it qualifies as lease as defined 
under Ind AS 116.
 
 Where the Company is lessee: The Company 
assesses, whether the contract is, or contains, 
a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the 
contract involves –
 
(a)  the use of an identified asset,
 
(b)  the right to obtain substantially all the economic 
benefits from use of the identified asset, and
 
(c) the right to direct the use of the identified asset.
 
 
 The Company at the inception of the lease 
contract recognizes a Right-of-Use (RoU) 
asset at cost and corresponding lease liability, 
except for leases with term of less than twelve 
months (short term) and low-value assets. 
The cost of the right-of-use assets comprises 
the amount of the initial measurement of 
the lease liability, any lease payments made 
at or before the inception date of the lease 
plus any initial direct costs, less any lease 
incentives received. Subsequently, the right 
of-use assets are measured at cost less any 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. The right-of-use 
assets is depreciated using the straight-line 
method from the commencement date over 
the shorter of lease term or useful life of right-
of-use assets.
 
 
 For lease liabilities at inception, the Company 
measures the lease liability at the present value 
of the lease payments that are not paid at that 
date. The lease payments are discounted using 
the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate 
is readily determined, if that rate is not readily 
determined, the lease payments are discounted 
using the incremental borrowing rate.
 
 
 The Company recognizes the amount of the re-
measurement of lease liability as an adjustment 
to the right-of-use assets. Where the carrying 
amount of the right-of-use assets is reduced 
to zero and there is a further reduction in 
the measurement of the lease liability, the 
Company recognizes any remaining amount of 
the re-measurement in the statement of profit 
and loss.
 
 
 For short-term and low value leases, the 
Company recognizes the lease payments as an 
operating expense on a straight-line basis over 
the lease term.
 
 
 Lease payments have been classified as cash 
used in Financing activities.
 
 
 Where the Company is lessor: Leases in which 
the Company does not transfer substantially 
all the risks and benefits of ownership of the 
asset are classified as operating leases. Assets 
subject to operating leases are included under 
Investment property.
 
 
 Lease income from operating lease is recognized 
on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
relevant lease including lease income on fair 
value of refundable security deposits. Costs, 
including depreciation, are recognized as an 
expense in the statement of profit and loss. 
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and 
arranging an operating lease are added to 
the carrying amount of the leased asset and 
recognised over the lease term on the same 
basis as rental income.
(e) Borrowing costs
 
 Borrowing costs consist of interest and other 
costs that an entity incurs in connection with 
the borrowing of funds. Borrowing costs directly 
attributable to the acquisition and construction 
of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial 
period to get ready for its intended use or sale are 
capitalized/inventorised as part of the cost of the 
respective asset. Capitalisation commences when 
the Company: (1) incurs expenditures for the asset; 
(2) incurs borrowing costs; and (3) undertakes 
activities that are necessary to prepare the asset 
for its intended use or sale. All other borrowing costs 
are charged to statement of profit and loss.
 
 The Company treats as part of general borrowings 
any borrowings originally made to develop a 
qualifying asset when substantially all the activities 
necessary to prepare that asset for its intended use 
or sale are complete.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
273
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
 The interest capitalised is calculated using the 
Company’s weighted average cost of borrowings 
after adjusting for borrowings associated with 
specific developments. Where borrowings are 
associated with specific developments, the amount 
capitalised is the gross interest incurred on those 
borrowings less any investment income arising on 
their temporary investment. Interest is capitalised 
from the commencement of the development 
work until the date of practical completion, i.e., 
when substantially all of the development work is 
completed. The capitalisation of finance costs is 
suspended if there are prolonged periods when 
development activity is interrupted.
(f) Inventories
 
 Inventories comprises of construction material (raw 
material), land stock (representing land acquired for 
a construction project and / or land development 
rights under joint development arrangements), 
components, stores, work-in progress and stock of 
real estate units of completed projects.
 
 Inventories are measured at lower of cost or net 
realisable value. Cost is determined based on FIFO 
basis. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price 
in the ordinary course of business, less estimated 
costs of completion and estimated costs necessary 
to make the sale. Raw materials, components and 
stores held for use in the construction of finished 
products are not written down below cost except 
in cases when a decline in the price of materials 
indicates that the cost of the finished products shall 
exceed the net realisable value.
 
 The cost of inventories represents direct cost and 
other expenditure (including borrowing costs) 
incurred during construction period which is 
attributable to bringing inventories to its present 
location and condition. In the case of finished 
goods in the form of stock of flats and work in 
progress, cost includes cost of land including 
incidental charges incurred for purchase of land, 
cost of development right and appropriate share of 
construction overheads allocated based on normal 
operating capacity. Direct and other expenditure is 
determined based on specific identification to the 
real estate activity.
 
 Land development rights acquired under Joint 
Development Arrangements (JDA), are measured 
at the fair value of consideration payable to 
landowners. The consideration payable under JDAs 
is satisfied by way of estimated cost of constructed 
area attributed to landowners, suitably adjusted for 
interest free refundable or adjustable advances paid 
under such arrangements.
 
 Land/ development rights received under joint 
development arrangements (‘JDA’) is measured 
at the fair value of the estimated construction 
service rendered to the landowner and the same 
is accounted on launch of the project. The amount 
of non-refundable deposit paid by the Company 
under JDA is recognized as land advance under 
other assets and on the launch of the project, the 
non-refundable amount is transferred as land cost 
to work-in-progress/ capital work in progress. 
Further, the amount of refundable deposit paid by 
the Company under JDA is recognized as deposits 
under other financial assets.
(g) Advance paid towards land procurement
 
 Advances paid by the Company to the seller/ 
intermediary towards outright purchase of land 
is recognised as land advance under other assets 
during the course of obtaining clear and marketable 
title, free from all encumbrances and transfer of legal 
title to the Company, whereupon it is transferred to 
land stock under inventories. Management is of the 
view that these advances are given under normal 
trade practices and are neither in the nature of loans 
nor advance in the nature of loans.
(h) Revenue recognition
i. 
Revenue from contracts with customers
 
 Revenue from contracts with customers is 
recognised when control of the underlying goods 
or services are transferred to the customer at an 
amount that reflects the consideration to which the 
Company expects to be entitled in exchange for 
those goods or services. Revenue is measured based 
on the transaction price, which is the consideration, 
adjusted for discounts and other credits, if any, as 
specified in the contract with the customer. The 
Company presents revenue from contracts with 
customers net of indirect taxes in its statement of 
profit and loss.
 
 The Company considers whether there are 
other promises in the contract that are separate 
performance obligations to which a portion of 
the transaction price needs to be allocated. In 
determining the transaction price, the Company 
considers the effects of variable consideration, 
the existence of significant financing components, 
noncash consideration, and consideration payable 
to the customer, if any.
 
Recognition of revenue from sale of real estate property
 
 Performance obligations under contracts with 
customer for sale of real estate units (residential or 
commercial) is satisfied at a point in time. Accordingly, 
revenue from sale of real estate units is recognised 
when the control of the asset is transferred to the 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
274
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
customer upon receipt of occupancy certificate (as 
applicable) and receipt of substantial consideration, 
which coincides with legal registration of the units 
or on physical handing over of the units, whichever 
is earlier.
 
 Transfer of undivided share of land and constructed 
area to the customer is identified by the Company as 
a single performance obligation, as both are highly 
interrelated/ interdependent.
 
 Real estate development projects under JDAs, not 
being jointly controlled operations, are executed 
on the basis of exchange of agreed percentage 
of constructed area or proceeds from sale of 
units, in lieu of grant of development rights. The 
Company’s contractual obligations under such JDA 
arrangements to provide agreed constructed area 
or certain percentage of the revenue proceeds to 
the landowners in exchange of such development 
rights is accounted as a separate and distinct 
performance obligation.
 
 The revenue is measured at the fair value of the 
estimated construction service rendered to the land 
owner, adjusted by the amount of any cash or cash 
equivalents transferred and is being accounted on 
gross basis on launch of the project. Revenues from 
such arrangement is recognised over the period 
using input method, on the basis of the inputs to the 
satisfaction of a performance obligation relative to 
the total expected inputs to the satisfaction of that 
performance obligation.
 
Income from maintenance and other services
 
 Revenue in respect of maintenance, sales and 
marketing and other services rendered are 
recognised on an accrual basis i.e. as and when 
the Company satisfies performance obligations in 
accordance with the terms of the contract.
 
Other operating income
 
 Interest on delayed receipts, cancellation/ forfeiture 
income and transfer fees from customers are 
recognised based upon underlying agreements 
with customers and when reasonable certainty of 
collection is established.
 
Contract balances
 
 Contract asset is the right to consideration in 
exchange for goods or services transferred to the 
customer. If the Company performs by transferring 
goods or services to a customer before the 
customer pays consideration or before payment is 
due, a contract asset is recognised for the earned 
consideration that is conditional.
 
 Trade receivable represents the Company’s right to 
an amount of consideration that is unconditional (i.e., 
only the passage of time is required before payment 
of the consideration is due).
 
 Contract liability is the obligation to transfer goods 
or services to a customer for which the Company 
has received consideration (or an amount of 
consideration is due) from the customer. If a 
customer pays consideration before the Company 
transfers goods or services to the customer, a 
contract liability is recognised when the payment is 
made, or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). 
Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when 
the Company performs under the contract.
 
Cost to obtain a contract
 
 The Company recognise as an asset the incremental 
costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if 
the Company expects to recover those costs. The 
Company incurs costs such as sales commission 
when it enters a new contract, which are directly 
related to winning the contract. The asset recognised 
is amortised on a systematic basis that is consistent 
with the transfer to the customer of the goods or 
services to which the asset relates.
ii. 
Income from leasing services
 
 Rental income receivable under operating leases 
(excluding variable rental income) is recognized in 
the income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the term of the lease including lease income on fair 
value of refundable security deposits. Rental income 
under operating leases having variable rental income 
is recognized as per the terms of the contract.
iii. 
 Share in profit/ loss of Limited liability 
partnership (LLPs)
 
 The Company’s share in profits/losses from LLPs, 
where the Company is a partner, is recognised as 
income/loss in the statement of profit and loss as 
and when the right to receive its profit/ loss share is 
established by the Company in accordance with the 
terms of contract between the Company and the 
partnership entity. Share in profit/ loss is recorded 
under Partners Current Account.
iv. 
Interest income
 
 Interest income, including income arising from 
other financial instruments, is recognised using the 
effective interest rate method. Interest on delayed 
payment by customers are accounted when 
reasonable certainty of collection is established.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
275
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
v. 
Dividend income
 
 Revenue is recognised when the shareholders’ or 
unit holders’ right to receive payment is established, 
which is generally when shareholders approve 
the dividend.
(i) 
Retirement and other employee benefits
 
 Employee Provident Fund and Employee State 
Insurance
 
 Retirement benefits in the form of state governed 
Employee Provident Fund, Employee State Insurance 
and Employee Pension Fund Schemes are defined 
contribution schemes (collectively the ‘Schemes’). 
The Company has no obligation, other than the 
contribution payable to the Schemes. The Company 
recognizes contribution payable to the Schemes as 
expenditure, when an employee renders the related 
service. The contribution paid in excess of amount 
due is recognized as an asset and the contribution 
due in excess of amount paid is recognized as 
a liability.
 
Gratuity
 
 The Company operates defined gratuity plan for its 
employees. Under the plan, every employee who 
has completed at least five years of service gets a 
gratuity on departure at 15 days of last drawn salary 
for each completed year of service. The scheme is 
funded with an insurance company in the form of 
qualifying insurance policy.
 
 Gratuity is accrued based on an independent 
actuarial valuation, which is done based on project 
unit credit method as at the balance sheet date. The 
Company recognizes the net obligation of a defined 
benefit plan in its balance sheet as an asset or liability. 
Gains and losses through re-measurements of the 
net defined benefit liability/ (asset) are recognized 
in other comprehensive income. In accordance 
with Ind AS, re-measurement gains and losses on 
defined benefit plans recognized in OCI are not to be 
subsequently reclassified to statement of profit and 
loss. As required under Ind AS compliant Schedule 
III, the Company recognizes re-measurement gains 
and losses on defined benefit plans (net of tax) to 
retained earnings.
 
Compensated absence
 
 Accumulated leave, which is expected to be utilized 
within the next twelve months, is treated as short-
term employee benefit. The Company measures the 
expected cost of such absences as the additional 
amount that it expects to pay as a result of the 
unused entitlement that has accumulated at the 
reporting date.
 
 The Company treats accumulated leave expected to 
be carried forward beyond twelve months, as long-
term employee benefit for measurement purposes. 
Such long-term compensated absences are 
provided for based on the actuarial valuation using 
the projected unit credit method at the reporting 
date. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately taken 
to the statement of profit and loss and are not 
deferred. The obligations are presented as current 
liabilities in the balance sheet if the entity does not 
have an unconditional right to defer the settlement 
for at least twelve months after the reporting date.
 
Share based payment
 
 Employees (including senior executives) of the 
Company receive remuneration in the form of 
share-based payments, whereby employees render 
services as consideration for equity instruments 
(equity-settled transactions).
 
 The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined 
by the fair value at the date when the grant is made 
using an appropriate valuation model and the cost is 
recognized, together with a corresponding increase 
in share options outstanding account in equity, 
over the period in which the performance and/or 
service conditions are fulfilled in employee benefits 
expense. The cumulative expense recognized for 
equity-settled transactions at each reporting date 
until the vesting date reflects the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired and the Company’s 
best estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest. The statement of profit 
and loss expense or credit for a period represents 
the movement in cumulative expense recognized 
as at the beginning and end of that period and is 
recognized in employee benefits expense. The 
dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected 
as additional share dilution in the computation of 
diluted earnings per share.
 
Other short-term benefits
 
 Short-term employee benefits comprising employee 
costs including performance bonus is recognized in 
the statement of profit and loss on the basis of the 
amount paid or payable for the period during which 
services are rendered by the employee.
(j) 
Income taxes
 
 Income tax expense comprises current tax expense 
and the net change in the deferred tax asset or 
liability during the year. Current and deferred tax 
are recognized in the statement of profit and loss, 
except when they relate to items that are recognized 
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, 
in which case, the current and deferred tax are 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
276
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
also recognized in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity, respectively.
 
Current income tax
 
 Current income tax for the current and prior 
periods are measured at the amount expected to 
be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities 
based on the taxable income for that period. The tax 
rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are 
those that are enacted or substantively enacted by 
the balance sheet date.
 
 Management periodically evaluates positions 
taken in the tax returns with respect to situations 
in which applicable tax regulations are subject to 
interpretation and considers whether it is probable 
that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain 
tax treatment. The Company shall reflect the effect 
of uncertainty for each uncertain tax treatment by 
using either most likely method or expected value 
method, depending on which method predicts 
better resolution of the treatment.
 
 Deferred income tax
 
 Deferred income tax is recognized on temporary 
differences at the balance sheet date between the 
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts for financial reporting purposes, except 
when the deferred income tax arises from the initial 
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction 
that is not a business combination and affects 
neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the 
time of the transaction.
 
 Deferred income tax assets are recognized for all 
deductible temporary differences, carry forward 
of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the deductible temporary 
differences, and the carry forward of unused tax 
credits and unused tax losses can be utilized.
 
 The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is 
reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to 
the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of 
the deferred income tax asset to be utilized.
 
 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the tax rates that are expected to 
apply in the period when the asset is realized or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date.
 
 The Company offsets tax assets and liabilities if and 
only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off 
current tax assets and current tax liabilities and the 
deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate 
to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
 
 Deferred tax relating to items recognized outside 
profit or loss (either in other comprehensive 
income or in equity) is recognized in correlation to 
the underlying transaction either in OCI or directly 
in equity.
(k) Segment reporting
 
Identification of segments
 
 The Company’s operating businesses are organized 
and managed separately according to the nature of 
products and services provided, with each segment 
representing a strategic business unit that offers 
different products and serves different markets. 
The analysis of geographical segments is based on 
the areas in which major operating divisions of the 
Company operate.
 
Inter-segment transfers
 
 The Company generally accounts for intersegment 
sales and transfers at appropriate margins.
 
Unallocated items
 
 Unallocated items include general corporate asset, 
liability, income and expense items which are not 
allocated to any business segment.
 
Segment accounting policies
 
 The Company prepares its segment information in 
conformity with the accounting policies adopted for 
preparing and presenting the standalone financial 
statements of the Company as a whole.
(l) 
 Provisions, contingent liabilities, onerous 
contracts and contingent asset
 
Provision
 
 A provision is recognized when the Company has 
a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a 
result of past event, it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. If the effect of the time value of money is 
material, provisions are discounted using a current 
pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the risks 
specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the 
increase in the provision due to the passage of time 
is recognized as a finance cost. The expense relating 
to a provision is presented in the statement of profit 
and loss net of any reimbursement.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
277
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
 When the company expects some or all of a 
provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is 
recognised as a separate asset, but only when the 
reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense 
relating to a provision is presented in the statement 
of profit and loss net of any reimbursement.
 
Contingent liabilities
 
 A contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events and whose existence will 
be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events 
not wholly within the control of the Company or a 
present obligation that is not recognized because 
it is not probable that an outflow of resources will 
be required to settle the obligation. A contingent 
liability also arises in extremely rare cases where 
there is a liability that cannot be recognized because 
it cannot be measured reliably. The Company does 
not recognize a contingent liability but discloses it 
in the standalone financial statements, unless the 
possibility of an outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits is remote.
 
Onerous contract
 
 If the Company has a contract that is onerous, 
the present obligation under the contract is 
recognised and measured as a provision. However, 
before a separate provision for an onerous 
contract is established, the Company recognises 
any impairment loss that has occurred on assets 
dedicated to that contract.
 
 An onerous contract is a contract under which the 
unavoidable costs (i.e. the costs that the Company 
cannot avoid because it has the contract) of 
meeting the obligations under the contract exceed 
the economic benefits expected to be received 
under it. The unavoidable costs under a contract 
reflect the least net cost of exiting from the contract, 
which is the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and any 
compensation or penalties arising from failure 
to fulfil it. These estimates are reviewed at each 
reporting date and adjusted to reflect the current 
best estimates.
 
Contingent assets
 
 Contingent assets are neither recognised nor 
disclosed except when realisation of income is 
virtually certain, related asset is disclosed.
(m)  Cash dividend to equity holders of 
the Company
 
 The Company recognizes a liability to make cash 
distributions to equity holders of the Company when 
the distribution is authorised and the distribution 
is no longer at the discretion of the Company. Final 
dividends on shares are recorded as a liability on 
the date of approval by the shareholders and interim 
dividends are recorded as a liability on the date of 
declaration by the Company’s Board of Directors.
(n) Cash and cash equivalents
 
 The Company considers all highly liquid financial 
instruments, which are readily convertible into known 
amounts of cash that are subject to an insignificant 
risk of change in value and having original maturities 
of three months or less from the date of purchase, 
to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents 
in the balance sheet comprise cash on hand and 
bank balances which are unrestricted for withdrawal 
and usage.
 
 For the purpose of the standalone cash flow 
statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of 
cash and short-term deposits, as defined above, 
net of outstanding bank borrowings repayable on 
demand as they are considered an integral part of 
the Company’s cash management.
(o) Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
 
 Standalone Statement of Cash Flows is prepared 
under Ind AS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’. Cash Flows 
are reported using the indirect method.
 
 The Company classifies cash outflows to acquire 
or construct investment property as investing and 
rental inflows as operating cash flows.
(p) Earnings per share
 
 Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing 
the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the 
year. Partly paid equity shares are treated as a 
fraction of an equity share to the extent that they 
are entitled to participate in dividends relative 
to a fully paid equity share during the reporting 
period. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period is adjusted 
for events such as bonus issue that have changed 
the number of equity shares outstanding, without a 
corresponding change in resources.
 
 For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per 
share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders and the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the period 
are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential 
equity shares.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
278
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(q) Restatement
 
 The Company restates its standalone financial 
statements and presents a third balance sheet as 
at the beginning of the preceding period if it applies 
an accounting policy retrospectively, makes a 
retrospective restatement of items in its standalone 
financial statements or reclassifies items in its 
financial statements that has a material effect on 
the information in the balance sheet at the beginning 
of the preceding period.
 
 The Company corrects material prior period errors 
retrospectively in the first set of standalone financial 
statements approved for issue after their discovery 
by (a) restating the comparative amounts for the 
prior periods presented in which the error occurred; 
or (b) if the error occurred before the earliest prior 
period presented, restating the opening balances 
of assets, liabilities and equity for the earliest prior 
period presented.
(r) Share capital (equity shares)
 
 Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue 
of equity shares are recognised as a deduction from 
equity. Income tax relating to transaction costs of an 
equity transaction is accounted for in accordance 
with Ind AS 12.
(s) Financial instruments
 
 A financial instrument is any contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity.
i. 
 Initial recognition and measurement of financial 
assets and liabilities
 
 Financial assets and liabilities are recognized when 
the Company becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. Financial assets and 
liabilities are initially measured at fair value, however, 
trade receivables and trade payables that do not 
contain a significant financing component are 
measured at transaction value and investments in 
subsidiaries are measured at cost in accordance 
with Ind AS 27 - Separate financial statements. 
Transaction costs that are directly attributable 
to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and 
financial liabilities (other than financial assets and 
financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value 
measured on initial recognition of financial asset or 
financial liability.
ii. 
Financial assets at amortized cost
 
 Financial assets are subsequently measured at 
amortized cost if these financial assets are held 
within a business whose objective is to hold these 
assets in order to collect contractual cash flows 
and the contractual terms of the financial asset give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding.
iii. 
 Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 
 Financial assets are measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income if these financial 
assets are held within a business whose objective is 
achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows 
and selling financial assets and the contractual terms 
of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to 
cash flows that are solely payments of principal and 
interest on the principal amount outstanding.
iv. 
 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 
 Financial assets are measured at fair value through 
profit or loss unless it is measured at amortized 
cost or at fair value through other comprehensive 
income on initial recognition. The transaction costs 
directly attributable to the acquisition of financial 
assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss are immediately recognized in statement of 
profit and loss.
v. 
Debt instruments at amortized cost
 
 A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortized 
cost if both the following conditions are met:
 
a) 
 The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for collecting 
contractual cash flows, and
 
b) 
 Contractual terms of the asset give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (SPPI) on the 
principal amount outstanding.
 
 After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortized cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortized cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount 
or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization 
is included in finance income in the profit or loss. 
The losses arising from impairment are recognized 
in the profit or loss. This category generally applies 
to trade and other receivables.
vi.  Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss
 
 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss include financial liabilities held for trading and 
financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
279
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial 
liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are 
incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near 
term. This category also includes derivative financial 
instruments entered into by the Company that are 
not designated as hedging instruments. Gains or 
losses on liabilities held for trading are recognized 
in the profit or loss.
vii. Financial liabilities at amortized cost
 
 Financial liabilities are subsequently carried at 
amortized cost using the effective interest (‘EIR’) 
method. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortized cost using 
EIR method. For trade and other payables maturing 
within one year from the balance sheet date, the 
carrying amounts approximate fair value due to the 
short maturity of these instruments.
viii. De-recognition of financial instruments
 
 The Company derecognizes a financial asset when 
the contractual rights to the cash flows from the 
financial asset expire or it transfers the financial 
asset and the transfer qualifies for de-recognition 
under Ind AS 109. A financial liability (or a part 
of a financial liability) is derecognized when the 
obligation specified in the contract is discharged or 
cancelled or expires.
ix. 
Reclassification of financial assets
 
 The Company determines classification of financial 
assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After 
initial recognition, no reclassification is made for 
financial instruments.
x. 
Offsetting of financial instruments
 
 Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and 
the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if 
there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset 
the recognised amounts and there is an intention to 
settle on a net basis, to realize the assets and settle 
the liabilities simultaneously.
xi. 
Fair value of financial instruments
 
 In determining the fair value of its financial 
instruments, the Company uses following hierarchy 
and assumptions that are based on market 
conditions and risks existing at each reporting date.
 
Fair value hierarchy:
 
 All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the standalone financial 
statements are categorized within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole:
• Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities
• Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable
• Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement is unobservable
 
 For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the 
standalone financial statements on a recurring basis, 
the Company determines whether transfers have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-
assessing categorization (based on the lowest level 
input that is significant to the fair value measurement 
as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
xii.  Investment in subsidiaries (including LLPs) and 
joint venture:
 
 Investment in subsidiaries and joint venture is 
carried at cost as per Ind AS 27 ‘Separate Financial 
Statements’. Where the carrying amount of an 
investment is greater than its estimated recoverable 
amount, it is assessed for recoverability and in case 
of permanent diminution, provision for impairment 
is recorded in statement of Profit and Loss. On 
disposal of investment, the difference between the 
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount 
is charged or credited to the Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
(t) Impairment
 
Financial assets
 
 The Company assesses at each date of balance 
sheet whether a financial asset or a group of financial 
assets is impaired and measures the required 
expected credit losses through a loss allowance. 
The Company recognizes lifetime expected losses 
for all contract assets and / or all trade receivables 
that do not constitute a financing transaction. For 
all other financial assets, expected credit losses 
are measured at an amount equal to the 12-month 
expected credit losses or at an amount equal to the 
life-time expected credit losses if the credit risk on 
the financial asset has increased significantly since 
initial recognition.
 
Non-financial assets
 
 The Company assesses at each reporting date 
whether there is an indication that an asset may 
be impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual 
impairment testing for an asset is required, the 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
280
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Company estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. 
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an 
assets or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) net selling 
price and its value in use. The recoverable amount 
is determined for an individual asset, unless the 
asset does not generate cash inflows that are 
largely independent of those from other assets or 
groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an 
asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the 
asset is considered impaired and is written down 
to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to 
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the 
asset. In determining net selling price, recent market 
transactions are taken into account, if available. If no 
such transactions can be identified, an appropriate 
valuation model is used.
 
 Impairment losses are recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss. After impairment, depreciation 
is provided on the revised carrying amount of the 
asset over its remaining useful life.
 
 Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, 
the carrying amount of the asset (or a cash-
generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate 
of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined had no 
impairment loss been recognized for the asset (or 
cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of 
an impairment loss is recognized immediately in 
the statement of profit and loss, unless the relevant 
asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case 
the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a 
revaluation increase.
2.3  Significant accounting judgments, 
estimates and assumptions
(a) Revenue from contracts with customers
 
 The Company considers following factors that 
significantly affect the determination of the amount 
and timing of revenue from contracts with customers:
 
i) 
Identification of performance obligation
 
 
 Revenue consists of sale of undivided share 
of land and constructed area to the customer, 
which have been identified by the Company 
as a single performance obligation, as they are 
highly interrelated/ interdependent. In assessing 
whether performance obligations relating to 
sale of undivided share of land and constructed 
area are highly interrelated/ interdependent, 
the Company considers factors such as:
• whether the customer could benefit 
from the undivided share of land or the 
constructed area on its own or together 
with other resources readily available to the 
customer; and
• whether the entity will be able to fulfil its 
promise under the contract to transfer the 
undivided share of land without transfer of 
constructed area or transfer the constructed 
area without transfer of undivided share 
of land.
 
ii) 
 Timing of satisfaction of performance 
obligation
 
 
 Revenue from sale of real estate units is 
recognised when (or as) control of such units 
is transferred to the customer. The entity 
assesses timing of transfer of control of such 
units to the customers as transferred over time 
if one of the following criteria are met:
• The customer simultaneously receives 
and consumes the benefits provided by 
the entity’s performance as the entity 
performs; or
• The entity’s performance creates or enhances 
an asset that the customer controls as the 
asset is created or enhanced; or
• The entity’s performance does not create 
an asset with an alternative use to the entity 
and the entity has an enforceable right to 
payment for performance completed to date.
 
 
 If control is not transferred over time as above, 
the entity considers the same as transferred at 
a point in time.
 
 
 For contracts where control is transferred at 
a point in time, the Company considers the 
following indicators of the transfer of control of 
the asset to the customer when the:
• Entity obtains a present right to payment for 
the asset;
• Entity transfers significant risks and rewards 
of ownership of the asset to the customer;
• Entity transfers legal title of the asset to the 
customer; or
• Entity transfers physical possession of the 
asset to the customer; and
• Customer has accepted the asset.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
281
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
iii) 
 Accounting for revenue and land cost 
for projects executed through joint 
development arrangements (‘JDA’)
 
 
 For 
projects 
executed 
through 
joint 
development arrangements, the Company has 
evaluated that landowners are not engaged in 
the same line of business as the Company and 
hence has concluded that such arrangements 
are contracts with customers. The revenue from 
the development and transfer of constructed 
area/revenue sharing arrangement and the 
corresponding land/ development rights 
received under JDA is measured at the fair value 
of the estimated construction service rendered 
to the landowner and the same is accounted on 
launch of the project. The fair value is estimated 
with reference to the terms of the JDA (whether 
revenue share or area share) and the related 
cost that is allocated to discharge the obligation 
of the Company under the JDA. Fair value of the 
construction is the representative fair value of 
the revenue transaction and land so obtained. 
Such assessment is carried out at the launch 
of the real estate project and is not reassessed 
thereafter. The management is of the view 
that the fair value method and estimates are 
reflective of the current market condition.
 
iv) Significant financing component
 
 
 For contracts involving sale of real estate unit, 
the Company receives the consideration in 
accordance with the terms of the contract in 
proportion of the percentage of completion 
of such real estate project and represents 
payments made by customers to secure 
performance obligation of the Company under 
the contract enforceable by customers. Such 
consideration is received and utilised for 
specific real estate projects in accordance with 
the requirements of the Real Estate (Regulation 
and Development) Act, 2016. Consequently, the 
Company has concluded that such contracts 
with customers do not involve any financing 
element since the same arises for reasons 
explained above, which is other than for 
provision of finance to/from the customer.
(b)  Estimation of net realizable value for 
inventory (including land advance)
 
 Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net 
realizable value (NRV).
 
 NRV for completed inventory is assessed by 
reference to market conditions and prices existing 
at the reporting date and is determined by the 
Company, based on comparable transactions 
identified by the Company for properties in the 
same geographical market serving the same real 
estate segment.
 
 NRV in respect of inventory under construction is 
assessed with reference to market prices at the 
reporting date for similar completed property, 
less estimated costs to complete construction 
and estimate of time value of money till date 
of completion.
 
 With respect to land advances, NRV is based on the 
present value of future cash flows, which depends 
on the estimate of, the expected date of completion 
of project, the estimation of sale prices, construction 
costs and discount rate used.
(c)  Impairment of financial and non-financial 
assets
 
 The Company assesses at each date of balance 
sheet whether a financial asset or a group of financial 
assets (except financial assets valued through fair 
value through profit or loss) is impaired. Ind AS 109 
requires expected credit losses to be measured 
through a loss allowance. The Company recognizes 
lifetime expected losses for all contract assets and 
/ or all trade receivables that do not constitute a 
financing transaction. For all other financial assets, 
expected credit losses are measured at an amount 
equal to the 12-month expected credit losses or at 
an amount equal to the life time expected credit 
losses if the credit risk on the financial asset has 
increased significantly since initial recognition.
 
 Impairment exists when the carrying value of an 
asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs 
of disposal and its value in use. The fair value less 
costs of disposal calculation is based on available 
data from binding sales transactions, conducted at 
arm’s length, for similar assets or observable market 
prices less incremental costs for disposing of the 
asset. The value in use calculation is based on a DCF 
model. The cash flows are derived from the budget for 
the next five years and do not include restructuring 
activities that the Company is not yet committed to 
or significant future investments that will enhance 
the asset’s performance of the CGU being tested. 
The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount 
rate used for the DCF model as well as the expected 
future cash-inflows and the growth rate used for 
extrapolation purposes. These estimates are most 
relevant to disclosure of fair value of investment 
property recorded by the Company.
(d) Defined benefit plans - Gratuity
 
 The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and 
other post-employment medical benefits and 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
282
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
the present value of the gratuity obligation are 
determined using actuarial valuations. An actuarial 
valuation involves making various assumptions that 
may differ from actual developments in the future. 
These include the determination of the discount 
rate, future salary increases and mortality rates. 
Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and 
its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is 
highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All 
assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
 
 The parameter most subject to change is the 
discount rate. In determining the appropriate 
discount rate for plans operated in India, the 
management considers the interest rates of 
government bonds. The mortality rate is based on 
publicly available mortality tables. Those mortality 
tables tend to change only at interval in response 
to demographic changes. Future salary increases 
are based on expected future inflation rates and 
expected salary increase thereon.
(e)  Fair value measurement of financial 
instruments
 
 When the fair values of financial assets and financial 
liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot 
be measured based on quoted prices in active 
markets, their fair value is measured using valuation 
techniques including the DCF model. The inputs to 
these models are taken from observable markets 
where possible, but where this is not feasible, a 
degree of judgment is required in establishing fair 
values. Judgments include considerations of inputs 
such as liquidity risk, credit risk and market risk. 
Changes in assumptions about these factors could 
affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
(f)  Measurement of financial instruments at 
amortized cost
 
 Financial instruments are subsequently measured 
at amortized cost using the effective interest (‘EIR’) 
method. The computation of amortized cost is 
sensitive to the inputs to EIR including effective 
rate of interest, contractual cash flows and the 
expected life of the financial instrument. Changes 
in assumptions about these inputs could affect the 
reported value of financial instruments.
(g)  Useful life and residual value of property, plant 
and equipment and investment property
 
 The useful life and residual value of property, 
plant and equipment and investment property 
are determined based on evaluation made by the 
management of the expected usage of the asset, the 
physical wear and tear and technical or commercial 
obsolescence of the asset. Due to the judgments 
involved in such estimates the useful life and 
residual value are sensitive to the actual usage in 
future period.
(h) Valuation of investment property
 
 Investment property is stated at cost. However, 
as per Ind AS 40 ‘Investment Property’ there is a 
requirement to disclose fair value as at the balance 
sheet date. The Company engaged independent 
valuation specialists to determine the fair value 
of its investment property as at reporting date. 
The determination of the fair value of investment 
properties requires the use of estimates such as 
future cash flows from the assets and discount rates 
applicable to those assets.
(i) 
Provision for litigations and contingencies
 
 Provision for litigations and contingencies is 
determined based on evaluation made by the 
management of the present obligation arising from 
past events the settlement of which is expected to 
result in outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits, which involves judgments around ultimate 
outcome and measurement of the obligation amount. 
Due to judgments involved in such estimation the 
provision is sensitive to the actual outcome in 
future periods.
(j) 
Classification of property
 
 The Company determines whether a property is 
classified as investment property or inventory 
as below.
 
 Investment property comprises land and buildings 
(principally office and retail properties) that are not 
occupied substantially for use by, or in the operations 
of, the Company, nor for sale in the ordinary course 
of business, but are held primarily to earn rental 
income and capital appreciation. These buildings are 
substantially rented to tenants and not intended to 
be sold in the ordinary course of business.
 
 Inventory comprises property that is held for sale 
in the ordinary course of business. Principally, 
this is residential and commercial property that 
the Company develops and intends to sell before 
or during the course of construction or upon 
completion of construction.
(k) Deferred tax asset
 
 The extent to which deferred tax assets can be 
recognized is based on an assessment of the 
probability of the future taxable income against 
which the deferred tax assets can be utilized.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
283
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(l) 
Lease
 
 The Company enters into leasing arrangements 
for various assets. The classification of the leasing 
arrangement as a finance lease or operating lease and 
corresponding period used for accounting is based 
on an assessment of several factors, including, but 
not limited to, transfer of ownership of leased asset 
at end of lease term, lessee’s option to purchase 
and estimated certainty of exercise of such option, 
proportion of lease term to the asset’s economic 
life, proportion of present value of minimum lease 
payments to fair value of leased asset and extent of 
specialized nature of the leased asset.
2.4 Changes in accounting policies and 
disclosures
(a) Standards issued but not yet effective
 
 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs notifies new 
standard or amendments to the existing standards. 
There is amendment to Ind AS 21 “Effects of Changes 
in Foreign Exchange Rates” such amendments would 
have been applicable from 01 April 2025.
 
 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange 
Rates specify how an entity should assess 
whether a currency is exchangeable and how 
it should determine a spot exchange rate when 
exchangeability is lacking. The amendments also 
require disclosure of information that enables 
users of its financial statements to understand 
how the currency not being exchangeable into the 
other currency affects, or is expected to affect, the 
entity’s financial performance, financial position and 
cash flows.
 
 The amendments are effective for the period on or 
after 01 April 2025. When applying the amendments, 
an entity cannot restate comparative information.
 
 The Company has reviewed the new pronouncement 
and based on its evaluation has determined that 
these amendments do not have a significant impact 
on the Company’s Standalone Financial Statements.
(b)  Standards issued/amended and became 
effective
 
 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide notification 
dated 9 September 2024 and 28 September 
2024 notified the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Second Amendment Rules, 2024 and 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Third 
Amendment Rules, 2024, respectively, which 
amended/ notified certain accounting standards 
(see below), and are effective for annual reporting 
periods beginning on or after 1 April 2024:
• Insurance contracts - Ind AS 117; and
• Lease Liability in Sale and Leaseback – 
Amendments to Ind AS 116
 
 These amendments did not have any material impact 
on the amounts recognised in prior periods and are 
not expected to significantly affect the current or 
future periods.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
284
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
3 
Property, plant and equipment
`
Paticulars
Freehold 
Land
Building
Electrical 
Installations
Furniture 
& Fixtures
 Plant & 
Machinery
Office 
Equipment
Computer 
Hardware
Vehicles
Total
Cost 
As at April 1, 2023
 440 
 1,581 
 279 
 204 
 323 
 345 
 893 
 363 
 4,428 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 190 
 43 
 473 
 100 
 806 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (227)
(46)
(273)
As at March 31, 2024
 440 
 1,581 
 279 
 204 
 513 
 388 
 1,139 
 417 
 4,961 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 467 
 78 
 619 
 582 
 1,747 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (17)
 (6)
 (4)
 (12)
 - 
 (39)
As at March 31, 2025
 440 
 1,581 
 279 
 188 
 974 
 462 
 1,746 
 999 
 6,669 
Accumulated 
depreciation
As at April 1, 2023
 - 
 381 
 277 
 171 
 155 
 257 
 612 
 263 
 2,116 
Charge for the year
 - 
 60 
 1 
 7 
 40 
 32 
 285 
 55 
 480 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (223)
 (45)
 (268)
As at March 31, 2024
 - 
 441 
 278 
 178 
 195 
 289 
 674 
 273 
 2,328 
Charge for the year
 - 
 57 
 - 
 - 
 75 
 29 
 441 
 122 
 724 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (17)
 (5)
 (4)
 (7)
 - 
 (33)
As at March 31, 2025
 - 
 498 
 278 
 161 
 265 
 314 
 1,108 
 395 
 3,019 
Net book value 
As at March 31, 2024
 440 
 1,140 
 1 
 26 
 318 
 99 
 465 
 144 
 2,633 
As at March 31, 2025
 440 
 1,083 
 1 
 27 
 709 
 148 
 638 
 604 
 3,650 
 
Note:
 
a) 
Transition to Ind AS
 
 
 On transition to Ind AS (i.e. April 01, 2015), the Company has elected to continue with the carrying value of all Property, plant 
and equipment measured as per the previous GAAP as the deemed cost of Property, plant and equipment.
 
b) 
Contractual obligations
 
 
 The contractual commitments pending for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment as at March 31, 2025 is ₹ Nil (March 
31, 2024: ₹ Nil).
 
c) 
Refer note 33 for details of property, plant and equipment pledged as security for borrowings.
 
d) 
Title deeds of immovable property not held in the name of the Company
 
 
 Refer note 4(g) for details of immovable properties included in ‘Property, plant and equipment’ not held in the name of the 
Company.
 
e) 
Revaluation
 
 
 The Company has adopted cost model for property, plant and equipment. Accordingly, the Company has not revalued its 
property, plant and equipment during the current year or previous year.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
285
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
4 
Investment properties
Particulars
Right 
to use - 
Building
Freehold 
land
Leasehold 
land 
Building
Other assets forming part of Building
Total
Electrical 
installations 
Furniture 
and 
fixtures
 Plant and 
equipment
Office 
equipment
Computer 
hardware
Cost
As at April 1, 2023
 - 
 36,790 
 2,810 
 1,15,407 
 13,562 
 5,263 
 13,501 
 2,789 
 340 
 1,90,462 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 523 
 2,787 
 560 
 405 
 161 
 4,436 
As at March 31, 
2024
 - 
 36,790 
 2,810 
 1,15,407 
 14,085 
 8,050 
 14,061 
 3,194 
 501 
 1,94,898 
Transfer from 
inventory 
 - 
 1,934 
 - 
 1,666 
 58 
 - 
 56 
 16 
 - 
 3,730 
Additions
 1,920 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 120 
 727 
 368 
 182 
 4 
 3,321 
As at March 31, 
2025
 1,920 
 38,724 
 2,810 
 1,17,073 
 14,263 
 8,777 
 14,485 
 3,392 
 505 
 2,01,949 
Accumulated 
depreciation
As at April 1, 2023
 - 
 - 
 248 
 30,933 
 10,770 
 2,584 
 7,853 
 2,198 
 225 
 54,811 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
 34 
 4,124 
 733 
 992 
 1,093 
 248 
 58 
 7,282 
As at March 31, 
2024
 - 
 - 
 282 
 35,057 
 11,503 
 3,576 
 8,946 
 2,446 
 283 
 62,093 
Charge for the year
 184 
 - 
 34 
 3,849 
 658 
 1,177 
 1,065 
 219 
 53 
 7,239 
As at March 31, 
2025
 184 
 - 
 316 
 38,906 
 12,161 
 4,753 
 10,011 
 2,665 
 336 
 69,332 
Accumulated 
impairment
As at April 1, 2023
 - 
 1,229 
 - 
 761 
 50 
 1 
 155 
 4 
 - 
 2,200 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 
2024
 - 
 1,229 
 - 
 761 
 50 
 1 
 155 
 4 
 - 
 2,200 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 
2025
 - 
 1,229 
 - 
 761 
 50 
 1 
 155 
 4 
 - 
 2,200 
Initial direct costs 
incurred/capitalised 
in arranging 
operating lease (**)
As at March 31, 
2024
 751 
As at March 31, 
2025
 418 
Net book value 
(including initial 
direct costs)
As at March 31, 
2024
 - 
 35,561 
 2,528 
 79,589 
 2,532 
 4,473 
 4,960 
 744 
 218 
 1,31,356 
As at March 31, 
2025
 1,736 
 37,495 
 2,494 
 77,406 
 2,052 
 4,023 
 4,319 
 723 
 169 
 1,30,835 
 
(**) Amortisation of initial direct costs over the lease term is included under brokerage and discounts in note 31 - Other expenses.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
286
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
Note:
 
a) 
Transition to Ind AS
 
 
 On transition to Ind AS (i.e. April 01, 2015), the Company has elected to continue with the carrying value of all 
Investment properties measured as per the previous GAAP as the deemed cost of Investment properties.
 
b) 
Contractual obligations
 
 
 The contractual commitments pending for the acquisition of investment properties as at March 31, 2025 is 
₹ Nil (March 31, 2024: ₹ Nil).
 
c)  
Leasing arrangements
 
 
 Investment properties comprises a number of commercial properties (broadly categorized into two class 
of assets i.e., office properties and retail properties depending on the nature, characteristics and risks of 
each property) that are leased to third parties and related parties under operating leases (cancellable and 
non-cancellable) with varying lease terms (upto 18 years), escalation clauses and renewal clauses. The 
Company has classified these leases as operating leases, because they do not transfer substantially all of 
the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of the assets. Certain lease arrangement also includes 
variable rent determined based on percentage of sales of lessee. The Company is also required to maintain 
the property over the lease term.
 
d) 
Amounts recognised in profit or loss for investment properties
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Rental income derived from investment properties
- Fixed lease payments
39,561
37,409
- variable lease payments
1,753
2,051
41,314
39,460
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) 
generating rental income
(5,635)
(3,583)
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) that did 
not generate rental income
(149)
(423)
Profit arising from investment properties before depreciation
35,530
35,454
Less:- Depreciation and amortisation expenses
(7,239)
(7,282)
Profit from investment properties before indirect expenses
28,291
28,172
 
e) 
Maturity analysis of lease payment receivables
 
 
 Maturity analysis of lease payment receivables (undiscounted) to be received after the reporting date is 
as follows:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Within one year
9,056
10,697
1-2 years
3,154
6,640
2-3 years
951
1,875
3-4 years
834
599
4-5 years
612
477
More than five years
308
1,365
14,915
21,653
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
287
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
f) 
Measurement of fair values
 
 
The fair value of investment properties (excluding Right to use assets) is as follows:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Office 
properties
Retail 
properties
Total
Office 
properties
Retail 
properties
Total
Fair value
2,56,956
2,50,563
5,07,519
2,81,389
2,60,446
5,41,835
 
 
 The Company has determined that the carrying value of Right of use assets represents its fair value 
considering the terms of the underlying lease arrangement.
 
 
 The fair value of investment properties (excluding Right to use assets) have been arrived at using Discounted 
Cash Flow (DCF) method, as determined by an external independent registered valuer as defined under 
Rule 2 of the Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017. The fair value measurement for all of 
the investment properties has been categorised as a Level 3 fair value based on the inputs to the valuation 
technique used. There has been no change in valuation techniques used since prior year.
 
 
 The DCF valuation model considers the present value of net cash flows to be generated from the property, 
taking into account the expected rental growth rate, vacant periods, occupancy rate, brokerage, cost 
escalation and terminal yields etc. The expected net cash flows are discounted using risk-adjusted 
discount rates.
 
 
Key inputs to valuation on investment properties are as follows:
Significant unobservable inputs
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Office properties
Retail properties
Office properties
Retail properties
-  Estimated rental value per sq. ft. 
per month
₹ 55 - ₹ 135
₹ 57 - ₹ 207
₹ 53 - ₹ 130
₹ 49 - ₹ 162
- Rent growth p.a.
5%
5%
5%
5%
- Discount rate
12%
12%
12%
12%
- Vacancy rate
0% - 2%
1% - 10%
0% - 2%
5% - 11%
 
g) 
Title deeds of immovable property not held in the name of the Company
 
 
 The title deeds (registered sale deed/ transfer deed/ registered joint development agreements) of all the 
immovable properties (including investment properties) held by the Company (other than properties where 
the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee), are held in 
the name of the Company.
 
h) 
 Refer note 33 for details of investment properties pledged as security for borrowings. Further, the Company 
has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment properties.
5 
Investment property under development
Particulars
Total
As at April 1, 2023
1,618
Additions
6,726
Transferred from inventory during the year
62,934
Capitalised during the year
(4,283)
As at March 31, 2024
66,995
Additions
71,326
Transferred from inventory during the year
9,122
Transferred to inventory during the year
(1,032)
Capitalised during the year
(1,078)
As at March 31, 2025
1,45,333
Brigade Enterprises Limited
288
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
Note:
 
a) 
Ageing of investment property under development
Particulars
Amount in investment property under development for a period of
Total
<1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
> 3 years
As at March 31, 2025
Projects in progress
79,574
64,947
483
328
1,45,332
Projects temporarily 
suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
79,574
64,947
483
328
1,45,332
As at March 31, 2024
Projects in progress
66,184
483
-
328
66,995
Projects temporarily 
suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
66,184
483
-
328
66,995
 
b) 
 Refer note 34(a)(v) for details of contractual obligations to construct or develop investment property 
under development.
 
c) 
 Investment property under development whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared 
to its original plan
 
 
 There are no projects in progress under ‘Investment property under development’ whose completion is 
overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan.
 
d) 
Fair value
 
 
 As the properties are under development, the Company has determined that the fair value of the properties 
is not reliably measurable and expects that the fair value of the properties to be reliably measurable when 
construction is complete. Hence, the carrying amount is best approximation of fair value of the properties.
 
f) 
Refer note 33 for details of Investment property under development pledged as security for borrowings.
 
f) 
Investment property under development pledged as security
 
 
Refer note 33 for details of Investment property under development pledged as security for borrowings.
 
g) 
Title deeds of immovable property not held in the name of the Company
 
 
 Refer note 4(g) for details of immovable properties included in ‘Investment property under development’ 
not held in the name of the Company.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
289
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
6 
Other intangible assets
Computer 
Software
Total
Cost
As at April 1, 2023
521
521
Additions
8
8
Disposals
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
529
529
Additions
17
17
Disposals
1
1
As at March 31, 2025
547
547
Accumulated amortisation
As at April 1, 2023
440
440
Charge for the year
62
62
Disposals
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
502
502
Charge for the year
15
15
Disposals
(1)
(1)
As at March 31, 2025
516
516
Net book value
As at March 31, 2024
27
27
As at March 31, 2025
31
31
 
Note:
 
i) 
Transition to Ind AS
 
 
 On transition to Ind AS (i.e. April 01, 2015), the Company has elected to continue with the carrying value of 
all Intangible assets measured as per the previous GAAP as the deemed cost of Intangible assets.
 
ii) 
Revaluation
 
 
 The Company has not revalued its intangible assets during the current or previous year.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
290
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
7 
Investments
Particulars
Note
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
A
Non-current
Investment in equity instruments
(a)
1,21,440
89,258
Investment in preference shares
(b)
26,313
53,027
Investment in debentures and bonds
(c)
93,082
1,06,867
Investment in Limited Liability Partnership (LLP)
(d)
687
518
2,41,522
2,49,670
B
Current
Investment in mutual funds
(e)
620
4,705
620
4,705
 
Note:
 
(a) Investment in equity instruments
Particulars
Number of instruments (In lakhs)
Amount
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
i)
In subsidiaries
Unquoted, carried at cost
(Equity shares of ₹ 10 each,  
fully paid up)
Brigade Hospitality Services Limited
100
100
1,000
1,000
Brigade Properties Private Limited *1
0.51
0.51
12,571
11,518
Brigade Properties Private Limited **
190.86
190.86
1,909
1,909
Perungudi Real Estates Private  
Limited *1
0.51
0.51
9,905
9,294
Perungudi Real Estates Private  
Limited #
623.01
623.01
6,230
6,230
Brigade Infrastructure and Power 
Private Limited
0.50
0.50
5
5
Brigade Estates and Projects Private 
Limited 1
0.50
0.50
460
449
Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited 1
1.00
1.00
1,001
1,001
WTC Trades and Projects Private 
Limited 1
60.05
60.05
1,034
1,034
BCV Developers Private Limited 1
195.94
191.04
25,817
25,539
Brigade (Gujarat) Projects Private 
Limited 1
20.00
20.00
4,067
4,067
Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited 1$
2,814.30
10
37,666
9,623
Tetrarch Developers Limited 1
10.00
10.00
15,388
13,662
Mysore Projects Private Limited
40.00
40.00
400
400
Augusta Club Private Limited
0.50
0.50
5
5
Brigade Flexible Office Spaces Private 
Limited
10.00
10.00
100
100
Vibrancy Real Estates Private Limited
10.00
10.00
100
100
Venusta Ventures Private Limited
10.00
10.00
100
100
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
291
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Number of instruments (In lakhs)
Amount
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Tetrarch Real Estates Private Limited
2.20
2.20
97
97
Tandem Allied Services Private Limited
14.80
14.80
2,997
2,997
Zoiros Projects Private Limited 1
-
10.00
-
122
1,20,852
89,252
ii)
In Joint venture
Unquoted, carried at cost
(Equity shares of ₹ 10 each,  
fully paid up)
Zoiros Projects Private Limited 1
49.50
-
582
-
582
-
iii) In other body corporate
Unquoted, carried at fair value 
through other comprehensive 
income
(Equity shares of ₹ 10 each,  
fully paid up)
Mangalore Energies Private Limited
0.62
0.62
6
6
Total (i + ii + iii)
1,21,440
89,258
(*)Represents Class A Equity shares
(**)Represents Class C Equity shares
(#)Represents Class B Equity shares
($)The Company held 280.43 lakhs 0.01% Optionally Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares (“OCRPS”) at a face value of ₹ 100 
per share amounting to ₹28,043 lakhs in its wholly owned subsidiary, Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited (“BHVL”). Each OCRPS is 
convertible into 10 (ten) equity shares at the option of the Company. During the current year, BEL has exercised the conversion 
of the OCRPS into equity shares resulting into allototment of 2,804.30 lakhs equity shares in BHVL.
 
 
(1) 
 The investment in equity includes the component of deemed equity in the following subsidiaries 
and joint venture :
Particulars
Amount
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Brigade Properties Private Limited
12,566
11,513
Perungudi Real Estates Private Limited
9,900
9,289
Brigade Estates and Projects Private Limited
455
444
Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited
963
963
WTC Trades and Projects Private Limited
93
93
BCV Developers Private Limited
21,358
21,358
Brigade (Gujarat) Projects Private Limited
3,868
3,867
Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited
9,523
9,523
Tetrarch Developers Limited
15,288
13,562
Zoiros Projects Private Limited
87
22
74,101
70,634
Brigade Enterprises Limited
292
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
(b) Investment in Preference Shares
Particulars
Number of instruments (In lakhs)
Amount
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
In subsidiaries
i)
Unquoted, carried at cost
0.01% Series A Compulsorily 
Convertible Preference Shares of 
₹ 100 each, fully paid up
Brigade Estates and Projects Private 
Limited
38.00
38.00
3,800
3,800
Brigade (Gujarat) Projects Private 
Limited
33.00
33.00
3,300
3,300
Mysore Projects Private Limited
81.00
81.00
8,100
8,100
Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited
72.00
72.00
7,200
7,200
SRP Prosperita Hotel Ventures Limited
1.50
1.50
150
150
22,550
22,550
ii)
Unquoted, carried at amortised cost
0.01% Optionally Convertible 
Redeemable Preference Shares of 
₹ 100 each, fully paid up
Brigade Properties Private Limited
3.12
-
218
-
Perungudi Real Estates Private Limited
20.55
-
1,436
-
0.01% Series A Optionally Convertible 
Redeemable Preference Shares of 
₹ 100 each, fully paid up
Augusta Club Private Limited
-
3.25
-
325
Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited $
-
280.43
-
28,043
0.01% Redeemable Preference Shares 
of ₹ 10 each, fully paid up
Brigade Properties Private Limited
306.80
306.80
2,109
2,109
3,763
30,477
Total (i + ii)
26,313
53,027
 
(c) Investment in debentures and bonds
Particulars
Number of instruments (In lakhs)
Amount
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
i)
In subsidiaries
i(a)
Unquoted, carried at cost  
(In the nature of equity)
0.001% Fully Convertible Debentures 
of ₹ 100 each, fully paid up
Brigade Estates and Projects Private 
limited
11.46
11.46
1,146
1,146
Brigade (Gujarat) Projects Private 
Limited
22.53
22.53
2,253
2,253
Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited
46.45
46.45
4,645
4,645
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
293
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Number of instruments (In lakhs)
Amount
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Mysore Projects Private Limited
84.73
84.73
8,473
8,473
12% Series C Fully Convertible 
Debentures of ₹ 100 each, fully paid up
Brigade Properties Private Limited
-
51.00
-
4,950
16,517
21,467
i(b)
Unquoted, carried at amortised cost 
(In the nature of debt)
Brigade Infrastructure and Power 
Private Limited
0.001% Optionally Convertible 
Debentures of ₹ 100 each, fully 
paid up
294.69
294.69
29,469
29,469
Brigade Properties Private Limited 
(Fully paid-up debentures of ₹ 100 
each, unless otherwise stated)
12% Series B Non Convertible 
Debentures
-
15.00
-
1,456
12% Series C Non Convertible 
Debentures
48.41
50.00
4,841
4,853
12% Series D Non Convertible 
Debentures
2.04
-
204
-
12% Series F Non Convertible 
Debentures
1.22
-
122
-
12% Series B (II) Non Convertible 
Debentures
-
15.00
-
1,456
12% Series D Optionally Covertible 
Debentures
30.00
30.00
3,000
2,789
14.10% Series B Non Convertible 
Debentures of ₹ 10,00,000 each
-
250.00
-
2,414
Perungudi Real Estates Private Limited
(Fully paid-up debentures of ₹ 100 
each)
12% Series A Non Convertible 
Debentures
-
30.00
-
2,912
12% Series B Non Convertible 
Debentures
15.00
15.00
1,500
1,456
12% Series C Non Convertible 
Debentures
25.00
25.00
2,500
2,426
12% Series D Non Convertible 
Debentures
0.60
-
61
-
12% Series E Non Convertible 
Debentures
2.04
-
204
-
12% Series F Non Convertible 
Debentures
1.42
-
143
-
12% Series G Non Convertible 
Debentures
1.02
-
102
-
Brigade Enterprises Limited
294
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Number of instruments (In lakhs)
Amount
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
12%Series B (I) Non Convertible 
Debentures
40.87
50.00
4,087
4,853
12% Series B (II) Non Convertible 
Debentures
35.00
35.00
3,500
3,397
12% Series A Optionally Convertible 
Debentures
237.65
237.65
23,765
23,066
12% Series A11 Optionally Convertible 
Debentures
5.00
5.00
500
485
12% Series A12 Optionally Convertible 
Debentures
15.00
15.00
1,500
1,456
12% Series A13 Optionally Convertible 
Debentures
9.60
-
961
-
12% Series A14 Optionally Convertible 
Debentures
0.20
-
20
-
12% Series A15 Optionally Convertible 
Debentures
0.61
-
61
-
76,540
82,488
i(c)
Quoted, carried at amortised cost  
(In the nature of debt)
Brigade Properties Private Limited
12% Series A Non Convertible 
Debentures of ₹ 100 each, fully paid up
-
30.00
-
2,912
-
2,912
(ii)
In Others
(ii)(a) Unquoted, carried at fair value 
through other comprehensive income 
(In the nature of equity)
Super Chennai Marketing Private 
Limited
0.001% Fully Convertible Debentures 
of ₹ 10 each, fully paid up
2.50
-
25
-
25
-
(ii)(b) Unquoted, carried at amortised cost 
(Bonds)
Lakshmi Vilas Bank Limited
Bonds of ₹ 1,000,000 each
250
250
2,500
2,500
Bonds of ₹ 500,000 each
300
300
1,500
1,500
4,000
4,000
Less: Impairment in value of 
investments
(4,000)
(4,000)
-
-
Total ( (i)(a) + (i)(b) + (i)(c) + (ii)(a) + (ii)(b) )
93,082
1,06,867
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
295
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
(d) Investment in Limited Liability Partnership
Particulars
Amount
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Brigade Innovations LLP
Capital account
1,268
1,517
Current account
(581)
(999)
687
518
 
(e) Current investments
Particulars
Number of instruments (In lakhs)
Amount
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Quoted, carried at fair value through 
profit or loss
In mutual funds
SBI Liquid Fund Direct Growth
-
0.71
-
2,675
Kotak Liquid Direct Growth
-
0.42
-
2,030
Aditya Birla Sun Life Liquid Fund 
Growth
1.48
-
620
-
620
4,705
 
(f) 
Summary of quoted and unquoted investments
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Non-current
Current
Non-current
Current
Aggregate book value of quoted 
investments
-
620
2,912
4,705
Aggregate book value of unquoted 
investments
2,45,522
-
2,50,758
-
Aggregate amount of impairment in 
unquoted investments
(4,000)
-
(4,000)
-
2,41,522
620
2,49,670
4,705
 
(g) Investments by category
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Non-current
Current
Non-current
Current
At cost
1,61,188
-
1,33,787
-
At amortised cost
80,303
-
1,15,877
-
At fair value through other 
comprehensive income
31
-
6
-
At fair value through profit and loss
-
620
-
4,705
2,41,522
620
2,49,670
4,705
 
(h)  The Company is engaged in providing infrastructural facilities as specified in Schedule VI of the Act, 
accordingly, the provisions of section 186 except sub-section (1) of the Act are not applicable to the 
Company. The Company has complied with the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 186 of the Act in 
respect of investments, as applicable.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
296
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
(i) 
 The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
 
(j)  The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
 
(k)  The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on current 
or previous financial year.
8  Loans
Loans to related parties (refer note 36)
Non-current
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2025 
As at 
March 31, 2024 
Loans receivables considered good - 
unsecured
 40,039 
 36,379 
 25,543 
 9,942 
 40,039 
 36,379 
 25,543 
 9,942 
 
Note:
 
i) 
Details of loans granted to related parties that are as follows:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Amount of loan 
outstanding
Percentage to 
the total loans
Amount of loan 
outstanding
Percentage to 
the total loans
Repayable on demand (^)
25,543
39%
9,942
21%
Without specifying any terms or period 
of repayment
-
-
-
-
(^)such loans have not been demanded for repayment as on date
9 
Other financial assets
 
(Unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)
Non-current
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Margin money deposits with banks (*)
8,458
6,433
-
-
Security deposits
-
-
52
145
Interest accrued on bank deposits
205
378
1,705
799
Interest accrued on investment in debt 
instruments (refer note 36)
-
-
3,671
3,477
Other receivables (refer note 36)
-
-
-
456
Rent equalisation reserve
181
387
186
137
Refundable deposits under joint 
development arrangements (JDA) (^) (#)
3,858
858
31,217
30,558
12,702
8,056
36,831
35,572
Less: Loss allowance
-1,643
-
-
-
11,059
8,056
36,831
35,572
(^)Also includes advances paid by the Company to the landowner towards proposed joint development of land.
(*)Pledged against borrowings and bank guarantee facilities availed by the Company from banks (refer note 33).
(#)Refer note 34(c) for details of litigations.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
297
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
10 Other assets
(Unsecured, considered good)
Non-current
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Land Advances*($)
5,352
8,528
-
-
Advance to suppliers
-
-
10,941
7,098
Balances with statutory / government 
authorities
2,962
2,055
4,536
-
Prepaid expenses
-
-
10,594
6,854
Capital advances
1,725
253
-
-
Advances to Employees
-
-
54
64
10,039
10,836
26,125
14,016
 
 *  Advances for land though unsecured, are considered good as the advances have been given based on arrangements/ memorandum 
of understanding executed by the Company and the Company/ seller/ intermediary is in the course of obtaining clear and marketable 
title, free from all encumbrances, including for certain properties under litigation. [Also refer note 34]
 
($) Refer note 34(c) for details of litigations.
11 Inventories 
 
(valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Raw materials, components and stores
2,266
2,153
Work-in-progress
4,54,387
3,57,184
Land stock
400
400
Stock of flats
31,603
35,854
4,88,656
3,95,591
 
Refer Note 33 for details of inventories pledged as security for borrowings.
 
 The write-down (net) of inventories to net realisable value for the year ended March 31, 2025 is ₹ 220 lakhs (March 
31, 2024: ₹ 210 lakhs). This was recorded as an expense during the respective years and included in ‘changes in 
inventories’ in consolidated statement of profit and loss.
12 Trade receivables
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Trade receivable - unsecured, considered good
39,420
22,521
Trade receivables - credit impaired
196
196
39,616
22,717
Loss allowance
(196)
(196)
39,420
22,521
Notes:
a)  Trade receivables due by firms or private companies in which the 
director of the Company is a partner or a director or a member 
(refer note 36)
2,131
1,739
b) Trade receivables from other related parties (refer note 36)
8
10
c)  Refer note 33 for details of trade receivables pledged as security 
for borrowings.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
298
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
d) 
Trade receivable ageing schedule
As at March 31, 2025
Outstanding for the following periods from due date of payment
Total
< 6 months
6 months - 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
> 3 Years
Undisputed - Considered good
34,178
2,492
643
46
2,061
39,420
Undisputed - which have significant 
increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
Undisputed - Credit impaired
-
-
-
-
196
196
Disputed - Considered good
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed - which have significant 
increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed - Credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
34,178
2,492
643
46
2,257
39,616
As at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for the following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
< 6 months
6 months - 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
> 3 Years
Undisputed - Considered good
20,088
1,341
252
217
623
22,521
Undisputed - which have significant 
increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
Undisputed - Credit impaired
-
-
-
-
196
196
Disputed - Considered good
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed - which have significant 
increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed - Credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
20,088
1,341
252
217
819
22,717
 
e) 
 Trade receivables are generally on credit terms of up to 30 days except for lease debtors which have a 
credit period of 7 days.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
299
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
13 Cash and cash equivalents
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash on hand
230
222
Balances with banks:
– On current accounts (*) (#)
22,686
9,179
– Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months (^)
88,022
-
1,10,938
9,401
(*)  Includes amount held in escrow account for projects under Real 
Estate Regulation and Development Act, 2016, to be utilised for 
project specific purposes.
6,488
3,519
(#) Includes earmarked as monitoring account balance towards qualified 
institutions placement (“QIP”) transaction costs remaining to be 
incurred. Refer note 44.
349
-
(^)  Includes earmarked towards unutilized QIP proceeds. Refer note 44.
45,914
-
14  Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
Non-current
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balances with banks:
– 
 Deposits with remaining maturity of more than 
3 months but less than 12 months
 -  - 
 73,831 
 56,361 
– 
Margin money deposits
 8,458 
 6,433 
 - 
 - 
– 
Unpaid dividend account
 - 
 - 
 12 
 17 
 8,458 
 6,433 
 73,843 
 56,378 
Less: Margin money deposits with banks 
disclosed under other non-current financial 
assets (refer note 9)
 (8,458)
 (6,433)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 73,843 
 56,378 
 
15 Equity share capital
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number 
(in lakhs)
Amount
Number 
(in lakhs)
Amount
Authorised share capital
Equity shares of ₹ 10 each
2,500
25,000
2,500
25,000
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares
Equity shares of ₹ 10 each
2,444
24,437
2,312
23,110
(a) Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number (in lakhs)
Amount
Number (in lakhs)
Amount
Equity shares of ₹ 10 each
At the beginning of the year
2,312
23,110
2,308
23,073
Issued during the year
Share options exercised
2
23
4
37
Issued during the year pursuant to QIP  
(refer note 44)
130
1,304
-
-
Balance at the end of the year
2,444
24,437
2,312
23,110
Brigade Enterprises Limited
300
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(b) Rights, preference and restrictions attached to equity shares
 
 The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 10 per share. Each holder of equity share is 
entitled to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividend in Indian Rupees. The dividend proposed 
by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General meeting.
 
 In event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares would be entitled to receive remaining assets 
of the Company, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number 
of equity shares held by the shareholders.
(c) Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number 
(in lakhs)
% holding
Number 
(in lakhs)
% holding
Equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid
M.R. Jaishankar
346
14.14%
345
14.91%
Githa Shankar
281
11.48%
281
12.15%
Nirupa Shankar
160
6.55%
160
6.91%
Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited
-
0.00%
127
5.50%
(d) Details of shares held by promoters
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number of 
shares 
(in lakhs)
% of total 
shares
% change 
during 
the year
Number of 
shares 
(in lakhs)
% of total 
shares
% change 
during 
the year
Equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid
M.R. Jaishankar
346
14%
0%
345
15%
0%
M R Jaishankar (HUF)
-
0.00%
0%
-
0.00%
-100%
Githa Shankar
281
11%
0%
281
12%
0%
Gurumurthy M R
19
1%
0%
19
1%
0%
M R Shivram (HUF)
31
1%
0%
31
1%
0%
A R Rukmini
3
0%
0%
3
0%
0%
M R Shivram
28
1%
0%
28
1%
0%
Mysore Ramachandra Setty Krishnakumar
59
2%
0%
59
3%
0%
Pavitra Shankar
21
1%
0%
21
1%
0%
Nirupa Shankar
160
7%
0%
160
7%
14%
Mysore Holdings Private Limited
63
3%
0%
63
3%
0%
1,010
41%
1,010
44%
(e) Shares reserved for issue under stock options
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number 
(in lakhs)
Amount
Number 
(in lakhs)
Amount
Under Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2017 : 
Equity shares of ₹ 10 each (refer note 38)
25
252
25
252
Under Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2022 : 
Equity shares of ₹ 10 each (refer note 38)
13
134
13
134
38
386
38
386
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
301
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(f)  Aggregate number of bonus shares issued and shares issued for consideration other than cash 
during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date
 
 There have been no buy back of shares, issue of bonus shares and issue of shares pursuant to contract without 
payment being received in cash for the period of 5 years immediately preceding the reporting date.
16 Other equity
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Securities premium
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,72,196 
 1,70,834 
Share options exercised
 1,233 
 1,362 
Securities premium on issue of equity shares  
(net of share issue expensess)
1,45,964
 - 
Balance at the end of the year
 3,19,393 
 1,72,196 
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Share option outstanding account
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,293 
 726 
Add: Equity settled share based payment
 841 
1,143
Less: Share options exercised
 (523)
 (576)
Balance at the end of the year
1,611
 1,293 
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
General reserve
Balance at the beginning of the year
 10,149 
 10,149 
Add: Amount transferred from surplus in the statement of  
profit and loss
 - 
 - 
Balance at the end of the year
 10,149 
 10,149 
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Retained earnings
Balance at the beginning of the year
 2,15,285 
 1,88,120 
Profit for the year
 45,530 
 31,819 
Other comprehensive income for the year
 (274)
 (38)
Dividend paid (refer note 17)
 (4,623)
 (4,616)
Balance at the end of the year
 2,55,918 
 2,15,285 
Total other equity
5,87,071
 3,98,923 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
302
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
Nature and purpose of reserve
 
a) 
Securities premium
 
 
 Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for 
limited purposes as per provisions of Companies Act, 2013.
 
b) 
Share option outstanding account
 
 
 Share based payments is used to record the fair value of equity-settled share based payment transactions 
with employees. The amounts recorded in this account are transferred to securities premium upon exercise 
of stock options by employees. In case of lapse, corresponding balance is transferred to retained earnings.
 
c) 
General reserve
 
 
 The general reserve is used from time to time to transfer profits from retained earnings for 
appropriation purposes.
 
d) 
Retained earnings
 
 
 The cumulative gain or loss arising from the operations which is retained by the Company is recognised 
and accumulated under surplus in the statement of profit and loss.
17 Distribution made and proposed
Distribution made and proposed
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Final dividend on equity shares declared and paid
₹ 2 per share for the year ended 31 March 2024
4,623
-
₹ 2 per share for the year ended 31 March 2023
-
4,616
Details of proposed final dividend on equity shares (*)
₹ 2.5 per share for the year ended 31 March 2025
6,110
₹ 2 per share for the year ended 31 March 2024
-
4,623
 
 (*)Proposed dividends on equity shares are subject to approval at the annual general meeting and are not recognised as a liability 
as at the balance sheet date.
18 Borrowings 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Non-current
Term loans (secured)
From banks
1,46,870
1,53,053
From financial institutions
10,035
21,553
1,56,905
1,74,606
Less: Current maturities of long-term borrowings
(8,890)
(7,843)
1,48,015
1,66,763
Current
Term loans (secured)
Current maturities of long-term borrowings
8,890
7,843
8,890
7,843
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
303
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
Note
 
a) 
 The average interest rate for the below mentioned facilities ranging between 8% to 9.5% (March 31, 2024 : 
8% to 9%)
Particulars
Security details
Principal repayment 
terms
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Secured loans
Term loan from banks
Facility 1
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of monthly 
lease rentals accruing 
from Company's share 
of leasable area and car 
parks of the project.
b.  hypothecation of 
escrow balances
c.  equitable mortgage/
hypothecation of 
Company's share of 
leasable area and 
undivided share of land 
along with car parking 
in the project.
Repayable in 
144 monthly 
instalments 
commencing 
from date of first 
disbursement
2,967
3,314
Facility 2
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of monthly 
lease rentals from 
Company's share of 
leasable area of the 
project
b.  first charge over 
Company's share of 
leasable area and 
undivided share of land 
along with car parking 
in the project.
Repayable in 
120 monthly 
instalments 
after first 
disbursement
6,806
7,166
Facility 3
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of monthly 
lease rentals from the 
project and charge on 
escrow account
b.  equitable mortgage 
of land of the project 
together with building 
and other structure 
standing thereon.
Repayable in 180 
variable monthly 
instalments 
starting from the 
next month from 
the date of first 
disbursement
66,418
66,914
Facility 4
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of future 
lease rentals from the 
project
b.  equitable mortgage of 
identified floors of the 
project
Repayable in 156 
graded monthly 
instalments
10,325
11,055
Facility 5
Repayment in 144 
graded monthly 
instalments
2,370
-
Brigade Enterprises Limited
304
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Security details
Principal repayment 
terms
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Facility 6
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of monthly 
lease rentals of the 
project
b.  equitable mortgage of 
the company’s share of 
commercial land and 
building of the project.
Repayable in 
144 monthly 
instalments.
-
2,505
Facility 7
Secured by way of
a.  equitable mortgage 
over leasehold rights 
over the project land 
along with charge over 
structures built/to be 
built for such project.
b.  hypothecation of 
Company's share of 
receivables (both 
present and future) of 
the project
Repayable in 
four quarterly 
instalments after 
moratorium 
period of 30 
months from 
date of first 
disbursement.
437
437
Facility 8
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of lease 
rental receivables 
(both present and 
future) from unsold 
area in the project and 
proportionate area in 
multi level car parking
b.  equitable mortgage of 
building, proportionate 
share in land and multi 
level car parking of the 
project.
Repayable within 
144 months 
from the date of 
disbursement
49,707
52,692
Facility 9
Secured by way of
a.  charge over rent 
receivables from the 
project
b.  Equitable mortgage of 
Company’s share of 
commercial land in the 
project
Repayable in 
173 graded 
instalments 
post a 6 month 
moratorium 
period
6,550
7,028
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
305
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Security details
Principal repayment 
terms
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Facility 10
Secured by way of
a.  Equitable mortgage 
over Company's share 
of land and fixed assets
b.  hypothecation of 
escrow balances, 
entire current assets 
and receivables 
(both present and 
future) of the project 
to the extent of the 
Company’s share
Repayable in 3 
equal quarterly 
instalments after 
a moratorium of 
45 months
101
101
Facility 11
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of 
company's share in 
lease rentals accruing 
from the project
b.  equitable mortgage 
of company’s share in 
leasable area of the 
project along with the 
proprtionate share in 
land
Repayment in 
120 instalments 
after one month 
from the date of 
disbursement
1,189
1,841
Sub-total (A)
1,46,870
1,53,053
Term loan from 
financial institutions
Facility 12
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of monthly 
lease rentals from 
Company’s share of 
leasable area of the 
project
b.  first charge over 
Company’s share of 
leasable area and 
undivided share of land 
in the project.
Repayable in 144 
equal monthly 
instalments 
from the date of 
disbursement
-
11,753
Facility 13
Repayable over 
a period of 12 
years basis the 
utilisation
-
-
Facility 14
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of monthly 
lease rentals from 
Company’s share of 
leasable area of the 
project
b.  first charge over 
Company’s share of 
leasable area and 
undivided share of land 
in the project.
Structured 
equal monthly 
installments 
payments over a 
span of 12 years
-
9,800
Brigade Enterprises Limited
306
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Security details
Principal repayment 
terms
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Facility 15
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of 
monthly lease rentals 
from Company’s share 
of leasable area of 
the project
b.  first charge over 
Company’s share of 
leasable area and 
undivided share of  
land in the project.
Repayable in 144 
equal monthly 
instalments 
from the date of 
disbursement
9,023
-
Facility 16
Repayable over 
a period of 12 
years basis the 
utilisation
1,012
-
Sub-total (B)
10,035
21,553
Total (A) + (B)
1,56,905
1,74,606
b) 
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities:
Particulars
Borrowings
Interest accrued 
and not due on 
borrowings
Lease liability
Total
Balance as at April 1, 2023
1,42,487
-
-
1,42,487
Cash inflows
1,01,479
-
-
1,01,479
Cash Outflows
(69,360)
(13,247)
-
(82,607)
Accretion of interest on loans
-
13,742
-
13,742
Net debt as at March 31, 2024
1,74,606
495
-
1,75,101
Cash inflows
27,735
-
-
27,735
Cash Outflows
(45,436)
(15,873)
(162)
(61,471)
Initial recognition of lease liability
-
-
1,821
1,821
Accretion of interest on loans
-
15,885
-
15,885
Accretion of interest on lease liability
-
-
227
227
Net debt as at March 31, 2025
1,56,905
507
1,886
1,59,298
(c)  The Company has not been sanctioned working capital limits by bank or financial institutions on the basis of 
security of current assets at any point in time during the year.
(d)  The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any 
government authority.
(e)  The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the 
statutory period.
(f) 
 The borrowings obtained by the Company from banks and financial institutions have been applied for the 
purposes for which such loans were was taken.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
307
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
19 Other financial liabilities
Non-current
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Lease deposits
2,587
3,839
18,113
15,129
Interest accrued and not due on borrowings
-
-
507
495
Capital creditors
-
-
7,521
6,556
Employee benefits payable
-
-
4,920
3,595
Corpus and maintenance deposits (interest free)
-
-
12,600
13,386
Others 
-
-
205
191
2,587
3,839
43,866
39,352
20 Provisions
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for employee benefits
Gratuity (refer note 37)
657
254
Compensated absence
566
329
1,223
583
Other provisions
Provision for losses on long-term construction contracts (*)
90
55
1,313
638
 
 (*)  Represents provision made towards contracts in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations exceed the economic 
benefits expected.
21 Income tax
 
The significant components of income tax expense for the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are:
 
A 
Amounts charged to statement of profit and loss
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Current tax
 17,291 
 11,483 
Deferred tax credit
 (13,579)
 (373)
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
 3,712 
 11,110 
 
B 
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income
Deferred tax credit on net (loss)/gain on remeasurements of defined 
benefit plans
(92)
(13)
Income tax charge to other comprehensive income
(92)
(13)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
308
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
C 
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Accounting profit before income tax
49,242
42,929
Tax on accounting profit at statutory income tax rate 25.17% (March 31, 
2024: 25.17%)
12,394
10,805
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating 
taxable income:
 
Disallowance u/s 80G
200
168
 
Share of profit from LLP
(105)
27
 
Dividend income from subsidiaries
(841)
-
Others
112
110
Impact due to change in tax rate
 
 Remeasurment of deferred tax liability on temporary difference in 
investments
(7,677)
-
 
Others
(371)
-
3,712
11,110
 
D. 
Movement in deferred tax balance
March 31, 2025
Balance as at
April 01, 2024
Movement in 
statement of 
profit and loss
Movement in OCI
Balance as at 
March 31, 2025
Deferred tax liabilities arising out of
Depreciation Property plant and 
equipment and investment property 
including intangible assets
(5,949)
279
-
(5,670)
Measurement of financial instruments 
at amortised cost
(10,932)
6,705
-
(4,226)
Contract acquistion cost
(1,344)
(989)
-
(2,333)
Others
(646)
118
-
(528)
(18,871)
6,113
-
(12,757)
Deferred tax assets arising out of
Expenditure charged to Profit and 
loss in current year and allowed to 
tax in subsequent years
1,228
(91)
92
1,229
On account of difference in revenue 
recognition
7,820
7,557
-
15,377
9,048
7,466
92
16,606
Net deferred tax (liabilities)/ assets
(9,823)
13,579
92
3,849
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
309
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
March 31, 2024
Balance as at 
April 01, 2023
Movement in 
statement of 
profit and loss
Movement in OCI
Balance as at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax liabilities arising out of
Depreciation property plant and 
equipment and investment property 
including intangible assets
(5,447)
(502)
-
(5,949)
Measurement of financial instruments 
at amortised cost
(8,319)
(2,613)
-
(10,932)
Contract acquistion cost
(966)
(378)
-
(1,344)
Others
(1,019)
373
-
(646)
(15,751)
(3,120)
-
(18,871)
Deferred tax assets arising out of
Expenditure charged to Profit and 
loss in current year and allowed to 
tax in subsequent years
1,880
(665)
13
1,228
On account of difference in revenue 
recognition
3,662
4,158
-
7,820
5,542
3,493
13
9,048
Net deferred tax liabilities
(10,209)
373
13
(9,823)
 
E 
Income tax assets (net)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Income tax assets (net)
793
714
793
714
 
F 
Current tax liabilities (net)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for tax (net of advance tax)
-
1,202
-
1,202
 
G 
 During the current year, the Company has remeasured its deferred tax liabilities relating to temporary 
differences associated with investments in subsidiaries at the long term capital gains tax rate that are 
expected to apply to the period when the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have 
been enacted by the end of the reporting period resulting in reversal of deferred tax liabilities amounting 
to ₹ 7,677 lakhs.
 
H 
 The Company has not entered into any such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts 
that has been surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
310
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
22 Other liabilities
Non-current
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred revenue
  
 
 
- 
real estate contracts 
-
 -
 3,94,619
 2,63,644
- 
Leasing (~)
 159 
436
 402 
 952 
 - Joint development arrangements (^)
 - 
 - 
 1,33,653 
 96,244 
Advance from customers
 - 
 - 
 1,645 
 6,036 
Statutory dues payable
 - 
 - 
 2,638 
 1,363 
Unclaimed dividend (*)
 - 
 - 
 15 
 17 
 159 
 436 
 5,32,972 
 3,68,256 
 
(^) 
 represents amount recorded in respect of Joint development arrangements with land owners for land received in lieu of transfer 
of agreed percentage of constructed area/ revenue proceeds.
 
(~) 
 The deferred revenue relates to difference of present value of lease related security deposits received and actual amount 
received. This is released to the statement of profit and loss on straight-line basis over the tenure of lease.
 
(*) 
Investor Education and Protection Fund shall be credited for unclaimed dividends when due.
23 Trade payables
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Trade payables (*)
- Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises (*)
 9,177 
 7,570 
-  Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small 
enterprises
28,753
27,037
 37,930 
 34,607 
 
*  Includes retention money payable to both MSME and others. Based on a legal opinion obtained by the management from an 
independent legal expert, amounts withheld / retained to meet future performance obligations under the defect liability arrangement 
is assessed to be due only on expiry of such defect liability period.
 
Note:
i) 
Trade Payables Ageing Schedule:
Particulars
Not due
Outstanding for the following periods from due date of payment
Total
<1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
 > 3 Years 
As at March 31, 2025
1. Undisputed dues - MSME
 4,828 
 4,349 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9,177 
2. Undisputed dues - Others
 12,395 
14,986
60
114
1,198
28,753
3. Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
4. Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
17,223
19,335
 60 
 114 
 1,198 
37,930
As at March 31, 2024
1. Undisputed dues - MSME
 3,943 
 3,627 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7,570 
2. Undisputed dues - Others
 20,647 
5,276
 221 
 212 
 681 
 27,037 
3. Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
4. Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 24,590 
 8,903 
 221 
 212 
 681 
 34,607 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
311
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
ii) 
 Disclosure required under Section 22 of Micro, Small and Medium Enterpsises Development Act, 
2006 (MSMED Act, 2006)
 
 The information has been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of information 
available with the Company.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)
the principal amount and the interest due thereon (to be shown 
separately) remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end of each 
accounting year;
- Principal
9,177
7,570
- Interest
0
0
(b) the amount of interest paid by the buyer under MSMED Act, 2006 along 
with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the 
appointed day during each accounting year;
0
0
(c) the amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in 
making payment (which has been paid but beyond the appointed day 
during the year) but without adding the interest specified under the 
MSMED Act, 2006);
0
0
(d) The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of 
accounting year; and
0
0
(e) The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the 
succeeding year, until such date when the interest dues as above are 
actually paid to the small enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance as 
a deductible expenditure under section 23 of MSMED Act 2006.
0
0
9,177
7,570
24 Revenue from operations
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
A
Revenue from contracts with customers
i
Sale of products
Revenue from real estate development
1,54,316
1,50,611
Revenue from interior works contract
5,644
2,207
1,59,960
1,52,818
ii
Sale of services
Management fee
3,372
4,065
Sales and marketing commission
3,263
2,832
Car parking fee
1,392
1,369
8,027
8,266
iii
Other operating revenue
Interest on delayed payments, cancellation charges and transfer fee
1,080
1,025
Advertising income
808
629
Maintenance and other services
504
338
2,392
1,992
Total (A)
1,70,379
1,63,076
B
Income from leasing
41,314
39,460
Total (A+B)
2,11,693
2,02,536
Brigade Enterprises Limited
312
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
24.1 Disaggregated revenue information
 
 Set out below is the disaggregation of the Company’s revenue from contracts with customers by timing of 
transfer of goods or services:
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue recognition at a point of time
1,13,674
97,606
Revenue recognition over period of time
56,705
65,470
1,70,379
1,63,076
24.2 Contract balances
 
The following table provides information about receivables and contract liabilities from contract with customers:
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Receivables
Trade receivables
31,647
18,223
Contract liabilities
Deferred revenue (#)
- real estate contracts
3,94,619
2,63,644
- Joint development arrangements
1,33,653
96,244
Total contract liabilities
5,28,272
3,59,888
 
 (#)The entity expects to satisfy the performance obligations when (or as) the underlying real estate projects to which such performance 
obligations relate are completed. Such real estate projects are in various stages of development and are expected to be completed 
in the coming periods of up to four years. 
24.3 Significant changes in contract liabilies balance during the year as follows:
Particulars
Deferred revenue
Real estate contracts (*)
Joint development arrangements
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
2,63,644
1,88,234
96,244
99,003
Additions during the year (net)
2,39,336
1,68,481
89,008
56,988
Revenue recognised during the year
1,08,361
93,071
51,599
59,747
3,94,619
2,63,644
1,33,653
96,244
 
(*) 
Includes the advance from customer balance
24.4 Reconciliation of revenue recognised with contract revenue:
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Contract revenue
1,70,480
1,63,533
Adjustment:
Discount
(101)
(457)
Revenue recognised
1,70,379
1,63,076
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
313
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
24.5 Performance obligations
 
 The performance obligation of the Company in case of sale of residential plots, villas, apartments, commercial 
space and development activites of such properties is satisfied once the project is completed and control is 
transferred to the customers. The customer makes the payment for contract price as per installment stipulated 
in customer’s agreement which can be cancelled by the customer for convenience.
 
 The transaction price of the remaining performance obligation (unsatisfied or partly satisfied) as at March 31, 
2025 is ₹ 8,87,480 lakhs (March 31, 2024 is ₹ 5,20,082 lakhs). The same is expected to be recognised within 1 to 
4 years.
24.6 Assets recognised from the costs to obtain or fulfil a contract with a customer
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Work-in-progress
4,54,387
3,57,184
Stock of flats
31,603
35,854
Prepaid expenses
9,291
6,377
25 Other income
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest income from financial assets at amortized cost:
- Bank deposits
8,870
3,157
- Debt instruments (from related parties) (refer note 36)
4,745
-
- Notion interest on debt instruments (from related parties) (refer note 36)
2,246
7,121
-  Unwinding of discount on interest-free loans to related parties (refer 
note 36)
4,279
3,813
- Unwinding of discount on refundable JDA deposits and security deposits
1,204
1,225
Dividend income from subsidiary
3,340
-
Share in profit of LLP
418
(106)
Other non-operating income (net of expenses directly attributable to such 
income)
- Gain on sale of investment in mutual funds (net)
80
260
- Modification gain on financial instruments through profit and loss
436
1,357
- Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
-
14
- Provision no longer required, written back
330
564
- Others
765
2,459
26,713
19,864
Brigade Enterprises Limited
314
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
26 Cost of raw materials, components and stores  consumed
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Inventories at the beginning of the year
 2,153 
 1,835 
Add: Purchases during the year
 24,360 
 17,862 
 26,513 
 19,697 
Less: Inventories at the end of the year
 (2,266)
 (2,153)
Cost of raw materials, components and stores consumed
 24,247 
 17,544 
27 Changes in inventories of stock of flats, land stock and work-in-progress
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Inventories at the end of the year
Work-in-progress 
 4,54,387 
 3,57,184 
Stock of flats
 31,603 
 35,854 
Land stock
 400 
 400 
 4,86,390 
 3,93,438 
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Work-in-progress 
 3,57,184 
 3,09,789 
Stock of flats
 35,854 
 24,234 
Land stock
 400 
 400 
 3,93,438 
 3,34,423 
Increase in inventories
 (92,952)
 (59,015)
Less: Transfer from inventories (work-in-progress)  
to investement property under development
(9,121)
(62,934)
Add: Transfer from investment property under  
developement to inventories (work-in-progress)
 1,032 
Less: Transfer from inventories (stock of flats)  
to investement properties
(3,730)
Total
(1,04,771)
 (1,21,949)
28 Employee benefits expense
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Salaries, wages and bonus
21,433
15,570
Contribution to provident fund and other funds
434
194
Equity settled share based payments (refer note 38)
671
907
Gratuity expense (refer note 37) (^)
173
130
Compensated absence expense (refer note 37)
270
91
Directors' sitting fees and commission (refer note 36)
245
208
Staff welfare expenses
1,175
637
24,401
17,737
Less: Capatilised to 'investment property under development'
(561)
(18)
23,840
17,719
(^)The Company has elected to present the net interest on net defined benefit liability which reflects the change in net defined 
benefit liability that arises from the passage of time under employee benefits expense.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
315
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
29 Finance costs (*)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest cost on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
- Borrowings
15,750
13,275
- Unwinding of discount on security deposits
627
700
- On lease liability
226
-
Other borrowing costs
- Letter of credit, bank guarantee charges etc
232
467
16,835
14,442
Less: Interest capitalised to investment property under development
(3,871)
(35)
12,964
14,407
 
 (*) Includes borrowing cost capitalised to inventories amountning to ₹ 3,728 lakhs (March 31, 2024: 124 lakhs). The capitalisation rate 
used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is the effective interest rate of the underlying borrowings 
i.e., 8.75% (March 31, 2024: 8.5%)
30 Depreciation and amortisation expenses
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (refer note 3)
 724 
 480 
Depreciation of investment property (refer note 4)
 7,055 
 7,282 
Amortisation of right-of-use assets (refer note 4)
 184 
 - 
Amortisation of intangible assets (refer note 6)
 15 
 62 
 7,978 
 7,824 
31 Other expenses
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
License fees and plan approval charges
14,295
3,539
Advertisement and sales promotion
6,594
3,506
Brokerage and discounts
4,929
1,306
Architect and consultancy fees
4,070
2,508
Repairs and maintenance
 
Building
2,855
1,953
 
Others
2,329
1,260
Property tax
2,784
1,461
Expected credit loss on financial assets
1,643
-
Travelling and conveyance
1,580
1,195
Legal and professional fees
1,438
3,032
Donation (including CSR expenditure)
794
668
Power and fuel
746
710
Rates and taxes
685
1,813
Security charges
572
642
Property maintainence
530
572
Brigade Enterprises Limited
316
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Training and recruitment expenses
422
217
Insurance
223
83
Communication costs
178
147
Printing and stationery
121
56
Payments to auditors (refer note below)
115
93
Rent (refer note 35)
89
116
Loans and advances written off
67
20
Provision for contract losses
35
-
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment, net
17
-
Exchange difference (net)
9
4
Bad debts written off
-
3
Miscellaneous expenses
215
233
47,335
25,137
 
Note:
 
a) 
Payment to auditors (excluding Goods and Service Tax)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
As auditor:
 
Statutory audit fees
57
59
 
Limited review
43
31
 
QIP certification fees (*)
8
-
Reimbursement of expenses
7
4
115
94
(*)Above amount excludes, amount paid towards professional services in connection with the qualified institutions placement 
of equity shares of the Company is netted off against security premium.
 
b) 
Details of CSR expenditure:
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
(a)  Gross amount required to be spent by the company during 
the year
740
637
(b)  Amount approved by the Board of Directors to be spent during 
the year
740
639
(c) Amount spent during the year on:
 
(i) Construction/acquisition of any asset
-
-
 
(ii) On purposes other than (i) above
740
639
(d) Shortfall at the end of the year
-
-
(e) Nature of CSR activities
Social 
Enpowerment
Social 
Enpowerment
(f) Details of related party transactions (refer note 36)
 
- Brigade Foundation Trust
740
600
 
- Indian Music Experience Trust
-
39
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
317
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
32 Earnings per share
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Profit attributable to equity holders
45,530
31,819
Weighted average number of shares used in basic earnings per share  
(in lakhs)
2,386
2,309
Shares deemed to be issued for no consideration in respect of share-
based payments (in lakhs)
5
6
Weighted average number of shares used in diluted earnings per share 
(in lakhs)
2,391
2,315
Nominal value of equity share (₹)
10
10
Earnings per equity (₹)
Basic
19.09
13.78
Diluted
19.04
13.75
33 Assets pledged as security (*)
 
The carrying amounts of assets pledged as security for borrowings are:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
4
22
Investment property under development
28,569
5,349
Investment property
1,16,251
1,15,267
Margin money deposits with banks
5,799
4,968
1,50,623
1,25,606
Current assets
Trade receivables
2,619
1,655
Cash and cash equivalents
352
884
2,971
2,539
Total assets pledged
1,53,594
1,28,145
 
(*) includes Ind AS related adjustments.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
318
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
34 Commitments and contingencies
a.  Commitments
 
(i)   The Company has given ` 38,784 lakhs (March 31, 2024: ` 39,944 lakhs) as advances/deposits for purchase of 
land/ joint development. Under the agreements executed with the land owners, the Company is required to 
make further payments and/or give share in area/ revenue from such development in exchange of undivided 
share in land based on the agreed terms/ milestones.
 
(ii)   In connection with Company’s investments in certain subsidiaries, the Company has entered into 
shareholders agreement with other shareholders wherein it has certain commitments including further 
investment in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
 
(iii)   The Company has entered into a power purchase agreement with a party wherein the Company has 
committed minimum purchase of power.
 
(iv)   The Company is committed to provide financial support to some of its subsidiaries to ensure that these 
entities operate on going concern basis and are able to meet their debts and liabilities as they fall due.
 
(v)   As at March 31, 2025, the estimated amount of contract remaining to be executed on capital account 
(investment property under development) not provided for is ₹ 38,683 lakhs (As at March 31, 2024: ₹ 40,730)
b.  Contingent liabilities
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts
- Income tax
 13 
 13 
- Sales tax / Value added tax/ Entry tax
1,486
 1,486 
- Service tax (net of ` 29 lakhs provided for)
 2,907 
 2,907 
Letters of credit and Bank guarantees
4,964
 2,526 
Corporate Guarantees/Letter of Comfort given to subsidiaries 
(Restricted to extent of loan amounts outstanding)
20,704
 45,004 
c. 
Other Litigations:
 
(i) 
 The Company has outstanding balance of ₹ 860 lakhs that are under litigation, out of the advances paid 
towards one Joint Development Agreement. The performance obligations under the said Joint Development 
agreement are fulfilled hence the company initiated procedure for recovery of the balance advance and 
other recovery of additional costs as per terms of the said agreement with Landowner. However, Landowner 
has filed arbitration challenging the same and both parties have filed claims and counter claims. Based 
on the overall assessment and legal evaluation, the underlying advances are considered as good and 
recoverable by the management.
 
(ii)  Apart from the above, the Company is also subject to certain legal proceedings and claims, which have 
arisen in the ordinary course of business, including certain litigation for commercial development or land 
parcels held for construction purposes, either through joint development arrangements or through outright 
purchases. These cases are pending with various courts and are scheduled for hearings. After considering 
the circumstances and legal evaluation thereon, the management believes that these cases will not have 
an adverse effect on the standalone financial statements.
 
 Note: The Company does not expect any reimbursement in respect of the above contingent liabilities and it is 
not practicable to estimate the timing of the cash outflows, if any, in respect of aforesaid matters and it is not 
probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the above obligations/claims.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
319
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
35 Leases
A.  Company as Lessee
i) 
 Set out below are the carrying amount of right-of-use assets recognised and movements during 
the period:
Right of use assets (Building)
Amount
Balance - as at April 01, 2024
 - 
Add: Additions to right of use
 1,920 
Less: Depreciation during the year
(184)
Balance - as at March 31, 2025
 1,736 
ii) 
Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements during the period:
Lease liabilities
Amount
Balance - as at April 01, 2024
 - 
Initial recognition of Lease liability
 1,821 
Add: Accretion of interest
 227 
Less: Payment of interest 
 162 
Less: Payment of Principal
-
Balance - as at March 31, 2025
 1,886 
Non-current lease liabilities
 
 1,588 
Current lease liabilities
 
 298 
iii) 
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation expense on right-of-use assets
 184 
 - 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 227 
 - 
Expense relating to short-term leases (included in other expenses)
 89 
 - 
Total amount recognised in profit and loss
 500 
 - 
iv) Amount recognised in statement of cash flow
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Total cash outflow for principal portion leases
162
0
v) 
Information about extension and termination options
Particulars
Number of 
leases
Range of 
remaining 
term (in 
years)
Average 
remaining 
lease term 
(in years)
Number of 
leases with 
extension 
options
Number of 
leases with 
purchase 
options
Number of 
leases with 
termination 
options
Building
1
9
9
-
-
-
Brigade Enterprises Limited
320
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
36 Related party transactions
I. 
 List of related parties and related party relationships
(i)  
Related parties where control exists
Abbreviations
Subsidiaries
Brigade Hospitality Services Limited
BHSL 
Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited
BTPL 
Brigade Estates and Projects Private Limited
BEPPL 
Brigade Properties Private Limited
BPPL 
Brigade Infrastructure and Power Private Limited
BIPPL 
BCV Developers Private Limited
BDPL 
WTC Trades and Projects Private Limited
WTPPL 
SRP Prosperita Hotel Ventures Limited
PHVL 
Celebrations Private Limited
CPL 
Brigade (Gujarat) Projects Private Limited
BGPPL 
Perungudi Real Estates Private Limited
PREPL 
Augusta Club Private Limited
ACPL 
Mysore Projects Private Limited
MPPL 
Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited
BHVL 
Brigade Flexible Office Spaces Private Limited
BFOSPL 
Tetrarch Developers Limited 
TDL 
Vibrancy Real Estates Private Limited 
VREPL 
Venusta Ventures Private Limited 
VVPL 
Zoiros Projects Private Limited 
ZPPL 
Brigade Innovations LLP 
BILLP 
Propel Capital Ventures LLP
PCVLLP 
BCV Real estates Private Limited 
BREPL 
Tandem Allied Services Private Limited 
TASPL 
Tetrarch Real Estates Private Limited 
TREPL 
Brigade HRC LLP ( From 26 July 2024)
HRCLLP 
Ananthay Properties Private Limited ( From December 16, 2024)
APPL 
(ii)  Related parties under Ind AS 24 with whom transactions have taken place:
Key management 
personnel
("KMP")
Mr. M.R. Jaishankar, Chairman 
Ms. Pavitra Shankar, Managing Director 
Ms. Nirupa Shankar, Joint Managing Director 
Mr. Roshin Mathew, Executive Director 
Mr. Amar Mysore, Executive Director
Mr. Pradyumna Krishnakumar, Executive Director (From July 12, 2023)
Enterprises owned 
or significantly 
influenced by KMP
Mysore Holdings Private Limited
MHPL 
Brigade Foundation Trust
BFT 
Indian Music Experience Trust
IMET 
DP Square Foods (From July 12, 2023)
DPS 
Vanantara
Vanantara
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
321
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(iii) Additional related parties as per Companies Act, 2013 
KMP
- Chief Financial Officer
Mr.Atul Goyal (Upto February 16, 2024)
- Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Jayant Bhalchandra Manmadkar (From April 18, 2024)
- Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Mr. P. Om Prakash
Other Directors
Mr. Aroon Raman (Upto August 4, 2024)
Mr. Bijou Kurien  (Upto January 30, 2025)
Mrs. Lakshmi Venkatachalam
Mr. Pradeep Kumar Panja
Dr. Venkatesh Panchapagesan
Mr. Velloor Venkatakrishnan Ranganathan 
Mr. Abraham Stephanos (From May 28, 2024)
Ms. Padmaja Chunduru (From January 29, 2025)
Relatives of KMP/Other Directors
Mrs. Nishi Goyal (Upto February 16, 2024)
Mrs. Reena Roshin Mathew
Mrs. Latha Shivaram
Mr. M R Krishna Kumar
Mr. M R Gurumurthy
Mr. M R Shivram
Mrs. Arthi D Vumidi
Mrs. Githa Shankar
Brigade Enterprises Limited
322
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
II. 
 Related party transactions
a.  
The following table provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial year:
Name of the 
related
party
Year ended
Transactions during the year
Balances as at the year-end
Revenue 
from 
operations
Other 
income
Purchase 
of goods
Purchase 
of 
services
Sale of 
goods & 
services
Customer 
advances 
received
Loans 
given
Loans 
repaid
Dividend 
received
Trade 
receivable
Trade 
payable
Other 
financial 
liabilities
Other 
financial 
assets
Non-
current 
loans
Current 
loans
Financial 
assets
Other 
current 
liabilities
Related parties where control exists
BHSL
31-Mar-25
3
-
-
87
-
-
-
-
1,500
-
17
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
39
-
-
81
-
-
-
-
-
-
5
-
-
-
-
-
-
WTPPL
31-Mar-25
90
318
-
1,588
-
-
-
-
1,351
-
703
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
88
512
-
1,533
-
-
-
1,700
-
220
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
BPPL
31-Mar-25
985
2,458
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
505
-
-
640
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
999
2,778
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
287
-
-
568
-
-
-
-
BTPL
31-Mar-25
-
-
25
-
31
-
-
-
-
-
803
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
44
-
35
-
7,514
7,514
-
5
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
BEPPL
31-Mar-25
-
12
-
-
-
-
25
-
-
-
-
-
-
124
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
8
-
-
-
-
50
-
-
7
-
-
-
97
-
-
-
BIPPL
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
-
-
-
12,500
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
15,900
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
-
-
-
-
3,400
-
-
7
-
-
-
-
3,400
-
-
BDPL
31-Mar-25
1,437
1,533
-
40
-
-
-
2,004
-
961
-
-
-
11,754
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
2,503
1,321
8
9
-
-
-
-
-
522
4
-
-
12,224
-
-
-
PHVL
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
31
-
-
-
-
-
-
18
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
6
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
-
-
-
-
-
-
PREPL
31-Mar-25
1,139
4,663
242
-
-
-
-
-
-
631
-
-
3,031
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
861
4,644
12
-
-
-
-
-
-
544
-
-
2,909
-
-
-
-
MPPL
31-Mar-25
-
1
197
-
-
-
2,550
250
-
3
-
-
-
-
8,093
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
678
-
13
-
-
6,000
-
88
-
-
-
-
5,792
-
-
BILLP
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
BGPPL
31-Mar-25
-
220
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
-
-
-
2,059
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
1,682
-
-
-
-
1,200
4,950
-
3
-
-
-
1,840
-
-
-
BHVL
31-Mar-25
724
1,476
-
184
-
1,250
-
-
-
-
10
-
-
13,772
-
-
1,250
31-Mar-24
597
1,321
-
125
-
-
-
-
-
2
8
-
-
12,296
-
-
-
BFOSPL
31-Mar-25
100
-
-
167
-
-
800
-
-
-
91
-
-
-
1,550
-
-
31-Mar-24
105
-
-
-
-
-
100
50
-
3
-
-
-
-
750
-
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
323
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Name of the 
related
party
Year ended
Transactions during the year
Balances as at the year-end
Revenue 
from 
operations
Other 
income
Purchase 
of goods
Purchase 
of 
services
Sale of 
goods & 
services
Customer 
advances 
received
Loans 
given
Loans 
repaid
Dividend 
received
Trade 
receivable
Trade 
payable
Other 
financial 
liabilities
Other 
financial 
assets
Non-
current 
loans
Current 
loans
Financial 
assets
Other 
current 
liabilities
ACPL
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
1
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
-
1
-
-
-
-
-
-
1
-
-
-
-
-
-
HRCLLP
31-Mar-25
3
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
TDL
31-Mar-25
-
1,259
-
-
-
-
2,900
-
-
-
-
-
-
12,329
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
538
-
-
-
-
15,900
-
-
-
-
-
-
9,893
-
-
-
VVPL
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
ZPPL
31-Mar-25
-
85
-
-
-
-
230
280
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
-
-
-
-
50
-
-
-
-
-
33
29
-
-
-
TASPL
31-Mar-25
99
-
-
20
-
-
-
-
488
23
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
113
-
13
-
702
-
-
-
43
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
31-Mar-25
4,580
12,025
464
2,118
31
1,250
19,005
2,534
3,339
2,126
1,642
-
3,671
40,038
25,543
-
1,250
31-Mar-24
5,192
12,917
748
1,762
49
702
28,214
20,214
-
1,739
22
-
3,510
36,379
9,942
-
-
Enterprises owned or significantly influenced by KMP
MHPL
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
1,381
-
-
-
-
97
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
DP Square 
Foods
31-Mar-25
8
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
6
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
M R Shivaram 
(HUF)
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
123
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
IMET
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
8
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
7
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Vanantara
31-Mar-25
-
-
36
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
8
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
31-Mar-25
8
-
36
-
-
-
-
-
-
8
8
4
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
1,510
-
-
-
-
97
-
-
-
10
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
II. 
 Related party transactions
a.  
The following table provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial year:
Brigade Enterprises Limited
324
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Name of the 
related
party
Year ended
Transactions during the year
Balances as at the year-end
Revenue 
from 
operations
Other 
income
Purchase 
of goods
Purchase 
of 
services
Sale of 
goods & 
services
Customer 
advances 
received
Loans 
given
Loans 
repaid
Dividend 
received
Trade 
receivable
Trade 
payable
Other 
financial 
liabilities
Other 
financial 
assets
Non-
current 
loans
Current 
loans
Financial 
assets
Other 
current 
liabilities
KMP
Mr. M R 
Jaishankar
31-Mar-25
-
18
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
375
-
31-Mar-24
2,988
36
-
-
-
1,525
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
375
-
Mr. Amar 
Mysore
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
246
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mr.Pradeep 
Kumar Panja
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
-
-
53
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
53
31-Mar-24
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Roshin 
Mathew
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
227
31-Mar-24
-
-
-
-
-
227
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
227
Total
31-Mar-25
18
-
-
-
53
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
375
280
31-Mar-24
3,234
36
-
-
-
1,752
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
375
227
Relatives of KMP/ Other Directors
Mrs. Latha 
Shivaram
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
427
-
-
-
-
973
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mrs. Nishi 
Goyal
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
-
9
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mrs. Arthi D 
Vumidi
31-Mar-25
31-Mar-24
247
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mrs. Reena 
Roshin Mathew
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
11
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
-
11
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Ms. Githa 
Shankar
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
10
7
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6
-
-
-
-
Total
31-Mar-25
-
-
-
11
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
10
7
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-24
674
-
-
20
-
973
-
-
-
-
-
-
6
-
-
-
-
II. 
 Related party transactions
a.  
The following table provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial year:
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
325
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(b) Remuneration
(i) 
Salaries, bonus and contribution to provident fund (*)
Particulars
For the year ended
Payable as on
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Salaries, bonus and contribution to 
provident fund (*)
KMP
Director (*)
2,768
2,181
1,801
1,400
KMP as per Companies Act, 2013
485
342
-
-
3,253
2,523
1,801
1,400
Directors' sitting fees and commission
247
208
124
120
Note:
(*)Breakup of director salaries, bonus and 
contibution to provident fund
Mr. M R Jaishankar
849
717
678
546
Ms. Pavitra Shankar
388
308
254
209
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
392
308
254
209
Mr. Amar Mysore
385
313
254
209
Mr. Roshin Mathew
450
310
191
102
Mr. Pradyumna Krishnakumar
304
225
170
125
2,768
2,181
1,801
1,400
c.  Other transactions:
 
1 
 The Company has received ` 423 lakhs (March 31, 2024: Nil) towards accumulated shared profits from BILLP 
and invested ` 174 lakhs ( March 31,2024 : 381 Lakhs) towards capital contribution.
 
2 
 The Company has made donation to BFT of ` 740 lakhs (March 31, 2024: ` 600 lakhs).
 
3 
 The Company has invested ` 326 lakhs in various unlisted Optionally Convertible Debentures of ` 100 each 
in BPPL, and invested 312 lakhs in Optinally Convertible Redeemable Preference shares and redeemed 
debentures ` 13,759 lakhs during the year. Also refer note 7 with respect to carrying value of investments 
held as at year end.
 
4 
 The Company has invested ` 1,552 lakhs in various unlisted Optionally Convertible Debentures of ` 100 each 
in BPPL, and invested ` 2,055 lakhs in Optinally Convertible Redeemable Preference shares and redeemed 
debentures ` 3,913 lakhs during the year. Also refer note 7 with respect to carrying value of investments 
held as at year end.
 
5 
 The company has received ` 325 lakhs (March 31,2024 : Nil) towards the redemption of Optionally Convertible 
Redeemable Preference shares from ACPL.
 
6 
 The Company has paid `3,826 lakhs (March 31, 2024: ` 1,867 Lakhs ) to M.R. Jaishankar towards its share of 
collections from Brigade Atmosphere Project and Brigade Oak Tree Project(Joint Development Project).
 
7 
 The Company has entered into various reimbursement of expense and income transactions with related 
parties whereby the total reimbursement expenses received is 637 lakhs (March 31, 2024: 1,089 lakhs), total 
reimbursement expenses paid is 816 lakhs (March 31, 2024: 3 lakh) and the total reimbursement income 
received is 77 lakhs (March 31, 2024: 12 lakhs)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
326
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
8 
The Company has paid dividend to KMP’s and related parties as below:
Name of the Person
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Mr. M R Jaishankar
 691
 691
Mrs. Githa Shankar
 561
 561
M R Jaishankar (HUF)
 -
 83
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
 321
 280
Ms. Pavitra Shankar
 41
 -
Mr. Amar Mysore
 39
 39
Mr. P Om Prakash
 0
 0
Mr. M R Krishna Kumar
 119
 119
Mr. M R Gurumurthy
 39
 39
Mr. M R Shivram
 55
 55
Mr. M R Shivram (HUF)
 61
 61
M/s MHPL
 126
 126
A R Rukmini
 7
 7
Mr. Roshin Mathew
 1
 1
Mr. Pradyumna Krishnakumar *
 -
 -
Mr. Atul Goyal
 -
 1
Total
2,061
2,062
 
9 
The Company has allotted shares to KMP’s and related parties as below on exercise of ESOP:
(Number of shares)
Name of the Person/Company
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Mr. Om Prakash
 3,776 
 3,776 
Mr. Atul Goyal
 - 
 13,882 
Mr. Pradyumna Krishnakumar
 2,500 
Mr. Roshin Mathew
 5,000 
 8,000 
 
 
* The amount paid is within the nearest to the rounding off.
d.  Other information:
 
 Outstanding balances at the year-end are unsecured and carry interest upto 12% and settlement occurs in 
cash. The Company has not recorded any provision/ write-off of receivables relating to amounts owed by 
related parties.
 
 Note: In respect of the transactions with the related parties, the Company has complied with the provisions of 
Section 177 and 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 where applicable, and the details have been disclosed above, 
as required by the applicable accounting standards.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
327
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
37 Defined benefit plan - Gratuity
 
 The Company has gratuity as defined benefit retirement plans for its employees. The Company provides for 
gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in continuous service 
for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity at the rate of 15 days basic salary for each year of service until the 
retirement age. As at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 the plan assets were invested in insurer managed funds.
 
It is exposed to the following types of risks:
 
 Interest rate risk: A fall in the discount rate which is linked to the Government Security rate will increase the 
present value of the liability requiring higher provision. A fall in the discount rate generally increases the mark 
to market value of the assets depending on the duration of asset.
 
 Salary risk: The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries 
of members. As such, an increase in the salary of the members more than assumed level will increase the 
plan’s liability.
 
 Investment risk: The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate which 
is determined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on government bonds. If the 
return on plan asset is below this rate, it will create a plan deficit. Currently, for the plan in India, it has a relatively 
balanced mix of investments in government securities, and other debt instruments.
 
 Asset liability matching risk: The plan faces the ALM risk as to the matching cash flow. Since the plan is invested 
in lines of Rule 101 of Income Tax Rules, 1962, this generally reduces ALM risk.
 
 Mortality risk: Since the benefits under the plan is not payable for life time and payable till retirement age only, 
plan does not have any longevity risk.
 
 Concentration risk: Plan is having a concentration risk as all the assets are invested with the insurance company.
 
 The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expenses recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss and the funded status and amount recognised in the balance sheet.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
328
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets - Year ended March 31, 2025
Gratuity
April 
01, 
2024
Expense charged to 
 profit or loss
Benefits 
paid
Remeasurement gains/(losses) in other comprehensive income
Contributions 
by employer
As at 
March 
31, 2025
Service 
cost
Net 
interest 
expense
Sub-
total 
included 
in profit 
or loss
Return on 
plan 
assets 
(excluding 
amounts 
included 
in net interest 
expense)
Actuarial 
changes 
arising from 
changes in 
demographic 
assumptions
Actuarial 
changes 
arising 
from changes 
in financial 
assumptions
Experience 
adjustments
Sub-total 
included 
in 
OCI
Transfer 
In/(Out)
Defined benefit 
obligation
1,087
155
78
233
(60)
-
-
332
38
370
-
-
1,630
Fair value of plan 
assets
833
-
(60)
(60)
(60)
4
-
-
-
(4)
-
136
973
Net liability - 
Gratuity
254
155
18
173
-
(4)
-
332
38
366
-
(136)
657
Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets - Year ended March 31, 2024
Gratuity
April 
1, 
2023
Expense charged to profit 
or loss
Benefits 
paid
Remeasurement gains/(losses) in other comprehensive income
Contributions 
by employer
As at 
March 
31, 2024
Service 
cost
Net 
interest 
expense
Sub-
total 
included 
in profit 
or loss
Return on 
plan 
assets 
(excluding 
amounts 
included 
in net interest 
expense)
Actuarial 
changes 
arising from 
changes in 
demographic 
assumptions
Actuarial 
changes 
arising 
from 
changes 
in financial 
assumptions
Experience 
adjustments
Sub-
total 
included 
in 
OCI
Transfer 
In/(Out)
Defined benefit 
obligation
923
121
68
189
(76)
-
-
8
43
51
-
-
1,087
Fair value of 
plan assets
812
-
(59)
(59)
(76)
-
-
-
-
-
-
38
833
Net liability - 
Gratuity
111
121
9
130
-
-
-
8
43
51
-
(38)
254
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
329
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
The major categories of plan assets are as follows:
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Fund Managed by Insurer
100%
100%
 
 The principal assumptions used in determining pension and post-employment benefit obligations for the 
Company’s plans are shown below:
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount rate
6.50%
7.15%
Future salary benefit levels
12.00%
7.50%
 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption for Gratuity plan is as shown below:
Assumptions
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Discount rate
Further salary 
increase
Attrition rate
Discount Rate
Further salary 
increase
Attrition rate
Sensitivity 
level
-1.0%
1.0%
-1.0%
1.0%
-50.0%
50.0%
-1.0%
1.0%
-1.0%
1.0%
-50.0%
50.0%
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
Impact on 
defined 
benefit 
obligation - 
Gratuity
1,730
1,540
1,561
1,701
1,835
1,520
1,144
1,036
1,042
1,134
1,091
1,080
% change 
compared 
to base due 
to sensitivity
6.10%
-5.50%
-4.20%
4.30%
12.60% -6.70%
5.20% -4.70%
-4.10%
4.40%
0.30% -0.70%
 
 The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on 
defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the 
reporting period.
 
The following payments are expected contributions to the defined benefit plan - gratuity in future years:
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Within the next 12 months
281
188
Between 2 to 5 years
817
648
Between 6 to 10 years
667
435
More than 10 years
787
386
Total expected payments
2,552
1,657
 
 The average duration of the defined benefit plan - gratuity at the end of the reporting period is 6 years (Previous 
year: 5 years).
Brigade Enterprises Limited
330
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
Defined contribution plan
 
 The Company makes contribution of statutory provident fund as per Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. The Company has recognized the following amounts in the Statement of 
Profit and Loss under defined contribution plan whereby the Company is required to contribute a specified 
percentage of the payroll costs to fund the benefits
year ended 
March 31, 2025
year ended 
March 31, 2024
Employer’s contribution to provident fund
357
194
Employer's contribution to national pension scheme
77
-
434
194
 
Leave benefits
 
 An actuarial valuation of leave benefits is carried out by an independent actuary. Based on that, the Company 
is carrying a liability of ₹ 566 lakhs (As at March 31, 2024 : ₹ 329 lakhs)
 
 The current year expenditure charged to profit and loss account with respect to compensated absences is ₹ 
270 lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2025 ( ₹ 91 lakhs for March 31, 2024)
 
 The principal assumptions used in determining pension and post-employment benefit obligations for the 
company’s plans are shown below:
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount rate
6.50%
7.15%
Future salary benefit levels
12.00%
7.50%
38 Share based payments
 
 The Company provides share-based payment schemes to its employees. The relevant details of the scheme 
and the grants are as below:
 
 Employees Stock Option Scheme (‘ESOP 2017’): The Company instituted this scheme pursuant to the Board of 
Directors and Shareholders’ resolution dated August 08, 2017 and September 21, 2017, respectively. As per ESOP 
2017, the Company granted 25,16,597 (till March 31, 2024: 25,16,597) options comprising equal number of equity 
shares in one or more tranches to the eligible employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. The options 
would vest equally 25% every year with exercise period of five years from the date of respective vesting. The 
contractual life (comprising the vesting period and the exercise period) of options granted is 9 years from date 
of such grant.
 
 Employees Stock Option Scheme (‘ESOP 2022’): The Company instituted this scheme pursuant to the Board of 
Directors and Shareholders’ resolution dated March 25, 2022 and May 4, 2022, respectively. As per ESOP 2022, 
the Company granted 13,37,658 (till March 31, 2024: 13,37,658) options comprising equal number of equity shares 
in one or more tranches to the eligible employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. The options would vest 
equally 25% based on the individual performance every year , with exercise period of five years from the date 
of respective vesting. The contractual life (comprising the vesting period and the exercise period) of options 
granted is 9 years from date of such grant.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
331
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
 The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using Black Scholes Model taking into account 
the terms and conditions upon which the share options are granted and there are no cash settled alternatives 
for employees.
 
Expense recognised for employee services received during the year:
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Expense arising from equity settled share based payment transactions 
(net of reversals on account of forfeitures)
 - ESOP 2017
 224 
 125 
 - ESOP 2022
 615 
 1,018 
Less: Cross charged to subsidiaries towards stock options to 
subsidiaries' employees
 (168)
 (236)
 671 
 907 
 
Movements during the year ESOP 2017
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
No. of options 
WAEP*
`
No. of options 
WAEP*
`
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 
 2 
 167 
 5 
 167 
Granted during the year
 - 
 167 
 - 
 167 
Forfeited during the year
 - 
 167 
 - 
 167 
Exercised during the year
 (1)
 167 
 (3)
 167 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 1 
 167 
 2 
 167 
Exercisable at the end of the year
 1 
 167 
 1 
 167 
 
*Weighted Average Exercise Price
 
 For options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the exercise date was ` 1,155 per 
share (March 31, 2024: ` 610). The weighted average remaining contractual life for the stock options outstanding 
as at March 31, 2025 is 3 years (March 31, 2024: 4 years)
 
 The Black Scholes valuation model has been used for computing the weighted average fair value considering 
the following inputs:
Grant 1
Grant 2
Grant 3
Grant 4
Grant 5
Grant 6-7
Grant 8
Dividend yield (%)
1.00%
1.00%
1.00%
1.00%
1.00%
0.00%
0.00%
Expected volatility (%)
35.00%
37.00%
35.00%
47.00%
56.00%
44.00%
41.00%
Risk-free interest rate (%)
6.00%
7.00%
7.00%
7.00%
6.00%
7.00%
7.00%
Weighted average share 
price (`)
 255 
 214 
 161 
 198 
 170 
 360 
 461 
Exercise price (after bonus 
issue) (`)
 167 
 167 
 167 
 167 
 167 
 167 
 167 
Expected life of the options 
granted (in years) [vesting 
and exercise period]
 7.50 
 7.50 
 7.50 
 7.50 
 7.50 
 7.50 
 7.50 
 
 The expected life of the stock is based on historical data and current expectations and is not necessarily indicative 
of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility 
over a period similar to the life of the options is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be 
the actual outcome.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
332
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
Movements during the year ESOP 2022
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
No. of options 
WAEP*
`
No. of options 
WAEP*
`
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 
 11 
 395 
 13 
 395 
Granted during the year
 - 
 395 
 - 
 395 
Forfeited during the year
 (1)
 395 
 (1)
 395 
Exercised during the year**
(2)
 395 
 (1)
 395 
Outstanding at the end of the year
8
 395 
 11 
 395 
Exercisable at the end of the year
5
 395 
 1 
 395 
 
*Weighted Average Exercise Price (WAEP)
 
 (**) For options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the exercise date was  ₹ 1,082 per share 
(March 31,2024: 1061)
 
 The Black Scholes valuation model has been used for computing the weighted average fair value considering 
the following inputs:
 
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025 is 7 years
Grant 1
Dividend yield (%)
 0 
Expected volatility (%)
41% - 45%
Risk-free interest rate (%)
7%
Weighted average share price (`)
 1,082 
Exercise price (after bonus issue) (`)
 395 
Expected life of the options granted (in years) [vesting and exercise period]
 3.5 - 6.5 
The expected life of the stock is based on historical data and current expectations and is not necessarily indicative 
of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility 
over a period similar to the life of the options is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be 
the actual outcome.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
333
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
39 Segment reporting
 
 The Company is organised into 2 Strategic Business Units (SBUs) based on risks and rates of return of the products 
and services offered by those SBUs as per Ind AS 108 as follows: Real Estate and Leasing. The management 
reviews operating results of SBUs separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and 
performance assessment. Also, the Company’s financing activities (including finance costs and finance income) 
and income taxes are managed at corporate level and are not allocated to operating segments. Transfer prices 
between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
For the year ended March 31, 2025
For the year ended March 31, 2024
Real Estate
Leasing
Total
Real Estate
Leasing
Total
Revenue
External customers
1,66,775
44,918
2,11,693
1,60,422
42,114
2,02,536
Total Revenue from Operations
1,66,775
44,918
2,11,693
1,60,422
40,829
2,02,536
Expenses
Depreciation and amortization 
expense
662
7,239
7,901
496
7,282
7,778
Add: Unallocable depreciation and 
amortization expense
77
46
7978
7824
Segment profit
27,805
31,114
58,919
24,454
30,678
55,132
Less: Finance costs
(12,964)
(14,407)
Less: Other unallocable expenditure
(23,426)
(17,660)
Share of (loss)/profit in subsidiary 
partnership firm
418
(106)
Add: Other income (including 
interest income)
26,295
19,970
Profit before tax
49,242
42,929
Segment assets
6,51,332
2,84,269
9,35,601
5,12,984
2,02,324
7,15,308
Add: Investments
2,41,522
2,54,375
Add: Loans
40,039
46,321
Add: Cash and cash equivalents, 
bank balances other than cash and 
cash equivalents and margin money 
deposits with banks
1,17,522
28,817
Add: Assets for current tax (net)
793
714
Add: Deferred tax Assets (net)
3,849
-
Add: Other unallocable assets
49,800
9,257
13,89,126
10,54,792
Segment liabilities
5,71,564
33,614
6,05,178
4,10,699
28,293
4,38,992
Add: non-current and current 
borrowings
1,56,905
1,74,606
Add: Deferred tax liabilities (net)
-
9,823
Add: Statutory dues payable
2,638
1,363
Add: Liabilities for current tax (net)
-
1,202
Add: Employee benefits payable
4,920
3,595
Add: Other unallocable liabilities
7,977
3,178
7,77,618
6,32,759
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure (accrued)
-
45,834
45,834
814
6,879
7,693
Brigade Enterprises Limited
334
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
40 Fair value measurements
 
 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be 
exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. There have 
been no transfers between levels during the period.
a) 
The carrying amounts of financial instruments by categories is as follows:
Particulars
Note
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
At cost and 
FVTOCI
Fair value 
through 
profit or loss
At 
amortised 
cost
At cost and 
FVTOCI
Fair value 
through 
profit or loss
At 
amortised 
cost
Financial assets
Investments (*)
7
6
620
2,41,516
6
4,705
2,49,664
Trade receivables
12
-
-
39,420
-
-
22,521
Loans
8
-
-
65,582
-
-
46,321
Cash and bank balances
13 and 
14
-
-
1,84,781
-
-
65,779
Other financial assets
9
-
-
47,890
-
-
43,628
Total
6
620
5,79,189
6
4,705
4,27,913
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
18
-
-
1,56,905
-
-
1,74,606
Lease liabilities
35
-
-
1,886
-
-
-
Trade payables
23
-
-
37,930
-
-
34,607
Other financial liabilities
19
-
-
46,453
-
-
43,191
Total
-
-
2,43,174
-
-
2,52,404
 
 (*)Investment in equity shares and preference shares of subsidiaries and joint venture are measured as per Ind AS 27, ‘separate 
financial statements’ and have been excluded above.
 
Note:
 
 The management assessed that the carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, current 
investments, current loans, trade payables, current borrowings and other current financial assets and liabilities 
approximate their fair values largely due to the short-term maturities.
b) 
Fair value hierarchy
 
 Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value in the financial statement and are grouped 
into three Levels of fair value hierarchy. The three Levels are defined based on the observability of significant 
inputs to the measurement, as follows:
 
 Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity 
can access at the measurement date.
 
 Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or 
liability, either directly or indirectly.
 
 Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
 
 There have been no transfers between the levels during the year
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
335
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
The details of fair value measurement of Company’s financial assets/liabilities are as below:
Carrying value
Level
Fair Value
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 
2024
Investment property (disclosure)
1,30,835
1,31,356
Level 3
5,07,519
5,41,835
Financial assets measured at 
FVTPL:
Investment in quoted investments 
- Mutual funds
620
4,705
Level 2
620
4,705
Financial assets measured at 
FVTOCI:
Investment in equity instruments 
of other companies
31
6
Level 3
6
6
 
Note:
 
Valuation technique used to determine fair value
 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:
•  Refer note 4(f) with respect to investment property
• The quoted investments (mutual funds) are valued using the quoted market prices in active markets.
• The fair values of the unquoted equity shares have been estimated using a DCF model. The valuation requires 
management to make certain assumptions about the model inputs, including forecast cash flows, discount 
rate, credit risk and volatility. The probabilities of the various estimates within the range can be reasonably 
assessed and are used in management’s estimate of fair value for these unquoted equity investments.
41 Financial risk management objectives and policies
 
 The Company’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, trade and other 
payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s operations. The Company’s 
principal financial assets include loans, investments, trade receivables, cash and bank balances and other 
receivables that derive directly from its operations.
 
The Company’s activities expose it to market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk, as detailed below:
Risk
Exposure arising from
Measurement
Credit risk
Cash and cash equivalent, other bank balances, 
trade receivables, investment carried at 
amortised cost, loans and other financial assets
Ageing analysis and 
recoverability assessment
Liquidity risk
Borrowings, trade payables, lease liabilities and 
other financial liabilities
Rolling cash flow forecasts
Market risk – Interest rate
Borrowings
Sensitivity analysis
Market risk – Price risk
Investment in mutual funds
Sensitivity analysis
 
 The Company’s senior management oversees the management of these risks and ensures that the Company’s 
financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are identified, 
measured and managed in accordance with the Company’s policies and risk objectives. The Board of Directors 
reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks.
a) 
Market risk
 
 Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in market prices. Market risk comprises two types of risk: (i) interest rate risk and (ii) other price 
risk,. Financial instruments affected by market risk includes bank deposits, borrowings and investments in 
mutual funds.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
336
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
i) 
Interest rate risk
 
 Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in market interest rates.
1) 
Liabilities
 
 The Company’s fixed rate borrowings are carried at amortised cost. They are therefore not subject to interest 
rate risk as defined in Ind AS 107, since neither the carrying amount nor the future cash flows will fluctuate 
because of a change in market interest rates. The Company’s variable rate borrowing is subject to interest rate 
fluctuations. Below is the overall exposure of the borrowing:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Variable rate borrowing
1,56,905
1,74,606
Fixed rate borrowing
-
-
1,56,905
1,74,606
 
Interest rate sensitivity
 
Profit or loss is sensitive to higher/lower interest expense from borrowings as a result of changes in interest rates.
Change in interest rate
Effect of profit before tax (*)
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Interest rates – increase by 100 basis points (+ 1 %)
(1,569)
(1,746)
Interest rates – decrease by 100 basis points (- 1 %)
1,569
1,746
 
(*) 
determined on gross basis i.e. without considering inventorisation of such borrowing cost.
2) 
Assets
 
 The Company’s fixed deposits, interest bearing security deposits and loans are carried at fixed rate. Therefore, 
the said assets are not subject to interest rate risk as defined in Ind AS 107, since neither the carrying amount 
nor the future cash flows will fluctuate because of a change in market interest rates.
ii) 
Price risk
 
 The Company invests surplus funds in liquid mutual funds. The Company is exposed to market price risk arising 
from uncertainties about future values of the investment. The Company manages the equity price risk through 
investing surplus funds in liquid mutual funds for short term basis.
 
 The table below summarises the impact of increase/decrease of the Net Asset Value (NAV) on the profit for the 
year. The analysis is based on the assumption that the NAV price would increase 5% and decrease by 5% with 
other variable constant.
Particulars
Effect of profit before tax
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Price increase by 5% -FVTPL
31
235
Price decrease by 5% -FVTPL
(31)
(235)
b) 
Credit risk
 
 Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer 
contract, leading to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk primarily from trade receivables (net 
of advances/ payables), refundable deposits under joint development arrangements (JDA), security deposits, 
cash and bank balances, loans, investment carried at amortised cost and other financial assets. The Company 
continuously monitors defaults of customers and other counterparties and incorporates this information into 
its credit risk controls. The carrying amounts of financial assets, unbilled revenue and contract assets represent 
the maximum credit exposure.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
337
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
Credit risk rating
 
 The Company assesses and manages credit risk based on internal credit rating system. Internal credit rating 
is performed for each class of financial instruments with different characteristics. The Company assigns the 
following credit ratings to each class of financial/ contract assets based on the assumptions, inputs and factors 
specific to the class of financial/ contract assets.
 
i) 
Low credit risk
 
ii) 
Moderate credit risk
 
iii) 
High credit risk
 
The Company provides for expected credit loss based on the following:
Category
Asset class exposed to credit risk
Allowance for expected credit loss
Low credit risk/ 
medium credit risk
Cash and bank balances, trade 
receivables, loans, investments measured 
at amortised cost, refundable deposits 
under JDA and other financial assets.
12 months expected credit loss or 
specific allowance whichever is higher/ 
Lifetime expected credit loss
High credit risk
Refundable deposits under JDA
Life time expected credit loss or specific 
allowance
 
 Based on business environment in which the Company operates, a default on a financial asset is considered when 
the counter party fails to make payments within the agreed time period as per contract. Loss rates reflecting 
defaults are based on actual credit loss experience and considering differences between current and historical 
economic conditions.
 
Credit risk management
 
(i) 
 Credit risk related to cash and bank balance (including bank deposits) is managed by only accepting highly 
rated banks and diversifying bank deposits and hence evaluated to be very low.
 
(ii)  The Company’s trade receivables in respect of real estate segment does not have any expected credit 
loss since the handover/ possession of residential/commercial units to the customers in case of real estate 
arrangements is not processed till the time the Company collects the entire receivables. Given the nature 
of leasing business operations, the Company’s trade receivables has low credit risk as the Company holds 
security deposits equivalents ranging from three to six months rentals. Further, historical trends indicate 
any shortfall between such deposits held by the Company and amounts due from customers have not 
been material.
 
(iii)  The Company is subject to credit risk in relation to refundable deposits given under joint development 
arrangements. The management considers that the risk is high as it is in the possession of the land and the 
property share that is to be delivered to the land owner under the joint development arrangements.
 
(iv)  Other financial assets includes investments in debt instruments in subsidiaries, loans to subsidiaries and 
joint ventures, and others. Credit risk related to these other financial assets is managed by monitoring the 
recoverability of such amounts continuously, while at the same time internal control system are in place 
ensure the amounts are within defined limits.
 
Reconciliation of loss allowance provision - Trade receivables and other financial assets
 
The following table summarizes the change in the loss allowance measured using ECL
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Trade 
receivables
Other financial 
assets
Trade 
receivables
Other financial 
assets
Opening loss allowance
196
-
196
-
Allowance for expected credit loss (net)
-
1,643
-
-
Closing loss allowance
196
1,643
196
-
Brigade Enterprises Limited
338
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
c) 
Liquidity risk
 
 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with 
its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Company’s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when 
they are due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking 
damage to the Company’s reputation.
 
 The Company has an established liquidity risk management framework for managing its short term, medium 
term and long term funding and liquidity management requirements. The Company’s exposure to liquidity risk 
arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities. The Company manages the 
liquidity risk by maintaining adequate funds in cash and cash equivalents. The Company also has adequate credit 
facilities agreed with banks to ensure that there is sufficient cash to meet all its normal operating commitments 
in a timely and cost-effective manner.
 
The break-up of cash and cash equivalents, deposits and investments is as below.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash and cash equivalents
1,10,938
9,401
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
73,843
56,378
Margin money deposits with banks
8,458
6,433
Investments
620
4,705
 
 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities at the reporting date. The 
amounts are based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Particulars
Less than 1 year
1 to 5 years
More than 5 
years
Total
March 31, 2025
Borrowings
22,068
89,352
1,38,331
2,49,751
Trade payables
37,930
-
-
37,930
Other financial liabilities
43,866
2,587
-
46,453
Lease liability
277
1,649
1,366
3,292
March 31, 2024
Borrowings
22,499
95,759
1,65,830
2,84,088
Trade payables
34,607
-
-
34,607
Other financial liabilities
39,352
3,839
-
43,191
Lease liability
-
-
-
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
339
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
42 Capital management
 
 The Company’s objectives of capital management is to maximize the shareholder value. In order to maintain or 
adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the return to shareholders, issue/ buyback shares or sell 
assets to reduce debt. The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes 
in economic conditions and the requirements of the financial covenants.
 
 The Company monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total equity plus net debt 
as below:
• Equity includes equity share capital and all other equity components attributable to the equity holders
• Net debt includes borrowings (non-current and current) less cash and other bank balance.
 
 In order to achieve the objective of maximize shareholders value, the Company’s capital management, amongst 
other things, aims to ensure that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing borrowings that 
define capital structure requirements. Any significant breach in meeting the financial covenants would allow the 
bank to call borrowings. There have been no breaches in the financial covenants of borrowings.
 
 No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the current / 
previous  year.
Particulars
Note
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Borrowings (non-current and current)
18
1,56,905
1,74,606
Less: Cash and other bank balances
13 and 14
(1,84,781)
(65,779)
Net debt (A)
(27,876)
1,08,827
Equity share capital
15
24,437
23,110
Other equity
16
5,87,071
3,98,923
Equity (B)
6,11,508
4,22,033
Debt equity ratio for the purpose of capital management (A/B)
(*)
26%
 
(*) 
Net debt is negative and hence not applicable.
43 Ratios
Sl. 
No.
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
% 
change
Reason for variance 
exceeding 25% as 
compared to the 
preceding year
A
Current 
ratio
Current assets
Current 
liabilities
1.28
1.21
6%
-
B
Debt- 
equity ratio
Total debt
Shareholder’s 
equity
0.26
0.41
-37%
The ratio has 
decreased mainly due 
to increase in in share 
capital and repayment 
of borrowings on 
account of QIP.
C
Debt 
service 
coverage 
ratio
Earnings for debt 
service = Net profit 
after taxes + non-
cash operating 
expenses + Interest 
+ other adjustments 
like loss on sale of 
fixed assets etc.
Debt service 
= Interest & 
lease payments 
+ Principal 
repayments
1.14
0.65
76%
The increase is 
mainly due to the 
higher repayment of 
borrowings during 
previous year.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
340
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Sl. 
No.
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
% 
change
Reason for variance 
exceeding 25% as 
compared to the 
preceding year
D
Return on 
equity ratio
Net profits after 
taxes
Average 
shareholder’s 
equity
8.81%
7.81%
13%
-
E
Trade 
receivable 
turnover 
ratio
Net credit sales = 
Gross credit sales - 
Sales return
Average trade 
receivable
6.84
8.49
-19%
-
F
Trade 
payable 
turnover 
ratio
Purchases
Average trade 
payables
4.39
3.17
38%
The ratio has 
increased mainly 
due to increase in 
purchases during the 
year.
G
Net capital 
turnover 
ratio
Net sales = Total 
sales - Sales return
Working capital 
= Current assets 
– Current 
liabilities
1.20
2.10
-43%
The ratio has 
decreased mainly due 
to increase in cash 
and cash equivalents 
and other bank 
balances.
H
Net profit 
ratio
Net profit after taxes
Net sales = Total 
sales - Sales 
return
21.51%
15.71%
37%
The ratio has changed 
mainly due to increase 
in net profit during the 
year.
I
Inventory 
turnover 
ratio
Sales
Average 
inventory
0.22
0.31
-30%
The ratio has 
changed mainly 
due to decrease in 
cost of good sold 
and increase in the 
average inventory.
J
Return on 
capital 
employed
Earnings before 
interest and taxes
Capital 
employed = 
Tangible net 
worth + total 
debt + deferred 
tax liability
8.07%
9.45%
-15%
-
K
Return on 
investment
Interest income 
on fixed deposits 
+ profit on sale 
of investments 
+ income of 
investments - 
impairment on value 
of investment
Current 
investment + 
non current 
investments + 
fixed deposits 
with bank
4.23%
1.04%
305%
This ratio has 
changed mainly due 
to increased due to 
the dividend income, 
increase in fixed 
deposits and the 
interest income from 
debentures.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
341
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
44 Shares issued under QIP
 
 On September 05, 2024, the Company has completed the offering of its equity shares through a qualified 
institutions placement (“QIP”) in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009, as amended (the “SEBI ICDR 
Regulations”). Pursuant to the QIP, the Company had allotted 1,30,43,478 equity shares of face value of ₹ 10 each 
at an issue price of ₹ 1,150 per share (including a share premium of ₹ 1,140 per share) aggregating to ₹ 150,000 
lakhs to qualified institutional buyers. Effective September 06, 2024, these equity shared were listed for trading 
on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited.
 
Details of utilisation of QIP proceeds is as under
Particulars
Objects of the 
issue
as per 
prospectus
Utilized till
March 31, 2025
Un-utilized as at
March 31, 2025 
(*)
(i)  Repayment / pre-payment, in full or in part, of certain 
outstanding borrowings availed by the Company and/or 
Subsidiaries
44,800
44,775
25
(ii)  Part funding the costs for acquisition of land and other 
costs for entering into joint development agreements or 
joint venture agreements and obtaining the government 
and statutory approvals and payment of statutory taxes 
for such land by the Company and its Subsidiaries
67,700
24,597
43,103
(iii) General corporate purposes
34,282
34,282
-
(iv) Issue expenses (^)
3,218
3,218
-
1,50,000
1,06,872
43,128
 
 (*)Net proceeds which were unutilised as at March 31, 2025 were temporarily kept in designated escrow account and fixed deposit 
with scheduled commercial bank (inclusive of interest earned/ accrued thereon). Refer note 13 and 14.
 
(^)  
adjusted against securities premium in accordance with Section 52 of the Act.
45 Additional Disclosures
 
(i) 
 The Company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending 
against the Company for holding any Benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 
1988 and rules made thereunder.
 
(ii)  The Company does not have any transactions with companies struck off.
 
(iii)  The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
 
 
(a)  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by 
or on behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
 
 
(b)  provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
 
(iv)  The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding 
Party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
 
 
(a)  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by 
or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
 
 
(b)  provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
 
(v)  During the year, the investments made, guarantees provided, security given and the terms and conditions 
of the grant of all loans and advances in the nature of loans and guarantees to companies, firms, Limited 
Liability Partnerships or any other parties are not prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
342
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
46  The Company has defined process to take daily back-up of books of account in electronic mode on servers 
physically located in India.
 
 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has prescribed a requirement for companies under the proviso to Rule 
3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 inserted by the Companies (Accounts) Amendment Rules, 2021 
requiring companies, which uses accounting software for maintaining its books of account, shall use only such 
accounting software which has a feature of recording audit trail of each and every transaction, creating an 
edit log of each change made in the books of account along with the date when such changes were made and 
ensuring that the audit trail cannot be disabled.
 
 The Company has used an accounting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of 
recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has been enabled throughout the year for all relevant 
transactions recorded in the software at the application level. The accounting software is operated by a third-
party software service provider and in absence of any information on the existence of audit trail feature at 
database level in the Independent Service Auditor’s ‘Type 2 report’ issued in accordance with ISAE 3402 
Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’, we are unable to 
demonstrate whether the audit trail feature at the database level of the said software was enabled and operated 
throughout the year.
47  The standalone financial statement for the previous year includes re-classifications for correction of certain 
items in accordance with Ind AS 8, “Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors” which are 
described in more detailed as below:
 
 (i) Security deposits paid under joint development agreement as at 31 March 2024 amounting to ₹ 31,416 lakhs, 
earlier presented as ‘Loans’ is now reclassified and presented under ‘Other financial assets’ (current and non-
current); and
 
(ii)  Materials purchased and issued to sub-contractor of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2024 
amounting to ₹ 11,704 lakhs, earlier presented as ‘Sub-contractor costs’ is now reclassified and presented 
under ‘Cost of raw materials, components and stores consumed’.
 
 Other previous year’s figures have been regrouped or reclassified wherever necessary to conform with the 
current year’s figures. The impact of such other reclassification / regrouping is not material to the standalone 
financial statements.
48  No material events have occurred between the standalone balance sheet date to the date of issue of these 
standalone financial statements that could affect the values stated in the standalone financial statements as 
at 31 March 2025.
As per our report of even date attached
For signatories on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 001076N/N500013
Manish Agrawal
M.R. Jaishankar
Pavitra Shankar
Partner
Chairman
Managing Director
Membership no.: 507000
DIN: 00191267
DIN: 08133119
Jayant Bhalchandra Manmadkar
P. Om Prakash
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
Membership No: 047863
Membership No:F5435
New Delhi
Bengaluru
May 14, 2025
May 14, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
343
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Independent Auditor’s Report
Opinion
1. 
 We have audited the accompanying consolidated 
financial statements of Brigade Enterprises Limited 
(‘the Holding Company’) and its subsidiaries (the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries together 
referred to as ‘the Group’) and its joint venture, 
as listed in Annexure I, which comprise the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2025, the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including 
Other Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flow, the Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and 
notes to the consolidated financial statements, 
including a material accounting policy information 
and other explanatory information.
2. 
 In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us and based 
on the consideration of the reports of the other 
auditors on separate financial statements and on the 
other financial information of the subsidiaries and 
its joint venture, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) in the manner so 
required and give a true and fair view in conformity 
with the Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) 
specified under Section 133 of the Act, read with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India of the consolidated state of affairs 
of the Group and its joint venture, as at 31 March 
2025, and their consolidated profit (including other 
comprehensive income), consolidated cash flows 
and the consolidated changes in equity for the year 
ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
3. 
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing specified under Section 
143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those 
standards are further described in the Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report. We 
are independent of the Group and joint venture, in 
accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) 
together with the ethical requirements that are 
relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements under the provisions of the Act and the 
rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that 
the audit evidence we have obtained together with 
the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors 
in terms of their reports referred to in paragraph 17 
of the Other Matters section below, is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Emphasis of Matters
4. 
 We draw attention to Note 37(c)(i) to the consolidated 
financial statements in connection with ongoing legal 
proceedings with respect to certain outstanding 
land advances. Based on legal assessment of the 
matter, the management has considered these 
advances as good and recoverable.
 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
5. 
 In relation to the matter described in Note 37(c)(ii) 
to the consolidated financial statements and the 
following Emphasis of Matter paragraph included 
in audit report of the financial statements of 
Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited, a subsidiary of the 
Holding Company, audited by an independent firm 
of Chartered Accountants, vide their audit report 
dated 18 April 2025 which is reproduced by us 
as under:
 
 We draw attention to Note 27(b)(iii) to the standalone 
financial statements, in connection with an ongoing 
litigation relating to assessment of property 
tax. Pending ultimate outcome of the matter, no 
adjustments have been made in the accompanying 
standalone financial statements.
 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Key Audit Matters
6. 
 Key audit matters are those matters that, in 
our professional judgment and based on the 
consideration of the reports of the other auditors 
on separate financial statements of the subsidiaries 
and joint venture, were of most significance in our 
audit of the consolidated financial statements of the 
current period. These matters were addressed in the 
context of our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion 
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters.
To the Members of Brigade Enterprises Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Brigade Enterprises Limited
344
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
7. 
 We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
1. Revenue recognition for sale of real estate property
Refer note 2.2(i) and 27 to the accompanying 
consolidated financial statements for the material 
accounting policy information on revenue recognition 
for sale of real estate property and related 
disclosures.
The Group applies Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts 
with Customers (‘Ind AS 115’) for recognition of 
revenue from sale of real estate property including 
revenue from joint development agreements.
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of 
residential/commercial units to customers for an 
amount which reflects the consideration the Group 
expects to receive in exchange for those units. The 
‘transfer of control’ for the said revenue stream is 
determined to be earlier of either:
• on legal registration of the units; or
• on grant of unconditional physical possession of 
the units to the Customer
For revenue contracts forming part of joint 
development arrangements (‘JDA’) that are not jointly 
controlled operations and where the land owner is 
identified as a customer for the Group, the revenue 
from the construction services is measured at the fair 
value of the estimated construction service rendered 
by the Group to the land owner under the JDA. Such 
revenue is recognised over time in accordance with 
the requirements of Ind AS 115.
The above assessment requires significant judgment 
in determining when ‘control’ of the real estate 
property is transferred to the customer. Further, for 
projects executed through JDA, significant estimate is 
undertaken by management for determining the fair 
value of the estimated construction service.
Considering the significance of management 
judgements and estimates involved and the 
materiality of amounts involved, aforementioned 
revenue recognition is identified as a key audit matter 
for current year’s audit.
Our audit procedures on revenue recognised from sale 
of real estate property included, but were not limited 
to, the following:
• Evaluated the appropriateness of accounting 
policy for revenue recognition on sale of real 
estate property in terms of principles enunciated 
under Ind AS 115;
• Understood the revenue recognition process, 
evaluated the design and implementation, and 
tested the operating effectiveness of key controls 
over revenue recognition including determination 
of satisfaction of performance obligations as per 
Ind AS 115 and of fair value of construction service 
provided under the JDAs;
• Inspected, on a sample basis, underlying customer 
contracts, occupancy certificate, receipt of 
consideration, registered sale deed/ handover 
documents, as the case may be, evidencing the 
transfer of control of the residential/ commercial 
units to the customer based on which revenue is 
recognised at a point in time;
• For projects executed during the year as per 
JDAs, we have performed the following additional 
procedures on a sample basis:
 −Inspected the JDAs entered into by the Group, 
including addendums thereto, and identified the 
performance obligations under such contracts. 
Further, compared the ratio of constructed area/ 
revenue sharing arrangement between the Group 
and the landowner as mentioned in the agreement 
to the computation statement prepared by the 
management;
 −Obtained and examined the computation of the 
fair value of the construction service under JDA 
with reference to project cost estimates and 
profit mark-up considered by the management 
in such computation;
 −Tested the computation for recognition of 
revenue over time for revenue contracts forming 
part of JDA and management’s assessment of 
stage of completion of projects and project cost 
estimates.
• Assessed the adequacy of disclosures included 
in the consolidated financial statements in 
compliance with the requirements of Ind AS 115.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
345
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
2.  Assessment of the recoverability of the carrying value of Investment property including investment 
properties under development and related fair value disclosures
Refer note 2.2(b) and 5 & 6 to the accompanying 
consolidated financial statements for the accounting 
policy information on Investment property including 
investment property under development and related 
disclosures.
As at 31 March 2025, the carrying value of the 
Investment property is ₹ 4,08,102 lakhs and 
investment property under development is ₹ 1,79,075 
lakhs. The carrying value of the investment property 
is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and accumulated impairment loss, if any. The 
Group is also required to disclose the fair value of 
the investment properties in accordance with the 
requirements of Ind AS 40, Investment Property  
(‘Ind AS 40’).
For investment properties where any impairment 
indicators are identified, the management performs 
an impairment testing by estimating the recoverable 
amounts, being higher of the fair value less costs of 
disposal and value-in-use. in accordance with the 
principles of Ind AS 36, Impairment of Assets  
(‘Ind AS 36’).
The management determines value-in-use using 
discounted cash flow method, which requires 
management to make significant estimates and 
assumptions relating to project cash flows, long-term 
growth rate and selection of appropriate discount 
rates. The management determines the fair value of 
the investment properties using the principles of Ind 
AS 113, Fair value measurement (‘Ind AS 113’) with the 
help of external valuation experts, which also requires 
management to make significant estimates and 
assumptions relating to the valuation methodology 
and other inputs used in the valuation model 
adopted, based on factors such as prevailing and 
expected future market conditions, and the individual 
nature, condition and location of each property.
Considering the materiality of the amounts involved 
and significant degree of judgement and subjectivity 
involved in the valuation and key assumptions used 
in determining the fair value/ value-in-use, we have 
determined assessment of recoverability of the 
carrying value of investment properties including 
investment properties under development and 
related fair value disclosures, as a key audit matter for 
current year’s audit.
Our audit procedures in assessing the recoverability 
of the carrying value of the investment properties 
including investment properties under development 
and related fair value disclosures included, but were 
not limited to, the following:
• Obtained an understanding from the management 
with respect to its process of determination of 
carrying value of investment properties including 
investment properties under development 
and related fair value disclosures, including 
assumptions used and estimates made by 
the management in determining whether 
any impairment indicators exist and related 
fair valuations;
• Evaluated the appropriateness of accounting 
policies with respect to initial recognition 
and subsequent measurement of 
investment properties;
• Evaluated the design and implementation, and 
tested the operating effectiveness of internal 
controls related to subsequent measurement and 
disclosures in respect of investment properties;
• Verified on test check the basis, the underlying 
property documents and other records 
for determination of the Group’s right over 
the properties;
• Evaluated the Group’s use of inputs and 
assumptions in future cash flow projections for 
the purpose of value-in-use computation and 
fair valuations with respect to revenue and cost 
growth trends for reasonableness thereof, basis 
our understanding of the business
• Evaluated the competence and objectivity of the 
external specialist involved by the management, if 
any, in fair valuation of investment properties;
• Engaged auditor’s valuation experts to assess 
appropriateness of the valuation methodology 
applied and the reasonableness of the valuation 
assumptions used including discount rate and 
long-term growth rates;
• Performed sensitivity analysis on these key 
assumptions to assess the degree of estimation 
uncertainty involved in the estimates; and
• Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness 
of disclosures made by the management in the 
consolidated financial statements in accordance 
with the accounting standards.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
346
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
3.  Assessing the recoverability of carrying value of Inventories, advances paid towards land procurement and 
deposits paid under joint development arrangements (‘JDAs’)
Refer note 2.2(g), 2.2(h), and 13, 12 & 10 to the 
consolidated financial statements for accounting 
policy information on inventories, advances paid 
towards land procurement and deposits paid under 
JDAs (financial asset) and related disclosures.
As at 31 March 2025, the carrying value of the 
inventory is ₹ 8,86,881 lakhs, land advances is ₹ 
36,791 lakhs and refundable deposits paid under JDA 
is ₹ 42,187 lakhs, represents a significant portion of 
the Group’s total assets.
The inventories are carried at lower of cost and net 
realisable value (‘NRV’). The determination of the 
NRV involves estimates based on prevailing market 
conditions, estimated future selling price, cost to 
complete projects and selling costs.
Advances paid by the Group to the seller/ 
intermediary towards outright purchase of land is 
recognised as ‘land advance’ disclosed under other 
current/non-current assets until the legal title is 
transferred to the Group, whereupon it is recognised 
as ‘land stock’ under ‘Inventories’. Further, deposits 
paid under JDAs are in the nature of non-refundable / 
refundable deposits made by the Group for acquiring 
the related development rights under such JDAs. On 
the launch of the project, the non-refundable amount 
is transferred as land cost to work-in-progress.
The aforesaid deposits and advances are carried 
at the lower of the amount paid/payable and 
net recoverable value, which is based on the 
management’s assessment of the expected dates of 
commencement and completion of the project, and 
the estimate of sale prices and construction costs 
related to such projects.
We identified the assessment towards recoverability 
of carrying value of inventory, land advances and 
deposits paid under JDA as a key audit matter due to 
the significance of the balance to the consolidated 
financial statements as a whole and the involvement 
of estimates and judgement in the assessment.
Our audit procedures in assessing the recoverability 
of carrying value of the inventories, land advances and 
deposits paid under JDA included, but were not limited 
to the following:
• Evaluated the appropriateness of accounting 
policies with respect to inventories, land advances 
and deposits paid under JDAs as per the principles 
of applicable accounting standards;
• Evaluated the design and implementation, and 
tested the operating effectiveness of internal 
controls related to recoverability assessment 
of inventory, land advances and deposits paid 
under JDAs;
• Understood and reviewed key assumptions used 
by the management in determination of the net 
recoverable value;
• For inventory balance:
 −Compared the NRV to recent sales made of units 
of the project or to the estimated selling price;
 −Compared the estimated construction costs to 
complete each project with the Group’s updated 
budgets; and
• For land advances/ deposits paid under JDA:
 −Obtained an update on the status of the 
land acquisition/ project progress from the 
management and verified the underlying 
documents for related developments and 
expected recoverability of advances paid on test 
check basis;
 −Carried out external confirmation procedures on 
sample basis to obtain evidence supporting the 
carrying value of land advance and deposits paid 
under JDA.
• Assessed the adequacy of disclosures included in 
the consolidated financial statements in compliance 
with the applicable accounting standards.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
347
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Information other than the Consolidated Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report thereon
8. 
 The Holding Company’s Board of Directors are 
responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the information included 
in the Annual Report but does not include the 
consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s 
report thereon. The Annual Report is expected 
to be made available to us after the date of this 
auditor’s report. 
 
 Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
 
 In connection with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information and, in doing so, consider whether 
the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the consolidated financial statements or 
our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated.
 
 When we read the Annual Report, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we 
are required to communicate the matter to those 
charged with governance.
Responsibilities of Management and Those 
Charged with Governance for the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
9. 
 The accompanying consolidated financial 
statements have been approved by the Holding 
Company’s Board of Directors. The Holding 
Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for 
the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with 
respect to the preparation and presentation of these 
consolidated financial statements that give a true 
and fair view of the consolidated financial position, 
consolidated financial performance including other 
comprehensive income, consolidated changes in 
equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group 
including its joint venture in accordance with the 
Ind AS specified under Section 133 of the Act read 
with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India. The Holding Company’s 
Board of Directors are also responsible for ensuring 
accuracy of records including financial information 
considered necessary for the preparation of 
consolidated Ind AS financial statements. Further, 
in terms of the provisions of the Act the respective 
Board of Directors of the companies included in 
the Group, and its joint venture covered under the 
Act are responsible for maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of 
the Group and for preventing and detecting frauds 
and other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant 
to the preparation and presentation of the financial 
statements that give a true and fair view and are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error. These financial statements have been used 
for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements by the Board of Directors of the 
Holding Company, as aforesaid.
10.  In preparing the consolidated financial statements, 
the respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group and its joint venture are 
responsible for assessing the ability of the Group 
and its joint venture to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless the Board of Directors either 
intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, 
or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
11. 
 Those respective Board of Directors are also 
responsible for overseeing the financial reporting 
process of the companies included in the Group and 
its joint venture.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
12. 
 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the consolidated financial 
statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with Standards on Auditing will always 
detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
13. 
 As part of an audit in accordance with Standards 
on Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the 
Act we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the audit. 
We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the consolidated financial 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
348
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control;
• Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design audit 
procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act 
we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the Holding Company has adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements in place and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls;
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management;
• Conclude on the appropriateness of Board 
of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists 
related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the ability of the Group and 
its joint venture to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty 
exists, we are required to draw attention in 
our auditor’s report to the related disclosures 
in the consolidated financial statements or, if 
such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may 
cause the Group and its joint venture to cease to 
continue as a going concern;
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the consolidated financial statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
consolidated financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner 
that achieves fair presentation; and
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of the entities 
or business activities within the Group and its joint 
venture, to express an opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements. We are responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the 
audit of financial statements of such entities 
included in the consolidated financial statements, 
of which we are the independent auditors. For 
the other entities included in the consolidated 
financial statements, which have been audited 
by the other auditors, such other auditors remain 
responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audits carried out by them. 
We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
14.  We communicate with those charged with 
governance regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant 
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies 
in internal control that we identify during our audit.
15.  We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and 
to communicate with them all relationships and 
other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
16.  From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters 
that were of most significance in the audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current 
period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should 
not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably 
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
Other Matters
17. 
 We did not audit the financial statements of 24 
subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflects 
total assets of ₹ 841,049 lakhs as at 31 March 2025, 
total revenues of ₹ 162,120 lakhs and net cash 
outflows amounting to ₹ 5,914 lakhs for the year 
ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated 
financial statements. The consolidated financial 
statement also includes Group’s share of net profit 
(including other comprehensive income) of ₹ Nil for 
the year ended 31 March 2025, as considered in the 
consolidated financial statement, in respect of 1 joint 
venture, whose financial statements have not been 
audited by us. These financial statements have been 
audited by other auditors whose reports have been 
furnished to us by the management and our opinion 
on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as 
it relates to the amounts and disclosures included 
in respect of these subsidiaries and joint venture, 
and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 
143 of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid 
subsidiaries and joint venture are based solely on 
the reports of the other auditors.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
349
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 Our opinion above on the consolidated financial 
statements, and our report on other legal and 
regulatory requirements below, are not modified in 
respect of the above matters with respect to our 
reliance on the work done by and the reports of the 
other auditors.
18.  The consolidated financial statements of the Group 
for the year ended 31 March 2024 were audited by 
the predecessor auditor, S.R. Batliboi & Associates 
LLP, who have expressed an unmodified opinion on 
those consolidated financial statements vide their 
audit report dated 28 May 2024.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
19.  As required by section 197(16) of the Act based on 
our audit and on the consideration of the reports 
of the other auditors, referred to in paragraph 17, on 
separate financial statements of the subsidiaries 
and joint ventures, we report that the Holding 
Company and 3 subsidiaries incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been audited under 
the Act have paid remuneration to their respective 
directors during the year in accordance with the 
provisions of and limits laid down under section 197 
read with Schedule V to the Act. Further, we report 
that 19 subsidiaries and 1 joint venture incorporated 
in India whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act have not paid or provided 
for any managerial remuneration during the year. 
Accordingly, reporting under section 197(16) of the 
Act is not applicable in respect of such subsidiaries/ 
joint venture.
20.  As required by clause (xxi) of paragraph 3 of 
Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (‘the 
Order’) issued by the Central Government of India 
in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act based on the 
consideration of the Order reports issued by us 
and by the respective other auditors as mentioned 
in paragraph 17 above, of companies included 
in the consolidated financial statements and 
covered under the Act we report that there are no 
qualifications or adverse remarks reported in the 
respective Order reports of such companies.
21. 
 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on 
our audit and on the consideration of the reports of 
the other auditors on separate financial statements 
and other financial information of the subsidiaries 
and joint ventures, incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited under the 
Act, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
 
a) 
 We have sought and obtained all the 
information and explanations which to the best 
of our knowledge and belief were necessary 
for the purpose of our audit of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements;
 
b) 
 Except for the matters stated in paragraph 
21(h)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (as amended), in our opinion, proper 
books of account as required by law relating 
to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements have been kept so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books 
and the reports of the other auditors.
 
c) 
 The consolidated financial statements dealt 
with by this report are in agreement with the 
relevant books of account maintained for the 
purpose of preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements;
 
d) 
 In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements comply with Ind AS 
specified under Section 133 of the Act read with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015;
 
e) 
 On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries and taken on 
record by the Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries, and the reports 
of the statutory auditors of its subsidiaries and 
joint venture, covered under the Act, none of 
the directors of the Group companies, and its 
joint venture are disqualified as on 31 March 
2025 from being appointed as a director in 
terms of Section 164(2) of the Act;
 
f) 
 The qualification relating to the maintenance 
of accounts and other matters connected 
therewith with respect to the consolidated 
financial statements are as stated in paragraph 
21(b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)
(b) of the Act and paragraph 21(h)(vi) below on 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended);
 
g) 
 With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries and joint venture covered under 
the Act, and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls, refer to our separate report in 
‘Annexure II’ wherein we have expressed an 
unmodified opinion; and
Brigade Enterprises Limited
350
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
h) 
 With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with 
rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended), in our opinion and 
to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us and based on 
the consideration of the report of the other 
auditors on separate financial statements and 
other financial information of the subsidiaries 
and joint venture incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited under 
the Act:
 
 
i. 
 The consolidated financial statements 
disclose the impact of pending litigations 
on the consolidated financial position 
of the Group and its joint venture, as 
detailed in Note 37 to the consolidated 
financial statements;
 
 
ii. 
 The Holding Company, its subsidiaries and 
joint venture did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts for 
which there were any material foreseeable 
losses as at 31 March 2025;
 
 
iii. 
 There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Holding Company during the year 
ended 31 March 2025.
 
 
 
 Further, there were no amounts which were 
required to be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund by the 
subsidiaries and joint venture companies 
covered under the Act during the year 
ended 31 March 2025;
 
 
iv. 
a. 
 The respective managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries 
and joint venture incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act have represented 
to us and the other auditors of 
such subsidiaries and joint venture 
respectively that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in 
note 51(iii) to the consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or securities 
premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) by the Holding Company or 
its subsidiaries and joint venture to or 
in any persons or entities, including 
foreign entities (‘the intermediaries’), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in 
other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Holding Company, or any 
such subsidiaries and joint venture 
(‘the Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
 
 
 
b. 
 The respective managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries 
and joint venture incorporated in 
India whose financial statements 
have been audited under the Act 
have represented to us and the other 
auditors of such subsidiaries and 
joint venture respectively that, to the 
best of their knowledge and belief, 
as disclosed in the note 51(iv) to the 
accompanying consolidated financial 
statements, no funds have been 
received by the Holding Company 
or its subsidiaries and joint venture 
from any persons or entities, including 
foreign entities (‘the Funding Parties’), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, that 
the Holding Company, or any such 
subsidiaries and joint venture shall, 
whether directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding 
Party (‘Ultimate Beneficiaries’) or 
provide any guarantee, security or 
the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries; and
 
 
 
c. 
 Based on such audit procedures 
performed by us and that performed 
by the auditors of the subsidiaries 
and joint venture, as considered 
reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, nothing has come 
to our or other auditors’ notice that 
has caused us or the other auditors 
to believe that the management 
representations under sub-clauses 
(a) and (b) above contain any 
material misstatement.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
351
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 
v. 
 As stated in note 20 to the accompanying 
consolidated financial statements, the 
Board of Directors of the Holding Company 
and its subsidiaries have proposed final 
dividend for the year ended 31 March 
2025 which is subject to the approval 
of the members at the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting. The dividend declared 
is in accordance with section 123 of the 
Act to the extent it applies to declaration 
of dividend.
 
 
 
 In respect of the dividend paid during 
the year ended 31 March 2024 by the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries 
that was declared for the previous year as 
disclosed in note 20 to the accompanying 
consolidated financial statements, except 
for not transferring amount of dividend to 
separate bank account within the timeline 
specified in sub-section (4) of section 123 
of the Act, the payment of dividend is in 
accordance with section 123 of the Act.
 
 
vi. 
 As stated in note 50 of the consolidated 
financial statements and based on our 
examination which included test checks 
and that performed by the respective 
auditors of the subsidiaries and its joint 
venture of the Holding Company which 
are companies incorporated in India and 
audited under the Act, except for the 
instances mentioned below, the Holding 
Company, its subsidiaries and its joint 
venture, in respect of financial year 
commencing on 1 April 2024, have used 
an accounting software for maintaining its 
books of account which has a feature of 
recording audit trail (edit log) facility and 
the same has been operated throughout 
the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the software at the application 
level. The accounting software is operated 
by a third-party software service provider 
and in the absence of any information on 
the existence of audit trail (edit logs) feature 
at database level in the Independent 
Service Auditor’s ‘Type 2 report’ issued in 
accordance with ISAE 3402, we are unable 
to comment on whether audit trail feature 
at the database level of the said software 
was enabled and operated throughout the 
year for the Holding Company and above 
referred subsidiaries and joint venture. 
Further, during the course of our audit we 
and respective auditors of above referred 
subsidiaries and joint venture did not 
come across any instance of audit trail 
feature being tampered with, where such 
feature is enabled. Furthermore, the audit 
trail has been preserved by the Holding 
Company and above referred subsidiaries 
and its joint venture as per the statutory 
requirements for record retention, where 
such feature is enabled.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Manish Agrawal
Partner
Membership No.: 507000
UDIN: 25507000BMMKPQ4164
New Delhi
14 May 2025
Brigade Enterprises Limited
352
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure I
List of entities consolidated in the consolidated financial statements of Brigade Enterprises Limited for the year ended 
31 March 2025 (in addition to the Brigade Enterprises Limited, the Holding Company):
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Company/Entity
Relationship
1
Brigade Properties Private Limited
Subsidiary
2
Perungudi Real Estates Private Limited
Subsidiary
3
WTC Trades and Projects Private Limited
Subsidiary
4
Vibrancy Real Estates Private Limited
Subsidiary
5
BCV Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
6
Brigade Hospitality Services Limited
Subsidiary
7
Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited
Subsidiary
8
Brigade Estates and Projects Private Limited
Subsidiary
9
Brigade Infrastructure and Power Private Limited
Subsidiary
10
Brigade (Gujarat) Projects Private Limited
Subsidiary
11
Mysore Projects Private Limited
Subsidiary
12
Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited
Subsidiary
13
Augusta Club Private Limited
Subsidiary
14
Tetrarch Developers Limited
Subsidiary
15
Tetrarch Real Estates Private Limited
Subsidiary
16
Brigade Innovations LLP
Subsidiary
17
Brigade Flexible Office Spaces Private Limited
Subsidiary
18
Venusta Ventures Private Limited
Subsidiary
19
SRP Prosperita Hotel Ventures Limited
Step-down subsidiary
20
Tandem Allied Services Private Limited
Step-down subsidiary
21
BCV Real Estates Private Limited
Step-down subsidiary
22
Celebrations Private Limited
Step-down subsidiary
23
Propel Capital Ventures LLP
Step-down subsidiary
24
Brigade HRC LLP (w.e.f. 26 July 2024)
Step-down subsidiary
25
Ananthay Properties Private Limited (w.e.f 16 December 2024)
Step-down subsidiary
26
Zoiros Projects Private Limited
Joint venture (w.e.f 18 March 
2025 until which subsidiary)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
353
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure II 
To the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date to the members of Brigade Enterprises Limited on the consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2025
Independent Auditor’s Report on the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of 
Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’)
1. 
 In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of Brigade Enterprises Limited 
(‘the Holding Company’) and its subsidiaries (the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries together 
referred to as ‘the Group’) and its joint venture, as 
at and for the year ended 31 March 2025, we have 
audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiary companies and joint 
venture company, which are companies covered 
under the Act, as at that date.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged 
with Governance for Internal Financial Controls
2. 
 The respective Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company, its subsidiary companies and joint 
venture company, which are companies covered 
under the Act, are responsible for establishing 
and maintaining internal financial controls based 
on the internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements criteria 
established by the Holding Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated 
in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls over Financial Reporting (‘Guidance Note’) 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (‘ICAI’). These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of the Company’s business, 
including adherence to the Company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Internal 
Financial Controls with Reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements
3. 
 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
the internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements of the Holding 
Company, its subsidiary companies and joint 
venture company, as aforesaid, based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing issued by the ICAI prescribed 
under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements, and the 
Guidance Note issued by the ICAI. Those Standards 
and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform 
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements were 
established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
4. 
 Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements includes obtaining an understanding of 
such internal financial controls, assessing the risk 
that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the consolidated financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5. 
 We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained, and the audit evidence obtained by the 
other auditors in terms of their reports referred to in 
the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion 
on the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements of the Holding Company, 
its subsidiary company and its joint venture 
as aforesaid.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
6. 
 A company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements is a 
process designed to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting 
and the preparation of consolidated financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements include those 
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) 
provide reasonable assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of 
financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being 
made only in accordance with authorisations of 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
354
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, 
use, or disposition of the company’s assets that 
could have a material effect on the consolidated 
financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls 
with Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
7. 
 Because of the inherent limitations of internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements, including the possibility of 
collusion or improper management override of 
controls, material misstatements due to error 
or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements to future periods are subject to the risk 
that the internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or 
that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8. 
 In our opinion and based on the consideration of 
the reports of the other auditors on internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements of the 
subsidiary companies and joint venture company, 
the Holding Company its subsidiary companies 
and joint venture company, which are companies 
covered under the Act, have in all material respects, 
adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements and such 
controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 
2025, based on the internal financial controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements 
criteria established by the Holding Company 
considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note issued by 
the ICAI.
Other Matter
9. 
 We did not audit the internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements insofar as it relates 
to 24 subsidiary companies, which are companies 
covered under the Act, whose financial statements 
reflect total assets of ₹ 841,049 lakhs and net assets 
₹ 92,245 lakhs of as at 31 March 2025, total revenues 
of ₹ 162,120 lakhs and net cash outflows amounting 
to ₹ 5,914 lakhs for the year ended on that date, as 
considered in the consolidated financial statements. 
The consolidated financial statements also include 
the Group’s share of net profit/loss (including 
other comprehensive income) of ₹ Nil for the year 
ended 31 March 2025, in respect of 1 joint venture 
company, which are companies covered under the 
Act, whose internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements have not been audited by 
us. The internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements in so far as it relates to such 
subsidiary companies and joint venture have been 
audited by other auditors whose report have been 
furnished to us by the management and our report 
on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of 
the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements for the Holding Company, its 
subsidiary companies and joint venture company, as 
aforesaid, under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act in so far 
as it relates to such subsidiary companies and joint 
venture company, is based solely on the reports of 
the auditors of such companies. Our opinion is not 
modified in respect of this matter with respect to 
our reliance on the work done by and on the reports 
of the other auditors.
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 001076N/N500013
Manish Agrawal
Partner
Membership No.: 507000
UDIN: 25507000BMMKPQ4164
New Delhi
14 May 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
355
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
as at March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Note
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024 (*)
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3
99,233
90,083
Capital work-in-progress
4
13,784
7,823
Investment properties
5
4,08,102
3,65,719
Investment property under development
6
1,79,075
1,15,330
Goodwill
7
2,034
2,034
Other intangible assets
7
1,505
1,492
Investments accounted for using the equity method
8
230
-
Financial assets
(i) Investments
9
411
261
(ii) Other financial assets
10
28,742
22,270
Other non-current assets
12
41,185
44,034
Deferred tax assets (net)
24
45,898
36,955
Income tax assets (net)
24
10,564
9,582
8,30,763
6,95,583
Current assets
Inventories
13
8,86,881
7,73,588
Financial assets
(i) Investments
9
3,661
4,705
(ii) Trade receivables
14
62,912
49,971
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents
15
1,86,996
57,425
(iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above
16
1,39,104
1,16,302
(v) Loans
11
240
240
(vi) Other financial assets
10
47,226
52,049
Other current assets
12
51,221
38,759
13,78,241
10,93,039
Total assets
22,09,004
17,88,622
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital
17
24,437
23,110
Other equity
18
5,39,408
3,28,505
Equity attributable to owners of the Holding Company
5,63,845
3,51,615
Non-controlling interest
19
27,689
4,165
Total equity
5,91,534
3,55,780
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i) Borrowings
21
4,36,135
4,88,656
(ii) Lease liabilities
39
18,133
12,975
(iii) Other financial liabilities
22
13,444
16,809
Provisions
23
283
212
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
24
1,424
2,660
Other non-current liabilities
25
7,203
7,654
4,76,622
5,28,966
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i) Borrowings
21
91,311
45,006
(ii) Lease liabilities
39
810
358
(iii) Trade payables
26
 
- 
 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises; and
15,025
12,532
 
- 
 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
63,552
63,475
(iv) Other financial liabilities
22
88,476
71,250
Other current liabilities
25
8,77,896
7,07,909
Provisions
23
3,062
2,126
Current tax liabilities (net)
24
716
1,220
11,40,848
9,03,876
Total equity and liabilities
22,09,004
17,88,622
(*) Refer Note 52
2.1
Material accounting policy information
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 001076N/N500013
Manish Agrawal
M.R. Jaishankar
Pavitra Shankar
Partner
Chairman 
Managing Director
Membership No: 507000
DIN: 00191267
DIN: 08133119
Jayant Bhalchandra Manmadkar
P. Om Prakash
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
New Delhi
Membership No: 047863
May 14, 2025
Membership No: F5435
Bengaluru
May 14, 2025
Brigade Enterprises Limited
356
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 001076N/N500013
Manish Agrawal
M.R. Jaishankar
Pavitra Shankar
Partner
Chairman 
Managing Director
Membership No: 507000
DIN: 00191267
DIN: 08133119
Jayant Bhalchandra Manmadkar
P. Om Prakash
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
Membership No: 047863
Membership No: F5435
New Delhi
Bengaluru
May 14, 2025
May 14, 2025
Note
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024(*)
Income
Revenue from operations
27
 5,07,421 
 4,89,669 
Other income
28
 23,933 
 16,746 
Total income
 5,31,354 
 5,06,415 
Expenses
Sub-contractor costs
 1,53,368 
 1,38,989 
Cost of raw materials, components and stores consumed
29
 50,444 
 40,894 
Land purchase cost (including development rights)
 1,62,672 
 1,75,056 
Changes in inventories of stock of flats, land stock and work-in-progress
30
 (1,34,804)
 (81,113)
Employee benefits expense
31
 40,473 
 31,987 
Finance costs
32
 49,549 
 49,104 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
33
 28,878 
 30,209 
Other expenses
34
 93,847 
 64,421 
Total expenses 
 4,44,427 
 4,49,547 
Profit before share of profit of joint venture
 86,927 
 56,868 
Share of profit of joint venture
 - 
 - 
Profit before tax
 86,927 
 56,868 
Tax expense 
24
Current tax
 30,292 
 20,099 
Deferred tax (credit)
 (11,412)
 (3,335)
Total tax expense
 18,880 
 16,764 
Profit for the year 
 68,047 
 40,104 
Other comprehensive income ('OCI')
Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss
 
Re-measurement (losses) of defined benefit plans
 (470)
 (56)
 
Fair value changes on equity instruments through OCI
 (78)
 - 
 
Income tax relating to above
 119 
 12 
Other comprehensive income ('OCI') 
 (429)
 (44)
Total comprehensive income for the year 
 67,618 
 40,060 
Profit/ (loss) for the year attributable to
Owners of the Holding Company
 68,576 
 45,161 
Non-Controlling interests
 (529)
 (5,057)
Other comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Owners of the Holding Company
 (425)
 (44)
Non-Controlling interests
 (4)
 - 
Total Comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Owners of the Holding Company
 68,151 
 45,117 
Non-Controlling interests
 (533)
 (5,057)
Earnings per equity share  [nominal value per share of ₹ 10 each] 
35
Basic (`)
 28.74 
 19.56 
Diluted (`)
 28.68 
 19.51 
(*) Refer Note 52 
Material accounting policy information 
  
 
 
 
 
     2.1
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
357
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024 (*)
A.
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before tax
86,927
56,868
Adjustments for:
 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
28,878
30,209
 
Finance costs
49,549
49,104
 
Interest income from financial assets at amortised cost
(19,482)
(11,895)
 
Expected credit loss on financial asset
1,643
-
 
Profit on sale of investment in mutual funds
(1,044)
(374)
 
Provision no longer required, written back
(361)
(81)
 
Loans and advances written off
68
21
 
Impairment losses on trade receivable
251
163
 
Provisions for contract losses
35
-
 
Gain on loss of control of subsidiary
(265)
-
 
Bad debts written off
52
186
 
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
102
195
 
Share based payments to employees
839
1,143
Operating profit before working capital changes
1,47,192
1,25,539
Movements in working capital in:
 
Trade payables
2,922
2,551
 
Other financial liabilities
9,537
7,783
 
Other liabilities
1,37,565
25,022
 
Trade receivables
(13,243)
(4,153)
 
Inventories
(1,35,744)
(74,945)
 
Other financial assets
(10,350)
1,175
 
Other assets
(7,365)
(26,692)
 
Provisions
970
1,319
Cash generated from operations
1,31,484
57,599
Direct taxes paid, net
(31,953)
(24,201)
Net cash flow generated from operating activities (A)
99,531
33,398
B.
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (including capital work in 
progress), investment properties (including investment property under 
development) and intangible assets
(63,938)
(26,855)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
198
60
Purchase of mutual funds
(15,292)
(13,927)
Redemption of mutual funds
16,464
14,754
Investments in joint venture and other body corporates
(645)
-
Redemption of investments
916
-
Investments in bank deposits, net
(12,476)
(21,876)
Acquisition of non controlling interest
(278)
-
Interest received
16,061
9,898
Net cash flows (used in) investing activities (B)
(58,990)
(37,946)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
358
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024 (*)
C.
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of equity shares (including securities premium), net of 
transaction cost
1,48,002
821
Capital contribution by non-controlling interests in subsidiaries
230
-
Proceeds from borrowings
87,836
2,15,070
Repayment of borrowings
(97,046)
(1,26,876)
Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities
(369)
(1,590)
Payment of interest portion of lease liabilities
(1,347)
(772)
Interest paid
(46,715)
(57,975)
Dividends paid (including unclaimed dividend)
(4,625)
(4,616)
Net cash flow generated from financing activities (C)
85,966
24,062
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A + B + C)
1,26,507
19,514
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
57,023
37,509
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
1,83,530
57,023
Components of cash and cash equivalents (^)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024 (*)
Cash and cash equivalents (Refer note 15)
Balances with banks:
– On current accounts
37,043
29,109
– Deposits with maturity of less than 3 months
1,49,687
28,055
Cash on hand
266
261
Cash and cash equivalents reported in balance sheet
1,86,996
57,425
Less: Cash credit facilities from banks (Refer note 21)
(3,466)
(402)
Cash and cash equivalents as reported in consolidated statement of cash flow
1,83,530
57,023
(*)Refer note 52
(^) Cash and cash equivalents includes bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the group’s cash 
management.
Note:
(i) 
Refer note 21 for reconciliation of movement of liabilities to cash flow arising from financing activities.
(ii) 
 The above Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow has been prepared under the “Indirect Method” as set out in Indian Accounting 
Standard (Ind AS) 7, “Statement of Cash Flow”.
Material accounting policy information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 001076N/N500013
Manish Agrawal
M.R. Jaishankar
Pavitra Shankar
Partner
Chairman 
Managing Director
Membership No: 507000
DIN: 00191267
DIN: 08133119
Jayant Bhalchandra Manmadkar
P. Om Prakash
New Delhi
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
May 14, 2025
Membership No: 047863
Membership No: F5435
Bengaluru
May 14, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
359
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
A. Equity share capital (*)
Amount
As at April 01, 2023
23,073
Changes in equity share capital during the year
- 
Shares options exercised
37
As at March 31, 2024
23,110
As at April 01, 2024
23,110
Changes in equity share capital during the year
- 
Shares options exercised
23
- 
Issue of equity shares pursuant to QIP
1,304
As at March 31, 2025
24,437
(*) 
Refer note 17 for details.
B. Other equity (*)
Particulars
Attributable to the Owners of the Holding Company
Non-
controlling 
interest
Total
Reserves and surplus
Revaluation
surplus
Equity 
instruments 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Total 
other 
equity
Capital 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Debenture 
redemption 
reserve
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings 
(*)
As at April 01, 2023  (^)
1
1,71,749
1,334
726
11,120
1,02,435
829
(61)
2,88,133
3,163
2,91,296
Profit/ (loss) for the year
-
-
-
-
-
45,161
-
-
45,161
(5,057)
40,104
Other comprehensive income (**)
-
-
-
-
-
(44)
-
-
(44)
-
(44)
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
-
-
-
45,117
-
-
45,117
(5,057)
40,060
Transactions with owners in their 
capacity as owners
Dividend paid (refer note 20)
-
-
-
-
-
(4,616)
-
-
(4,616)
-
(4,616)
Share options exercised
-
1,362
-
(576)
-
-
-
-
786
-
786
Equity settled share based payment
-
-
-
1,143
`
-
-
-
1,143
-
1,143
Transaction with non-controlling interest
Capital contribution by non-controlling 
interest
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
38
38
Acquisition of non-controlling interest 
without a change in control (including 
adjustments for excess amount paid 
over fair value)
-
-
-
-
-
(2,058)
-
-
(2,058)
(707)
(2,765)
Equity component of compound financial 
instruments of debentures and loan which 
are holding by non-controlling interest
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6,728
6,728
As at March 31, 2024 (^)
1
1,73,111
1,334
1,293
11,120
1,40,878
829
(61)
3,28,505
4,165
3,32,670
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
360
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
B. Other equity (*) (Cont’d)
Particulars
Attributable to the Owners of the Holding Company
Non-
controlling 
interest
Total
Reserves and surplus
Revaluation
surplus
Equity 
instruments 
through other 
comprehensive 
income
Total 
other 
equity
Capital 
reserve
Securities 
premium
Debenture 
redemption 
reserve
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account
General 
reserve
Retained 
earnings 
(*)
As at April 1, 2024 (^)
1
1,73,111
1,334
1,293
11,120
1,40,878
829
(61)
3,28,505
4,165
3,32,670
Profit/ (loss) for the year
-
-
-
-
-
68,576
-
-
68,576
(529)
68,047
Other comprehensive income (**)
-
-
-
-
-
(425)
-
-
(425)
(4)
(429)
Total comprehensive income for the year
-
-
-
-
-
68,151
-
-
68,151
(533)
67,618
Transactions with owners in their 
capacity as owners
Dividend paid (refer note 20)
-
-
-
-
-
(4,623)
-
-
(4,623)
-
(4,623)
Securities premium on issue of equity 
shares (net of share issue expenses)
-
1,45,964
-
-
-
-
-
-
1,45,964
-
1,45,964
Transfer to general reserve on redemption 
of debentures
-
-
(1,319)
-
-
-
-
-
(1,319)
-
(1,319)
Transfer from Debenture redemption reserve 
pursuant to redemption of debentures
-
-
-
-
1,319
-
-
-
1,319
-
1,319
Share options exercised
-
1,233
-
(523)
-
-
-
-
710
-
710
Equity settled share based payment
-
-
-
839
`
-
-
-
839
-
839
Transaction with non-controlling interest
Acquisition of non-controlling interest 
without a change in control (including 
adjustments for excess amount paid over 
fair value)
-
-
-
-
-
(138)
-
-
(138)
(136)
(274)
Distribution made to non-controlling interest
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(26)
(26)
Equity contribution by non-controlling 
interest (including deemed equity)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
24,219
24,219
As at March 31, 2025
1
3,20,308
15
1,609
12,439 2,04,268
829
(61)
5,39,408
27,689
5,67,097
(*) Refer note 18 and 19 for details.
(^) Refer note 52 for details.
(**) The Group has elected to present ‘remeasurement of defined benefit plans’ as a part of retained earnings in accordance with option provided under Division-II to Schedule III to 
the Companies Act, 2013.
Material accounting policy information
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
As per our report of even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 001076N/N500013
Manish Agrawal
M.R. Jaishankar
Pavitra Shankar
Partner
Chairman 
Managing Director
Membership No: 507000
DIN: 00191267
DIN: 08133119
Jayant Bhalchandra Manmadkar
P. Om Prakash
New Delhi
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
May 14, 2025
Membership No: 047863
Membership No: F5435
Bengaluru
May 14, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
361
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
1. 
Corporate information
 
 Brigade Enterprises Limited (‘BEL’ or “the Company’ 
or “the Holding Company” or “Parent”) is a public 
company domiciled in India, and it was incorporated 
on 8 November 1995, under the provisions of 
the erstwhile Companies Act, 1956. The Holding 
Company’s equity shares are listed on Indian Stock 
Exchanges viz., National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited and BSE Limited. The registered office of the 
Holding Company is located at 29th and 30th Floors, 
World Trade Center, Brigade Gateway Campus, 26/1, Dr 
Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar, Bengaluru 
- 560 055. The accompanying consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended and as at 
31 March 2025 comprise financial statements of the 
Holding Company, its subsidiaries and joint venture 
(collectively, the Group). Group’s principal business 
activities comprise of development and sale of real 
estate, leasing, hospitality and related services.
2.1 Basis of preparation
a) 
Statement of Compliance
 
 The consolidated financial statements of the 
Group have been prepared in accordance with the 
Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified 
under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the 
Act) read with the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015, (as amended) and other 
accounting principles generally accepted in 
India and presentation requirements of Division 
II of Schedule III to the Act, as applicable to the 
preparation of consolidated financial statements.
 
 The Consolidated Financial Statements were 
authorized for issue in accordance with a resolution 
of the Board of Directors on 14 May 2025. The revision 
to consolidated financial statements is permitted 
by Board of Directors after obtaining necessary 
approvals or at the instance of regulatory authorities 
as per provisions of the Act.
b) 
Basis of measurement
 
 The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on going concern basis in accordance 
with accounting principles generally accepted in 
India. The consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared on the historical cost basis, except 
for certain financial instruments and Net defined 
benefit (asset)/ liability which are measured at fair 
values at the end of each reporting period, as further 
explained in the accounting policies below.
c) 
Functional and presentation currency
 
 The consolidated financial statements are presented 
in Indian Rupees (‘₹’) which is also the functional 
and presentation currency of the Group. All values 
are rounded off to the nearest lakhs, except when 
otherwise stated.
d) 
Basis of consolidation
 
 The consolidated financial statements comprise the 
financial statements of the Company, its subsidiaries 
and a joint venture (subsidiaries are all entities over 
which group has control). Control is achieved when 
the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable 
returns from its involvement with the investee and 
has the ability to affect those returns through its 
power over the investee. Specifically, the Group 
controls an investee if and only if the Group has:
• Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that 
give it the current ability to direct the relevant 
activities of the investee)
• Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee and
• The ability to use its power over the investee to 
affect its returns
 
 Generally, there is a presumption that a majority 
of voting rights result in control. To support this 
presumption and when the Group has less than 
a majority of the voting or similar rights of an 
investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and 
circumstances in assessing whether it has power 
over an investee, including:
• The contractual arrangement with the other vote 
holders of the investee
• Rights arising from other contractual arrangements
• The Group’s voting rights and potential 
voting rights
• The size of the group’s holding of voting rights 
relative to the size and dispersion of the holdings 
of the other voting rights holders
 
 The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls 
an investee if facts and circumstances indicate 
that there are changes to one or more of the three 
elements of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary 
begins when the Group obtains control over the 
subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses 
control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income 
and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed 
of during the year are included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the date the Group gains 
control until the date the Group ceases to control 
the subsidiary.
 
 Consolidated financial statements are prepared using 
uniform accounting policies for like transactions and 
other events in similar circumstances. If a member of 
the Group uses accounting policies other than those 
adopted in the consolidated financial statements for 
like transactions and events in similar circumstances, 
appropriate adjustments are made to that group 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
362
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
member’s financial statements in preparing the 
consolidated financial statements to ensure 
conformity with the group’s accounting policies.
 
 The financial statements of all entities used for the 
purpose of consolidation are drawn up to same 
reporting date as that of the parent company, i.e., 
year ended on March 31, 2025.
 
Consolidation procedure:
 
i. 
 Combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity, 
income, expenses and cash flows of the parent 
with those of its subsidiaries. For this purpose, 
income and expenses of the subsidiary are 
based on the amounts of the assets and 
liabilities recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements at the acquisition date.
 
ii. 
 Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the 
parent’s investment in each subsidiary and the 
parent’s portion of equity of each subsidiary. 
Business combinations policy explains the 
treatment of related goodwill, if any.
 
iii. 
 Eliminate in full intragroup assets and liabilities, 
equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating 
to transactions between entities of the Group 
(profits or losses resulting from intragroup 
transactions that are recognised in assets, such 
as inventory and fixed assets, are eliminated 
in full). Intragroup losses may indicate an 
impairment that requires recognition in the 
consolidated financial statements. Ind AS12 
Income Taxes applies to temporary differences 
that arise from the elimination of profits and 
losses resulting from intragroup transactions.
 
iv. 
 Include the results, i.e. profit or loss from the 
joint venture in the consolidated statement of 
profit and loss.
 
Investments accounted for using the equity method
 
 A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the 
parties that have joint control of the arrangement 
have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement. 
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of 
control of an arrangement, which exists only when 
decisions about the relevant activities require 
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. 
The Group’s investments in its joint ventures 
and associates are accounted for using the 
equity method.
 
 Under the equity method, the investment in a joint 
venture is initially recognised at cost. The carrying 
amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise 
changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the 
associate since the acquisition date. Goodwill, if 
any, relating to the joint venture is included in the 
carrying amount of the investment and is not tested 
for impairment individually.
 
 The statement of profit and loss reflects the Group’s 
share of the results of operations of the joint venture. 
Any change in OCI of those investees is presented 
as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there 
has been a change recognised directly in the equity 
of the joint venture, the Group recognises its share 
of any changes, when applicable, in the statement 
of changes in equity. Unrealised gains and losses 
resulting from transactions between the Group and 
the joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the 
interest in the joint venture.
 
 If an entity’s share of losses of a joint venture equals 
or exceeds its interest in the joint venture (which 
includes any long term interest that, in substance, 
form part of the Group’s net investment in the 
joint venture), the entity discontinues recognising 
its share of further losses. Additional losses are 
recognised only to the extent that the Group has 
incurred legal or constructive obligations or made 
payments on behalf of the joint venture. If the joint 
venture subsequently reports profits, the entity 
resumes recognising its share of those profits only 
after its share of the profits equals the share of 
losses not recognised.
 
 The aggregate of the Group’s share of profit or loss of 
a joint venture is shown on the face of the statement 
of profit and loss.
 
 The financial statements of joint venture used for 
the purpose of consolidation are drawn up to same 
reporting date as that of the Holding Company, i.e., 
year ended on March 31st and are prepared using 
uniform accounting policies for like transactions and 
other events in similar circumstances.
 
 After application of the equity method, the Group 
determines whether it is necessary to recognise 
an impairment loss on its investment in its joint 
venture. At each reporting date, the Group 
determines whether there is objective evidence 
that the investment in the joint venture is impaired. 
If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the 
amount of impairment as the difference between 
the recoverable amount of the joint venture and 
its carrying value, and then recognises the loss as 
‘Share of profit in joint venture’ in the statement of 
profit or loss.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
363
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
 Upon loss of significant influence over the joint 
venture, the Group measures and recognises any 
retained investment at its fair value. Any difference 
between the carrying amount of the joint venture 
upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of 
the retained investment and proceeds from disposal 
is recognised in profit or loss.
 
 A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, 
without a loss of control, is accounted for as an 
equity transaction. If the Group loses control over 
a subsidiary, it:
• Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and 
liabilities of the subsidiary
• Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-
controlling interests
• Derecognises the cumulative translation 
differences recorded in equity
• Recognises 
the 
fair 
value 
of 
the 
consideration received
• Recognises the fair value of any investment retained
• Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss
• Reclassifies the parent’s share of components 
previously recognised in OCI to profit or loss or 
retained earnings, as appropriate, as would be 
required if the Group had directly disposed of 
the related assets or liabilities.
e) 
Use of estimates
 
 The preparation of consolidated financial statements 
in conformity with Ind AS requires the management 
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of revenues, 
expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure 
of contingent liabilities, at the end of the reporting 
period. Although these estimates are based on the 
management’s best knowledge of current events 
and actions, uncertainty about these assumptions 
and estimates could result in the outcomes requiring 
a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of 
assets or liabilities. The effect of change in an 
accounting estimate is recognized prospectively. 
Please refer to 2.3 for details of significant judgments, 
estimates and assumptions.
f) 
Fair value measurement
 
 Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date, regardless of whether that price 
is directly observable or estimated using another 
valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of 
an asset or a liability, the Group takes into account 
the characteristics of the asset or liability if market 
participants would take those characteristics into 
account when pricing the asset or liability at the 
measurement date. Fair value for measurement 
and/or disclosure purposes in these consolidated 
financial statements is determined on such a basis, 
except for leasing transactions that are within the 
scope of Ind AS 116, ‘Leases’, and measurements 
that have some similarities to fair value but are not 
fair value, such as net realisable value in Ind AS 2, 
‘Inventories’, or value in use in Ind AS 36, ‘Impairment 
of assets’.
 
 Fair values are categorised into different levels in a 
fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the 
valuation techniques have been disclosed in note 
2.2(t)(xi).
g) 
Current versus non-current classification
 
 The Group presents assets and liabilities in 
the balance sheet based on current/ non-
current classification.
 
An asset is treated as current when it is:
• Expected to be realized or intended to be sold or 
consumed in normal operating cycle
• Held primarily for the purpose of trading
• Expected to be realized within twelve months 
after the reporting period, or
• Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for 
at least twelve months after the reporting period
 
All other assets are classified as non-current.
 
A liability is current when:
• It is expected to be settled in normal 
operating cycle
• It is held primarily for the purpose of trading
• It is due to be settled within twelve months after 
the reporting period, or
• There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting period
 
All other liabilities are classified as non-current.
 
 Deferred tax assets / liabilities are classified as non-
current.
 
 The operating cycle is the time between the 
acquisition of assets for processing and their 
realization in cash and cash equivalents. The Group 
has evaluated and considered its operating cycle as 
below and has accordingly classified its assets and 
liabilities into current and non-current:
• Residential/ commercial/mixed use projects for 
real estate development period ranging upto 
5 years
• Hospitality/ leasing business/ others – 1 year
Brigade Enterprises Limited
364
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
 Assets and liabilities relating to such projects/ 
business segments are classified as current based 
on an operating cycle as defined above. All other 
assets and liabilities are classified as current to 
the extent they are expected to be realized/ are 
contractually payable within 12 months from the 
Balance Sheet date, and non-current, in other cases.
2.2  Summary of material accounting policies
a. 
Property, plant and equipment
 
Recognition and initial measurement
 
 Property, plant and equipment at their initial 
recognition are stated at their cost. The cost 
comprises its purchase price, borrowing costs (if 
capitalization criteria are met), import duties, non- 
refundable taxes and directly attributable cost of 
bringing the asset to its working condition for the 
intended use. Trade discounts and rebates if any, 
are deducted in arriving at the purchase price. 
The Group identifies and determines cost of each 
component/ part of the asset separately, if the 
component/ part have a cost which is significant to 
the total cost of the asset and has useful life that is 
materially different from that of the remaining asset.
 
 The cost of a self-constructed item of property, 
plant and equipment comprises the cost of 
materials, direct labour, borrowing costs (if 
capitalization criteria are met) and any other costs 
directly attributable to bringing the asset to working 
condition for its intended use.
 
 Costs of assets not ready for use at the balance sheet 
date are disclosed under capital work- in- progress.
 
 Advances paid towards the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment outstanding at each balance 
sheet date is classified as capital advances under 
other non-current assets.
 
Subsequent measurement
 
 Items of property, plant and equipment are 
measured at cost, less accumulated depreciation 
and any accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
When significant parts of plant and equipment 
are required to be replaced at intervals, the Group 
depreciates them separately based on their specific 
useful lives.
 
Subsequent expenditure
 
 Subsequent expenditure related to an item of 
property, plant and equipment is added to its book 
value only if it increases the future benefits from its 
previously assessed standard of performance and 
cost can be measured reliably. All other expenses 
on existing property, plant and equipment, including 
day-to-day repair and maintenance expenditure 
and cost of replacing parts, are charged to the 
statement of profit and loss for the period during 
which such expenses are incurred.
 
Derecognition
 
 An item of Property, plant and equipment and any 
significant part initially recognized is de-recognized 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits 
are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss 
arising on de-recognition of the asset (calculated as 
the difference between the net disposal proceeds 
and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in 
the income statement when the Property, plant and 
equipment is de-recognized.
 
Transition to Ind AS
 
 On transition to Ind-AS, the Group had elected to 
continue with carrying value of all its property, plant 
and equipment measured under the erstwhile Indian 
GAAP, as the deemed cost under Ind-AS.
b. 
Investment property
 
Recognition and initial measurement
 
 Investment property is property exclusively held 
by the Group to earn rental income or for capital 
appreciation or for both and it predominantly 
generates cash flows independent of the other 
assets held by the Group. Investment property 
is not held for sale in the ordinary course of the 
business or for use in the production or supply of 
goods or services or for administrative purposes. 
Investment properties and Investment Property 
Under Development are initially measured at cost, 
including transaction costs. The cost comprises 
purchase price, borrowing cost, if capitalization 
criteria are met and directly attributable cost of 
bringing the asset to its working condition for the 
intended use. Any trade discount and rebates are 
deducted in arriving at the purchase price. The cost 
also includes the cost of replacing parts for long-
term construction projects if the recognition criteria 
are met.
 
 The cost of a self-constructed item of Investment 
property comprises the cost of materials, direct 
labour, borrowing costs (if capitalization criteria 
are met) and any other costs directly attributable 
to bringing the asset to working condition for its 
intended use.
 
 Costs of assets not ready for earning rental as at 
the balance sheet date are disclosed under capital 
work- in- progress.
 
Subsequent measurement
 
 Subsequent to initial recognition, investment 
properties are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment loss, 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
365
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
if any. When significant parts of the investment 
property are required to be replaced at intervals, 
the Group depreciates them separately based on 
their specific useful lives.
 
Subsequent expenditure
 
 Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it 
is probable that the future economic benefits 
associated with the expenditure will flow to the 
Group and the cost of the item can be measured 
reliably. All other repair and maintenance costs are 
recognized in profit or loss as incurred.
 
Derecognition
 
 Investment properties are de-recognized when the 
entity transfers control of the same to the buyer. 
Further the entity also derecognises investment 
properties when they are permanently withdrawn 
from use and no future economic benefit is expected 
from their disposal. The difference between the net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset is recognized in profit or loss in the period of 
de-recognition.
 
Transfer from / to investment property
 
 Transfers are made to (or from) investment properties 
only when there is a change in use. Transfers 
between (a) investment property, (b) property, 
plant and equipment used in the ordinary course 
of the business and (c) inventories do not change 
the carrying amount of the property transferred and 
they do not change the cost of that property for 
measurement or disclosure purposes.
 
Fair value disclosure
 
 Though the Group measures investment property 
using cost-based measurement, the fair value of 
investment property is disclosed in the notes. 
Fair values are determined based on an annual 
evaluation performed by an accredited external 
independent valuer.
 
Transition to Ind AS
 
 On transition to Ind-AS, the Group had elected to 
continue with carrying value of all its investment 
properties as measured under the erstwhile Indian 
GAAP, as the deemed cost under Ind-AS.
c. 
 Depreciation – Property, plant and equipment 
and Investment Property
 
 Depreciation is calculated on written down 
value basis using the useful lives as estimated by 
management, which are equal to those prescribed 
under Schedule II to the Act, except lease hold land, 
and project specific assets which are estimated to 
have lower useful lives basis technical evaluation 
and planning usage thereof: 
Category of Assets
Useful lives 
(Years)
Buildings
15 - 60
Plant and machinery
5 - 15
Electrical Installation
10
Furniture and fixtures
5-10
Computer hardware
i. Computer equipment
3
ii. Servers and network equipment
6
Office equipment
5- 10
Vehicles
6 - 8
Fit-outs [Estimated based on 
technical assessment]
6
Lease hold land [Straight Line 
Method]
Lease Period
 
 The residual values, useful lives and methods of 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment and 
investment property are reviewed at each financial 
year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
 
 Leasehold land is amortized on a straight-line basis 
over the balance period of lease.
 
 Freehold land is not depreciated and is stated at 
cost less impairment loss, if any.
d. 
Intangible assets
 
 Intangible assets acquired separately are measured 
on initial recognition at cost. Following initial 
recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost 
less accumulated amortization and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any. Intangible assets 
comprising of computer software are amortized 
on a written down value basis over a period of 3-10 
years, which is estimated by the management to be 
the useful life of the asset. The residual values, useful 
lives and methods of amortization of intangible 
assets are reviewed at each financial year end and 
adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. Gains or 
losses arising from de-recognition of an intangible 
asset are measured as the difference between the 
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount 
of the asset and are recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss when asset is derecognized. 
Costs of assets not ready for use at the balance 
sheet date are disclosed under intangible assets 
under development.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
366
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
e. 
Leases
 
 The Group evaluates each contract or arrangement, 
whether it qualifies as lease as defined under Ind 
AS 116.
 
Where the Group is lessee
 
 The Group assesses, whether the contract is, or 
contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease 
if the contract involves–
 
(a)  the use of an identified asset,
 
(b)  the right to obtain substantially all the economic 
benefits from use of the identified asset, and
 
(c)  the right to direct the use of the identified asset.
 
 The Group at the inception of the lease contract 
recognizes a Right-of-Use (RoU) asset at cost and 
corresponding lease liability, except for leases with 
term of less than twelve months (short term) and 
low-value assets. The cost of the right-of-use assets 
comprises the amount of the initial measurement 
of the lease liability, any lease payments made at or 
before the inception date of the lease plus any initial 
direct costs, less any lease incentives received. 
Subsequently, the right of-use assets are measured 
at cost less any accumulated depreciation and 
accumulated impairment losses, if any. The right-
of-use assets is depreciated using the straight-
line method from the commencement date over 
the shorter of lease term or useful life of right-of-
use assets.
 
 For lease liabilities at inception, the Group measures 
the lease liability at the present value of the lease 
payments that are not paid at that date. The lease 
payments are discounted using the interest rate 
implicit in the lease, if that rate is readily determined, 
if that rate is not readily determined, the lease 
payments are discounted using the incremental 
borrowing rate.
 
 The Group recognizes the amount of the re-
measurement of lease liability as an adjustment to 
the right-of-use assets. Where the carrying amount 
of the right-of-use assets is reduced to zero and 
there is a further reduction in the measurement 
of the lease liability, the Group recognizes any 
remaining amount of the re-measurement in the 
statement of profit and loss.
 
 For short-term and low value leases, the Group 
recognizes the lease payments as an operating 
expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
 
 Lease payments have been classified as cash used 
in Financing activities. Also refer note 39 to the 
Consolidated AS financial statements.
 
Where the Group is the lessor
 
 Leases in which the Group does not transfer 
substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership 
of the asset are classified as operating leases. 
Assets subject to operating leases are included 
under Investment property.
 
 Lease income from operating lease is recognized on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease 
including lease income on fair value of refundable 
security deposits. Costs, including depreciation, 
are recognized as an expense in the statement 
of profit and loss. Initial direct costs incurred in 
negotiating and arranging an operating lease are 
added to the carrying amount of the leased asset 
and recognised over the lease term on the same 
basis as rental income.
f. 
Borrowing costs
 
 Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs 
that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing 
of funds. Borrowing costs directly attributable 
to the acquisition and construction of an asset 
that necessarily takes a substantial period to get 
ready for its intended use or sale are capitalized/
inventorised as part of the cost of the respective 
asset. Capitalisation commences when the Group: 
(1) incurs expenditures for the asset; (2) incurs 
borrowing costs; and (3) undertakes activities that 
are necessary to prepare the asset for its intended 
use or sale. All other borrowing costs are charged to 
statement of profit and loss.
 
 The Group treats as part of general borrowings any 
borrowings originally made to develop a qualifying 
asset when substantially all the activities necessary 
to prepare that asset for its intended use or sale 
are complete.
 
 The interest capitalised is calculated using the 
Group’s weighted average cost of borrowings 
after adjusting for borrowings associated with 
specific developments. Where borrowings are 
associated with specific developments, the amount 
capitalised is the gross interest incurred on those 
borrowings less any investment income arising on 
their temporary investment. Interest is capitalised 
from the commencement of the development 
work until the date of practical completion, i.e., 
when substantially all of the development work is 
completed. The capitalisation of finance costs is 
suspended if there are prolonged periods when 
development activity is interrupted.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
367
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
g. 
Inventories
 
 Inventories comprises of construction material (raw 
material), land stock (representing land acquired for 
a construction project and / or land development 
rights under joint development arrangements), 
components, stores, work-in progress and stock of 
real estate units of completed projects.
 
 Inventories are measured at lower of cost or net 
realisable value. Cost is determined based on FIFO 
basis. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price 
in the ordinary course of business, less estimated 
costs of completion and estimated costs necessary 
to make the sale. Raw materials, components and 
stores held for use in the construction of finished 
products are not written down below cost except 
in cases when a decline in the price of materials 
indicates that the cost of the finished products shall 
exceed the net realisable value.
 
 The cost of inventories represents direct cost and 
other expenditure (including borrowing costs) 
incurred during construction period which is 
attributable to bringing inventories to its present 
location and condition. In the case of finished 
goods in the form of stock of flats and work in 
progress, cost includes cost of land including 
incidental charges incurred for purchase of land, 
cost of development right and appropriate share of 
construction overheads allocated based on normal 
operating capacity. Direct and other expenditure is 
determined based on specific identification to the 
real estate activity.
 
 Land development rights acquired under Joint 
Development Arrangements (JDA), are measured 
at the fair value of consideration payable to 
landowners. The consideration payable under JDAs 
is satisfied by way of estimated cost of constructed 
area attributed to landowners, suitably adjusted for 
interest free refundable or adjustable advances paid 
under such arrangements.
 
 Land/ development rights received under joint 
development arrangements (‘JDA’) is measured 
at the fair value of the estimated construction 
service rendered to the landowner and the same is 
accounted on launch of the project. The amount of 
non-refundable deposit paid by the Group under 
JDA is recognized as land advance under other 
assets and on the launch of the project, the non-
refundable amount is transferred as land cost to 
work-in-progress/ capital work in progress. Further, 
the amount of refundable deposit paid by the 
Group under JDA is recognized as deposits under 
financial assets.
h. 
Advance paid towards land procurement
 
 Advances paid by the Group to the seller/ 
intermediary towards outright purchase of land 
is recognised as land advance under other assets 
during the course of obtaining clear and marketable 
title, free from all encumbrances and transfer of legal 
title to the Group, whereupon it is transferred to land 
stock under inventories. Management is of the view 
that these advances are given under normal trade 
practices and are neither in the nature of loans nor 
advance in the nature of loans.
i. 
Revenue recognition
 
Revenue from contracts with customers
 
 Revenue from contracts with customers is 
recognised when control of the underlying goods 
or services are transferred to the customer at an 
amount that reflects the consideration to which the 
Group expects to be entitled in exchange for those 
goods or services. Revenue is measured based on 
the transaction price, which is the consideration, 
adjusted for discounts and other credits, if any, 
as specified in the contract with the customer. 
The Group presents revenue from contracts with 
customers net of indirect taxes in its statement of 
profit and loss.
 
 The Group considers whether there are other 
promises in the contract that are separate 
performance obligations to which a portion of 
the transaction price needs to be allocated. In 
determining the transaction price, the Group 
considers the effects of variable consideration, 
the existence of significant financing components, 
noncash consideration, and consideration payable 
to the customer, if any.
 
 Recognition of revenue from sale of real estate 
property
 
 Performance obligations under contracts with 
customer for sale of real estate units (residential or 
commercial) is satisfied at a point in time. Accordingly, 
revenue from sale of real estate units is recognized 
when the control of the asset is transferred to the 
customer upon receipt of occupancy certificate (as 
applicable) and receipt of substantial consideration, 
which coincides with legal registration of the units 
or on physical handing over the units, whichever 
is earlier.
 
 Transfer of undivided share of land and constructed 
area to the customer is, identified by the Group as 
a single performance obligation, as both are highly 
interrelated/ interdependent.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
368
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
 Real estate development projects under JDA not 
being jointly controlled operations, are executed 
on the basis of exchange of certain percentage 
of constructed area or proceeds from sale of 
units, in lieu of grant of \development rights. The 
Group’s contractual obligations under such JDA 
arrangements to provide agreed constructed area 
or certain percentage of the revenue proceeds to 
the landowners in exchange of such development 
rights is accounted as a separate and distinct 
performance obligation.
 
 The revenue is measured at the fair value of the 
estimated construction service rendered to the land 
owner, adjusted by the amount of any cash or cash 
equivalents transferred and is being accounted on 
gross basis on launch of the project. Revenues from 
such arrangement is recognized over the period time 
using input method, on the basis of the inputs to the 
satisfaction of a performance obligation relative to 
the total expected inputs to the satisfaction of that 
performance obligation.
 
Income from maintenance and other services
 
 Revenue in respect of maintenance, sales and 
marketing and other services rendered are 
recognised as and when the Group satisfies 
performance obligations in accordance with the 
terms of the contract.
 
Other operating income
 
 Interest on delayed receipts, cancellation/ forfeiture 
income and transfer fees from customers are 
recognised based upon underlying agreements 
with customers and when reasonable certainty of 
collection is established.
 
Contract balances
 
 Contract asset is the right to consideration in 
exchange for goods or services transferred to the 
customer. If the Group performs by transferring 
goods or services to a customer before the 
customer pays consideration or before payment is 
due, a contract asset is recognized for the earned 
consideration that is conditional. Trade receivable 
represents the Group’s right to an amount of 
consideration that is unconditional (i.e., only the 
passage of time is required before payment of the 
consideration is due).
 
 Contract liability is the obligation to transfer 
goods or services to a customer for which the 
Group has received consideration (or an amount 
of consideration is due) from the customer. If a 
customer pays consideration before the Group 
transfers goods or services to the customer, a 
contract liability is recognized when the payment is 
made, or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). 
Contract liabilities are recognized as revenue when 
the Group performs under the contract.
 
Cost to obtain a contract
 
 The Group recognize as an asset the incremental 
costs of obtaining a contract with a customer if the 
Group expects to recover those costs. The Group 
incurs costs such as sales commission when it enters 
a new contract, which are directly related to winning 
the contract. The asset recognized is amortized on a 
systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer 
to the customer of the goods or services to which 
the asset relates.
ii. 
Income from leasing services
 
 Rental income receivable under operating leases 
(excluding variable rental income) is recognized in 
the income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the term of the lease including lease income on fair 
value of refundable security deposits. Rental income 
under operating leases having variable rental income 
is recognized as per the terms of the contract.
iii. 
Revenue from hospitality services
 
 Revenue from hospitality operations comprise 
room revenue, food and beverage sale, banquets 
and other allied services, including membership, 
telecommunication, laundry, etc. Revenue is 
recognized as and when the services are rendered 
and is disclosed net of allowances. Revenue from 
membership fees is recognized as income on 
straight-line basis over the membership term.
iv. 
Interest income
 
 Interest income, including income arising from 
other financial instruments, is recognised using the 
effective interest rate method. Interest on delayed 
payment by customers are accounted when 
reasonable certainty of collection is established.
v. 
Dividend income
 
 Revenue is recognized when the shareholders’ or 
unit holders’ right to receive payment is established, 
which is generally when shareholders approve 
the dividend.
j. 
Retirement and other employee benefits
 
Employee Provident Fund and Employee State Insurance
 
 Retirement benefits in the form of state governed 
Employee Provident Fund, Employee State Insurance 
and Employee Pension Fund Schemes are defined 
contribution schemes (collectively the ‘Schemes’). 
The Group has no obligation, other than the 
contribution payable to the Schemes. The Group 
recognizes contribution payable to the Schemes as 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
369
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
expenditure, when an employee renders the related 
service. The contribution paid in excess of amount 
due is recognized as an asset and the contribution 
due in excess of amount paid is recognized as 
a liability.
 
Gratuity
 
 The Group operates defined gratuity plan for its 
employees. Under the plan, every employee who 
has completed at least five years of service gets a 
gratuity on departure at 15 days of last drawn salary 
for each completed year of service. The scheme is 
funded with an insurance company in the form of 
qualifying insurance policy.
 
 Gratuity is accrued based on an independent 
actuarial valuation, which is done based on project 
unit credit method as at the balance sheet date. The 
Group recognizes the net obligation of a defined 
benefit plan in its balance sheet as an asset or 
liability. Gains and losses through re-measurements 
of the net defined benefit liability/ (asset) are 
recognized in other comprehensive income. In 
accordance with Ind AS, re-measurement gains and 
losses on defined benefit plans recognized in OCI are 
not to be subsequently reclassified to statement of 
profit and loss. As required under Ind AS compliant 
Schedule III, the Group recognizes re-measurement 
gains and losses on defined benefit plans (net of tax) 
to retained earnings.
 
Compensated absence
 
 Accumulated leave, which is expected to be utilized 
within the next twelve months, is treated as short-
term employee benefit. The Group measures the 
expected cost of such absences as the additional 
amount that it expects to pay as a result of the 
unused entitlement that has accumulated at the 
reporting date.
 
 The Group treats accumulated leave expected to be 
carried forward beyond twelve months, as long-term 
employee benefit for measurement purposes. Such 
long-term compensated absences are provided 
for based on the actuarial valuation using the 
projected unit credit method at the reporting date. 
Actuarial gains/losses are immediately taken to the 
statement of profit and loss and are not deferred. 
The obligations are presented as current liabilities 
in the balance sheet if the entity does not have an 
unconditional right to defer the settlement for at 
least twelve months after the reporting date.
 
Share based payment
 
 Employees (including senior executives) of the 
Group receive remuneration in the form of share-
based payments, whereby employees render 
services as consideration for equity instruments 
(equity-settled transactions).
 
 The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined 
by the fair value at the date when the grant is made 
using an appropriate valuation model and the cost is 
recognized, together with a corresponding increase 
in share options outstanding account in equity, 
over the period in which the performance and/or 
service conditions are fulfilled in employee benefits 
expense. The cumulative expense recognized for 
equity-settled transactions at each reporting date 
until the vesting date reflects the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired and the Group’s 
best estimate of the number of equity instruments 
that will ultimately vest. The statement of profit 
and loss expense or credit for a period represents 
the movement in cumulative expense recognized 
as at the beginning and end of that period and is 
recognized in employee benefits expense.
 
 The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected 
as additional share dilution in the computation of 
diluted earnings per share.
 
Other short-term benefits
 
 Short-term employee benefits comprising employee 
costs including performance bonus is recognized in 
the statement of profit and loss on the basis of the 
amount paid or payable for the period during which 
services are rendered by the employee.
k. 
Income taxes
 
 Income tax expense comprises current tax expense 
and the net change in the deferred tax asset or 
liability during the year. Current and deferred tax 
are recognized in the statement of profit and loss, 
except when they relate to items that are recognized 
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, 
in which case, the current and deferred tax are 
also recognized in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity, respectively.
 
Current income tax
 
 Current income tax for the current and prior 
periods are measured at the amount expected to 
be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities 
based on the taxable income for that period. The tax 
rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are 
those that are enacted or substantively enacted as 
at balance sheet date.
 
 The Group periodically evaluates positions taken 
in the tax returns with respect to situations in 
which applicable tax regulations are subject to 
interpretation and considers whether it is probable 
that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
370
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
tax treatment. The Group shall reflect the effect 
of uncertainty for each uncertain tax treatment by 
using either most likely method or expected value 
method, depending on which method predicts 
better resolution of the treatment.
 
Deferred income tax
 
 Deferred income tax is recognized on temporary 
differences at the balance sheet date between the 
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts for financial reporting purposes, except 
when the deferred income tax arises from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a 
transaction that is not a business combination and 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss 
at the time of the transaction.
 
 Deferred income tax assets are recognized for all 
deductible temporary differences, carry forward 
of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the 
extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the deductible temporary 
differences, and the carry forward of unused tax 
credits and unused tax losses can be utilized.
 
 The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is 
reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to 
the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of 
the deferred income tax asset to be utilized.
 
 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are 
measured at the tax rates that are expected to 
apply in the period when the asset is realized or the 
liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date.
 
 The Group offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only 
if it has a legally enforceable right to set off current 
tax assets and current tax liabilities and the deferred 
tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to the 
same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
 
 Deferred tax relating to items recognized outside 
profit or loss (either in other comprehensive 
income or in equity) is recognized in correlation to 
the underlying transaction either in OCI or directly 
in equity.
l. 
Segment
 
Identification of segments
 
 The Group’s operating businesses are organized 
and managed separately according to the nature of 
products and services provided, with each segment 
representing a strategic business unit that offers 
different products and serves different markets. 
The analysis of geographical segments is based on 
the areas in which major operating divisions of the 
Group operate.
 
Inter-segment transfers
 
 The Group generally accounts for intersegment 
sales and transfers at appropriate margins. These 
transfers are eliminated in consolidation.
 
Unallocated items
 
 Unallocated items include general corporate asset, 
liability, income and expense items which are not 
allocated to any business segment.
 
Segment accounting policies
 
 The Group prepares its segment information in 
conformity with the accounting policies adopted for 
preparing and presenting the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group as a whole.
m.  Provision, contingent liabilities and onerous 
contracts
 
Provision
 
 A provision is recognized when the Group has 
a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a 
result of past event, it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. If the effect of the time value of money is 
material, provisions are discounted using a current 
pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the risks 
specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the 
increase in the provision due to the passage of time 
is recognized as a finance cost. The expense relating 
to a provision is presented in the statement of profit 
and loss net of any reimbursement.
 
 When the Group expects some or all of a provision to 
be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognized as a 
separate asset, but only when the reimbursement is 
virtually certain. The expense relating to a provision 
is presented in the statement of profit and loss net 
of any reimbursement.
 
Contingent liabilities
 
 A contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events and whose existence will 
be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more uncertain future events 
not wholly within the control of the Group or a 
present obligation that is not recognized because 
it is not probable that an outflow of resources will 
be required to settle the obligation. A contingent 
liability also arises in extremely rare cases where 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
371
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
there is a liability that cannot be recognized because 
it cannot be measured reliably. The Group does not 
recognize a contingent liability but discloses it in 
the Consolidated financial statements, unless the 
possibility of an outflow of resources embodying 
economic benefits is remote.
 
Onerous contract
 
 If the Group has a contract that is onerous, the 
present obligation under the contract is recognized 
and measured as a provision. However, before 
a separate provision for an onerous contract is 
established, the Group recognizes any impairment 
loss that has occurred on assets dedicated to 
that contract.
 
 An onerous contract is a contract under which the 
unavoidable costs (i.e. the costs that the Group 
cannot avoid because it has the contract) of 
meeting the obligations under the contract exceed 
the economic benefits expected to be received 
under it. The unavoidable costs under a contract 
reflect the least net cost of exiting from the contract, 
which is the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and any 
compensation or penalties arising from failure 
to fulfil it. These estimates are reviewed at each 
reporting date and adjusted to reflect the current 
best estimates.
 
Contingent assets
 
 Contingent assets are neither recognised nor 
disclosed except when realisation of income is 
virtually certain, related asset is disclosed.
n. 
 Cash dividend to equity holders of the Holding 
Company
 
 The Holding Company recognizes a liability to make 
cash distributions to equity holders of the Holding 
Company when the distribution is authorized, and 
the distribution is no longer at the discretion of the 
Holding Company. Final dividends on shares are 
recorded as a liability on the date of approval by the 
shareholders and interim dividends are recorded as 
a liability on the date of declaration by the Holding 
Company’s Board of Directors.
o. 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
 The Group considers all highly liquid financial 
instruments, which are readily convertible into 
known amounts of cash that are subject to an 
insignificant risk of change in value and having 
original maturities of three months or less from the 
date of purchase, to be cash equivalents. Cash and 
cash equivalents consist of balances with banks 
which are unrestricted for withdrawal and usage.
 
 For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow 
statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of 
cash and short-term deposits, as defined above, 
net of outstanding bank borrowings repayable on 
demand as they are considered an integral part of 
the Group’s cash management.
p. 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 
 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows is prepared 
under Ind AS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’. Cash Flows 
are reported using the indirect method.
 
 The Group classifies cash outflows to acquire or 
construct investment property as investing and 
rental inflows as operating cash flows.
q. 
Earnings per share
 
 Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing 
the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the 
year. Partly paid equity shares are treated as a 
fraction of an equity share to the extent that they 
are entitled to participate in dividends relative 
to a fully paid equity share during the reporting 
period. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the period is adjusted 
for events such as bonus issue that have changed 
the number of equity shares outstanding, without a 
corresponding change in resources.
 
 For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per 
share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable 
to equity shareholders and the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during the period 
are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential 
equity shares.
r. 
Restatement
 
 The Holding Company restates its financial 
statements and presents a third balance sheet 
as at the beginning of the preceding period if 
it applies an accounting policy retrospectively, 
makes a retrospective restatement of items in 
its financial statements or reclassifies items in its 
financial statements that has a material effect on the 
information in the balance sheet at the beginning of 
the preceding period.
 
 The Holding Company corrects material prior period 
errors retrospectively in the first set of financial 
statements approved for issue after their discovery 
by (a) restating the comparative amounts for the 
prior periods presented in which the error occurred; 
or (b) if the error occurred before the earliest prior 
period presented, restating the opening balances 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
372
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
of assets, liabilities and equity for the earliest prior 
period presented.
s. 
Share capital (equity shares)
 
 Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue 
of equity shares are recognised as a deduction from 
equity. Income tax relating to transaction costs of an 
equity transaction is accounted for in accordance 
with Ind AS 12.
t. 
Financial instruments
 
 A financial instrument is any contract that gives 
rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial 
liability or equity instrument of another entity.
i. 
 Initial recognition and measurement of financial 
assets and liabilities
 
 Financial assets and liabilities are recognized when 
the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument. Financial assets 
and liabilities are initially measured at fair value. 
Financial assets and liabilities are initially measured 
at fair value, however, trade receivables and trade 
payables that do not contain a significant financing 
component are measured at transaction value and 
investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost 
in accordance with Ind AS 27 - Separate financial 
statements. Transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial 
assets and financial liabilities (other than financial 
assets and financial liabilities at fair value through 
profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the 
fair value measured on initial recognition of financial 
asset or financial liability.
ii. 
Financial assets at amortized cost
 
 Financial assets are subsequently measured at 
amortized cost if these financial assets are held 
within a business whose objective is to hold these 
assets in order to collect contractual cash flows 
and the contractual terms of the financial asset give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding.
iii. 
 Financial assets at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 
 Financial assets are measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income if these financial 
assets are held within a business whose objective is 
achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows 
and selling financial assets and the contractual terms 
of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to 
cash flows that are solely payments of principal and 
interest on the principal amount outstanding.
iv. 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 
 Financial assets are measured at fair value through 
profit or loss unless it is measured at amortized 
cost or at fair value through other comprehensive 
income on initial recognition. The transaction costs 
directly attributable to the acquisition of financial 
assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss are immediately recognized in statement of 
profit and loss.
v. 
Debt instruments at amortized cost
 
 A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortized 
cost if both the following conditions are met:
 
a) 
 The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for collecting 
contractual cash flows, and
 
b) 
 Contractual terms of the asset give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (SPPI) on the 
principal amount outstanding.
 
 After initial measurement, such financial assets are 
subsequently measured at amortized cost using the 
effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortized cost 
is calculated by taking into account any discount 
or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization 
is included in finance income in the profit or loss. 
The losses arising from impairment are recognized 
in the profit or loss. This category generally applies 
to trade and other receivables.
vi. 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
 
 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss include financial liabilities held for trading and 
financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition 
at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities 
are classified as held for trading if they are incurred 
for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. 
This category also includes derivative financial 
instruments entered into by the Group that are not 
designated as hedging instruments. Gains or losses 
on liabilities held for trading are recognized in the 
profit or loss.
vii. Financial liabilities at amortized cost
 
 Financial liabilities are subsequently carried at 
amortized cost using the effective interest (‘EIR’) 
method. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are 
subsequently measured at amortized cost using 
EIR method. For trade and other payables maturing 
within one year from the balance sheet date, the 
carrying amounts approximate fair value due to the 
short maturity of these instruments.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
373
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
viii. De-recognition of financial instruments
 
 The Group derecognizes a financial asset when 
the contractual rights to the cash flows from the 
financial asset expire or it transfers the financial 
asset, and the transfer qualifies for de-recognition 
under Ind AS 109. A financial liability (or a part of 
a financial liability) is derecognized when the 
obligation specified in the contract is discharged or 
cancelled or expires.
ix. 
Reclassification of financial assets
 
 The Group determines classification of financial 
assets and liabilities on initial recognition. After 
initial recognition, no reclassification is made for 
financial instruments.
x. 
Offsetting of financial instruments
 
 Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and 
the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if 
there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset 
the recognised amounts and there is an intention to 
settle on a net basis, to realize the assets and settle 
the liabilities simultaneously.
xi. 
Fair value of financial instruments
 
 In determining the fair value of its financial 
instruments, the Group uses following hierarchy and 
assumptions that are based on market conditions 
and risks existing at each reporting date.
 
Fair value hierarchy:
 
 All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the Consolidated financial 
statements are categorized within the fair value 
hierarchy, described as follows, based on the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole:
• Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities
• Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable
• Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement is unobservable
 
 For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the 
consolidated financial statements on a recurring 
basis, the Group determines whether transfers have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-
assessing categorization (based on the lowest level 
input that is significant to the fair value measurement 
as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
u. 
Impairment
 
Financial assets
 
 The Group assesses at each reporting date whether 
a financial asset or a group of financial assets is 
impaired and measures expected credit losses 
to be measured through a loss allowance. The 
Group recognizes lifetime expected losses for all 
contract assets and / or all trade receivables that 
do not constitute a financing transaction. For all 
other financial assets, expected credit losses are 
measured at an amount equal to the 12-month 
expected credit losses or at an amount equal to the 
lifetime expected credit losses if the credit risk on 
the financial asset has increased significantly since 
initial recognition.
 
Non-financial assets
 
 The Group assesses at each reporting date 
whether there is an indication that an asset may 
be impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual 
impairment testing for an asset is required, the 
Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. 
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an 
asset or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) net selling 
price and its value in use. The recoverable amount 
is determined for an individual asset, unless the 
asset does not generate cash inflows that are 
largely independent of those from other assets or 
groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an 
asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the 
asset is considered impaired and is written down 
to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to 
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the 
asset. In determining net selling price, recent market 
transactions are considered, if available. If no such 
transactions can be identified, an appropriate 
valuation model is used.
 
 Impairment losses are recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss. After impairment, depreciation 
is provided on the revised carrying amount of the 
asset over its remaining useful life.
 
 Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, 
the carrying amount of the asset (or a cash-
generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate 
of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined had no 
impairment loss been recognized for the asset (or 
cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of 
an impairment loss is recognized immediately in 
the statement of profit and loss, unless the relevant 
asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
374
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a 
revaluation increase.
v. 
Convertible preference shares and debentures
 
 Convertible preference shares and debentures 
are separated into liability and equity components 
based on the terms of the contract. On issuance of 
the convertible preference shares and debentures, 
the fair value of the liability component is determined 
using a market rate for an equivalent non-
convertible instrument. This amount is classified 
as a financial liability measured at amortised cost 
(net of transaction costs) until it is extinguished 
on conversion or redemption. The remainder of 
the proceeds is allocated to the conversion option 
that is recognised and included in equity since 
conversion option meets Ind AS 32 criteria for 
fixed to fixed classification. Transaction costs are 
deducted from equity, net of associated income 
tax. The carrying amount of the conversion option 
is not remeasured in subsequent years. Transaction 
costs are apportioned between the liability and 
equity components of the convertible preference 
shares and debentures based on the allocation of 
proceeds to the liability and equity components 
when the instruments are initially recognised.
2.3  Significant accounting judgements, estimates 
and assumptions
(a) Revenue from contracts with customers
 
 The Group considers following factors that 
significantly affect the determination of the amount 
and timing of revenue from contracts with customers:
i) 
Identification of performance obligation
 
 Revenue consists of sale of undivided share of land 
and constructed area to the customer, which have 
been identified by the Group as a single performance 
obligation, as they are highly interrelated/
interdependent. In assessing whether performance 
obligations relating to sale of undivided share of 
land and constructed area are highly interrelated/
interdependent, the Group considers factors 
such as:
• whether the customer could benefit from the 
undivided share of land or the constructed area 
on its own or together with other resources readily 
available to the customer.
• whether the entity will be able to fulfil its promise 
under the contract to transfer the undivided share 
of land without transfer of constructed area or 
transfer the constructed area without transfer of 
undivided share of land.
ii) 
Timing of satisfaction of performance obligation
 
 Revenue from sale of real estate units is recognized 
when (or as) control of such units is transferred to the 
customer. The entity assesses timing of transfer of 
control of such units to the customers as transferred 
over time if one of the following criteria are met:
• The customer simultaneously receives and 
consumes the benefits provided by the entity’s 
performance as the entity performs or
• The entity’s performance creates or enhances an 
asset that the customer controls as the asset is 
created or enhanced or
• The entity’s performance does not create an 
asset with an alternative use to the entity and 
the entity has an enforceable right to payment 
for performance completed to date.
 
 If control is not transferred over time as above, the 
entity considers the same as transferred at a point 
in time.
 
 For contracts where control is transferred at a 
point in time, the Group considers the following 
indicators of the transfer of control of the asset to 
the customer:
• When the entity obtains a present right to 
payment for the asset.
• When the entity transfers legal title of the asset 
to the customer.
• When the entity transfers physical possession of 
the asset to the customer.
• When the entity transfers significant risks and 
rewards of ownership of the asset to the customer.
• When the customer has accepted the asset.
(iii)  Accounting for revenue and land cost for 
projects executed through joint development 
arrangements (‘JDA’)
 
 For projects executed through joint development 
arrangements, the revenue from the development 
and transfer of constructed area/revenue sharing 
arrangement and the corresponding land/ 
development rights received under JDA is measured 
at the fair value of the estimated construction 
service rendered to the land owner and the same 
is accounted on launch of the project. The fair 
value is estimated with reference to the terms of 
the JDA (whether revenue share or area share) 
and the related cost that is allocated to discharge 
the obligation of the Group under the JDA. Fair 
value of the construction is considered to be the 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
375
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
representative fair value of the revenue transaction 
and land so obtained. Such assessment is carried 
out at the launch of the real estate project and is not 
reassessed at each reporting period. The Group is 
of the view that the fair value method and estimates 
are reflective of the current market condition.
(iv) Significant financing component
 
 For contracts involving sale of real estate unit, the 
Group receives the consideration in accordance 
with the terms of the contract in proportion of the 
percentage of completion of such real estate project 
and represents payments made by customers to 
secure performance obligation of the Group under 
the contract enforceable by customers. Such 
consideration is received and utilised for specific real 
estate projects in accordance with the requirements 
of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 
2016. Consequently, the Group has concluded that 
such contracts with customers do not involve any 
financing element since the same arises for reasons 
explained above, which is other than for provision of 
finance to/from the customer.
(b)  Estimation of net realizable value for inventory 
(including land advance)
 
 Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net 
realizable value (NRV).
 
 NRV for completed inventory property is assessed by 
reference to market conditions and prices existing at 
the reporting date and is determined by the Group, 
based on comparable transactions identified by 
the Group for properties in the same geographical 
market serving the same real estate segment.
 
 NRV in respect of inventory property under 
construction is assessed with reference to market 
prices at the reporting date for similar completed 
property, less estimated costs to complete 
construction and an estimate of the time value of 
money to the date of completion.
 
 With respect to Land advance given, the net 
recoverable value is based on the present value of 
future cash flows, which depends on the estimate of, 
among other things, the likelihood that a project will 
be completed, the expected date of completion, the 
discount rate used and the estimation of sale prices 
and construction costs.
(c) Impairment of non-financial assets
 
 Impairment exists when the carrying value of an 
asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable 
amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs 
of disposal and its value in use. The fair value less 
costs of disposal calculation is based on available 
data from binding sales transactions, conducted at 
arm’s length, for similar assets or observable market 
prices less incremental costs for disposing of the 
asset. The value in use calculation is based on a DCF 
model. The cash flows are derived from the budget for 
the next five years and do not include restructuring 
activities that the Group is not yet committed to 
or significant future investments that will enhance 
the asset’s performance of the CGU being tested. 
The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount 
rate used for the DCF model as well as the expected 
future cash-inflows and the growth rate used for 
extrapolation purposes. These estimates are most 
relevant to disclosure of fair value of investment 
property recorded by the Group.
(d) Defined benefit plans - Gratuity
 
 The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and 
other post-employment medical benefits and 
the present value of the gratuity obligation are 
determined using actuarial valuations. An actuarial 
valuation involves making various assumptions that 
may differ from actual developments in the future. 
These include the determination of the discount 
rate, future salary increases and mortality rates. 
Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and 
its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is 
highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All 
assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
 
 The parameter most subject to change is the 
discount rate. In determining the appropriate 
discount rate for plans operated in India, the 
management considers the interest rates of 
government bonds. The mortality rate is based on 
publicly available mortality tables. Those mortality 
tables tend to change only at interval in response 
to demographic changes. Future salary increases 
are based on expected future inflation rates and 
expected salary increase thereon.
(e)  Fair value measurement of financial instruments
 
 When the fair values of financial assets and financial 
liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot 
be measured based on quoted prices in active 
markets, their fair value is measured using valuation 
techniques including the DCF model. The inputs to 
these models are taken from observable markets 
where possible, but where this is not feasible, a 
degree of judgement is required in establishing fair 
values. Judgements include considerations of inputs 
such as liquidity risk, credit risk and market risk. 
Changes in assumptions about these factors could 
affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
376
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(f) 
 Measurement of financial instruments at 
amortized cost
 
 Financial instruments are subsequently measured 
at amortized cost using the effective interest (‘EIR’) 
method. The computation of amortized cost is 
sensitive to the inputs to EIR including effective 
rate of interest, contractual cash flows and the 
expected life of the financial instrument. Changes 
in assumptions about these inputs could affect the 
reported value of financial instruments.
(g) Provision for litigations and contingencies
 
 Provision for litigations and contingencies is 
determined based on evaluation made by the 
management of the present obligation arising from 
past events the settlement of which is expected to 
result in outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits, which involves judgments around 
estimates the ultimate outcome of such past events 
and measurement of the obligation amount. Due to 
judgments involved in such estimation the provision 
is sensitive to the actual outcome in future periods.
(h)  Useful life and residual value of property, plant 
and equipment and investment property
 
 The useful life and residual value of property, plant 
and equipment, investment property and intangible 
assets are determined based on evaluation made 
by the management of the expected usage of the 
asset, the physical wear and tear and technical or 
commercial obsolescence of the asset. Due to the 
judgments involved in such estimates the useful life 
and residual value are sensitive to the actual usage 
in future period.
(i) 
Valuation of investment property
 
 Investment property is stated at cost. However, 
as per Ind AS 40 ‘Investment Property’ there is a 
requirement to disclose fair value as at the balance 
sheet date. The Group engaged independent 
valuation specialists to determine the fair value 
of its investment property as at reporting date. 
The determination of the fair value of investment 
properties requires the use of estimates such as 
future cash flows from the assets and discount rates 
applicable to those assets.
(j) 
 Classification of property
 
 The Group determines whether a property is 
classified as investment property or inventory 
as below.
• Investment property comprises land and 
buildings (principally office and retail properties) 
that are not occupied substantially for use by, or 
in the operations of, the Group, nor for sale in the 
ordinary course of business, but are held primarily 
to earn rental income and capital appreciation. 
These buildings are substantially rented to tenants 
and not intended to be sold in the ordinary course 
of business.
• Inventory comprises property that is held for sale 
in the ordinary course of business. Principally, 
this is residential and commercial property that 
the Group develops and intends to sell before 
or during the course of construction or upon 
completion of construction.
(k) Basis of consolidation
 
 For the purpose of consolidation, judgements are 
involved in determining whether the Group has 
control over an investee entity by assessing the 
Group’s exposure/rights to variable returns from 
its involvement with the investee and its ability to 
affect those returns through its power over the 
investee entity. The Group considers all facts and 
circumstances when assessing whether it controls 
an investee entity and reassess whether it controls 
an investee entity if facts and circumstances 
indicate that there are changes to one or more 
elements of control. Changes in judgements about 
these inputs could affect the reported value in the 
Consolidated financial statements.
(l) 
Deferred tax asset
 
 The extent to which deferred tax assets can be 
recognized is based on an assessment of the 
probability of the future taxable income against 
which the deferred tax assets can be utilized.
(m) Lease
 
 The Group enters into leasing arrangements for 
various assets. The classification of the leasing 
arrangement as a finance lease or operating lease and 
corresponding period used for accounting is based 
on an assessment of several factors, including, but 
not limited to, transfer of ownership of leased asset 
at end of lease term, lessee’s option to purchase 
and estimated certainty of exercise of such option, 
proportion of lease term to the asset’s economic 
life, proportion of present value of minimum lease 
payments to fair value of leased asset and extent of 
specialized nature of the leased asset.
2.4  Changes in accounting policies and disclosures
(a) Standards issued but not yet effective
 
 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs notifies new 
standard or amendments to the existing standards. 
There is amendment to Ind AS 21 “Effects of Changes 
in Foreign Exchange Rates” such amendments would 
have been applicable from 01 April 2025.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
377
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange 
Rates specify how an entity should assess 
whether a currency is exchangeable and how 
it should determine a spot exchange rate when 
exchangeability is lacking. The amendments also 
require disclosure of information that enables 
users of its financial statements to understand 
how the currency not being exchangeable into the 
other currency affects, or is expected to affect, the 
entity’s financial performance, financial position and 
cash flows.
 
 The amendments are effective for the period on or 
after 01 April 2025. When applying the amendments, 
an entity cannot restate comparative information.
 
 The Group has reviewed the new pronouncement 
and based on its evaluation has determined that 
these amendments do not have a significant impact 
on the Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
(b)  Standards issued/amended and became effective
 
 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide notification 
dated 9 September 2024 and 28 September 
2024 notified the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Second Amendment Rules, 2024 and 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Third 
Amendment Rules, 2024, respectively, which 
amended/ notified certain accounting standards 
(see below), and are effective for annual reporting 
periods beginning on or after 1 April 2024:
• Insurance contracts - Ind AS 117; and
• Lease Liability in Sale and Leaseback – 
Amendments to Ind AS 116
 
 These amendments did not have any material impact 
on the amounts recognised in prior periods and are 
not expected to significantly affect the current or 
future periods.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
378
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
3 
Property, plant and equipment
Particulars
Freehold
land
Leasehold 
land (*)
Building
Right to 
use - 
Building (*)
Electrical 
installations
Furniture
and 
fixtures
Plant and 
equipment
Office
equipment
Right to 
use - Office 
equipments (*)
Computer 
hardware
Vehicles
Total
Cost
As at April 01, 2023
15,604
5,769
73,627
-
6,433
13,472
13,697
7,446
-
2,662
653
1,39,363
Additions
-
6,000
313
-
48
367
462
319
-
546
140
8,195
Disposals
-
-
(360)
-
(3)
(87)
(157)
(162)
-
(242)
(60)
(1,071)
As at March 31, 2024
15,604
11,769
73,580
-
6,478
13,752
14,002
7,603
-
2,966
733
1,46,487
Additions
505
1,790
6,848
68
976
1,455
2,360
396
334
891
613
16,236
Disposals
-
-
-
-
(118)
(44)
(986)
(273)
-
(72)
(11)
(1,504)
As at March 31, 2025
16,109
13,559 80,428
68
7,336
15,163
15,376
7,726
334
3,785
1,335
1,61,219
Accumulated 
depreciation
As at April 01, 2023
-
657
17,927
-
4,488
10,439
8,923
6,273
-
2,072
452
51,231
Charge for the year
-
181
2,583
-
518
710
928
468
-
487
114
5,989
Disposals
-
-
(192)
-
(2)
(80)
(89)
(156)
-
(237)
(60)
(816)
As at March 31, 2024
-
838
20,318
-
5,004
11,069
9,762
6,585
-
2,322
506
56,404
Charge for the year
-
422
2,837
13
435
871
953
480
83
584
162
6,840
Disposals
-
-
-
-
(113)
(42)
(770)
(259)
-
(64)
(10)
(1,258)
As at March 31, 2025
-
1,260
23,155
13
5,326
11,898
9,945
6,806
83
2,842
658
61,986
Net book value
As at March 31, 2024
15,604
10,931 53,262
-
1,474
2,683
4,240
1,018
-
644
227
90,083
As at March 31, 2025
16,109
12,299
57,273
55
2,010
3,265
5,431
920
251
943
677
99,233
(*) 
Refer note 39 for right of asset details.
Note:
a) 
Transition to Ind AS
 
 On transition to Ind AS (i.e. April 01, 2015), the Group has elected to continue with the carrying value of all property, plant and equipment measured as per the previous GAAP as 
the deemed cost of Property, plant and equipment.
b) 
Contractual obligations
 
 The contractual commitments pending for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment as at March 31, 2025 is ₹ Nil (March 31, 2024: ₹ Nil).
c) 
 Refer note 36 for details of property, plant and equipment pledged as security for borrowings.
d) 
Revaluation
 
 The Group has adopted cost model for property, plant and equipment. Accordingly, the Group has not revalued any of its property, plant and equipment during the year or 
previous year.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
379
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
4 
Capital work-in-progress
Particulars
Amount
As at April 01, 2023
3,617
Additions
4,808
Capitalised during the year
(602)
As at March 31, 2024
7,823
Additions
7,073
Transferred from inventory during the year
9,598
Capitalised during the year
(10,710)
As at March 31, 2025
13,784
Note:
a) 
Capital work-in-progress ageing schedule
Particulars
Amount in capital work-in-progress for a period of
Total
<1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
> 3 years
As at March 31, 2025
Projects in progress
2,676
10,857
15
236
13,784
Total
2,676
10,857
15
236
13,784
As at March 31, 2024
Projects in progress
5,103
403
77
2,240
7,823
Total
5,103
403
77
2,240
7,823
b) 
Refer note 36 for details of assets pledged as security for borrowings.
c) 
Refer note 37(a)(i) for details of contractual obligations to construct capital assets.
d) 
 Capital work-in-progress whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan
 
 There are no projects in progress under ‘Capital work-in-progress’ whose completion is overdue or has exceeded 
its cost compared to its original plan.
(e) Borrowing Cost Capitalised
 
 The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the year ended March 31,2025 is ₹ 237 lakhs (March 
31,2024: ₹ 164 lakhs) and the capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for 
capitalisation was 9%-10% p.a. Also, refer note 32.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
380
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
5 
Investment properties
Particulars
Freehold 
land
Leasehold 
land (*)
Building
Right 
to use - 
Building (*)
Other assets forming part of building
Total
Electrical 
installations
Furniture 
and 
fixtures
Plant and 
equpiment
Office 
equipment
Fit-outs
Computer 
hardware
Cost
As at April 01, 2023
93,402
4,957
2,84,748
1,692
35,343
9,908
32,646
5,616
8,070
270
4,76,652
Additions
-
-
3,087
131
652
3,639
1,023
709
3,853
218
13,312
As at March 31, 2024
93,402
4,957
2,87,835
1,823
35,995
13,547
33,669
6,325
11,923
488
4,89,964
Additions
13,364
-
34,931
4,455
1,991
2,099
3,423
1,229
191
76
61,829
Transferred from inventory
1,934
-
1,666
-
58
-
56
16
-
-
3,730
Disposals
-
-
-
(797)
-
-
-
-
-
-
(797)
As at March 31, 2025
1,08,700
4,957
3,24,432
5,481
38,044
15,646
37,148
7,640
12,114
564
5,54,726
Accumulated depreciation
As at April 01, 2023
-
625
49,940
342
20,854
4,241
14,508
5,353
5,358
189
1,01,410
Charge for the year
-
113
11,662
332
3,797
1,752
3,132
518
2,647
59
24,012
As at March 31, 2024
-
738
61,602
674
24,651
5,993
17,640
5,871
8,005
248
1,25,422
Charge for the year
-
114
11,073
691
3,043
2,031
2,823
533
1,524
55
21,887
Disposals
-
-
-
(291)
-
-
-
-
-
-
(291)
As at March 31, 2025
-
852
72,675
1,074
27,694
8,024
20,463
6,404
9,529
303
1,47,018
Accumulated impairment
At at April 01, 2023
1,229
-
761
-
50
1
155
4
-
-
2,200
Impairment loss for the year
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
1,229
-
761
-
50
1
155
4
-
-
2,200
Impairment loss for the year
-
-
-
-
26
33
33
23
96
13
224
As at March 31, 2025
1,229
-
761
-
76
34
188
27
96
13
2,424
Initial direct costs incurred/capitalised in arranging operating lease (**)
As at March 31, 2024
3,377
As at March 31, 2025
2,818
Net book value (including initial direct costs)
As at March 31, 2024
92,173
4,219
2,25,472
1,149
11,294
7,553
15,874
450
3,918
240
3,65,719
As at March 31, 2025
1,07,471
4,105
2,50,996
4,407
10,274
7,588
16,497
1,209
2,489
248
4,08,102
(*) 
Refer note 39 for Right-of-use asset details.
(**) Amortisation of initial direct costs over the lease term is included under brokerage and discounts in ‘other expenses’ (refer note 34).
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
381
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
5 
Investment properties (cont’d)
 
Note:
a) 
 Transition to Ind AS
 
 On transition to Ind AS (i.e. April 01, 2015), the Group has elected to continue with the carrying value of all 
Investment properties measured as per the previous GAAP as the deemed cost of Investment properties.
b) 
Refer note 37(a)(i)  for details of contractual obligations to construct or develop the Investment property.
c) 
Leasing arrangements
 
 Investment properties comprises a number of commercial properties (broadly categorized into two class of 
assets i.e., office properties and retail properties depending on the nature, characteristics and risks of each 
property) that are leased to third parties under operating leases (cancellable and non-cancellable) with varying 
lease terms (upto 18 years), escalation clauses and renewal clauses. The Group has classified these leases 
as operating leases, because they do not transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to the 
ownership of the assets. Certain lease arrangement also includes variable rent determined based on percentage 
of sales of lessee. The Group is also required to maintain the property over the lease term.
d) 
Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss for investment properties
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Rental income derived from investment properties
- fixed lease payments
93,761
73,882
- variable lease payments
1,753
2,051
95,514
75,933
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) generating 
rental income
(18,308)
(7,213)
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) that did not 
generate rental income
(522)
(503)
Profit arising from investment properties before depreciation and 
amortisation
76,684
68,217
Less:- Depreciation and amortisation expenses
(21,887)
(24,012)
Profit from investment properties before indirect expenses
54,797
44,205
e) 
Maturity analysis of lease payment receivables
 
 Maturity analysis of lease payment receivables (undiscounted) to be received after the reporting date is 
as follows:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Within one year
26,597
28,734
1-2 years
17,437
18,731
2-3 years
11,605
10,231
3-4 years
7,280
7,369
4-5 years
4,632
4,675
More than five years
588
4,535
68,139
74,275
Brigade Enterprises Limited
382
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
5 
Investment properties (cont’d)
f) 
Measurement of fair values
 
The fair value of investment properties (excluding right of use asset) is as follows:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Office
properties
Retail
properties
Total
Office
properties
Retail
properties
Total
Fair value
9,23,201
2,50,563
11,73,764
8,63,222
2,60,446
11,23,668
 
 The Group has determined that the carrying value of Right of use assets represents its fair value considering 
the terms of the underlying lease arrangement.
 
 The fair value of investment properties (excluding Right to use assets) have been arrived at using Discounted 
Cash Flow (DCF) method, as determined by an external independent registered valuer as defined under Rule 
2 of the Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017. The fair value measurement for all of the 
investment properties has been categorised as a Level 3 fair value based on the inputs to the valuation technique 
used. There has been no change in valuation techniques used since prior year.
 
 The DCF valuation model considers the present value of net cash flows to be generated from the property, taking 
into account the expected rental growth rate, vacant periods, occupancy rate, brokerage, cost escalation and 
terminal yields etc. The expected net cash flows are discounted using risk-adjusted discount rates.
 
Key inputs to valuation on investment properties are as follows:
Significant unobservable inputs
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Office 
properties
Retail 
properties
Office 
properties
Retail 
properties
-  Estimated rental value per sq. ft. per month
₹ 25 - ₹ 135 ₹ 57 - ₹ 207
₹ 53 - ₹ 130
₹ 49 - ₹ 162
-  Rent growth p.a.
5%
5%
5%
5%
-  Discount rate
9%-12%
12%
9% - 12%
12%
-  Vacancy rate
0% - 5%
1% - 10%
0% - 5%
5% - 11%
g) 
 Refer note 36 for details of investment properties pledged as security for borrowings. Further, the Group has no 
restrictions on the realisability of its investment properties.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
383
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
6 
Investment property under development
Particulars
Total
As at April 01, 2023
70,430
Additions
18,179
Transferred from inventory during the year
68,639
Capitalised during the year
(14,055)
Transferred to inventory during the year
(27,863)
As at March 31, 2024
1,15,330
Additions
1,15,460
Transferred from inventory during the year
9,122
Capitalised during the year
(60,837)
As at March 31, 2025
1,79,075
 
Note:
 
a) 
Ageing of Investment property under development
Particulars
Amount in Investment property under development for a period of
Total
<1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
> 3 years
As at March 31, 2025
Projects in progress
1,02,502
66,630
2,245
7,698
1,79,075
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
1,02,502
66,630
2,245
7,698
1,79,075
As at March 31, 2024
Projects in progress
77,483
8,815
4,352
24,680
1,15,330
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
Total
77,483
8,815
4,352
24,680
1,15,330
 
b) 
 Refer note 37(a)(i) for details of contractual obligations to construct or develop investment property 
under development.
 
c) 
 Investment property under development whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost 
compared to its original plan
 
 
 There are no projects in progress under ‘Investment property under development’ whose completion is 
overdue or has exceeded its cost compared to its original plan.
 
d) 
Fair value
 
 
 As the properties are under development, the Group has determined that the fair value of the properties 
is not reliably measurable and expects that the fair value of the properties to be reliably measurable when 
construction is complete. Hence, the carrying amount is best approximation of fair value of the properties.
 
e) 
Borrowing cost capitalised 
 
 
 The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the year ended March 31, 2025 is ₹ 6,071 lakhs (March 
31,2024: ₹ 2,688 lakhs) and the capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs 
eligible for capitalisation was 8% - 12% p.a. Also, refer note 32.
 
f) 
Refer note 36 for details of Investment property under development pledged as security for borrowings.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
384
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
7 
Other intangible assets
Particulars
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Total other 
intangible assets
Computer 
software
License fees
Cost
As at April 01, 2023
2,034
2,393
1,430
3,823
Additions
-
8
-
8
Disposals
-
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
2,034
2,401
1,430
3,831
Additions
-
164
-
164
Disposals
-
(1)
-
(1)
As at March 31, 2025
2,034
2,564
1,430
3,994
Accumulated amortisation
As at April 01, 2023
-
1,815
316
2,131
Charge for the year
-
128
80
208
Disposals
-
-
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
-
1,943
396
2,339
Charge for the year
-
76
75
151
Disposals
-
(1)
-
(1)
As at March 31, 2025
-
2,018
471
2,489
Net book value
As at March 31, 2024
2,034
458
1,034
1,492
As at March 31, 2025
2,034
546
959
1,505
Note:
i) 
Transition to Ind AS
 
 On transition to Ind AS (i.e. April 01, 2015), the Group has elected to continue with the carrying value of all 
Intangible assets measured as per the previous GAAP as the deemed cost of Intangible assets.
ii) 
Revaluation
 
The Group has not revalued its intangible assets during the current or previous year.
iii) 
Goodwill impairment testing
 
 For impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to a CGU representing the lowest level within the Group at which 
goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually in 
accordance with the Group’s procedure for determining the recoverable value of each CGU. The recoverable 
amount of the CGU is determined on the basis of Higher of value in use or Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal 
(FVLCD). The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined based on the discounted cash flow approach, using 
the discount rate and terminal income growth rate from unobservable market data by the Management for the 
year ended March 31, 2025. The fair value measurement is categorised as a level 3 fair value based on the inputs 
in the valuation techniques used. Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to 
the reporting units for impairment testing. As at March 31, 2025, the estimated recoverable amount of the CGU 
exceeded its carrying amount. Reasonable sensitivities in key assumptions is unlikely to cause the carrying 
amount to exceed the recoverable amount of the cash generating units.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
385
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
8 
Investments accounted for using the equity method
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Investment in joint venture (refer note below)
230
-
230
-
 
Note:
Particulars
Principal
activates
Place of
registration
% of voting rights
Amount
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Investment in 
joint venture
Zoiros Projects 
Private Limited(*)
Real estate
India
50%
0%
230
-
 
 (*)On March 18, 2025, Gruhas Projects LLP acquired 50% share previously held by the group in Zoiros Projects Private Limited (“ZPPL”) 
resulting in loss of control. In pursuant of such agreement, ZPPL has been designated as joint venture, until which subsidiary.
9 
Investments
Particulars
Note
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Non-current
Investment in equity instruments
(a)
133
129
Investment in preference shares
(b)
253
132
Investment in debentures and bonds
(c)
25
-
411
261
Current
Investment in mutual funds
(d)
3,661
4,705
3,661
4,705
(a) Investment in equity instruments
Particulars
Number of instruments
Amount
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
In other body corporate
Unquoted, carried at fair value through 
other comprehensive income
(Fully paid up equity shares of ₹ 10 each, 
unless otherwise stated)
LV Angel Fund
48
48
48
49
Bhugol Analytics Private Limited
718
359
35
18
Aliferous Technologies Private Limited
544
544
22
6
SiteWorkz Private Limited of ₹ 100 each
331
316
9
-
ECOSTP Technologies Private Limited
417
417
6
7
Mangalore Energies Private Limited
62,000
62,000
6
6
Aban Green Power Private Limited
55,655
55,655
6
6
Angirus Ind Private Limited
37
37
1
*
Wegot Utility Solutions Private Limited
2,895
2,895
*
14
Brigade Enterprises Limited
386
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Number of instruments
Amount
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Navanc Data Sciences Private Limited
853
853
*
7
Renewate Infrastructure Technologies 
Private Limited
556
556
*
7
Groundrealty Enterprises Private Limited
500
500
*
4
Woodzon Integrative Private Limited
14,872
14,872
*
3
Natura Greentech Private Limited
330
330
*
2
Xlsys Technologies Private Limited
520
520
*
*
Dawniens International Private Limited
417
417
*
*
Primofonte Technologies Private Limited
3,696
3,696
*
*
Bluesinq Automations Private Limited
375
375
*
*
Kodikas Technology Private Limited
250
250
*
*
Pristech Technologies Private Limited
377
377
*
*
Nanorama Technologies Private Limited
3,889
3,889
*
*
Smarter Dharma Sustainable Private Limited
595
595
*
*
Zen Aerologiks Private Limited
150
150
*
*
S-Trude Technologies Private Limited
-
248
-
*
42 Wall Private Limited
2,807
2,807
*
*
Aegeus Technologies Private Limited
158
158
*
*
Bleiotech Private Limited
215
215
*
*
Favo Constructions Private Limited
440
440
*
*
Square Dotcom Private Limited of ₹1 each
9,660
9,660
*
*
Strawcture Eco Private Limited
8,871
8,871
*
*
Rau Ecostone Private Limited
900
900
*
*
Recyclex Private Limited
421
421
*
*
Zeesense Systems Private Limited
5,874
5,874
*
*
Synconext Technologies Private Limited
1,445
1,445
*
*
Exprs Techno Logistics Private Limited
522
522
*
*
Spintly India Private Limited of ₹ 2 each
136
136
*
*
Popspace Technologies Private Limited
5,000
5,000
*
*
Birds Eye Energy Technologies Private 
Limited
3,834
3,834
*
*
KOTS Housing Private Limited
444
444
*
*
Pelican Kenterra Private Limited
381
-
*
-
Kardle Industries Private Limited
389
-
*
-
Megaliter Varunaa Pvt Ltd
26,320
-
*
-
Raho Hospitalities Private Limited
330
-
*
-
Linking spaces Technologies Private Limited
12
-
*
-
XYZ3DAI Private Limited
316
-
*
-
133
129
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
387
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(b) Investment in Preference Shares
Particulars
Number of instruments
Amount
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
In other body corporate
Unquoted, carried at fair value through 
other comprehensive income
Compulsorily convertible preference 
shares
(Fully paid up preference shares of ₹ 10 
each, unless otherwise stated)
Navanc Data Sciences
368
-
75
-
Popspace Technologies Private Limited
3,362
3,362
53
115
Centriti Pvt Ltd
1,120
-
50
-
Linking Spaces Technologies
59
-
50
-
XYZ3DAI Private Limited
107
-
25
-
Wegot Utility Solutions Private Limited of 
₹ 100 each
1,600
1,600
*
17
Xlsys Technologies Private Limited of ₹ 100 
each
577
577
*
*
253
132
(c) Investment in Debentures and Bonds
Particulars
Number of instruments
Amount
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
(i) In other body corporate
 
 Unquoted, carried at fair value through 
other comprehensive income
 
Super Chennai Marketing Private Limited
 
 0.001% Fully Convertible Debentures of 
₹ 10 each, fully paid up
 2,50,000 
 - 
 25 
 - 
(ii)  Unquoted, carried at amortised 
cost (Bonds)
 
Lakshmi Vilas Bank Limited
 
Bonds of ₹ 1,000,000 each
 250 
 250 
 2,500 
 2,500 
 
Bonds of ₹ 500,000 each
 300 
 300 
 1,500 
 1,500 
 4,000 
 4,000 
 
Less: Impairment in value of investments
 (4,000)
 (4,000)
 - 
 - 
Total investment in debentures and bonds 
(c(i) + c(ii))
 25 
 - 
 
(*)Amounts below ₹ 50,000
Brigade Enterprises Limited
388
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(d) Current Investments
Particulars
Number of instruments
Amount
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Quoted, carried at fair value through profit 
or loss
In mutual funds
SBI Liquid fund - Direct Growth
75,000
71,000
3,041
2,675
Kotak Liquid Direct Growth
-
41,601
-
2,030
Aditya Birla Sun life Liquid Fund Growth
1,48,009
-
620
-
3,661
4,705
(e) Summary of quoted and unquoted investments
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Non-current
Current
Non-current
Current
Aggregate book value of quoted 
investments
-
3,661
-
4,705
Aggregate book value of unquoted 
investments
4,411
-
4,261
-
Aggregate amount of impairment in 
unquoted investments
(4,000)
-
(4,000)
-
411
3,661
261
4,705
(f) Investments by category
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Non-current
Current
Non-current
Current
At amortised cost
-
-
-
-
At fair value through other comprehensive 
income
411
-
261
-
At fair value through profit and loss
-
3,661
-
4,705
411
3,661
261
4,705
(g)  The Holding Company is engaged in providing infrastructural facilities as specified in Schedule VI of the Act, 
accordingly, the provisions of section 186 except sub-section (1) of the Act are not applicable to the Holding 
Company. Further, the Holding Company has complied with the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 186 of 
the Act in respect of investments, as applicable.
(h)  The Group has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual currency during the financial year.
(i) 
 The Holding Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
389
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
10 Other financial assets (*)
 
(Unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated)
Non-current
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Margin money deposits with banks
18,594
17,840
-
-
Deposits with banks with remaining 
maturity greater than 12 months (**)
-
-
-
11,080
Interest accrued on bank deposits
715
682
2,845
1,361
Unbilled revenue
-
-
190
723
Security deposits
371
463
948
246
Rent equalisation reserve
2,111
1,957
3,218
1,573
Finance lease receivables
4,736
470
1,696
86
Refundable deposits under joint 
development arrangements (JDA) (^) (#)
3,858
858
38,329
36,980
30,385
22,270
47,226
52,049
Less: Loss allowance
(1,643)
-
-
-
28,742
22,270
47,226
52,049
 
(*) Refer note 36 for details of other financial assets pledged as security for borrowings.
 
(**) Disclosed as current based on operating cycle.
 
(#) Also includes advances paid by the Company to the landowner towards proposed joint development of land.
 
(^) Refer note 37 for details of litigations.
11 Loans
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Loans receivables considered good - unsecured (*)
 240 
 240 
 240 
 240 
 
 (*) There are no loans and advances in the nature of loans granted to promoters, directors, key managerial personnel (as defined 
under Companies Act, 2013) either severally or jointly with any other person.
12 Other assets (#)
Non-current
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Land advances(*)
 33,293 
 33,981 
 3,498 
 5,409 
Advance to suppliers
 82 
 49 
 14,088 
 10,849 
Balances with statutory/government 
authorities, considered good
 4,487 
 9,147 
 12,519 
 7,202 
Prepaid expenses
 130 
 195 
 20,983 
 15,222 
Capital advances
 3,106 
 516 
 35 
 18 
Other assets
 87 
 146 
 98 
 59 
 41,185 
 44,034 
 51,221 
 38,759 
 
 *Advances for land though unsecured, are considered good as the advances have been given based on arrangements/memorandum 
of understanding executed by the Group and the Group/seller/intermediary is in the course of obtaining clear and marketable title, 
free from all encumbrances, including for certain properties under litigation. Also refer note 37(a)(ii).
 
(#) Refer note 36 for details of other assets pledged as security for borrowings.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
390
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
13 Inventories
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(Valued at lower of cost and net realisable value)
Raw materials, components and stores
 5,699 
 5,159 
Work-in-progress
 7,42,891 
 6,81,117 
Land stock
 2,166 
 1,866 
Stock of flats
 1,36,125 
 85,446 
 8,86,881 
 7,73,588 
 
Note:
 
(a)  The write-down (net) of inventories to net realisable value for the year ended March 31, 2025 is 220 lakhs 
(March 31, 2024: 210 lakhs). This was recorded as an expense during the respective years and included in 
‘changes in inventories’ in consolidated statement of profit and loss.
 
(b) Refer note 36 for details of inventories pledged as security for borrowings.
 
(c) Refer note 32 for borrowing cost capitalization
14 Trade receivables
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Trade receivable - unsecured, considered good
62,912
49,971
Trade receivables - credit impaired
1,077
826
 63,989 
 50,797 
Loss allowance
(1,077)
(826)
 62,912 
 49,971 
Notes
a) 
 Trade receivables due by firms or private companies in which  
the director of the Company is a partner or a director or a member 
(refer note 38)
8 
18
b) 
 Trade receivables from other related parties (refer note 38)
13
11
 
c) 
 Refer note 36 for details of trade receivables pledged as security for borrowings.
 
d) 
Trade receivables Ageing Schedule:
As at March 31, 2025
Outstanding for the following periods from due date of payment
Total
< 6 months
6 months 
- 1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
 > 3 years 
Undisputed - Considered good
54,077
4,881
1,329
244
2,157
62,688
Undisputed - which have significant 
increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
Undisputed - Credit impaired
11
19
49
239
738
1,056
Disputed - Considered good
-
-
-
-
224
224
Disputed - which have significant 
increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed - Credit impaired
-
-
-
-
21
21
Total
54,088
4,900
1,378
483
3,140
63,989
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
391
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
As at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for the following periods from due date of payment
Total
< 6 months
6 months 
- 1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
 > 3 years 
Undisputed - Considered good
43,585
3,772
969
645
776
49,747
Undisputed - which have significant 
increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
Undisputed - Credit impaired
-
28
191
204
388
811
Disputed - Considered good
-
-
-
-
224
224
Disputed - which have significant 
increase in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed - Credit impaired
-
-
-
-
15
15
Total
43,585
3,800
1,160
849
1,403
50,797
e) 
 Trade receivables are generally on credit terms of up to 30 days except for lease debtors which have a credit 
period of 7 days.
15 Cash and cash equivalents (**)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balances with banks:
– On current accounts (*)(#)
37,043
29,109
– Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months (##)
1,49,687
28,055
Cash on hand
266
261
1,86,996
57,425
(*)  Includes amount held in escrow account for projects under Real 
Estate Regulation and Development Act, 2016, to be utilized for 
project specific purposes.
10,811
10,392
(**)  Refer note 36 for details of Cash and cash equivalents pledged as 
security for borrowings.
(#)  Includes earmarked as monitoring account balance towards  
qualified institutions placement (“QIP”) transaction costs remaining 
to be incurred (inclusive of interest earned). Refer note 49.
349
-
(##)  Includes earmarked towards unutilized QIP proceeds  
(inclusive of interest earned). Refer note 49.
45,914
-
16 Balances at bank other than cash and cash equivalents (*)
Non-current
Current
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Balances with banks:
–  Deposits with remaining maturity of 
more than 3 months but less than 
12 months
-
-
1,39,092
1,16,285
–  Margin money deposits
18,594
17,840
-
-
– Unpaid dividend account
-
-
12
17
18,594
17,840
1,39,104
1,16,302
Less: Margin money deposits with banks 
disclosed under other non-current financial 
assets. (refer note 10)
(18,594)
(17,840)
-
-
-
-
1,39,104
1,16,302
 
(*) Refer note 36 for details of Balances at bank other than cash and cash equivalents pledged as security for borrowings.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
392
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
17 Equity share capital
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number 
(in lakhs)
Amount
Number 
(in lakhs)
Amount
Authorised share capital
Equity shares of ₹10 each
2,500
25,000
2,500
25,000
Issued, subscribed and fully paid-up shares
Equity shares of ₹10 each
2,444
24,437
2,312
23,110
(a) Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year 
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number
(in lakhs)
Amount
Number
(in lakhs)
Amount
Equity shares of ₹10 each
At the beginning of the year
 2,312 
 23,110 
 2,308 
 23,073 
Issued during the year
- 
Share options exercised
 2 
 23 
 4 
 37 
- 
 Issued during the year pursuant to the QIP 
(refer note 49)
 130 
 1,304 
 - 
 - 
Balance at the end of the year
 2,444 
 24,437 
 2,312 
 23,110 
(b) Rights, preference and restrictions attached to equity shares
 
 The Holding Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ₹ 10 per share. Each holder of 
equity is entitled to one vote per share. The Holding Company declares and pays dividend in Indian Rupees (₹). 
The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing 
Annual General meeting.
 
 In event of liquidation of the Holding Company, the holders of equity shares would be entitled to receive remaining 
assets of the Group, after distribution of all preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the 
number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
(c) Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Holding Company:
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number 
(in lakhs)
% holding
Number 
(in lakhs)
% holding
Equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid
M.R. Jaishankar
346
14.14%
345
14.92%
Githa Shankar
281
11.48%
281
12.13%
Nirupa Shankar
161
6.57%
160
6.92%
Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited
-
0.00%
127
5.50%
(d) Details of shares held by promoters
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number 
(in lakhs)
% of total 
shares
% change 
during 
the year
Number 
(in lakhs)
% of total 
shares
% change 
during 
the year
Equity shares of ₹ 10 each fully paid
M R Jaishankar
345
14%
0%
345
15%
0%
Githa Shankar
281
11%
0%
281
12%
0%
M R Shivram (HUF)
31
1%
0%
31
1%
0%
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
393
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number 
(in lakhs)
% of total 
shares
% change 
during 
the year
Number 
(in lakhs)
% of total 
shares
% change 
during 
the year
M R Jaishankar (HUF)
-
0%
0%
0
0%
-100%
Gurumurthy M R
19
1%
0%
19
1%
0%
A R Rukmini
3
0%
0%
3
0%
0%
M R Shivram
28
1%
0%
28
1%
0%
Mysore Ramachandra Setty Krishnakumar
59
2%
0%
59
3%
0%
Pavitra Shankar
21
1%
0%
21
1%
0%
Nirupa Shankar
160
7%
0%
160
7%
14%
Mysore Holdings Private Limited
63
3%
0%
63
3%
0%
Total
1,010
41%
1,010
44%
(e) Shares reserved for issue under stock options
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number 
(in lakhs)
Amount
Number 
(in lakhs)
Amount
Under Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2017: 
Equity shares of ₹ 10 each (refer note 41)
25
252
25
252
Under Employee Stock Option Scheme, 2022: 
Equity shares of ₹ 10 each (refer note 41)
13
134
13
134
38
386
38
386
(f)  Aggregate number of bonus shares issued and shares issued for consideration other than cash 
during the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date
 
 There have been no buy back of shares, issue of bonus shares and issue of shares pursuant to contract without 
payment being received in cash for the period of 5 years immediately preceding the reporting date.
18 Other equity (*)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Capital reserve
Balance at the beginning of the year
1
1
Movement during the year
-
-
Balance at the end of the year
1
1
Securities premium
Balance at the beginning of the year
1,73,111
1,71,749
Share options exercised
1,233
1,362
Securities premium on issue of equity shares (net of share issue expenses)
1,45,964
-
Balance at the end of the year
3,20,308
1,73,111
Debenture redemption reserve
Balance at the beginning of the year
1,334
1,334
Add: Amount transferred from surplus balance in the statement of 
profit and loss
-
-
Less: Transfer to general reserve on redemption of debentures
(1,319)
-
Balance at the end of the year
15
1,334
Share option outstanding account
Balance at the beginning of the year
1,293
726
Add: Equity settled share based payment
839
1,143
Less: Share options exercised
(523)
(576)
Balance at the end of the year
1,609
1,293
Brigade Enterprises Limited
394
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
General reserve
Balance at the beginning of the year
11,120
11,120
Transfer from Debenture redemption reserve pursuant to redemption of 
debentures
1,319
-
Transfer to retained earnings
-
-
Balance at the end of the year
12,439
11,120
Retained earnings
Balance at the beginning of the year
1,40,878
1,02,435
Total comprehensive income for the year
68,151
45,117
Dividend paid (refer note 20)
(4,623)
(4,616)
Other adjustments - Excess amounts paid over fair value on acquisition of 
stake from NCI
(138)
(2,058)
Balance at the end of the year
2,04,268
1,40,878
Revaluation surplus
Balance at the beginning of the year
829
829
Movement during the year
-
-
Balance at the end of the year
829
829
Equity instruments through other comprehensive income
Balance at the beginning of the year
(61)
(61)
Movement during the year
-
-
Balance at the end of the year
(61)
(61)
5,39,408
3,28,505
 
(*)Refer note 52
 
Nature and purpose of reserve
 
a) 
Capital reserve
 
 
 Capital reserve was created under the previous GAAP (Indian GAAP) out of the profit earned from a specific transaction of 
capital nature. Capital reserve is not available for the distribution to the shareholders.
 
b) 
Securities premium
 
 
 Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised only for specific purposes in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
 
c) 
Debenture redemption reserve
 
 
 The Company has issued redeemable non-convertible debentures. Accordingly, the Company has created debenture redemption 
reserve on a pro rata basis which is equal to 25% of the value of debentures issued, out of profits available for payment of 
dividend.
 
d) 
Share option outstanding account
 
 
 Share based payments is used to record the fair value of equity-settled share based payment transactions with employees. 
The amounts recorded in this account are transferred to securities premium upon exercise of stock options by employees. In 
case of lapse, corresponding balance is transferred to retained earnings.
 
e) 
General reserve
 
 
 The general reserve is used from time to time to transfer profits from retained earnings for appropriation purposes.
 
f) 
Retained earnings
 
 
 The cumulative gain or loss arising from the operations which is retained by the Company is recognised and accumulated under 
surplus in the statement of profit and loss.
 
g) 
Revaluation surplus
 
 
 Revaluation surplus is excluded from free reserves and is not available for distribution of dividends to shareholders.
 
h) 
Equity instruments through other comprehensive income
 
 
 The Group has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in other comprehensive income. The Group 
transfers amounts from this reserve to retained earnings when the relevant securities are derecognised.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
395
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
19 Non-controlling interest (NCI) (#)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
4,165
3,163
Loss for the year
(529)
(5,057)
Other comprehensive income (**)
(4)
-
Total comprehensive income for the year
(533)
(5,057)
Capital contribution by non-controlling interest
-
38
Acquisition of non-controlling interest without a change in control
(136)
(707)
Distribution made to non-controlling interest
(26)
-
Equity contribution by non-controlling interest (including deemed equity)
24,219
-
Equity component of compound financial instruments of debentures and 
loan which are holding by non-controlling interest
-
6,728
Balance at the end of the year
27,689
4,165
 
 (**)The Group has elected to present ‘remeasurement of defined benefit plans’ as a part of retained earnings in accordance with 
option provided under Division-II to Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013.
 
(#)Refer note 52
20 Distribution made and proposed
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Final dividend on equity shares declared and paid
₹ 2 per share for the year ended 31 March 2024
4,623
-
₹ 2 per share for the year ended 31 March 2023
-
4,616
Details of proposed final dividend on equity shares (*)
₹ 2.5 per share for the year ended 31 March 2025
6,110
-
₹ 2 per share for the year ended 31 March 2024
-
4,623
 
 (*)Proposed dividends on equity shares are subject to approval at the annual general meeting and are not recognised as a liability as 
at the balance sheet date.
21 Borrowings
Particulars
Note
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Non current
Debentures (unsecured)
(A)
45,921
60,807
Term loans from banks and financial institutions
(B)(i)
4,40,351
4,64,988
Loans from related parties (unsecured)
(C)
13,435
-
Loans from others (unsecured)
(D)
2,721
7,456
Liability component of compound financial instruments
(E)
9
9
5,02,437
5,33,260
Less:
Current maturities of long term debt
- Debentures
(9,308)
(17,361)
- Term Loans
(56,994)
(27,243)
4,36,135
4,88,656
Brigade Enterprises Limited
396
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current
Current maturities of long term debt
- Debentures
9,308
17,361
- Term loans
56,994
27,243
Loan repayable on demand from banks (secured)
(B)(ii)
3,466
402
Loans from related parties (unsecured)
(C)
18,321
-
Loans from others (unsecured)
(D)
3,222
-
91,311
45,006
 
Note:
 
(A) Debentures
 
 
Unsecured debentures
Particulars
Number of instruments
Amount
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
12% A Series Fully Convertible 
Debentures of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(i))
2,37,55,200
2,37,55,200
23,755
23,056
12% A11 series Fully Convertible 
Debentures of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(i))
5,00,000
5,00,000
500
485
12% A12 series Fully Convertible 
Debentures of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(i))
15,00,000
15,00,000
1,500
1,456
12% E series Optionally Convertible 
Debenture of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(ii))
30,00,000
30,00,000
3,230
2,789
12% C series Non Convertible 
Debenture of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(iii))
25,00,000
25,00,000
2,500
2,426
12% C series Non Convertible 
Debenture of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(iv))
48,46,887
50,00,000
5,221
4,852
12% B Series Non Convertible 
Debenture of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(v))
15,00,000
15,00,000
1,500
1,456
12% B (II) series Non Convertible 
Debenture of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(vi))
35,00,000
35,00,000
3,500
3,397
0.01% A Series Non Convertible 
Debenture of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(vii))
1,53,920
1,53,920
92
132
12% B (I) series Non Convertible 
Debenture of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(viii))
41,22,748
50,00,000
4,123
4,853
12% A Series Non Convertible 
debentures of ₹ 10,00,000 each  
(refer note F(ix))
-
490
-
4,756
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
397
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Number of instruments
Amount
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
12% B Series II Non Convertible 
Debenture of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(x))
-
15,00,000
-
1,456
12% B Series Non Convertible 
Debenture of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(xi))
-
15,00,000
-
1,456
14.10% B Series Non Convertible 
Debenture of ₹ 10,00,000 each  
(refer note F(xii))
-
250
-
2,414
12% A Series Non Convertible 
Debenture of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(xiii))
-
30,00,000
-
2,912
12% A Series Non Convertible 
Debenture of ₹ 100 each  
(refer note F(xiv))
-
30,00,000
-
2,911
45,921
60,807
 
(B) Term loans
 
 
Interest rate: Below loans carry interest rate ranging from 7% to 10%
Particular
Security details
Principal repayment 
terms
As at
March 31 ,2025
As at
March 31 ,2024
(i)
Term loans from banks and financial institutions
Facility 1
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of monthly 
lease rentals accruing 
from Holding company's 
share of leasable area 
and car parks of the 
project.
b.  hypothecation of escrow 
balances
c.  equitable mortgage/
hypothecation of 
Holding company's share 
of leasable area and 
undivided share of land 
along with car parking in 
the project.
Repayable in 144 
monthly instalments 
commencing 
from date of first 
disbursement
2,967
3,314
Brigade Enterprises Limited
398
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particular
Security details
Principal repayment 
terms
As at
March 31 ,2025
As at
March 31 ,2024
Facility 2
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of monthly 
lease rentals from 
Holding company's share 
of leasable area of the 
project
b.  first charge over Holding 
company's share of 
leasable area and 
undivided share of land 
along with car parking in 
the project.
Repayable in 
120 monthly 
instalments after first 
disbursement
6,805
7,166
Facility 3
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of monthly 
lease rentals from the 
project and charge on 
escrow account
b.  equitable mortgage 
of land of the project 
together with building 
and other structure 
standing thereon.
Repayable in 180 
variable monthly 
instalments starting 
from the next month 
from the date of first 
disbursement
66,408
66,904
Facility 4
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of future 
lease rentals from 
the project in Holding 
company.
b.  equitable mortgage 
of identified floors of 
the project in Holding 
company
Repayable in 156 
graded monthly 
instalments
10,325
11,055
Facility 5
Repayment in 144 
graded monthly 
instalments
2,370
-
Facility 6
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of monthly 
lease rentals of the 
project in Holding 
company.
b.  equitable mortgage of 
the Holding company's 
share of commercial 
land and building of the 
project.
Repayable in 144 
monthly instalments.
-
2,505
Facility 7
Secured by way of
a.  equitable mortgage over 
leasehold rights over the 
project land along with 
charge over structures 
built/to be built for 
such project in Holding 
company.
b.  hypothecation of Holding 
company's share of 
receivables (both present 
and future) of the project
Repayable in four 
quarterly instalments 
after moratorium 
period of 30 months 
from date of first 
disbursement.
437
437
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
399
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particular
Security details
Principal repayment 
terms
As at
March 31 ,2025
As at
March 31 ,2024
Facility 8
Secured by way of
a.  assignment of lease 
rental receivables (both 
present and fuure) from 
unsold area in the project 
and proportionate area in 
multi level car parking
b.  equitable mortgage of 
building, proportionate 
share in land and multi 
level car parking of the 
project.
Repayable within 
144 months from the 
date of disbursement
49,702
52,682
Facility 9
Secured by way of
a.  charge over rent 
receivables from the 
project in Holding 
company.
b.  Equitable mortgage of 
Holding company’s share 
of commercial land in the 
project
Repayable in 173 
graded instalments 
post a 6 month 
moratorium period
6,549
7,029
Facility 10
Secured by way of
a.  Equitable mortgage over 
Group entity's share of 
land and fixed assets in 
Holding company.
b.  hypothecation of escrow 
balances, entire current 
assets and receivables 
(both present and future) 
of the project to the 
extent of the Holding 
company’s share
Repayable in 3 Equal 
quarterly instalments 
after a moratorium of 
3 years 9 months
101
101
Facility 11
Secured by way of :
a.  assignment of Holding 
company's share in lease 
rentals accruing from the 
project
b.  equitable mortgage of 
Holding company’s share 
in leasable area of the 
project along with the 
proprtionate share in land
Repayment in 120 
instalments after one 
month from the date 
of disbursement
1,191
1,841
Brigade Enterprises Limited
400
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particular
Security details
Principal repayment 
terms
As at
March 31 ,2025
As at
March 31 ,2024
Facility 12
Secured by way of:
a.  assignment of monthly 
lease rentals from 
Company’s share of 
leasable area of the 
project
b.  first charge over 
Company’s share of 
leasable area and 
undivided share of land in 
the project.
Repayable in 144 
equal monthly 
instalments from the 
date of disbursement
-
11,774
Facility 13
Repayable over a 
period of 12 years 
basis the utilisation
-
-
Facility 14
Secured by way of:
a.  assignment of monthly 
lease rentals from 
Company’s share of 
leasable area of the 
project
b.  first charge over 
Company’s share of 
leasable area and 
undivided share of land in 
the project.
Structured EMI 
payments over a 
span of 12 years
-
9,800
Facility 15
Secured by way of:
a.  assignment of monthly 
lease rentals from 
Company’s share of 
leasable area of the 
project
b.  first charge over 
Company’s share of 
leasable area and 
undivided share of land in 
the project.
Repayable in 144 
equal monthly 
instalments from the 
date of disbursement
9,028
-
Facility 16
Repayable over a 
period of 12 years 
basis the utilisation
1,015
-
Facility 17(*)
Secured by way of :
Equitable Mortgage of 
land admeasuring 67,015 
sqft at old Mahabalipuram 
road, Chennai together 
with all buildings owned 
by the Group entity and 
hypothecation on entire 
current assets and movable 
fixed assets of the Group 
entity.
Repayable with in 
29-84 installments
5,848
6,889
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
401
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particular
Security details
Principal repayment 
terms
As at
March 31 ,2025
As at
March 31 ,2024
Facility 18
Secured by way of :
a.  Mortgage of leasable area 
along with proportionate 
undivided share of 
project land in Group 
entity.
b.  Charge over receivables 
and hypothecation 
of current assets and 
movable fixed assets 
of the said property in 
Group entity.
Repayable in 162 
monthly instalments 
from October 2021 to 
March 2035
28,672
31,450
Facility 19
Secured by way of :
a.  Hypothecation of project 
receivables, current 
assets and movable fixed 
assets of the leased units 
of said property in Group 
entity and
b.  Equitable mortgage 
of land situated at 
Bangalore, in Group 
entity.
Repayable in 156 
monthly instalments 
from December 2022 
to November 2035
57,087
58,402
Facility 20
Repayable in 132 
monthly instalments 
after a moratorium 
period of 24 months 
from January 2026 
to Decemeber 2036.
14,051
14,051
Facility 21
Repayable in 120 
monthly instalments 
from April 2026 to 
March 2035.
10,000
-
Facility 22 
(*)
Secured by way of :
equitable mortgage of 
project land, building, 
movable property, plant and 
equipment and investment 
property and charge on 
deposits and future lease 
rentals from secured units in 
Group entity.
Repayable in 167 
monthly instalments 
from April 2025 to 
Feb 2039.
93,433
99,105
Facility 23 
(*)
Secured by way of :
first charge of all movable 
and immovable assets 
include current assets of the 
Group entity.
Repayable on or 
before completion of 
60 months (including 
moratoriumof 
12 months) from 
the date of first 
disbursement 
of the loan or 12 
months from the 
date of completion 
of construction of 
building whichever is 
earlier.
31,268
35,883
Brigade Enterprises Limited
402
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particular
Security details
Principal repayment 
terms
As at
March 31 ,2025
As at
March 31 ,2024
Facility 24
Secured by way of :
equitable moratgage of 
Lease rights of gift city and 
Hyothication of fixed assets 
of the projects both existing 
and future in Group entity.
Repayable in 144 
instalments
4,860
4,548
Facility 25 
(*)
Secured by way of :
first mortgage of hotel 
project properties, 
assignment of certain 
current assets and future 
receivables in Group entity.
Repayable over 
period of 13-102 
monthly instalments 
of ₹ 322-₹ 959 lakhs.
38,549
40,397
4,40,666
4,65,332
Less: Unamortised 
processing charges
(315)
(344)
4,40,351
4,64,988
(ii)
Loan repayable on demand from banks 
(secured)
Facility 26
Secured by way of :
mortgage of hotel project 
property, assignment of 
certain current assets and 
future receivables
Repayable on 
demand
3,389
-
Facility 27
Secured by way of :
hypothecation of entire 
current assets and nrovable 
fixed assets of the Company 
and land and building as 
collateral
Repayable on 
demand
77
402
3,466
402
 
 
(*)Facility consists of multiple loans.
(C) Loans from related parties (unsecured) (**)
Particulars
Non-current
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Loans from related parties
13,435
-
18,321
-
 
(**) These are unsecured, repayable over a period of 8-12 years with effective interest rate of 12% p.a.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
403
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(D) Loans from others (unsecured) (#) 
Particulars
Non-current
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Loans from others
2,721
7,456
3,222
-
 
(#)These are unsecured, repayable over a period of 8-12 years with effective interest rate of 12% p.a.
(E) Liability component of compound financial instruments 
Particulars
Number of instruments
Amount
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
0.01% Compulsorily Convertible Preference 
shares (CCPS) (unsecured)  
(refer note F(xv))
23,100
23,100
9
9
(F) Details of unsecured debentures and preference shares
Instrument Type
Face Value
Maturity Date
Redemption terms
(i)
12% A Series Fully 
Convertible Debentures
100
Mar 31, 2029
-  Mandatorily convertible into Class C 
equity shares at the expiry of 20 years 
from the date of its issue.
-  At any time prior to the expiry of 20 
years, 1 (one) A, A11 and A12 Series FCD 
each may be converted to 10 (Ten) 
Class C equity shares.
12% A11 Series Fully 
Convertible Debentures
12% A12 Series Fully 
Convertible Debentures
(ii)
12% E series Optionally 
convertible debentures
100
Nov 10, 2027
-  Mandatorily redeemable within a 
period of 5 years from the date of 
issue i.e., November 11, 2022
(iii)
12% C Series non 
convertible debentures
100
Nov 08, 2026
-  Mandatorily redeemable within a 
period of 5 years from the date of 
issue i.e., November 09, 2021
(iv)
12% C Series non 
convertible debentures
100
May 17, 2026
-  Non-convertible and mandatorily 
redeemable at the expiry of 5 years 
from the date of its issue i.e.,  
May 18, 2021
(v)
12% B Series non-
convertible debentures
100
Feb 17, 2026
-  Non-convertible and mandatorily 
redeemable at the expiry of 5 years 
from the date of its issue i.e.,  
February 17, 2020
-  Effective 14th February 2025, the due 
date of the instrument was extended 
to 17th Februrary 2026.
(vi)
12% B(II) Series non-
convertible debentures
100
Jan 16, 2026
-  Non-convertible and mandatorily 
redeemable at the expiry of 5 years 
from the date of its issue i.e.,  
January 16, 2021
(vii)
0.01% A Series Non 
convertible debentures
100
Dec 05, 2025
-  Non-convertible and mandatorily 
redeemable at the expiry of 5 
years from the date of its issue i.e., 
December 06, 2020.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
404
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Instrument Type
Face Value
Maturity Date
Redemption terms
(viii)
12% B(I) Series non-
convertible debentures
100
Aug 27, 2025
-  Non-convertible and mandatorily 
redeemable at the expiry of 5 years 
from the date of its issue i.e.,  
August 28, 2020
-  early redemption of part of B (I) Series 
Non Convertible Debenture on  
28th March 2025.
(ix)
12% A series non-
convertible debentures
10,00,000
Mar 19, 2025
-  Mandatorily redeemable at the 
expiry of 7 years from the date of its 
issue i.e., March 20, 2015 which was 
subsequently extended by a period of 
three years up to March 31, 2025
-  Redeemed on 19th March 2025
(x)
12% B (II) Series non-
convertible debentures
100
Dec 26, 2024
-  Mandatorily redeemable within a 
period of 5 years from the date of 
issue i.e., December 26, 2019
-  Redeemed on 26th December 2024
(xi)
12% B Series non-
convertible debentures
100
Sept 27, 2024
-  Mandatorily redeemable within a 
period of 5 years from the date of 
issue i.e., September 27, 2019
- Redeemed on 27th September 2024.
(xii)
14.10% B series non-
convertible debnetures
10,00,000
July 04, 2024
-  Mandatorily redeemable within a 
period of 7 years from the date of 
issue i.e., July 05, 2017
-  Redeemed on 04th July 2024
(xiii)
12% A series non-
convertible debentures
100
May 02, 2024
-  Mandatorily redeemable within a 
period of 5 years from the date of 
issue i.e., May 03, 2019
-  Redeemed on May 02, 2024
(xiv)
12% A series non-
convertible debentures
100
Apr 24, 2024
-  Non-convertible and mandatorily 
redeemable at the expiry of 5 years 
from the date of its issue i.e., April 24, 
2019
- Redeemed on 24th April 2024
(xv)
0.01% Compulsory 
Convertible Preference 
Shares
100
Mar 31, 2029
-  The holder of CCPS may at any 
time prior to the expiry of 20 years 
exercise the option to convert CCPS 
to Class C equity shares. 1 (one) CCPS 
would be converted to 10 (ten) Class 
C equity shares.
-  The Group has offered to convert  
the instrument on March 31, 2024  
and subsequently extended to  
March 31, 2029.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
405
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities:
Particulars
Borrowings (*)
Interest accrued and 
not due on borrowings
Lease 
liabilities
Total
As at April 01, 2023
4,54,879
21,557
8,566
4,85,002
Cash inflows
2,15,070
-
-
2,15,070
Cash Outflows
(1,26,876)
(57,975)
(2,362)
(1,87,213)
Net change in bank overdraft facilities 
forming part of cash and cash equivalents 
for statement of cash flow
(1,721)
-
-
(1,721)
Non-cash items
- Accretion of interest on lease liability
-
-
998
998
- Accretion of interest on loans
-
39,958
-
39,958
- Initial recognition of lease liability
-
-
6,131
6,131
- Other adjustments
(7,690)
-
-
(7,690)
As at March 31, 2024
5,33,662
3,540
13,333
5,50,535
Cash inflows
87,836
-
-
87,836
Cash Outflows
(97,046)
(46,715)
(1,716)
(1,45,477)
Net change in bank overdraft facilities 
forming part of cash and cash equivalents 
for statement of cash flow
3,064
-
-
3,064
Non-cash items
- Accretion of interest on lease liability
-
-
1,809
1,809
- Accretion of interest on loans
-
46,632
-
46,632
- Initial recognition of lease liability
-
-
6,046
6,046
- Other adjustments
(70)
-
(529)
(599)
As at March 31, 2025
5,27,446
3,457
18,943
5,49,846
 
(*)Includes both current and non current borrowings
22 Other financial liabilities
Non-current
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Lease deposits
12,967
16,336
35,594
25,312
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 
(refer note 21)
-
-
3,457
3,540
Capital creditors
-
-
16,960
14,982
Employee benefits payable
-
-
6,557
5,138
Corpus and maintenance deposits  
(interest free)
453
473
25,212
21,748
Others
24
-
696
530
13,444
16,809
88,476
71,250
Brigade Enterprises Limited
406
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
23 Provisions
Non-current
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for employee benefits
Gratuity (refer note 40)
236
124
785
297
Compensated absence
47
88
827
512
283
212
1,612
809
Other provisions
Provision for losses on long-term construction 
contracts (*)
-
-
90
55
Provision for law suits (refer note 37(c)(iii))
-
-
1,360
1,262
283
212
3,062
2,126
 
 (*) Represents provision made towards contracts in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed 
the economic benefits expected.
24 Income tax
The significant components of income tax expense for the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are -
A 
Amounts charged to statement of profit and loss 
Particulars
Year ended
31 March 2025
Year ended
31 March 2024
Current income tax:
Current income tax charge
30,292
20,099
Deferred tax:
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
(11,412)
(3,335)
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
18,880
16,764
B 
Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income
Particulars
Year ended
31 March 2025
Year ended
31 March 2024
Deferred tax credit on net loss on remeasurements of defined benefit plans
(119)
(12)
Income tax charge to other comprehensive income
(119)
(12)
C 
Reconciliation of tax expense
Particulars
Year ended
31 March 2025
Year ended
31 March 2024
Accounting profit before tax
86,927
56,868
Tax at statutory income tax rate 25.17% (March 31, 2024: 25.17% & 29.12%)
21,880
14,314
Impact of non-deductible expenses for tax purposes:
 
Disallowance u/s 80G
405
212
Impact on account of change in tax rate
448
1,843
Tax effect of deduction u/s 80IBA
(4,985)
-
Tax effect of other (non-taxable income)/ non-deductible expenses, net
1,132
395
Tax expense reported in the Statement of profit or loss
18,880
16,764
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
407
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
D 
Income tax assets (net)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Income tax assets (net)
10,564
9,582
10,564
9,582
E 
Current tax liabilities (net)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Provision for tax (net of advance tax)
716
1,220
716
1,220
Brigade Enterprises Limited
408
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
F 
Movement in deferred tax asset (net)
Particulars
At at 
April 01, 2023
Recognised in
profit and loss
Recognised in
OCI
Other 
equity
At at 
March 31, 2024
Recognised in
profit and loss
Recognised in
OCI
Other 
equity
As at 
March 31, 2025
Deferred tax asset
Impact of difference 
between tax 
depreciation and 
depreciation/
amortization charged 
for the financial 
reporting
950
(940)
-
-
10
131
141
Impact of 
expenditure/
income charged 
to the statement 
of profit and loss 
in the current year 
but allowed for 
tax purposes in 
subsequent years
12,296
(625)
29
-
11,700
2,182
126
-
14,008
Deferred tax on 
timing differences for 
revenue recognition
1,091
6,197
-
-
7,288
27,487
34,775
Unused tax losses
29,929
(1,677)
-
-
28,252
(2,181)
26,071
Others
-
263
-
-
263
(38)
225
44,266
3,218
29
-
47,513
27,581
126
-
75,220
Deferred tax liability
Impact of difference 
between tax 
depreciation and 
depreciation/
amortization charged 
for the financial 
reporting
7,405
(125)
-
-
7,280
8,609
-
-
15,889
Impact of accounting 
for financial 
instruments
2,182
(3,105)
-
2,218
1,295
5,544
-
-
6,839
Others
314
1,669
-
-
1,983
4,611
-
-
6,594
9,901
(1,561)
-
2,218
10,558
18,764
-
-
29,322
Net deferred tax 
asset
34,365
4,779
29
(2,218)
36,955
8,817
126
-
45,898
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
409
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
G 
Movement in deferred tax liabilites (net)
Particulars
At at 
April 01, 2023
Recognised in
profit and loss
Recognised in
OCI
Other 
equity
At at 
March 31, 2024
Recognised in
profit and loss
Recognised in
OCI
Other 
equity
As at 
March 31, 2025
Deferred tax asset
Impact of difference 
between tax 
depreciation and 
depreciation/
amortization charged 
for the financial 
reporting
208
350
-
558
(558)
-
-
-
Impact of 
expenditure/
income charged 
to the statement 
of profit and loss 
in the current year 
but allowed for 
tax purposes in 
subsequent years
5,461
40
(17)
5,484
(5,444)
(7)
-
33
5,669
390
(17)
-
6,042
(6,002)
(7)
-
33
Deferred tax liability
Impact of difference 
between tax 
depreciation and 
depreciation/
amortization charged 
for the financial 
reporting
5,555
510
-
-
6,065
(5,951)
-
-
114
Impact of accounting 
for financial 
instruments
5
1,236
-
-
1,241
(1,250)
-
1,352
1,343
Others
1,308
88
-
-
1,396
(1,396)
-
-
-
6,868
1,834
-
-
8,702
(8,597)
-
1,352
1,457
Net deferred tax 
liability
1,199
1,444
17
-
2,660
(2,595)
7
1,352
1,424
Brigade Enterprises Limited
410
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
24 Income tax (Cont’d)
H 
Reconciliation of deferred tax assets (net of deferred tax liabilities):
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
34,295
33,166
Deferred tax charge recognised in statement of profit and loss
11,412
3,335
Deferred tax (credit)/charge recognised in OCI
119
12
Deferred tax on compound financial instruments recognised through  
Other Equity
(1,352)
(2,218)
Balance at the end of the year
44,474
34,295
25 Other liabilities
Non-current
Current
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred revenue
- 
real estate contracts
862
873
7,26,343
5,77,818
- 
Leasing (~)
6,341
6,781
1,952
2,708
- 
Joint development arrangements (^)
-
-
1,40,379
1,14,516
Advance from customers
-
-
3,742
8,834
Statutory dues payable
-
-
5,173
3,771
Unclaimed dividend (*)
-
-
15
17
Other liabilities
-
-
292
245
7,203
7,654
8,77,896
7,07,909
 
 (^)represents amount recorded in respect of Joint development arrangements with land owners for land received in lieu of transfer 
of agreed percentage of constructed area/ revenue proceeds.
 
 (~)The deferred revenue relates to difference of present value of lease related security deposits received and actual amount received. 
This is released to the statement of profit and loss on straight-line basis over the tenure of lease.
 
 (*)Investor Education and Protection Fund shall be credited for unclaimed dividends when due.
26 Trade payables
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2025
Trade payables (*)
-  Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 15,025
 12,532
-  Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
63,552
63,475
 78,577
 76,007
 
 (*) Includes retention money payable to both MSME and others. Based on a legal opinion obtained by the management from an 
independent legal expert, amounts withheld / retained to meet future performance obligations under the defect liability arrangement 
is assessed to be due only on expiry of such defect liability period.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
411
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
i) 
Trade payables ageing schedule:
Not due
Outstanding for the following periods from  
due date of payment
Total
<1 Year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
 > 3 Years 
As at March 31, 2025
Undisputed dues - MSME
7,559
7,466
-
-
-
15,025
Undisputed dues - Others
31,799
28,385
654
847
1,867
63,552
Disputed dues - MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
39,358
35,851
654
847
1,867
78,577
As at March 31, 2024
Undisputed dues - MSME
3,951
8,581
-
-
-
12,532
Undisputed dues - Others
31,364
28,201
2,566
268
1,073
63,475
Disputed dues -MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
35,315
36,785
2,566
268
1,073
76,007
 
ii) 
 Disclosure required under Section 22 of Micro, Small and Medium Enterpsises Development 
Act, 2006 (MSMED Act, 2006)
 
 
 The information has been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of 
information available with the Group.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a)
the principal amount and the interest due thereon (to be shown 
separately) remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end of  
each accounting year;
- Principal
15,025
12,532
- Interest
-
-
(b)
the amount of interest paid by the buyer under MSMED Act, 2006 
along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier 
beyond the appointed day during each accounting year;
-
-
(c)
the amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in 
making payment (which has been paid but beyond the appointed 
day during the year) but without adding the interest specified 
under the MSMED Act, 2006);
-
-
(d)
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of 
accounting year; and
-
-
(e)
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even 
in the succeeding year, until such date when the interest dues as 
above are actually paid to the small enterprise, for the purpose 
of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under section 23 of 
MSMED Act 2006.
-
-
15,025
12,532
Brigade Enterprises Limited
412
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
27 Revenue from operations
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
A
Revenue from contracts with customers
i
Sale of products
Revenue from constructed properties and development 
activites
3,27,681
3,45,319
Revenue from interior works
5,644
2,207
3,33,325
3,47,526
ii
Sale of services
Hospitality services
51,905
45,152
Sales and marketing commission
3,263
2,832
Maintenance services
19,397
15,160
74,565
63,144
iii
Other operating revenue
Interest on delayed payments, cancellation charges and 
transfer fee
1,079
1,026
Advertisement income
807
629
Others miscelleneous income
2,131
1,411
4,017
3,066
Total (A)
4,11,907
4,13,736
B
Income from leasing
95,514
75,933
Total (A+B)
(A) + (B)
5,07,421
4,89,669
27.1  Disaggregated revenue information
 
 Set out below is the disaggregation of the Group’s revenue from contracts with customers by timing of transfer 
of goods or services.
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue from contracts with customers
- Recognised at a point in time
2,75,376
2,61,680
- Recognised over time
1,36,531
1,52,056
4,11,907
4,13,736
27.2 Contract balances
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Contract assets
Trade receivables
56,061
40,931
Unbilled revenue
190
723
Total Receivables
56,251
41,654
Contract liabilities
Deferred Revenue (#)
7,27,205
5,78,691
Liability under joint development agreement
1,40,379
1,14,516
Advance from customers (#)
3,742
8,834
Total contract liabilities
8,71,326
7,02,041
 
 (#)The Group expects to satisfy the performance obligations when (or as) the underlying real estate projects to which such performance 
obligations relate are completed. Such real estate projects are in various stages of development and are expected to be completed 
in the coming periods of up to four years.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
413
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
27.3 Significant changes in contract liabilies balance during the year as follows:
Particulars
Deferred revenue (*)
Liability under joint development 
agreement
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
5,87,525
5,29,684
1,14,516
1,37,136
Additions during the year (net)
4,14,403
3,15,263
89,943
68,495
Revenue recognised during the year
2,70,981
2,57,422
64,080
91,115
7,30,947
5,87,525
1,40,379
1,14,516
 
(*)Includes the advance from customer balance
27.4 Reconciliation of revenue recognised with contract revenue:
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Contract revenue
4,12,053
4,14,443
Adjustment
Discount
146
707
Revenue recognised
4,11,907
4,13,736
27.5 Unsatisfied long-term real estate contracts
 
 The performance obligation of the Group in case of sale of residential plots, villas, apartments, commercial 
space and development activites of such properties is satisfied once the project is completed and control is 
transferred to the customers. The customer makes the payment for contract price as per installment stipulated 
in customer’s agreement which can be cancelled by the customer for convenience.
 
 The transaction price of the remaining performance obligation (unsatisfied or partly satisfied) as at March 31, 2025 
is ₹ 14,28,530 lakhs (March 31, 2024 is ₹ 9,62,813 lakhs). The same is expected to be recognised within 1 to 4 years
27.6 Assets recognised from the costs to obtain or fulfil a contract with a customer
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Inventories
- Work-in-progress
7,42,891
6,81,117
- Stock of flats
1,36,125
85,446
Prepaid expenses
17,836
14,432
28 Other income
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest income from financial assets at amortized cost:
- Bank deposits
17,257
8,823
- Finance lease
317
633
- Others (including unwinding of discount on financial assets)
1,907
2,438
Other non-operating income
- Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
-
20
- Provision no longer required, written back
361
81
- Gain on sale of investments
1,044
374
- Gain on loss of control of subsidiary (refer note 47 (III))
265
-
- Others
2,782
4,377
23,933
16,746
Brigade Enterprises Limited
414
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
29 Cost of raw materials, components and stores consumed
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Inventory at the beginning of the year
 5,159 
 4,639 
Add: Purchases during the year
 50,984 
 41,414 
 56,143 
 46,053 
Less: Inventory at the end of the year
 (5,699)
 (5,159)
Cost of raw materials, components and stores consumed
 50,444 
 40,894 
30 Changes in inventories of stock of flats, land stock and work-in-progress
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Inventories at the end of the year
Work-in-progress
7,42,891
6,81,117
Stock of flats
1,36,125
85,446
Land stock
2,166
1,866
8,81,182
7,68,429
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Work-in-progress
6,81,117
6,51,756
Stock of flats
85,446
74,470
Land stock
1,866
1,866
7,68,429
7,28,092
Increase in inventories
(1,12,753)
(40,337)
Less: Transfer from inventories (work-in-progress)  
to investment property under development
(9,122)
(68,639)
Less: Transfer from inventories (work-in-progress)  
to capital work- in- progress
(9,598)
-
Add: Transfer from investment property under developement  
to inventories (work-in-progress)
-
27,863
Less: Transfer from inventories (stock of flats) to  
investment properties
(3,730)
-
Add: Addition to inventory pursuant to business combination  
(Refer note 47(I))
399
-
(1,34,804)
(81,113)
31 Employee benefits expense
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Salaries, wages and bonus
36,264
28,320
Contribution to provident fund and other funds
804
491
Equity settled share based payments (refer note 41)
839
1,143
Gratuity expense (refer note 40) (^)
199
206
Compensated absence expense (refer note 40)
431
205
Directors' sitting fees and commission (refer note 38)
308
221
Staff welfare expenses
2,289
1,624
41,134
32,210
Less: Capitalised to investment property under development
(661)
(223)
40,473
31,987
 
 (^)The Group has elected to present the net interest on net defined benefit liability which reflects the change in net defined benefit 
liability that arises from the passage of time under employee benefits expense.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
415
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
32 Finance costs (*)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest cost on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
- Borrowings
41,112
36,248
- Debentures (refer note 21)
6,703
7,101
- On loans from related parties
266
-
- On loans from others
2,259
3,576
- On lease deposit
2,428
2,286
- Lease liabilities
1,809
998
Other borrowing costs
- Letter of credit, bank guarantee charges etc.
1,280
1,747
55,857
51,956
Less: Interest capitalized (refer note 4(e) and 6(e))
(6,308)
(2,852)
49,549
49,104
 
 (*)Includes borrowing cost capitalised to inventories amountning to ₹ 5,837 lakhs (March 31, 2024: ₹ 4,086 lakhs). The capitalisation 
rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is the effective interest rate of the underlying 
borrowings i.e., 8.21% - 9.55% - (March 31, 2024: 8.5% - 9.12%)
33 Depreciation and amortisation expenses
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment ( refer note 3)
6,322
5,808
Depreciation on investment properties (note 5)
21,082
23,567
Amortisation of right-to-use assets (refer note 3 and 5)
1,323
626
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 7)
151
208
28,878
30,209
34 Other expenses
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
License fees and plan approval charges
14,765
4,614
Brokerage and discounts
11,454
7,632
Advertisement and sales promotion
10,571
6,849
Legal and professional fees
6,384
7474
Audit fees (*)
372
275
Repairs and maintenance:
 
Building
6,254
3,783
 
Plant and machinery
2,584
1,762
 
Others
3,866
2,803
Power and fuel
5,489
6,207
Architect and consultancy fees
5,364
3,704
Property tax
4,655
2,886
Rates and taxes
3,616
4,270
Brigade Enterprises Limited
416
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Security charges
3,560
3,082
Travelling and conveyance
2,831
2,221
Expected credit loss on financial asset
1,643
-
Donation (including CSR expenditure) 
1,260
818
Contribution to political parties (refer note 51(vii))
350
25
Insurance
635
513
Training and recruitment expenses
563
300
Property maintenance cost
530
567
Communication costs
502
421
Rent (refer note 39)
489
378
Printing and stationery
362
268
Impairment losses on trade receivable
251
163
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
102
215
Loans and advances written off
68
21
Exchange difference (net)
55
29
Bad debts written off
52
186
Provision for contract losses
35
-
Miscellaneous expenses
5,185
2,955
93,847
64,421
 
(*)Includes audit fees for all group entities
35 Earning per share
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Profit attributable to equity holders of Holding Company
68,576
45,161
Weighted average number of shares used in basic earnings per share  
(in lakhs)
2,386
2,309
Shares deemed to be issued for no consideration in respect of  
share-based payments (in lakhs)
5
6
Weighted average number of shares used in diluted earnings per share 
(in lakhs)
2,391
2,315
Nominal value of equity share (₹)
10
10
Earnings per equity (in ₹)
 
Basic
28.74
19.56
 
Diluted
28.68
19.51
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
417
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
36 Assets pledged as security (*)
 
The carrying amounts of assets pledged as security for borrowings are:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
72,971
65,104
Capital work-in-progress
2,019
7,168
Investment properties
3,88,790
3,27,868
Investment property under development
28,569
40,767
Financial assets
Other financial assets
Margin money deposits with banks
15,574
15,853
Other non current assets
Advance to suppliers
30
194
Capital advances
1,264
68
Sub total
5,09,217
4,57,022
Current assets
Inventories
36,237
30,507
Financial assets
(i) Trade receivables
7,296
4,135
(ii) Cash and cash equivalents
5,899
4,052
(iii) Bank balances other than Cash and cash equivalents
 
 Deposits with remaining maturity of more than 3 months but less than 
12 months
1,335
1,289
(iv) Other financial assets
 
Security deposit
736
42
 
Unbilled revenue
190
182
 
Other current assets
 
Advance to suppliers
519
261
Sub total
52,212
40,468
Total assets pledged
5,61,429
4,97,490
 
(*)includes Ind AS related adjustments.
37 Commitments and contingencies
a. 
Commitments
(i) 
 The estimated amount of contract (net of advance) remaining to be executed on capital account not provided 
for as as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Investment property
1,244
-
Investment property under construction
40,862
56,170
Capital work in progress
19,007
2,298
Total
61,113
58,468
(ii)  The Group has given ` 77,335 lakhs (March 31, 2024: ` 77,228 lakhs) as advances/deposits for purchase of land/
joint development. Under the agreements executed with the land owners, the Group is required to make further 
payments and/or give share in area/revenue from such development in exchange of undivided share in land 
based on the agreed terms/milestones.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
418
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(iii)  In connection with Holding Company’s investments in certain subsidiaries, the Holding Company has entered 
into shareholders agreement with other shareholders wherein it has certain commitments including further 
investment in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
(iv)  The Holding Company has entered into a power purchase agreement with a party wherein the holding company 
has committed minimum purchase of power.
b. 
Contingent liabilities
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts
- Income tax (#)
1,166
844
- Sales tax/ Value added tax/ Entry tax (#)
3,616
1,583
- Service tax (#)
4,103
4,767
Letter of credit and bank guarantees
8,524
6,109
Others (includes litigations under other statutory laws)
1,958
6,356
 
 (#)There are various disputes pending with the authorities of service tax/sales tax/income tax. The Group is contesting these demands 
raised by authorities and are pending at various appellate authorities and High courts. Based on the grounds of the appeals and advice 
of the independent legal counsels, the management believes that there is a reasonably strong likelihood of succeeding before the 
various authorities. Pending the final decisions on the above matter, no adjustment has been made in these consolidated financial 
statements
c.  Other Litigations:
(i) 
 The Holding Company has outstanding balance of ₹ 860 lakhs that are under litigation, out of the advances paid 
towards one Joint Development Agreement. The performance obligations under the said Joint development 
arrangement (JDA) are fulfilled hence the Holding Company initiated procedure for recovery of the balance 
advance and other recovery of additional costs as per terms of the said agreement with Landowner. However, 
Landowner has filed arbitration challenging the same and both parties have filed claims and counter claims. 
Based on the overall assessment and legal evaluation, the underlying advances are considered as good and 
recoverable by the Holding Company’s management.
(ii)  Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited (BHVL), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Holding Company has received a 
demand notice from the municipal authority assessing the property tax for certain hotel property for the period 
from financial year 2011-12 to financial year 2021-22 resulting in demand of ₹ 9,222 lakhs including interest and 
penalty thereon and BHVL has subsequently paid ₹ 4,603 lakhs under protest, which are provided for as at 31 
March 2025. During the current year, the net outstanding demand was revised from ₹ 4,121 lakhs to ₹ 2,874 lakhs 
for the financial year 2011-12 to financial year 2023-24 under One time settlement Scheme by a competent 
authority. BHVL has litigated the aforesaid matters, which is pending adjudication. BHVL is reasonably confident 
of a favourable outcome in respect of the aforesaid matter based on the management’s evaluation and the legal 
opinion obtained by the management. Pending ultimate outcome of the matter, no adjustments have been made 
in the accompyning consolidated financial statements.
(iii)  The Group had received a legal notice from a vendor demanding payment of compensation for procuring maximum 
permissible Floor Space Index for development of land parcels procured from the vendor. Subsequently, the 
vendor litigated the matter at the High Court of Judicature at Madras and an order dated June 9, 2023 was 
issued by the said High Court requiring the Group to pay compensation of ₹ 809 lakhs with interest of 12% per 
annum. The Group, on a prudent basis, has made provision of ₹ 1,360 lakhs and is in the process of appealing 
against the said order and is reasonably confident of a favourable outcome in respect of the aforesaid matter 
pending ultimate outcome of the matter, no further adjustments are required in the accompanying consoidated 
financial statements.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
419
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(iv)  Apart from the above, the Group is also subject to certain legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen in 
the ordinary course of business, including certain litigation for commercial development or land parcels held for 
construction purposes, either through joint development arrangements or through outright purchases. These 
cases are pending with various courts and are scheduled for hearings. After considering the circumstances 
and legal evaluation thereon, the management believes that these cases will not have an adverse effect on the 
consolidated financial statements.
 Note: The Group does not expect any reimbursement in respect of the above contingent liabilities and it is not 
practicable to estimate the timing of the cash outflows, if any, in respect of aforesaid matters and it is not probable 
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the above obligations/claims.
38 Related Party disclosures
I. Names of related parties and related party relationship
Enterprises having 
significant influence 
over the Group
Reco Begonia Pte. Ltd.
"RBPL"
Reco Iris Pte. Ltd.
"RIPL"
Reco Caspia Pte Ltd
“RCPL”
Krishna Priya Estates Private Ltd (From 16th Dec 2024)
“KPEPL”
Anushka Construction Private Ltd ( From 16th Dec 2024)
“ACPL”
Krisha Priya Realty LLP (From 16th Dec 2024)
KPRLLP”
Key management 
personnel  ("KMP")
Mr. M.R. Jaishankar, Chairman
Ms. Pavitra Shankar, Managing Director
Ms. Nirupa Shankar, Joint Managing Director
Mr. Amar Mysore, Executive Director 
Mr. Roshin Mathew, Executive Director
Mr. Pradyumna Krishna Kumar, Executive Director (From July 12, 2023)
Enterprises owned 
or significantly 
influenced by KMP
Mysore Holdings Private Limited
"MHPL"
Brigade Foundation Trust
"BFT"
Indian Music Experience Trust
"IMET"
M.R. Shivaram (HUF)
"MRS"
DP Square Foods (From July 12, 2023)
"DPS"
Vanantara
“Vanantara”
Brigade Enterprises Limited
420
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
II. Additional related parties as per Companies Act, 2013
KMPs:
- Chief 
Financial Officer
Mr. Atul Goyal (Up to February 16,2024)
Mr. Jayant Bhalchandra Manmadkar (From April 18, 2024)
Mr. Anand Natarajan (From October 01, 2024)
Mr. Sivaram N 
Mr. Ramcharan B
Mr. Chandrasekhar Reddy V (From January 21, 2025)
Mr.Manjunath C (From January 16,2025)
- Company 
Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
Mr. P. Om Prakash
Mr. Veerabhadra M Khanure
Ms. Akanksha Bijawat 
Mr. Vineet Dharmdas (Up to October 06, 2023)
Ms. Niddhi Parekh (Up to April 07, 2023)
Ms. Rashmi B V (Up to October 13, 2023)
Ms. Deepika Rao (From October 20, 2023)
Ms. P Shivaleela Reddy (Upto August 09, 2024)
Ms. Shipra Saha (From November 02, 2023)
Ms. Kavya P (From November 01,  2024)
- Manager
Mr. Manjunath Prasad
Mr. Arindam Mukherjee (Up to January 23, 2024)
Mr. Thirumanan R
Mr. Suresh B C
Mr. Balasubramanian MN (From January 25, 2023)
Mr. Gurmeet Singh (From January 27, 2023)
Mr. Rayan Aranha (From January 26, 2024 upto Oct 04, 2024)
Mr. Pravien KAR (From May 4, 2023 upto October 18, 2024)
Mr. Mohan A (From May 5, 2023)
Mr. Subrata K C Sharma (From Jan 16,2025)
38 Related Party disclosures (cont’d)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
421
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
II. Additional related parties as per Companies Act, 2013
Directors
Mr. Aroon Raman (Upto August 04, 2024)
Mr. Bijou Kurien
Mr. M.S. Ravindra
Ms. Lakshmi Venkatachalam
Ms. Meera Krishna Kumar
Mr. Pradeep Kumar Panja
Mr. Balaram Menon (Upto June 16, 2024)
Dr. Venkatesh Panchapagesan
Ms. Susan Mathew
Mr. Mohan Parvatikar
Mr. D M Purnesh
Mr. Vineet Verma
Mr. Velloor Venkatakrishnan Ranganathan
Ms. Padmaja Chunduru (From January 29, 2025)
Mr. Anup S Shah (From March 28, 2024)
Mr. Nakul Anand (From October 05, 2024)
Mr. Jyoti Narang (From May 10, 2024)
Mr.Avnash Amarlal (from Dec 16,2024)
Mr.Abraham George Stephanos (From May 28, 2024)
Mr.Sanjeev Sridharan (From November 08, 2024)
Mrs.R Visalakshi
Mr.Badri Palaniappan
Mr.Arun Kumar Ballari
Mr.Abhijeet Pai (From March 18, 2025)
Mr.Rahul Joshi (From March 18, 2025)
Mr.Hrishikesh Ramachandran Nair (From June 16, 2024)
Mr.Pavan Kumar Kakumanu (From May 09, 2024)
Relatives of KMPs/
Directors
Mrs. Umadevi
Mrs. Latha Shivram
Mrs. Githa Shankar
Mr. M R Krishna Kumar
Mrs. Nishi Goyal (Up to February 16, 2024)
Mrs. Reena Roshin Mathew
Mr. M.R. Shivram 
Mrs. Arthi D Vumidi
Mr. M.R. Gurumurthy
Mrs. Ekta Kukreja (From Dec 16, 2024)
38 Related Party disclosures (cont’d)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
422
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
III. Related party transactions and balances
 
The following table provides the total amount of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial year:
a. 
Sale/purchase of goods, services and capital assets and advances given
Particulars
Year
Transactions during the year
Balances as at the year-end
Revenue 
from 
operation
Other 
income
Purchase 
of 
services
Loan 
availed
Loan 
repaid
Advance 
received/
(paid)
Security 
deposit 
paid
ROU 
asset 
acquired
Interest 
on lease 
liability
Trade 
Receivable
Other 
Financial 
Asset
Trade 
Payable
Other 
current 
financial 
liabilities
Other 
current 
liabilities
Lease 
liability
Current 
loans
Enterprises owned or significantly influenced by KMP
MHPL
March 31, 2025
35
-
44
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
10
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
1,492
-
22
-
-
97
-
-
-
8
-
-
-
-
-
-
BFT
March 31, 2025
33
-
18
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
22
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
DPS
March 31, 2025
8
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
6
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
-
-
-
-
-
-
M.R. Shivaram 
(HUF)
March 31, 2025
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
123
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
IMET
March 31, 2025
7
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
8
-
-
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
7
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
7
-
-
-
-
-
-
Vanantara
March 31, 2025
1
-
72
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
9
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
35
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
March 31, 2025
84
-
134
-
-
-
-
-
-
8
-
19
4
-
-
-
Total
March 31, 2024
1,650
-
57
-
-
97
-
-
-
18
-
-
-
-
-
-
Enterprises having significant influence over the Group
KPEPL
March 31, 2025
-
385
-
-
-
(5,381)
-
-
-
-
7,189
-
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
March 31, 2025
-
385
-
-
-
(5,381)
-
-
-
-
7,189
-
-
-
-
-
Total
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
KMP and Other Directors
Mr. M R 
Jaishankar
March 31, 2025
2
18
40
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
375
-
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
2,995
36
-
-
-
1,525
-
-
-
2
375
-
-
-
-
-
Mrs. Pavitra 
Shankar
March 31, 2025
-
-
-
-
-
-
250
895
57
-
100
150
-
-
952
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mrs. Nirupa 
Shankar
March 31, 2025
1
-
-
-
-
-
250
895
57
1
100
150
-
-
952
-
March 31, 2024
11
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Vineet Varma
March 31, 2025
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
-
-
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Roshin 
Mathew
March 31, 2025
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
227
-
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
-
-
227
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
227
-
-
Mr. Amar Mysore
March 31, 2025
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
249
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
-
-
-
-
-
-
38 Related Party disclosures (cont’d)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
423
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Year
Transactions during the year
Balances as at the year-end
Revenue 
from 
operation
Other 
income
Purchase 
of 
services
Loan 
availed
Loan 
repaid
Advance 
received/
(paid)
Security 
deposit 
paid
ROU 
asset 
acquired
Interest 
on lease 
liability
Trade 
Receivable
Other 
Financial 
Asset
Trade 
Payable
Other 
current 
financial 
liabilities
Other 
current 
liabilities
Lease 
liability
Current 
loans
Mr.Pradeep 
Kumar Panja
March 31, 2025
-
-
-
-
-
53
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
53
-
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Avnash 
Amarlal, Director
March 31, 2025
-
-
-
17,413
24,700
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3,821
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
March 31, 2025
3
18
40
17,413
24,700
53
500
1,790
114
8
575
300
-
280
1,904
3,821
Total
March 31, 2024
3,255
36
-
-
-
1,752
-
-
-
10
375
-
-
227
-
-
Relatives of KMP
Mrs. Reena 
Roshin Mathew
March 31, 2025
-
-
11
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
11
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mrs. Githa 
Shankar
March 31, 2025
1
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
5
7
10
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
29
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
1
6
3
-
-
-
-
Mrs. Nishi Goyal
March 31, 2025
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
9
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mrs. Latha 
Shivram
March 31, 2025
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
427
-
-
-
-
973
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mrs. Arthi D 
Vumidi
March 31, 2025
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
247
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Mrs. Ekta Kukreja
March 31, 2025
-
-
-
100
5,300
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
March 31, 2025
1
-
11
100
5,300
-
-
-
-
5
7
-
10
-
-
-
Total
March 31, 2024
703
-
20
-
-
973
-
-
-
1
6
3
-
-
-
-
38 Related Party disclosures (cont’d)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
424
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
b. 
Remuneration and sitting fee paid to Promoters,Key managerial personnel and directors 
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Payable as at 
March 31, 2025
Payable as at 
March 31, 2024
Salary, Commission and Other benefits 
paid to
Promoters and Executive directors
2,874
2,181
1,801
1,401
KMP's and other directors
953
642
-
-
Director siiting fees and commission
309
220
124
120
c. 
Borrowings 
Particulars
Year
Transactions during the year
Balances as at the year-end
Loan 
availed
Loan 
repaid
Debentures 
redeemed
Interest on 
debentures, 
CCPS & 
loans
Debentures 
outstanding
Interest 
payable
Debt 
component 
of CCPS
Equity 
component 
of CCPS*
Non-
current 
loans
Current 
loans
Enterprises having significant influence over the Group.
RIPL
March 31, 2025
-
-
17,430
3,142
16,470
1,264
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
3,862
32,890
-
-
-
-
-
RBPL
March 31, 2025
-
-
-
482
3,000
230
-
-
-
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
337
2,789
-
-
-
-
-
RCPL
March 31, 2025
-
-
-
3,080
25,775
1,974
9
21
-
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
2,902
24,996
2,908
9
21
-
-
KPEPL
March 31, 2025
17,000
2,500
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
14,500
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
ACPL
March 31, 2025
16,000
2,500
-
232
-
-
-
-
9,842
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
KPRLLP
March 31, 2025
5,000
-
-
34
-
-
-
-
3,593
-
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
March 31, 2025
38,000
5,000
17,430
6,970
45,245
3,468
9
21
13,435
14,500
March 31, 2024
-
-
-
7,101
60,675
2,908
9
21
-
-
 
* Included in Non-controlling interest
d. 
Other transactions
 
1. 
 During the year, the Group has made donation to IMET - ₹ 161 Lakhs (March 31, 2024: ₹ 134 Lakhs).
 
2. 
 During the year, the Group has made donation to BFT of ₹ 913 Lakhs (March 31, 2024: ₹ 600 lakhs)
 
3. 
 The Holding Company has Paid ₹ 3,826 Lakhs (March 31, 2024: ₹ 1,867 Lakhs) to M.R. Jaishankar (HUF) 
towards the share of collections from Brigade Atmosphere Project (Joint Development Project).
 
4. 
 During the year, Mrs. Nirupa Shankar has contributed ₹ 10 lakhs towards capital contribution in BILLP (March 
31, 2024 : ₹ 24 Lakhs) and received ₹ 26 Lakhs as share of profit from BILLP (March 31,2024 :₹ Nil)
 
5. 
 The Group has entered into various reimbursement of expense and income transactions with related parties 
whereby the total reimbursement expenses received is ₹ 22 lakhs (March 31, 2024: ₹ 66 lakhs)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
425
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
6. 
 The Holding Company has paid the dividend to KMP’s and related parties as below:
Name of the person/company
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Mr. M R Jaishankar
 691 
 691 
Mrs. Githa Shankar
 561 
 561 
M R Jaishankar (HUF)
 - 
 83 
Mrs. Nirupa Shankar
 321 
 280 
Ms. Pavitra Shankar
 41 
 - 
Mr. Amar Mysore
 39 
 39 
Mr. P. Om Prakash
 - 
 0 
Mr. M R Krishna Kumar
 119 
 119 
Mr. M R Gurumurthy
 39 
 39 
Mr. M R Shivram
 55 
 55 
Mr. M R Shivram (HUF)
 61 
 61 
M/s MHPL
 126 
 126 
Mr. Roshin Mathew
 1 
 1 
Ms. A R Rukmini
 7 
 7 
Mr. Atul Goyal
 - 
 1 
Total
 2,061 
 2,063 
 
7. 
 The Holding Company has allotted shares to Enterprise Owned by KMP’s and related parties as below on 
exercise of share warrants and ESOP:
(Number of shares)
Name of the person/company
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Mr. Om Prakash
3,776
3,776
Mr. Atul Goyal
-
13,882
Mr. Pradyumna Krishnakumar
2,500
-
Mr. Roshin Mathew
5,000
8,000
e. 
Other information
1. 
 Outstanding balances of loans and advances at the year-end are unsecured and at rate of interest 
in the range of 8%-12% p.a. and settlement occurs in cash. There have been no guarantees provided 
or received for any related party receivables or payables, other than those disclosed above. 
The Group has not recorded any provision/ write-off of receivables relating to amounts owed by related parties.
2. 
 In respect of the transactions with the related parties, the Group has complied with the provisions of Section 
177 and 188 of the Companies Act, 2013, as applicable.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
426
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
39 Leases
A) Group as lessee
i) 
Set out below are the carrying amount of right-of-use assets recognised and movements during the year:
Right of use assets
Leasehold 
land
Building
Office 
equipment
Total
Opening net carrying balance -  
As at April 01, 2023
9,444
1,350
-
10,794
Additions to right-of-use assets
6,000
131
-
6,131
Amortisation charged for the year
(294)
(332)
-
(626)
Closing net carrying balance -  
As at March 31, 2024
15,150
1,149
-
16,299
Additions to right-of-use assets
1,790
4,523
334
6,647
Amortisation charged for the year
(536)
(704)
(83)
(1,323)
Derecognition of right-of-use assets
-
(506)
-
(506)
Closing net carrying balance -  
As at March 31, 2025
16,404
4,462
251
21,117
(ii) Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements during the year:
Particulars
Lease liabilities
Opening balance - As at April 01, 2023
8,566
Additions during the year
6,131
Accretion of interest
998
Payment of interest
(772)
Principal repayment
(1,590)
Closing balance - As at March 31, 2024
13,333
Additions during the year
6,046
Accretion of interest
1,809
Payment of interest
(1,347)
Principal repayment
(369)
Derecognisation of lease lability
(529)
Closing balance - As at March 31, 2025
18,943
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Non-current lease liabilities
18,133
12,975
Current lease liabilities
810
358
18,943
13,333
(iii) Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets
1,323
626
Interest expense on lease liabilities
1,809
998
Expense relating to short-term leases (included in other expenses)
489
378
Total amount recognised in profit and loss
3,621
2,002
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
427
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(iv) Amount recognised in statement of cash flow
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Total cash outflow for principal portion of leases
369
1,590
Total cash outflow for interest portion of leases
1,347
772
1,716
2,362
(v) Information about extension and termination options
Particulars
Number of 
leases
Range of 
remaining term 
(in years)
Average 
remaining 
lease term (in 
years)
Number of 
leases with 
extension 
options
Number of 
leases with 
purchase 
options
Number of 
leases with 
termination 
options
Building
11
2-9 years
19 years
1
-
6
Land
4
14-28 years
45.5 years
1
-
1
Plant and machinery
3
2-4 years
4 years
0
3
-
(vi) The maturity profile for lease liabilities has been provided in note 44 (c)
B) 
Group as lessor
(i) 
Operating Lease
 
Refer note 5 ‘Investment properties’ for details.
(ii) Finance leases
 
The Group had entered into an agreement for leasing of building fitouts and has recognised the following:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Revenue from finance lease (present value of lease payments discounted 
using interest rate of 12% per annum) (A)
6,542
633
Cost of underlying asset (B)
6,881
500
Selling profit/ (loss) (C) = (A) - (B)
(339)
133
Finance income on finance lease
317
72
 
Maturity analysis of lease payments receivable under finance lease:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Within one year
2,198
148
1-2 years
2,198
148
2-3 years
1,573
148
3-4 years
940
148
4-5 years
580
148
More than five years
-
148
Total undiscounted lease payments
7,489
888
Less: Unearned finance income
1,057
332
Net investment in lease
6,432
556
Brigade Enterprises Limited
428
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
40 Defined benefit plan - Gratuity
 
 The Group has gratuity as defined benefit retirement plans for its employees. The Group provides for gratuity 
for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in continuous service for 
a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity at the rate of 15 days basic salary for each year of service until the 
retirement age. As at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 the plan assets were invested in insurer managed funds.
 
It is exposed to the following types of risks:
 
 Interest rate risk: A fall in the discount rate which is linked to the Government Security rate will increase the 
present value of the liability requiring higher provision. A fall in the discount rate generally increases the mark 
to market value of the assets depending on the duration of asset.
 
 Salary risk: The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the future salaries 
of members. As such, an increase in the salary of the members more than assumed level will increase the 
plan’s liability.
 
 Investment risk: The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate which 
is determined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on government bonds. If the 
return on plan asset is below this rate, it will create a plan deficit. Currently, for the plan in India, it has a relatively 
balanced mix of investments in government securities, and other debt instruments.
 
 Asset liability matching risk: The plan faces the ALM risk as to the matching cash flow. Since the plan is invested 
in lines of Rule 101 of Income Tax Rules, 1962, this generally reduces ALM risk.
 
 Mortality risk: Since the benefits under the plan is not payable for life time and payable till retirement age only, 
plan does not have any longevity risk.
 
 Concentration risk: Plan is having a concentration risk as all the assets are invested with the insurance company.
 
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
429
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
40 Defined benefit plan - Gratuity (Cont’d)
 
 The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expenses recognised in the statement of profit and loss and the funded status and 
amount recognised in the balance sheet.
 
Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets - Year ended March 31, 2025
Gratuity
April 
01, 
2024
Expense charged to profit or 
loss
Benefits 
paid
Remeasurement gains/(losses) in other comprehensive income
Contributions 
by employer
March 31, 
2025
Service 
cost
Net 
interest 
expense/ 
(income)
Sub-total 
included 
in profit 
or loss
Return on 
plan assets 
(excluding 
amounts 
included in 
net interest 
expense)
Actuarial 
changes 
arising from 
changes in 
demographic 
assumptions
Actuarial 
changes 
arising from 
changes 
in financial 
assumptions
Experience 
adjustments
Sub-total 
included 
in OCI
Transfer 
In/(Out)
Defined benefit obligation
1,281
168
102
270
(96)
-
(8)
364
121
477
-
-
1,932
Fair value of plan assets
860
-
(71)
(71)
(88)
7
-
-
-
7
-
61
911
Net liability - Gratuity
421
168
31
199
(8)
(7)
(8)
364
121
470
-
(61)
1,021
 
Changes in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets - Year ended March 31, 2024
Gratuity
April 
01, 
2023
Expense charged to profit or 
loss
Benefits 
paid
Remeasurement gains/(losses) in other comprehensive income
Contributions 
by employer
March 31, 
2024
Service 
cost
Net 
interest 
expense/ 
(income)
Sub-total 
included 
in profit 
or loss
Return on 
plan assets 
(excluding 
amounts 
included in 
net interest 
expense)
Actuarial 
changes 
arising from 
changes in 
demographic 
assumptions
Actuarial 
changes 
arising from 
changes 
in financial 
assumptions
Experience 
adjustments
Sub-total 
included 
in OCI
Transfer 
In/(Out)
Defined benefit obligation
1,198
187
86
273
(90)
-
(3)
10
51
58
(158)
-
1,281
Fair value of plan assets
907
-
(67)
(67)
(67)
2
-
-
-
2
(138)
89
860
Net liability - Gratuity
291
187
19
206
(23)
(2)
(3)
10
51
56
(20)
(89)
421
 
The major categories of plan assets of the fair value of the total plan assets are as follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Fund Managed by Insurer
100%
100%
 
 The principal assumptions used in determining pension and post-employment benefit obligations for the Group’s plans are shown below:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount rate
6.5 % - 7.7 %
7.15%
Future salary benefit levels
6% - 12%
7.50 % - 12 %
Brigade Enterprises Limited
430
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption for Gratuity plan is as shown below:
Assumptions
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Discount rate
Further salary 
increase
Attrition rate
Discount rate
Further salary 
increase
Attrition rate
Sensitivity level
-1%
1%
-1%
1%
-50%
50%
-1%
1%
-1%
1%
-50%
50%
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
₹ lakhs
Impact on defined benefit 
obligation - Gratuity
2,302
2,034
2,057
2,268
2,978
2,408
1,828
1,642
1,649
1,816
1,922
1,793
 
 The sensitivity analysis above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation as a result of 
reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period.
 
The following payments are expected contributions to the defined benefit plan - gratuity in future years:
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Within the next 12 months
453
329
Between 2 to 5 years
1,211
959
Between 6 to 10 years
1,094
732
More than 10 years
1,077
643
Total expected payments
3,835
2,663
 
The average duration of the defined benefit plan - gratuity at the end of the reporting period is 6 years (Previous year: 6 years).
40 Defined benefit plan - Gratuity (Cont’d)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
431
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
Defined contribution plan
 
 The Group makes contribution of statutory provident fund as per Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous 
Provisions Act, 1952. The Group has recognized the following amounts in the Statement of Profit and Loss under 
defined contribution plan whereby the Group is required to contribute a specified percentage of the payroll 
costs to fund the benefits
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Employer’s contribution to provident fund
666
465
Employer's contribution to national pension scheme
138
26
804
491
 
Leave benefits
 
 An actuarial valuation of leave benefits is carried out by an independent actuary. Based on that, the Group is 
carrying a liability of ₹ 874 lakhs for the year ended March 31,2025 (As at March 31, 2024 : ₹ 600 lakhs)
 
 The current year expenditure charged to profit and loss account with respect to compensated absences is 
₹ 431 lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2025 (As at March 31, 2024: ₹ 205 lakhs)
 
 The principal assumptions used in determining pension and post-employment benefit obligations for the Group’s 
plans are shown below:
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount rate
6.50%
7.15%
Future salary benefit levels:
12.00%
7.50%
41 Share based payment
 
 The Holding Company provides share-based payment schemes to its employees. The relevant details of the 
schemes and the grants are as below:
 
 Employees Stock Option Scheme (‘ESOP 2017’): The Holding Company instituted this scheme pursuant to the 
Board of Directors and Shareholders’ resolution dated August 08, 2017 and September 21, 2017, respectively. 
As per ESOP 2017, the Holding Company granted 25,16,597 (till March 31, 2024: 25,16,597) options comprising 
equal number of equity shares in one or more tranches to the eligible employees of the Holding Company and 
its subsidiaries. The options would vest equally 25% every year with exercise period of five years from the date 
of respective vesting. The contractual life (comprising the vesting period and the exercise period) of options 
granted is 9 years from date of such grant.
 
 Employees Stock Option Scheme (‘ESOP 2022’): The Holding Company instituted this scheme pursuant to the 
Board of Directors and Shareholders’ resolution dated March 25, 2022 and May 4, 2022, respectively. As per ESOP 
2022, the Holding Company granted 13,37,658 (till March 31, 2024: 13,37,658) options comprising equal number 
of equity shares in one or more tranches to the eligible employees of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries. 
The options would vest equally 25% based on the individual performance every year, with exercise period of five 
years from the date of respective vesting. The contractual life (comprising the vesting period and the exercise 
period) of options granted is 9 years from date of such grant.
 
 The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using Black Scholes Model taking into account 
the terms and conditions upon which the share options are granted and there are no cash settled alternatives 
for employees.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
432
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
Expense recognised for employee services received during the year :
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Expense arising from equity settled share based payment transactions 
(net of reversals on account of forfeitures)
 - ESOP 2017
 224 
 125 
 - ESOP 2022
 615 
 1,018 
 839 
 1,143 
 
Movement during the year - ESOP 2017
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
No. of options 
(lakhs)
WAEP(*)
`
No. of options 
(lakhs)
WAEP(*)
`
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 
 2 
 167 
 5 
 167 
Granted during the year
 - 
 167 
 - 
 167 
Forfeited during the year
 - 
 167 
 - 
 167 
Exercised during the year
 (1)
 167 
 (3)
 167 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 1 
 167 
 2 
 167 
Exercisable at the end of the year
 1 
 167 
 1 
 167 
 
(*)Weighted Average Exercise Price (WAEP)
 
 For options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the exercise date was ` 1,155 per 
share (March 31, 2024:  ` 610). The weighted average remaining contractual life for the stock options outstanding 
as at March 31, 2025 is 3 years (March 31, 2024: 4 years)
 
 The Black Scholes valuation model has been used for computing the weighted average fair value considering 
the following inputs:
Grant 1
Grant 2
Grant 3
Grant 4
Grant 5
Grant 6-7
Grant 8
Dividend yield (%)
1.00%
1.00%
1.00%
1.00%
1.00%
0.00%
0.00%
Expected volatility (%)
35.00%
37.00%
35.00%
47.00%
56.00%
44.00%
41.00%
Risk-free interest rate (%)
6.00%
7.00%
7.00%
7.00%
6.00%
7.00% 
7.00% 
Weighted average share 
price (`)
 255 
 214 
 161 
 198 
 170 
 360 
 461 
Exercise price (after bonus 
issue) (`)
 167 
 167 
 167 
 167 
 167 
 167 
 167 
Expected life of the options 
granted (in years) [vesting 
and exercise period]
 7.50 
 7.50 
 7.50 
 7.50 
 7.50 
 7.50 
 7.50 
 
 The expected life of the stock is based on historical data and current expectations and is not necessarily indicative 
of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility 
over a period similar to the life of the options is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be 
the actual outcome.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
433
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
Movement during the year - ESOP 2022
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
No. of options 
(lakhs)
WAEP(*)
`
No. of options 
(lakhs)
WAEP(*)
`
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 
 11 
 395 
 13 
 395 
Granted during the year
 - 
 395 
 - 
 395 
Forfeited during the year
(1)
 395 
 (1)
 395 
Exercised during the year (**)
 (2)
 395 
 (1)
 395 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 8 
 395 
 11 
 395 
Exercisable at the end of the year
 5 
 395 
 1 
 395 
 
(*)Weighted Average Exercise Price (WAEP)
 
 (**)  For options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the exercise date was in the range of ₹1,082 per 
share (March 31,2024 : ₹1,061). 
 
 The weighted average remaining contractual life for the stock options outstanding as at March 31, 2025 is 7 years
 
 The Black Scholes valuation model has been used for computing the weighted average fair value considering 
the following inputs:
Grant 1
Dividend yield (%)
0%
Expected volatility (%)
41%-45%
Risk-free interest rate (%)
7%
Weighted average share price (`)
 1,082 
Exercise price (after bonus issue) (`)
 395 
Expected life of the options granted (in years) [vesting and exercise period]
 3.5 - 6.5 
 
 The expected life of the stock is based on historical data and current expectations and is not necessarily indicative 
of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility 
over a period similar to the life of the options is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be 
the actual outcome.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
434
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
42 Segment reporting
 
 The Group is organised into 3 Strategic Business Units (SBUs) based on risks and rates of return of the products 
and services offered by those SBUs as follows: Real Estate, Hospitality and Leasing. The management reviews 
operating results of SBUs separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and 
performance assessment. Also the Group’s financing (including finance costs and finance income) and income 
taxes are managed at corporate level and are not allocated to operating Segments. Transfer prices between 
operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
For the year ended March 31, 2025
For the year ended March 31, 2024
Real 
Estate
Hospitality
Leasing
Total
Real 
Estate
Hospitality
Leasing
Total
Revenue
External Customers
3,40,263
53,877
1,18,057
5,12,197
3,53,635
46,807
94,100
4,94,542
Inter-segment
(872)
(689)
(3,215)
(4,776)
(554)
(546)
(3,773)
(4,873)
Total Revenue
3,39,391
53,188
1,14,842
5,07,421
3,53,081
46,261
90,327
4,89,669
Expenses
Depreciation and amortisation 
expenses
1,276
5,686
21,887
28,849
1,018
5,150
24,012
30,180
Add: Unallocable amount
29
29
28,878
30,209
Segment Profit
65,003
12,462
58,294
1,35,759
50,029
11,235
45,879
1,07,143
Add: Other income (including 
interest income)
23,933
16,746
Less: Finance costs
(49,549)
(49,104)
Less: Other unallocable 
expenditure
(23,216)
(17,917)
Profit before tax
86,927
56,868
Segment Assets
11,99,973
1,10,111
6,05,636
19,15,720
10,33,025
94,273
4,89,238
16,16,536
Add: Investments
4,072
4,966
Add: Deferred tax assets (net)
45,898
36,955
Add: Loans
240
240
Add: Cash and cash equivalents 
and bank balances other than cash 
and cash equivalents
1,80,282
70,766
Add: Margin money deposits with 
banks
18,594
28,920
Add: Assets for current tax (net)
10,564
9,582
Add: Other unallocable assets
33,634
20,657
22,09,004
17,88,622
Segment Liabilities
9,56,075
25,200
82,931
10,64,206
7,86,169
22,873
68,309
8,77,351
Add: Borrowings
5,27,446
5,33,662
Add: Deferred tax liabilities (net)
1,424
2,660
Add: Statutory dues payable
5,173
3,771
Add: Liabilities for current tax (net)
716
1,220
Add: Employee benefits payable
6,557
5,138
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
435
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
For the year ended March 31, 2025
For the year ended March 31, 2024
Real 
Estate
Hospitality
Leasing
Total
Real 
Estate
Hospitality
Leasing
Total
Add: Other unallocable liabilities
11,948
9,039
16,17,470
14,32,841
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure (Accrued)
2,952
20,357
1,16,452
1,39,761
1,125
11,878
17,437
30,440
 
 The Group is domiciled in India. The Group’s revenue from operations from external customers primarily relate to operations in India 
and all the non-current assets of the Group are located in India.
43 Fair value measurements
 
 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be 
exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. There have 
been no transfers between levels during the period.
a) 
The carrying amounts of ﬁnancial instruments by categories is as follows:
Particulars
Note
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
FVTOCI
Fair value 
through 
profit or loss
At 
amortised 
cost
FVTOCI
Fair value 
through 
profit or loss
At 
amortised 
cost
Financial assets
Investments
9
411
3,661
-
261
4,705
-
Trade receivables
14
-
-
62,912
-
-
49,971
Loans
11
-
-
240
-
-
240
Cash and bank balances
15 and 16
-
-
3,26,100
-
-
1,73,727
Other financial assets
10
-
-
75,968
-
-
74,319
Total
411
3,661 4,65,220
261
4,705
2,98,257
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
21
-
-
5,27,446
-
-
5,33,662
Lease liabilities
39
-
-
18,943
-
-
13,333
Trade payables
26
-
-
78,577
-
-
76,007
Other financial liabilities
22
-
-
1,01,920
-
-
88,059
Total
-
-
7,26,886
-
-
7,11,061
 
Note:
 
 The management assessed that the carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, current 
investments, current loans, trade payables, current borrowings and other current financial assets and liabilities 
approximate their fair values largely due to the short-term maturities.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
436
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
b) 
Fair value hierarchy
 
 Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value in the financial statement and are grouped into 
three levels of fair value hierarchy. The three levels are defined based on the observability of significant inputs 
to the measurement, as follows:
 
 Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity 
can access at the measurement date.
 
 Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or 
liability, either directly or indirectly.
 
Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
 
There have been no transfers between the levels during the year
 
The details of fair value measurement of Group’s financial assets/liabilities are as below:
Carrying value
Level
Fair value
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Investment property (disclosure)
4,08,102
3,65,719
Level 3
11,73,764
11,23,668
Financial assets measured at FVTPL:
Investment in quoted investments - 
mutual funds
3,661
4,705
Level 2
3,661
4,705
Financial assets measured at FVTOCI:
Investment in unquoted equity shares
133
129
Level 3
133
129
Investment in unquoted compulsorily 
convertible preference shares
253
132
Level 3
253
132
Investment in unquoted equity 
instruments of other companies
25
-
Level 3
25
-
 
Note:
 
Valuation technique used to determine fair value
 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:
• Refer note 5 with respect to investment properties
• The quoted investments (mutual funds) are valued using the quoted market prices in active markets.
• The fair values of the unquoted equity shares have been estimated using a DCF model. The valuation requires 
management to make certain assumptions about the model inputs, including forecast cash flows, discount 
rate, credit risk and volatility. The probabilities of the various estimates within the range can be reasonably 
assessed and are used in management’s estimate of fair value for these unquoted equity investments.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
437
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
44 Financial risk management objectives and policies
 
 The Group’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, trade and other payables. 
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group’s principal financial 
assets include trade receivables, cash and bank balances and other receivables that derive directly from 
its operations.
 
The Group’s activities expose it to market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk, as detailed below:
Risk
Exposure arising from
Measurement
Credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, other bank 
balances, trade receivables, loans and 
other financial assets
Ageing analysis and recoverability 
assessment
Liquidity risk
Borrowings, trade payables, lease 
liabilities and other financial liabilities
Rolling cash flow forecasts
Market risk – Interest rate
Borrowings and bank deposits
Sensitivity analysis
Market risk – Price risk
Investment in mutual funds
Sensitivity analysis
a) 
Market risk
 
 Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of 
changes in market prices. Market risk comprises two types of risk: (i) interest rate risk and (ii) other price risk. 
Financial instruments affected by market risk includes borrowings and investments in mutual funds.
i) 
Interest rate risk
 
 Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in market interest rates.
1) 
Liabilities
 
 The Group’s fixed rate borrowings are carried at amortised cost. They are therefore not subject to interest rate 
risk as defined in Ind AS 107, since neither the carrying amount nor the future cash flows will fluctuate because 
of a change in market interest rates. The Group’s variable rate borrowing is subject to interest rate fluctuations. 
Below is the overall exposure of the borrowing:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Variable rate borrowing
4,43,740
4,64,988
Fixed rate borrowing
83,706
68,674
5,27,446
5,33,662
 
Interest rate sensitivity
 
Profit or loss is sensitive to higher/lower interest expense from borrowings as a result of changes in interest rates.
Change in interest rate
Effect of profit before tax (*)
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest rates – increase by 100 basis points (+ 1 %)
(4,437)
(4,650)
Interest rates – decrease by 100 basis points (- 1 %)
4,437
4,650
 
 (*) Determined on gross basis without considering i.e., the inventorisation and capitalisation of such borrowing costs.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
438
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
2 
Assets
 
 The Group’s fixed deposits, interest bearing security deposits and loans are carried at fixed rate. Therefore, the 
said assets are not subject to interest rate risk as defined in Ind AS 107, since neither the carrying amount nor 
the future cash flows will fluctuate because of a change in market interest rates.
ii) 
Price risk
 
 The Group invests surplus funds in liquid mutual funds. The Group is exposed to market price risk arising from 
uncertainties about future values of the investment. The Group manages the equity price risk through investing 
surplus funds in liquid mutual funds for short term basis.
 
 The table below summarises the impact of increase/decrease of the Net Asset Value (NAV) on the profit for the 
year. The analysis is based on the assumption that the NAV price would increase 5% and decrease by 5% with 
other variable constant.
Particulars
Effect of profit before tax
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Price increase by 5% -FVTPL
183
235
Price decrease by 5% -FVTPL
(183)
(235)
b) 
Credit risk
 
 Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer 
contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk primarily from trade receivables (net 
of advances/ payables), refundable deposits under joint development arrangements (JDA), security deposits, 
cash and bank balances, loans, investment carried at amortised cost and other financial assets. The Group 
continuously monitors defaults of customers and other counterparties and incorporates this information into 
its credit risk controls. The carrying amounts of financial assets, unbilled revenue and contract assets represent 
the maximum credit exposure.
 
Credit risk rating
 
 The Group assesses and manages credit risk based on internal credit rating system. Internal credit rating is 
performed for each class of financial instruments with different characteristics. The Group assigns the following 
credit ratings to each class of financial/ contract assets based on the assumptions, inputs and factors specific 
to the class of financial/ contract assets.
 
i) 
Low credit risk
 
ii) 
Moderate credit risk
 
iii) 
High credit risk
 
The Group provides for expected credit loss based on the following:
Category
Asset class exposed to credit risk
Allowance for expected credit loss
Low credit risk/ medium 
credit risk
Cash and bank balances, trade 
receivables, loans, investments 
measured at amortised cost, 
refundable deposits under JDA and 
other financial assets.
12 months expected credit loss or 
specific allowance whichever is higher/ 
lifetime expected credit loss
High credit risk
Refundable deposits under JDA
Life time expected credit loss or 
specific allowance
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
439
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
 Based on business environment in which the Group operates, a default on a financial asset is considered when 
the counter party fails to make payments within the agreed time period as per contract. Loss rates reflecting 
defaults are based on actual credit loss experience and considering differences between current and historical 
economic conditions.
 
Credit risk management
 
(i) 
 Credit risk related to cash and bank balance (including bank deposits) is managed by only accepting highly 
rated banks and diversifying bank deposits and hence evaluated to be very low.
 
(ii)  The Group’s trade receivables in respect of real estate segment does not have any expected credit loss 
since the handover/ possession of residential/commercial units to the customers in case of real estate 
arrangements is not processed till the time the Group collects the entire receivables. Given the nature of 
leasing business operations, the Group’s trade receivables has low credit risk as the Group holds security 
deposits equivalents ranging from three to six months rentals. Further, historical trends indicate any shortfall 
between such deposits held by the Group and amounts due from customers have not been material.
 
(iii)  The Group is subject to credit risk in relation to refundable deposits given under joint development 
arrangements. The management considers that the risk is low as it is in the possession of the land and the 
property share that is to be delivered to the land owner under the joint development arrangements.
 
(iv)  Other financial assets includes investments in debt instruments in subsidiaries, loans to subsidiaries and 
joint ventures, and others. Credit risk related to these other financial assets is managed by monitoring the 
recoverability of such amounts continuously, while at the same time internal control system are in place 
ensure the amounts are within defined limits.
 
Reconciliation of loss allowance provision - Trade receivables and other financial assets
 
The following table summarizes the change in the loss allowance measured using ECL
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Trade 
receivables
Other financial 
assets
Trade 
receivables
Other financial 
assets
Opening loss allowance
826
-
663
-
Allowance for expected credit loss (net)
251
1,643
163
-
Closing loss allowance
1,077
1,643
826
-
c) 
Liquidity risk
 
 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with 
its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group’s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when 
they are due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking 
damage to the Group’s reputation.
 
 The Group has an established liquidity risk management framework for managing its short term, medium term 
and long term funding and liquidity management requirements. The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk arises 
primarily from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities. The Group manages the liquidity 
risk by maintaining adequate funds in cash and cash equivalents. The Group also has adequate credit facilities 
agreed with banks to ensure that there is sufficient cash to meet all its normal operating commitments in a 
timely and cost-effective manner.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
440
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
 
 The break-up of cash and cash equivalents, deposits and investments is as below.
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Cash and cash equivalents
1,86,996
57,425
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
1,39,104
1,16,302
Margin money deposits with banks
18,594
17,840
Investments
3,661
4,705
3,48,355
1,96,272
 
 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at the reporting date. The 
amounts are based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Particulars
Less than 
1 year
1 to 5 years
More than 
5 years
Total
As at March 31, 2025
Borrowings
2,61,938
6,56,700
6,52,011
15,70,649
Trade payables
78,577
-
-
78,577
Other financial liabilities
88,476
13,444
1,01,920
Lease liability
2,985
7,764
37,308
48,057
As at March 31, 2024
Borrowings
82,602
3,11,153
4,23,142
8,16,897
Trade payables
76,007
76,007
Other financial liabilities
71,250
16,809
88,059
Lease liability
1,031
5,428
31,652
38,111
45 Capital management
 
 The Group’s objectives of capital management is to maximize the shareholder value. In order to maintain or adjust 
the capital structure, the Group may adjust the return to shareholders, issue/ buyback shares or sell assets to 
reduce debt. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic 
conditions and the requirements of the financial covenants.
 
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total equity plus net debt as below:
• Equity includes equity share capital and all other equity components attributable to the equity holders
• Net debt includes borrowings (non-current and current) less cash and other bank balance.
 
 In order to achieve the objective of maximize shareholders value, the Group’s capital management, amongst 
other things, aims to ensure that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing borrowings that 
define capital structure requirements. Any significant breach in meeting the financial covenants would allow the 
bank to call borrowings. There have been no breaches in the financial covenants of borrowings.
 
 No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the current / 
previous year.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
441
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Particulars
Note
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Borrowings (non-current and current)
21
5,27,446
5,33,662
Less: Cash and other bank balances
15 and 16
(3,26,100)
(1,73,727)
Net debt (A)
2,01,346
3,59,935
Equity share capital
17
24,437
23,110
Other equity
18
5,39,408
3,28,505
Equity (B)
5,63,845
3,51,615
Debt equity ratio for the purpose of capital management (A/B)
36%
102%
46 Group Information
 
 As on March 31, 2025, the holding company has 25 subsidiaries (including step down subsidiaries and 1 joint 
venture, as detailed below)
(a) Subsidiaries
Name of the entity
Principal activities
Country of 
Incorporation / 
Principal place of 
business
% Equity interest held by
the Group
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
BCV Developers Private Limited 
(Refer note below)
Real Estate Development
India
68.76%
67.04%
Brigade Properties Private 
Limited
Real Estate Development
India
51%
51%
Perungudi Real Estates Private 
Limited
Real Estate Development
India
51%
51%
SRP Prosperita Hotel Ventures 
Limited
Hospitality Services
India
50.01%
50.01%
Brigade Hospitality Services 
Limited
Hospitality Services
India
100%
100%
Celebrations Private 
Ltd (Formerly known as 
Celebrations LLP)
Hospitality Services
India
100%
100%
Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited
Hospitality Services
India
100%
100%
Augusta Club Private Limited
Hospitality Services
India
100%
100%
WTC Trades and Projects 
Private Limited
Real Estate Management
India
100%
100%
Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited
Real Estate Development
India
100%
100%
Brigade Estates and Projects 
Private Limited
Real Estate Development
India
100%
100%
Brigade Infrastructure and 
Power Private Limited
Real Estate Development
India
100%
100%
Brigade (Gujarat) Projects 
Private Limited
Real Estate Development
India
100%
100%
Mysore Projects Private Limited
Real Estate Development
India
100%
100%
Brigade Innovations, LLP
Real Estate Development
India
94%
94%
Brigade Flexible office Spaces 
Private Limited (Formerly 
known as Brigade Flexible 
office Spaces LLP)
Real Estate Development
India
100%
100%
Tetrarch Developers Limited
Real Estate Development
India
100%
100%
Brigade Enterprises Limited
442
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Name of the entity
Principal activities
Country of 
Incorporation / 
Principal place of 
business
% Equity interest held by
the Group
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Vibrancy Real Estates Private 
Limited
Real Estate Development
India
100%
100%
Venusta Ventures Private Limited
Real Estate Development
India
100%
100%
Zoiros Projects Private Limited 
(Till March 18, 2025) (*)
Real Estate Development
India
50%
100%
Propel Capital Ventures LLP
Real Estate Development
India
94%
94%
Tetrarch Real Estates Private 
Limited
Real Estate Development
India
100%
100%
Tandem Allied Services Private 
Limited
Real Estate Management
India
100%
100%
BCV Real Estates Private 
Limited (Refer note below)
Real Estate Development
India
68.76%
67.04%
Ananthay Properties Private 
Limited (w.e.f December 16, 2024)
Real Estate Development
India
51%
NA
Brigade HRC LLP  
(w.e.f July 26, 2024)
Real Estate Development
India
67%
NA
 
(*)Refer note 47(III)
(b)
Name of the entity
Principal activities
Country of 
Incorporation / 
Principal place of 
business
% Equity interest held by
the Group
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
BCV Developers Private Limited 
(refer note below)
Real Estate Development
India
31.24%
32.96%
Brigade Properties Private 
Limited
Real Estate Development
India
49%
49%
Perungudi Real Estates Private 
Limited
Real Estate Development
India
49%
49%
SRP Prosperita Hotel Ventures 
Limited
Hospitality Services
India
49.99%
49.99%
BCV Real Estates Private 
Limited (refer note below)
Real Estate Development
India
31.24%
32.96%
Brigade Innovations, LLP
Real Estate Development
India
6%
6%
Propel Capital Ventures LLP
Real Estate Development
India
6%
6%
Ananthay Properties Private 
Limited  
(w.e.f December 16, 2024)
Real Estate Development
India
49%
NA
Brigade HRC LLP  
(w.e.f July 26, 2024)
Real Estate Development
India
33%
NA
 
 Note: The Holding Company has acquired additional 1.72% stake during the year ended March 31, 2025 (17.03 % during the year ended 
March 31, 2024) from the erstwhile shareholders, thereby increasing the total shareholding to 68.76 % at a consideration of ₹ 274 
lakhs (to 67.04% at a consideration of ₹ 2,756 lakhs during the year ended March 31, 2024)
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
443
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
(c) Financial information of subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests:
BCV Developers 
Private Limited
Brigade Properties 
Private Limited
Perungudi Real 
Estates Private 
Limited
SRP Prosperita 
Hotel Ventures 
Limited
BCV Real Estates 
Private Limited
Brigade 
Innovations, LLP
Propel Capital 
Ventures LLP
Ananthay 
Properties Private 
Limited (w.e.f 16th 
Dec 2024)
Brigade HRC LLP 
(w.e.f 26th Jul 
2024)
As at 
March 31, 
2025
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 
2025
As at 
March 31, 
2024
As at 
March 
31, 2025
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2025
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2025
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2025
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2025
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2025
As at 
March 
31, 2024
As at 
March 
31, 2025
As at 
March 
31, 2024
(i) Summary of assets and liabilities
Current assets
86,214
71,087
22,029
32,177
81,266
87,389
643
859
9
10
259
295
1
0
72,610
-
156
-
Non-current assets
16,851
18,147
1,21,154
1,28,895
1,44,393
1,48,470
12,491
13,047
-
-
401
268
-
-
-
-
20,544
-
Current liabilities
(66,415)
(43,872)
(22,537)
(44,057)
(81,037)
(72,339)
(2,130)
(2,399)
-
(3)
(27)
(27)
(1)
(1)
(18,328)
-
(1)
-
Non-current 
liabilities
(16,027)
(25,016)
(1,32,204)
(1,28,829)
(1,49,128) (1,66,269)
(4,857)
(6,055)
-
-
-
(2)
-
-
(42,514)
-
-
-
Total Equity
20,623
20,346
(11,558)
(11,814)
(4,506)
(2,749)
6,147
5,452
9
7
633
534
-
(1)
11,768
-
20,699
-
Attributable to:
Equity holders of 
the parent
9,540
9,216
(4,984)
(5,158)
(2,343)
(1,676)
5,127
4,777
9
6
534
445
-
(1)
7,577
-
666
-
Non-Controlling 
Interests
11,083
11,130
(6,574)
(6,656)
(2,163)
(1,073)
1,020
675
-
1
99
89
-
0
4,191
-
20,033
-
20,623
20,346
(11,558)
(11,814)
(4,506)
(2,749)
6,147
5,452
9
7
633
534
-
(1)
11,768
-
20,699
-
(ii) Summary of profit and loss
Year 
Ended 
March 31, 
2025
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2024
Year 
Ended 
March 31, 
2025
Year 
Ended 
March 31, 
2024
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2025
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2024
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2025
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2024
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2025
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2024
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2025
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2024
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2025
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2024
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2025
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2024
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2025
Year 
Ended 
March 
31, 2024
Total Income
 23,384 
35,606 
 30,957 
 28,273  36,332  39,406 
 6,525 
 5,925 
 - 
 - 
 999 
 243 
 - 
 - 
 49 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Profit/(loss) for the 
year
281
 (1,665)
 168 
 (5,096)
(2,219)
 (5,207)
694
 1,254 
 - 
 - 
 444 
 (112)
 (1)
 (1)
 30 
 - 
 (1)
 - 
Total 
comprehensive 
income
 277 
 (1,658)
 168 
 (5,096)
(2,219)
 (5,207)
695
 1,257 
 - 
 - 
 364 
 (87)
 (1)
 (1)
 30 
 - 
 (1)
 - 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of 
the parent
188
 (1,027)
 86 
 (2,599)
(1,131)
 (2,656)
348
 630 
 - 
 - 
 342 
 (82)
 (1)
 (1)
 15 
 - 
 (1)
 - 
Non-Controlling 
Interests
 89 
 (631)
 82 
 (2,497)
 (1,088)
 (2,551)
 347 
 627 
 - 
 - 
 22 
 (5)
 - 
 (0)
 15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
277
 (1,658)
 168 
 (5,096)
(2,219)
(5,207)
695
 1,257 
 - 
 - 
 364 
 (87)
 (1)
 (1)
 30 
 - 
 (1)
 - 
(iii) Summary of cash flows
Net cash inflow/
(outflow) during 
the year
 4,472 
 560 
 (8,262)
 6,814  (2,534)
 13,416 
 218 
 (147)
 (1)
 (9)
 (33)
 122 
 0 
 (0)
 160 
 - 
 154 
 - 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
444
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
47 Acquisition & Incorporation of Subsidiaries -
 
I 
Acquisition of Subsidiary - Ananthay Properties Private Limited (‘APPL’)
 
 
 On 16 December 2024, the Holding Company, through its wholly owned subsidiaries Mysore Projects Private 
Limited (MPPL) & Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited (BTPL) invested a sum of ₹ 186 lakhs and ₹ 8 lakhs into 
18.62 lakhs (49%) and 0.76 lakhs (2%) equity shares respectively of ₹ 10 each of Ananthay Properties Private 
Limited (APPL) to undertake development of real estate projects. Pursuant to such investment, APPL has 
become a majority owned subsidiary of the group with effect from the aforesaid date.
 
II 
Incorporation of Subsidiary - Brigade HRC LLP (‘HRC’)
 
 
 On July 26, 2024, Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited (BTPL), wholly owned subsidiary of the Holding Company 
has entered into Limited Liability Partnership agreement and has incorporated Brigade HRC LLP (HRC LLP) 
the Limited Liability Partenrship Firm under The Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008 with profit/(loss) 
sharing ratio of 67% to undertake development of real estate project. Thus HRC LLP has become a majority 
owned subsidiary of the group with effect from aforesaid date.
 
III 
Conversion of Zoiros Projects Private Limited (“ZPPL”) from subsidiary to Joint Venture
 
 
 On March 18, 2025, Gruhas Proptech LLP acquired a 50% equity stake in Zoiros Projects Private Limited 
(“ZPPL”). Pursuant to this investment, ZPPL ceased to be a wholly owned subsidiary and has been reclassified 
as a joint venture. As a result of the loss of control, a gain of ₹265 lakhs has been recognised.
 
IV 
Scheme of Amalgamation for merger of Tandem Allied Services Private Limited
 
 
 During the previous year ,Scheme of Amalgamation for merger of Tandem Allied Services Private Limited, a 
stepdown subsidiary of the Company with WTC Trades & Projects Private Limited a wholly owned subsidiary 
of the Company has been filed with the Honorable Bengaluru Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
445
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
48  Additional information required by Schedule III in respect of subsidiaries and joint venture.
Name of the entity
Net assets (total assets minus total liabilities)
Total comprehensive income for the year ended March 31, 2025
Total comprehensive income for the year ended March 31, 2024
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Share in  
profit / (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
Share in  
profit / (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
Parent
Brigade Enterprises 
Limited
78%
6,11,508
80%
4,22,033
55%
45,530
64%
(274)
55%
45,256
82%
31,819
86%
(38)
82%
31,781
Indian subsidiaries
BCV Developers 
Private Limited
3%
20,623
4%
20,346
0%
281
1%
(4)
0%
277
(4%)
(1,665)
(16%)
7
(4%)
(1,658)
Brigade Properties 
Private Limited
(1%)
(11,558)
(2%)
(11,814)
0%
168
0%
-
0%
168
(13%)
(5,096)
0%
-
(13%)
(5,096)
Perungudi Real 
Estates Private 
Limited
(1%)
(4,506)
(1%)
(2,749)
(3%)
(2,219)
0%
-
(3%)
(2,219)
(13%)
(5,207)
0%
-
(14%)
(5,207)
SRP Prosperita 
Hotel Venture 
Limited
1%
6,147
1%
5,452
1%
694
(0%)
1
1%
695
3%
1,254
(7%)
3
3%
1,257
Brigade Hospitality 
Services Limited
0%
3,850
1%
4,795
1%
543
(3%)
12
1%
555
2%
781
23%
(10)
2%
771
WTC Trades and 
Projects Private 
Limited
1%
9,955
1%
8,245
4%
3,063
1%
(3)
4%
3,060
6%
2,292
25%
(11)
6%
2,281
Brigade Tetrarch 
Private Limited
4%
29,418
2%
8,818
25%
20,629
7%
(28)
25%
20,601
(1%)
(281)
41%
(18)
(1%)
(299)
Brigade Estates and 
Projects Private 
Limited
1%
4,896
1%
4,918
(0%)
(22)
0%
-
(0%)
(22)
(0%)
(10)
0%
-
(0%)
(10)
Brigade 
Infrastructure 
and Power Private 
Limited
0%
122
(0%)
(110)
0%
222
(2%)
9
0%
231
(0%)
(56)
11%
(5)
(0%)
(61)
Celebrations 
Private Limited 
(formerly 
Celebrations LLP)
0%
28
0%
30
(0%)
(2)
0%
-
(0%)
(2)
(0%)
(1)
0%
-
(0%)
(1)
Brigade (Gujarat) 
Projects Private 
Limited
0%
3,631
1%
3,219
1%
412
0%
-
1%
412
(4%)
(1,647)
0%
-
(4%)
(1,647)
Brigade Enterprises Limited
446
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Name of the entity
Net assets (total assets minus total liabilities)
Total comprehensive income for the year ended March 31, 2025
Total comprehensive income for the year ended March 31, 2024
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Share in  
profit / (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
Share in  
profit / (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
Mysore Projects 
Private Limited
6%
48,574
7%
36,835
14%
11,763
6%
(24)
14%
11,739
39%
14,902
(18%)
8
39%
14,910
Brigade Innovations, 
LLP
0%
634
0%
534
1%
444
19%
(80)
0%
364
(0%)
(112)
(57%)
25
(0%)
(87)
Brigade Hotel 
Ventures Limited
2%
12,815
2%
11,178
2%
1,672
8%
(35)
2%
1,637
5%
1,860
(9%)
4
5%
1,864
Augusta Club 
Private Limited
0%
425
0%
661
0%
91
0%
(1)
0%
90
0%
102
2%
(1)
0%
101
Brigade Flexible 
office Spaces 
Private Limited 
(formerly Brigade 
Flexible office 
Spaces LLP)
(0%)
(257)
0%
28
(0%)
(285)
0%
(1)
(0%)
(286)
(1%)
(232)
0%
-
(1%)
(232)
Tetrarch 
Developers Limited
1%
9,944
2%
9,597
(2%)
(943)
0%
-
(1%)
(943)
(2%)
(404)
0%
-
(1%)
(404)
Vibrancy Real 
Estate Private 
Limited
0%
108
0%
104
0%
4
0%
-
0%
4
0%
5
0%
-
0%
5
Venusta Ventures 
Private Limited
0%
106
0%
103
0%
3
0%
-
0%
3
0%
3
0%
-
0%
3
Zoiros Projects 
Private Limited
0%
-
(0%)
(65)
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
(0%)
(183)
0%
-
(0%)
(183)
Propel Capital 
Ventures LLP
0%
-
(0%)
(1)
(0%)
(1)
0%
-
(0%)
(1)
(0%)
(1)
0%
-
(0%)
(1)
Tetrarch Real 
Estates Private 
Limited
0%
99
0%
96
0%
3
0%
-
0%
3
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
BCV Real Estates 
Private Limited
0%
9
0%
7
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
Tandem Allied 
Services Private 
Limited
0%
2,250
1%
2,830
1%
739
0%
-
1%
739
1%
474
18%
(8)
1%
466
Ananthay 
Properties Private 
Limited (*)
2%
11,768
0%
-
0%
30
0.0%
-
0%
30
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
Brigade HRC LLP 
(**)
3%
20,699
0%
-
(0%)
(1)
0.0%
-
(0%)
(1)
0%
-
0%
-
0%
-
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
447
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
Name of the entity
Net assets (total assets minus total liabilities)
Total comprehensive income for the year ended March 31, 2025
Total comprehensive income for the year ended March 31, 2024
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Share in  
profit / (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
Share in  
profit / (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
Joint venture (w.e.f 
March 18, 2025)
Zoiros Projects 
Private Limited 
(Investment as per 
equity method)
0%
457
0%
-
(1%)
(432)
0.2%
(1)
(1%)
(433)
0%
-
0.0%
-
0.0%
-
Sub total
100%
7,81,745
100%
5,25,090
100%
82,386
100%
(429)
100%
81,957
100%
38,597
100%
(44)
(100%)
38,553
Share of non-
controlling interest 
in subsidiaries:
27,689
4,165
(529)
(4)
(533)
(5,057)
-
(5,057)
Elimination and 
consolidation 
adjustments
(2,17,900)
(1,73,475)
(13,810)
4
(13,806)
6,564
-
6,564
Total
5,91,534
3,55,780
68,047
(429)
67,618
40,104
(44)
40,060
(* )Subsidiary effective December 16, 2024
(**) Subsidiary effective July 26, 2024
Brigade Enterprises Limited
448
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
49 Shares issued under QIP
 
 On September 05, 2024, the Holding Company has completed the offering of its equity shares through a qualified 
institutions placement (“QIP”) in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VIII of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009, as amended (the “SEBI ICDR 
Regulations”). Pursuant to the QIP, the Holding Company had allotted 1,30,43,478 equity shares of face value of 
₹ 10 each at an issue price of ₹ 1,150 per share (including a share premium of ₹ 1,140 per share) aggregating to ₹ 
150,000 lakhs to qualified institutional buyers. Effective September 06, 2024, these equity shared were listed 
for trading on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited.
 
Details of utilisation of QIP proceeds is as under:
Particulars
Objects of the 
issue as per 
placement 
document
Amount 
utilized till 
March 31, 2025
Amount 
un-utilized as at 
March 31, 2025 
(*)
(i)  Repayment / pre-payment, in full or in part, of certain 
outstanding borrowings availed by the Group
44,800
44,775
25
(ii)  Part funding the costs for acquisition of land and other 
costs for entering into joint development agreements or 
joint venture agreements and obtaining the government 
and statutory approvals and payment of statutory taxes 
for such land by the Group
67,700
24,597
43,103
(iii) General corporate purposes
34,282
34,282
-
(iv) Issue expenses (^)
3,218
3,218
-
Total
1,50,000
1,06,872
43,128
 
 (*) Net proceeds which were unutilised as at March 31, 2025 were temporarily kept in designated escrow account and fixed deposit 
with scheduled commercial bank (inclusive of interest earned/ accrued thereon). Refer note 15 and 16.
 
(^) adjusted against securities premium in accordance with Section 52 of the Act.
50  The Group has defined process to take daily back-up of books of account in electronic mode on servers physically 
located in India.
 
 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has prescribed a requirement for companies under the proviso to Rule 
3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 inserted by the Companies (Accounts) Amendment Rules, 2021 
requiring companies, which uses accounting software for maintaining its books of account, shall use only such 
accounting software which has a feature of recording audit trail of each and every transaction, creating an 
edit log of each change made in the books of account along with the date when such changes were made and 
ensuring that the audit trail cannot be disabled.
 
 The Group has used an accounting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has been enabled throughout the year for all relevant transactions 
recorded in the software at the application level. The accounting software is operated by a third-party software 
service provider and in absence of any information on the existence of audit trail feature at database level in the 
Independent Service Auditor’s ‘Type 2 report’ issued in accordance with ISAE 3402 Assurance Engagements 
Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’, we are unable to demonstrate whether the 
audit trail feature at the database level of the said software was enabled and operated throughout the year.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
449
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
51 Additional disclosures
 
(i)   The Group does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against 
the Group for holding any Benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 and rules 
made thereunder.
 
(ii)   The Group does not have any transactions with companies struck off.
 
(iii)   The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
 
 
(a)  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by 
or on behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
 
 
(b)  provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
 
(iv)   The Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding 
Party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall:
 
 
(a)  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by 
or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
 
 
(b)  provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
 
(V)  As per the transfer pricing rules prescribed under the Income-tax Act, 1961, the Group is examining the 
international transactions in certain component entities and documentation in respect thereof to ensure 
compliance with the said rules. The management does not anticipate any material adjustment with regard 
to the transactions involved.
 
(vi)  BHVL has filed Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP) dated October 30, 2024 with Securities & Exchange 
Board of India for an initial public offering of equity shares of face of ₹ 10 each (“Equity shares”) comprising 
of fresh issue of equity shares aggregating upto ₹ 90,000 lakhs. The issue is subject to receipt of regulatory 
approvals, market conditions and other considerations.
 
(vii)  Political contribution represents the contribution made to Bharatiya Janata Party of ₹ 325 lakhs (March 31, 
2024: ₹ 25 lakhs) and Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee of ₹ 25 lakhs (March 31, 2024: ₹ Nil)
52  The consolidated financial statement for the previous year includes re-classifications for correction of certain 
items in accordance with Ind AS 8, “Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors” which are 
described in more detailed as below:
 
(i) 
 Other equity attributable to minority shareholders of the Group amounting to ₹ 13,309 lakhs as at March 
31, 2024, earlier recorded under parent’s equity in earlier years, has now been appropriately reclassified to 
‘non-controlling interest’.
 
(ii)  Security deposits paid under joint development agreement amounting to ₹ 38,198 lakhs as at March 31, 
2024, earlier presented as ‘Loans’ is now reclassified and presented under ‘Other financial assets (current 
and non-current)’ and Other assets (current and non-current) and
 
(iii)  Materials purchased and issued to sub-contractor of the group for the year ended March 31, 2024 amounting 
to ₹ 21,801 lakhs, earlier presented as ‘sub-contractor costs’ is now reclassified and presented under ‘cost 
of raw materials, components and stores consumed’.
 
 
 Other previous year’s figures have been regrouped or reclassified wherever necessary to conform with 
the current year’s figures. The impact of such other reclassification / regrouping is not material to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
450
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ lakhs, unless otherwise stated)
53  No material events have occurred between the consolidated balance sheet date to the date of issue of these 
consolidated financial statements that could affect the values stated in the consolidated financial statements 
as at March 31, 2025.
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
For Walker Chandiok & Co LLP
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Chartered Accountants
Firm registration number: 001076N/N500013
Manish Agrawal
M.R. Jaishankar
Pavitra Shankar
Partner
Chairman 
Managing Director
Membership No: 507000
DIN: 00191267
DIN: 08133119
Jayant Bhalchandra Manmadkar
P. Om Prakash
New Delhi
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
May 14, 2025
Membership No: 047863
Membership No: F5435
Bengaluru
May 14, 2025
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
451
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
NOTICE
Notice is hereby given that the THIRTIETH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the Members of BRIGADE ENTERPRISES 
LIMITED will be held on Thursday, August 21, 2025 at 11.30 a.m. through Video Conferencing (‘VC’)/ Other Audio Visual 
Means (‘OAVM‘) to transact the following business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. 
 To receive, consider and adopt the audited 
standalone and consolidated financial statements 
of the Company for the financial year ended March 
31, 2025, including the Audited Balance Sheet as at 
March 31, 2025 and the Statement of Profit and Loss 
and the Cash Flow Statement for the year ended on 
that date together with the reports of the Board of 
Directors and Auditors thereon: 
 
 To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following 
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
a) 
 “RESOLVED THAT the audited standalone financial 
statements of the Company including the Balance 
Sheet as at March 31, 2025, the statement of profit 
and loss, the cash flow statement for the year ended 
on that date, notes to financial statements, reports 
of the Board and Auditor’s thereon be and are 
hereby received, considered and adopted.”
b) 
 “RESOLVED THAT the audited consolidated 
financial statements of the Company including the 
Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, the statement 
of profit and loss, the cash flow statement for the 
financial year ended on that date, notes to financial 
statements, along with the Auditor’s report thereon 
be and are hereby received, considered and 
adopted.”
2. 
 To declare Final Dividend for the financial year 
2024-2025:
 
 To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following 
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
 “RESOLVED THAT a final dividend of ₹ 2.50/- per 
equity share (Rupees two and paise fifty only) of 
₹10/- each fully paid up be and is hereby declared 
and paid out of the profits for the financial year 
2024-2025.”
3. 
 To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Amar Shivram 
Mysore (DIN: 03218587) who retires by rotation and 
being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment:
 
 To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following 
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
 “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 152 and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made 
thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment thereof), Mr. Amar Shivram Mysore 
(DIN: 03218587) who retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment, be and is 
hereby re-appointed as a Director of the Company, 
liable to retire by rotation.” 
 
 The required details pursuant to Regulation 36(3) 
of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India is 
enclosed as an Annexure to this Notice.
4. 
 To appoint a Director in place of Ms. Nirupa Shankar 
(DIN: 02750342) who retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers herself for re-appointment:
 
 To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following 
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
 “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 152 and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made 
thereunder (including any statutory modification(s) 
or re-enactment thereof), Ms. Nirupa Shankar (DIN: 
02750342), who retires by rotation and being 
eligible, offers herself for re-appointment, be and is 
hereby re-appointed as a Director of the Company, 
liable to retire by rotation.”
 
 The required details pursuant to Regulation 36(3) 
of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India is 
enclosed as an Annexure to this Notice.
SPECIAL BUSINESS
5. 
 Ratification of remuneration payable to M/s. Murthy 
& Co. LLP, Cost Accountants, Cost Auditors for the 
financial year 2024-2025:
 
 The Board of Directors recommends considering and 
if thought fit, to pass with or without modification(s) 
the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
 
 “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 148 and all other applicable provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 14 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
(including any statutory modification(s) or re-
enactment thereof), the Company hereby ratifies 
the remuneration of ₹1,45,000/- (Rupees One Lakh 
Forty Five Thousand only) apart from applicable 
taxes and out of pocket expenses to M/s. Murthy 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
452
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
& Co. LLP, Cost Accountants (LLP ID No. AAB-1402), 
appointed as Cost Auditors by the Board of Directors 
of the Company for conducting cost audit for the 
financial year 2024-2025 (i.e., April 1, 2024 to March 
31, 2025).
 
 RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
and Company Secretary & Compliance Officer of the 
Company be and are hereby severally authorised to do 
all such acts, deeds and things as may be necessary, 
proper or expedient to give effect to this resolution.”
6. 
 Approval for all fees and compensation payable 
by way of Commission to Non-Executive Directors 
including Independent Directors:
 
 To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or 
without modification(s) the following resolution as 
an Ordinary Resolution:
 
 “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Section 149, 197, 198 
and all other applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013, Regulation 17 and other applicable 
regulations, if any, of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligation and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (including any 
statutory modification(s) or enactment thereof 
for the time being in force) and the Articles of 
Association of the Company, approval of the 
members be and is hereby accorded for payment 
of remuneration / compensation by way of profits 
related to commission or otherwise as permissible to 
the Non-Executive Directors including Independent 
Directors of the Company (i.e. Directors other than 
Whole time Directors) of such sum or sums and in 
such proportion/manner and upto such extent for 
a period of 5 years starting from the financial year 
2025-26 as the Board of Directors shall determine 
from time to time based on the recommendation of 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee within the 
overall maximum limit of 1% (one percent) per annum 
of the Net Profits of the Company for the relevant 
financial year computed in the manner as laid down 
in Section 198 (excluding sitting fees payable) and 
other applicable provisions of the Act and Rules 
made thereunder.
 
 RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
of the Company be and are hereby authorised to 
do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as may 
be considered necessary, desirable or expedient to 
give effect to this Resolution.”
7. 
 To Appoint Secretarial Auditors of the Company and 
fix their remuneration:
 
 To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or 
without modification(s) the following resolution as 
an Ordinary Resolution:
 
 “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and other applicable 
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
relevant rules made thereunder and Regulation 24A 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 including any statutory modifications or re-
enactments thereof for the time being in force and 
based on the recommendation of Audit Committee 
and consent of the Board of Directors, approval of the 
members of the Company be and is hereby accorded 
for the appointment of M/s. BMP & Co. LLP, a firm of 
practicing company secretaries (LLPIN: AAI-4194), 
as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company for the 
period of five consecutive years i.e. from FY 2025-26 
to FY 2029-30 at a fees of ₹ 2,50,000 (Rupees Two 
Lakh Fifty Thousand only) plus taxes and out of pocket 
expenses, if any, as may be incurred during the audit 
process for the Financial Year 2025-26.
 
 RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of 
the Company be and are hereby authorised to fix the 
fees including increase or vary, if any, of the Secretarial 
Auditors for the remaining tenure of their appointment 
as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company based on 
the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
 
 RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
or Company Secretary & Compliance Officer of the 
Company be and are hereby authorised to do all 
such acts, deeds and things as may be necessary 
to give effect to this resolution including issuing the 
engagement letter and filing of requisite e-forms with 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.”
Place : Bengaluru
By Order of the Board
Date : May 14, 2025
For Brigade Enterprises Limited
CIN: L85110KA1995PLC019126
P. Om Prakash
Registered Office:
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
29th & 30th Floors, World Trade Center
Membership No. 5435
26/1, Brigade Gateway Campus
Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar
Bengaluru – 560 055
Email: investors@brigadegroup.com
Website: www.brigadegroup.com
Notice
453
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
1. 
 The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 
102 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and explanatory 
statement required under Regulation 36(5) of SEBI 
(LODR) Regulation, 2015 setting out material facts 
in respect of the business under Item No. 5 to 7 to 
be transacted at the 30th Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) is annexed hereto.
2. 
 Pursuant to General Circular No. 09/2024 dated 
September 19, 2024 issued by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs (the ‘MCA’) and Circular SEBI/HO/
CFD/CFD–PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 dated October 
03, 2024 issued by Securities Exchange Board of 
India (‘SEBI’), (hereinafter collectively referred as 
‘Circulars’), companies are allowed to conduct 
General Meetings through Video Conference (‘VC’) 
or Other Audio-Visual Means (‘OAVM’), subject to 
compliance of various conditions mentioned therein.
 
 In compliance with the above, AGM of the Company 
is being held through VC/ OAVM.
3. 
 The Company has appointed M/s. National Securities 
Depository Limited (NSDL) to provide VC/ OAVM 
facility for the AGM.
4. 
 Proceedings of the AGM will be web-casted live for 
all the Members as on the cut-off date i.e August 
13, 2025.
 
 Members may visit www.evoting.nsdl.com and login 
through existing user id and password to watch the 
live proceedings of the AGM. Facility for joining the 
AGM shall be open 30 minutes before the scheduled 
time for commencement of AGM and shall be closed 
30 minutes after such scheduled time.
5. 
 The Company has appointed CS Biswajit Ghosh 
(Membership No. FCS 8750) or failing him CS 
Pramod SM (Membership No. F7834), Partners 
of M/s. BMP & Co., LLP, a Practicing Company 
Secretary firm, Bengaluru to act as the Scrutinizer 
for conducting the remote e-Voting and e-Voting 
during the AGM in a fair and transparent manner. The 
Scrutinizer shall submit his report to the Chairman 
or a person authorised by him after the completion 
of scrutiny of the e-voting (votes cast through 
remote e-voting and votes cast during the AGM). 
Results of the meeting along with the Scrutinizer 
Report shall be submitted by the Company within 
two days of conclusion of the AGM and the same 
shall be placed on the website of the Company i.e., 
www.brigadegroup.com
6. 
In view of AGM being held by VC/ OVAM:
 
a) 
 physical attendance of Members has been 
dispensed with;
 
b) 
 the facility for appointment of proxies by the 
Members will not be available for the AGM and 
hence Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are not 
annexed to this Notice;
 
 
 Corporate Members are required to access the 
link www.evoting.nsdl.com and upload a certified 
copy of the Board resolution authorizing their 
representative to attend the AGM through VC/ 
OAVM and vote on their behalf. Members of the 
Company under the category of Institutional 
Investors are encouraged to attend and vote 
at the AGM through VC/ OAVM.
 
c) 
 Members attending the AGM through VC/ OAVM 
shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning 
quorum under Section 103 of the Act; and
 
d) 
 route map for the location of the meeting is also 
not provided.
7. 
 In case of joint holders attending the AGM, Member 
whose name appears as the first holder in the order 
of the names as per the Register of Members of the 
Company will be entitled to vote.
8. 
Inspection of Documents:
 
 All the documents referred in the Notice will be 
available for inspection electronically. Members 
seeking to inspect such documents can send an 
e-mail to investors@brigadegroup.com
 
 In addition, following documents shall also be 
available for inspection electronically:
 
a) 
 The certificate received from the Secretarial 
Auditor of the Company on the implementation 
of Employee Stock Option Plans in accordance 
with SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and 
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021
 
b) 
 The Register of Directors and Key Managerial 
Personnel and their shareholding, the Register 
of Contracts or Arrangements in which 
Directors are interested, maintained under the 
Companies Act, 2013.
 
 
 Members seeking to inspect such documents 
can send an e-mail to investors@brigadegroup.
com
9. 
Dividend
a) 
 Members may note that the Board of Directors in their 
meeting held on May 14, 2025 has recommended a 
final dividend of ₹ 2.50/- (25%) per equity share on 
the face value of ₹10/- each. Subject to provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013, dividend as recommended 
by the Board of Directors, if approved by the 
Members will be paid on or before September 12, 
2025 to those Members who names appear in the 
Register of Members on the Record Date.
NOTES:
Brigade Enterprises Limited
454
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 The Company has fixed August 13, 2025 as the 
Record Date for determining the Members eligible 
for dividend on equity shares.
 
 Members are requested to update their KYC 
with their depositories (where shares are held in 
dematerialized mode) and with the Company’s RTA 
(where shares are held in physical mode) to receive 
dividend directly into their bank account on the 
payout date.
 
 Members may note that the Income-tax Act, 1961, 
(the ‘IT Act’) as amended by the Finance Act, 2020, 
mandates that dividend paid or distributed by a 
company on or after April 1, 2020 shall be taxable in 
the hands of members. The Company shall therefore 
be required to deduct tax at source (‘TDS’) at the 
time of making the payment of final dividend. To 
enable us to determine the appropriate TDS rate, as 
applicable, Members are requested to submit their 
PAN and other relevant documents, failing which 
the Company would be required to deduct tax at a 
higher rate prescribed under the Income Tax, 1961.
 
 However, no tax shall be deducted on the dividend 
payable to a resident individual shareholder if 
the total dividend to be received by them during 
financial year 2025 – 2026 does not exceed 
₹  10,000/- and also in cases where members 
provide Form 15G/ Form 15H (Form 15H is applicable 
to resident individual shareholders aged 60 years or 
more) subject to conditions specified in the IT Act.
 
 Members seeking non-deduction of tax on their 
dividends may submit Form 15G/ 15H as applicable 
to the Company on a yearly basis at the link https://
ris.kfintech.com/form15/. The detailed information 
with respect to tax deduction at source on dividend 
payments including the formats of Form 15G/Form 
15H for seeking exemption is available in the link 
https://ris.kfintech.com/form15/ PAN is mandatory 
for members providing Form 15G/ 15H or any 
other document.
 
 The required documents to be uploaded on the 
portal on or before August 13, 2025.
 
a) 
 Members are requested to convert physical 
shareholding, if any, to electronic mode 
pursuant to notification dated September 
10, 2018 issued by MCA for public limited 
companies and hence are requested to direct 
change of address notifications and updates of 
savings bank account details to their respective 
Depository Participant(s). Members are also 
encouraged to utilize the Electronic Clearing 
System (‘ECS’) for receiving dividends.
 
b) 
 Members are requested to send all 
correspondences including dividend related 
matters to our RTA at the following address:
 
 
KFin Technologies Limited
 
 
(formerly KFin Technologies Private Limited)
 
 
Unit: Brigade Enterprises Limited
 
 
Selenium Tower B, Plot No. 31 & 32, Gachibowli,
 
 
Financial District, Nanakramguda,
 
 
Hyderabad – 500 032
 
 
Toll Free no. 1800-309-4001
 
 
Email: einward.ris@kfintech.com
10.  Transfer of unclaimed/ unpaid dividend and 
shares to Investor Education and Protection 
Fund:
 
 Members are requested to note that dividends that 
are not claimed within seven years from the date of 
transfer to the Company’s Unpaid Dividend Account, 
shall be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund (‘IEPF’).
 
 In addition, all shares on which dividend remains 
unclaimed for seven consecutive years shall be 
transferred to the IEPF as per Section 124 of the Act, 
read with applicable IEPF rules.
 
 In accordance with the Act, the Company has sent 
notices to the shareholders whose shares were 
due to be transferred to the IEPF Authority and 
simultaneously published newspaper advertisement.
 
 The details of the unclaimed dividend and respective 
shares of the earlier years are available on our 
website https://www.brigadegroup.com/. Members 
who haven’t encashed or claimed the dividend for 
the earlier years are requested to approach the 
Company/ RTA and whose shares transferred to IEPF 
can claim by making an application in form IEPF-5 
to IEPF Authority through Companies Nodal Officer 
and RTA at the earliest.
11.  Updation of KYC:
 
 SEBI vide its circular dated March 16, 2023 and 
November 17, 2023 has mandated the submission 
of PAN, KYC details and nomination by holders of 
physical securities and linking PAN with Aadhaar.
 
 As per Section 72 of the Act, the facility for submitting 
nomination is available for Members in respect of 
the shares held by them. Members who have not 
yet registered their nomination are requested to 
register the same by submitting Form SH-13.
Notice
455
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 Members are requested to submit these details to their Depository Participants (‘DP’) in case the shares are 
held by them in electronic form, and to the RTA, in case the shares are held in physical form.
 
 Members who have not updated their details as above, are requested to furnish the documents/ details, as per 
the table below:
Type of holder
Particulars
Details to be 
furnished in
Physical
Form for availing investor services to register PAN, email address, bank 
details and other KYC details or changes/ update thereof for securities held 
in physical mode
Form ISR-1
Update of signature of securities holder
Form ISR-2
For nomination as provided in Rule 19(1) of the Companies (Share Capital and 
Debentures) Rules, 2014
Form SH-13
Declaration to opt out nomination
Form ISR-3
Cancellation of nomination by the holder(s) (along with ISR-3)/ Change of 
nominee
Form SH-14
Form for requesting issue of duplicate certificate and other service requests 
for shares/ debentures/ bonds, etc., held in physical form
Form ISR-4
ISR Form(s) and the supporting documents can be provided by any one of the following 
modes:
a)  Through ‘In Person Verification’ (IPV): the authorized person of the RTA shall verify the original 
documents furnished by the investor and retain copy(ies) with IPV stamping with date and 
initials;
b)  Through hard copies which are self-attested, can be shared to the address of RTA of 
the Company at KFin Technologies Limited, Unit: Brigade Enterprises Limited, Selenium 
Building, Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally Mandal, 
Hyderabad - 500 032;
c)  Through electronic mode with e-sign by following the link: https://ris.kfintech.com/
clientservices/isc/default.aspx#
Demat
Please contact your DP and register your email address and bank account details in your demat 
account, as per the process advised by your DP.
 
 Detailed FAQs can be found on: https://ris.kfintech.
com/faq.html
 
 The aforesaid forms can be downloaded from the 
Company’s website at https://www.brigadegroup.
com/investor/investor-information/kyc-updation-
-physical-shareholders or RTA’s at https://ris.
kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/isrforms.aspx
12.  In line with the Circulars, an electronic copy of the 
Annual Report and AGM Notice is being sent to all 
the Members holding shares in dematerialised form 
and whose e-mail addresses are available with the 
Depository Participants (‘DPs’) as well as to all the 
Members holding shares in physical mode whose 
e-mail addresses are registered with the Company/ 
RTA for communication purposes.
 
 The Annual Report is also available on the Company’s 
website https://www.brigadegroup.com/investor/
regulation-46/annual-reports, websites of the 
Stock Exchanges i.e., BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.com 
and www.nseindia.com respectively as well as the 
website of NSDL at www.evoting.nsdl.com.
13.  The Company is availing the services of National 
Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) for facilitating 
e-voting i.e., remote e-voting and e-voting at the 
AGM. The instructions for e-voting are given 
herein below:
 
i 
 Pursuant to the General Circular No. 09/2024 
dated September 19, 2024, issued by the 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) and 
circular issued by SEBI vide circular no. SEBI/ 
HO/ CFD/ CFDPoD-2/ P/ CIR/ 2024/ 133 dated 
October 3, 2024 (“SEBI Circular”) and other 
applicable circulars and notifications issued 
(including any statutory modifications or 
re-enactment thereof for the time being in 
force and as amended from time to time, 
companies are allowed to hold AGM through 
Video Conferencing (VC) or other audio visual 
means (OAVM), without the physical presence 
of members at a common venue. In compliance 
with the said Circulars, AGM shall be conducted 
through VC / OAVM.
 
ii 
 Pursuant to the Circular No. 14/2020 dated April 
08, 2020, issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Brigade Enterprises Limited
456
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Affairs, the facility to appoint proxy to attend 
and cast vote for the members is not available 
for this AGM. However, the Body Corporates are 
entitled to appoint authorised representatives 
to attend the AGM through VC/OAVM and 
participate there at and cast their votes 
through e-voting.
 
iii 
 The Members can join the AGM in the VC/
OAVM mode 15 minutes before and after the 
scheduled time of the commencement of the 
Meeting by following the procedure mentioned 
in the Notice. The facility of participation at the 
AGM through VC/OAVM will be made available 
for 1000 members on first come first served 
basis. This will not include large Shareholders 
(Shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding), 
Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, 
Key Managerial Personnel, the Chairpersons 
of the Audit Committee, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee, Auditors etc. who are 
allowed to attend the AGM without restriction 
on account of first come first served basis.
 
iv 
 The attendance of the Members attending the 
AGM through VC/OAVM will be counted for 
the purpose of reckoning the quorum under 
Section 103 of the Companies Act, 2013.
 
v 
 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of the 
Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014 (as amended) the Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued 
by the ICSI and Regulation 44 of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations & Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations 2015 (as amended), and the 
Circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs from time to time the Company is 
providing facility of remote e-Voting to its 
Members in respect of the business to be 
transacted at the AGM. For this purpose, the 
Company has entered into an agreement with 
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) 
for facilitating voting through electronic means, 
as the authorized agency. The facility of casting 
votes by a member using remote e-Voting 
system as well as e-voting on the date of the 
AGM will be provided by NSDL.
 
vi 
 In line with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
(MCA) Circular No. 17/2020 dated April 13, 
2020, the Notice calling the AGM has been 
uploaded on the website of the Company at 
www.brigadegroup.com. The Notice can also 
be accessed from the websites of the Stock 
Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.
com and www.nseindia.com respectively and 
the AGM Notice is also available on the website 
of NSDL (agency for providing the Remote 
e-Voting facility) i.e. www.evoting.nsdl.com.
 
vii 
 AGM has been convened through VC/OAVM in 
compliance with applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with MCA Circular 
issued from time to time.
Notice
457
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING AND JOINING GENERAL MEETING ARE AS UNDER:-
The remote e-voting period begins on Monday, August 18, 2025 from 9.00 a.m. to Wednesday, August 20, 2025 at 
5.00 p.m. The remote e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter. The Members, whose names 
appear in the Register of Members / Beneficial Owners as on the record date (cut-off date) i.e. August 13, 2025, may 
cast their vote electronically. The voting right of shareholders shall be in proportion to their share in the paid-up 
equity share capital of the Company as on the cut-off date, being August 13, 2025.
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting system?
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
A) 
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode
 
 In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained 
with Depositories and Depository Participants. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and 
email Id in their demat accounts in order to access e-Voting facility.
 
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with 
NSDL.
1.  For OTP based login you can click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/
evotinglogin.jsp. You will have to enter your 8-digit DP ID,8-digit Client Id, PAN No., 
Verification code and generate OTP. Enter the OTP received on registered email id/
mobile number and click on login. After successful authentication, you will be redirected 
to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company name or 
e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of 
NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting 
& voting during the meeting.
2.  Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.
com either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page click 
on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section, 
this will prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. After successful 
authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services under Value added services. 
Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and you will be able to see 
e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you 
will be re-directed to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote 
e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
3.  If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://
eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://
eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
4.  Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the 
home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available 
under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your 
User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number hold with NSDL), Password/OTP 
and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you 
will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on 
company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to 
e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or 
joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
458
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Type of shareholders
Login Method
5.  Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility 
by scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
 
NSDL Mobile App is available on
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with 
CDSL
1.  Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing 
user id and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without 
any further authentication. The users to login Easi /Easiest are requested to visit CDSL 
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then 
use your existing my easi username & password.
2.  After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for 
eligible companies where the evoting is in progress as per the information provided by 
company. On clicking the evoting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of 
the e-Voting service provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period 
or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there is also links 
provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can 
visit the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
3.  If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL 
website www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click 
on registration option.
4.  Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account 
Number and PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. 
The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as 
recorded in the Demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see 
the e-Voting option where the evoting is in progress and also able to directly access the 
system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
Individual 
Shareholders 
(holding securities 
in demat mode) 
login through 
their depository 
participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your 
Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. upon logging in, 
you will be able to see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to 
NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting 
feature. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be 
redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting 
period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
 
 Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and 
Forget Password option available at abovementioned website.
 
 Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related 
to login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact 
NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.com or call at  
022 - 4886 7000
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL 
helpdesk by sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or 
contact at toll free no. 1800-21-09911
Notice
459
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
B) 
 Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
 
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
 
1. 
 Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.
nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
 
2. 
 Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
 
3. 
 A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification Code as 
shown on the screen.
 
 
 Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.
com/ with your existing IDEAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your log-in credentials, 
click on e-Voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.
 
4. 
Your User ID details are given below :
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat (NSDL or 
CDSL) or Physical
Your User ID is:
a)  For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** 
then your user ID is IN300***12******.
b)  For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your 
user ID is 12**************
c)  For Members holding shares in 
Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the 
company
For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 101456 then 
user ID is 101456001***
 
5. 
 Password details for shareholders other than 
Individual shareholders are given below:
 
 
a) 
 If you are already registered for e-Voting, 
then you can use your existing password 
to login and cast your vote.
 
 
b) 
 If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for 
the first time, you will need to retrieve the 
‘initial password’ which was communicated 
to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial 
password’, you need to enter the ‘initial 
password’ and the system will force you 
to change your password.
 
 
c) 
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
 
 
 
(i) 
 If your email ID is registered in 
your demat account or with the 
company, your ‘initial password’ is 
communicated to you on your email 
ID. Trace the email sent to you from 
NSDL from your mailbox. Open the 
email and open the attachment i.e. 
a .pdf file. Open the .pdf file. The 
password to open the .pdf file is your 
8 digit client ID for NSDL account, 
last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL 
account or folio number for shares 
held in physical form. The .pdf file 
contains your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial 
password’.
 
 
 
(ii)  If your email ID is not registered, 
please follow steps mentioned below 
in process for those shareholders 
whose email ids are not registered.
 
6. 
 If you are unable to retrieve or have not received 
the “Initial password” or have forgotten 
your password:
 
 
a) 
 Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If 
you are holding shares in your demat 
account with NSDL or CDSL) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
 
 
b) 
 Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are 
holding shares in physical mode) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
 
 
c) 
 If you are still unable to get the password 
by aforesaid two options, you can send a 
request at evoting@nsdl.com mentioning 
your demat account number/folio number, 
your PAN, your name and your registered 
address etc.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
460
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
 
 
d) 
 Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the 
votes on the e-Voting system of NSDL.
 
7. 
 After entering your password, tick on Agree 
to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the 
check box.
 
8. 
 Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
 
9. 
 After you click on the “Login” button, Home 
page of e-Voting will open.
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join General 
Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
How to cast your vote electronically and join General 
Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
1. 
 After successful login at Step 1, you will be able 
to see all the companies “EVEN” in which you are 
holding shares and whose voting cycle and General 
Meeting is in active status.
2. 
 Select “EVEN” of company for which you wish to 
cast your vote during the remote e-Voting period 
and casting your vote during the General Meeting. 
For joining virtual meeting, you need to click on 
“VC/OAVM” link placed under “Join Meeting”.
3. 
 Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting 
page opens.
4. 
 Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options 
i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number of 
shares for which you wish to cast your vote and click 
on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
5. 
 Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed.
6. 
 You can also take the printout of the votes cast 
by you by clicking on the print option on the 
confirmation page.
7. 
 Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you 
will not be allowed to modify your vote.
General Guidelines for shareholders
1. 
 Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than individuals, 
HUF, NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy 
(PDF/JPG Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ 
Authority letter etc. with attested specimen 
signature of the duly authorized signatory(ies) 
who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer by 
e-mail to info@bmpandco.com with a copy marked 
to evoting@nsdl.com. Institutional shareholders 
(i.e. other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can also 
upload their Board Resolution / Power of Attorney 
/ Authority Letter etc. by clicking on “Upload Board 
Resolution / Authority Letter” displayed under 
“e-Voting” tab in their login.
2. 
 It is strongly recommended not to share your 
password with any other person and take utmost 
care to keep your password confidential. Login 
to the e-voting website will be disabled upon 
five unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct 
password. In such an event, you will need to go 
through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or 
“Physical User Reset Password?” option available 
on www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
3. 
 In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and 
e-voting user manual for Shareholders available 
at the download section of www.evoting.nsdl.com 
or call on.: 022 - 4886 7000 or send a request to 
Falguni C at evoting@nsdl.com
4. 
 Any person holding shares in physical form and non-
individual shareholders, who acquires shares of the 
Company and becomes member of the Company 
after the notice is send through e-mail and holding 
shares as of the cut-off date i.e. August 13, 2025, 
may obtain the login ID and password by sending 
a request at evoting@nsdl.com or Issuer/RTA. 
However, if you are already registered with NSDL 
for remote e-voting, then you can use your existing 
user ID and password for casting your vote. If you 
forgot your password, you can reset your password 
by using “Forgot User Details/Password” or “Physical 
User Reset Password” option available on www.
evoting.nsdl.com or call on 022 - 4886 7000. In 
case of Individual Shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode who acquires shares of the Company 
and becomes a Member of the Company after 
sending of the Notice and holding shares as of the 
cut-off date i.e. August 13, 2025 may follow steps 
mentioned in the Notice of the AGM under “Access 
to NSDL e-Voting system”.
Process for those shareholders whose email ids are not 
registered with the depositories for procuring user id and 
password and registration of e mail ids for e-voting for the 
resolutions set out in this notice:
1. 
 In case shares are held in physical mode please 
provide Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned 
copy of the share certificate (front and back), PAN 
(self attested scanned copy of PAN card), AADHAR 
(self attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) by 
email to investors@brigadegroup.com
2. 
 In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide 
DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 digit beneficiary 
ID), Name, client master or copy of Consolidated 
Account statement, PAN (self attested scanned 
copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self attested scanned 
copy of Aadhar Card) to investors@brigadegroup.
com. If you are an Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode, you are requested 
to refer to the login method explained at 
step 1 (A) i.e. Login method for e-Voting and joining 
Notice
461
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
virtual meeting for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode.
3. 
 Alternatively shareholder/members may send a 
request to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user 
id and password for e-voting by providing above 
mentioned documents.
4. 
 In terms of SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020 
on e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
Individual shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode are allowed to vote through their 
demat account maintained with Depositories and 
Depository Participants. Shareholders are required 
to update their mobile number and email ID 
correctly in their demat account in order to access 
e-Voting facility.
THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR e-VOTING ON THE DAY 
OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:-
1. 
 The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM 
is same as the instructions mentioned above for 
remote e-voting.
2. 
 Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be 
present in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and 
have not casted their vote on the Resolutions through 
remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from 
doing so, shall be eligible to vote through e-Voting 
system in the AGM.
3. 
 Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting 
will be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will 
not be eligible to vote at the AGM.
4. 
 The details of the person who may be contacted 
for any grievances connected with the facility for 
e-Voting on the day of the AGM shall be the same 
person mentioned for Remote e-voting.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING THE AGM 
THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER:
1. 
 Member will be provided with a facility to attend the 
AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting 
system. Members may access by following the steps 
mentioned above for Access to NSDL e-Voting 
system. After successful login, you can see link of 
“VC/OAVM” placed under “Join meeting” menu 
against company name. You are requested to click 
on VC/OAVM link placed under Join Meeting menu. 
The link for VC/OAVM will be available in Shareholder/
Member login where the EVEN of Company will be 
displayed. Please note that the members who do not 
have the User ID and Password for e-Voting or have 
forgotten the User ID and Password may retrieve the 
same by following the remote e-Voting instructions 
mentioned in the notice to avoid last minute rush.
2. 
 Members are encouraged to join the Meeting 
through Laptops for better experience.
3. 
 Further Members will be required to allow Camera 
and use Internet with a good speed to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
4. 
 Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile 
Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via 
Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss 
due to Fluctuation in their respective network. It is 
therefore recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN 
Connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
5. 
 Shareholders who would like to express their views/
have questions may send their questions in advance 
mentioning their name demat account number/folio 
number, email id, mobile number at investors@
brigadegroup.com. The same will be replied by the 
company suitably.
13. OTHER INSTRUCTIONS
a) 
Procedure to raise Questions during AGM:
 
 The Members who would like to express their views 
or ask questions during the AGM may register 
themselves as a speaker by sending their request 
from their registered email address mentioning 
their name, DP ID and Client ID/folio number, 
PAN, mobile number at investors@brigadegroup.
com from Wednesday, August 13, 2025 at 9.00 
a.m. upto Thursday, August 14, 2025 at 5.00 p.m. 
Those members who have registered themselves 
as speaker will only be allowed to express their 
views/ask questions during the AGM. The Company 
reserves the right to restrict the number of speakers 
depending on the availability of time for the AGM.
 
 Members whose names appear in the Register of 
Members/ list of Beneficial Owners as on August 13, 
2025 being the cut-off date, are entitled to vote on 
the Resolutions set forth in this Notice.
 
 A person who is not a Member as on the cut-off 
date should treat this Notice for information purposes 
only. Once the vote on a resolution(s) is cast by the 
Member, the Member shall not be allowed to change 
it subsequently.
Brigade Enterprises Limited
462
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
{pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 & pursuant to Regulation 36(5) of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosures Requirements) Regulations, 2015, Forming Part of the Notice of Annual General Meeting}
SPECIAL BUSINESS
Item No. 5: Ratification of remuneration payable 
to M/s. Murthy & Co. LLP, Cost Accountants, Cost 
Auditors for the financial year 2024-2025:
The Board of Directors, based on the recommendation of 
the Audit Committee, have appointed M/s. Murthy & Co. 
LLP, Cost Accountants (LLP ID No. AAB-1402) as the Cost 
Auditors of the Company for the financial year 2024-
2025 at a remuneration of  ₹ 1,45,000/- (Rupees One 
Lakh Forty Five Thousand only) apart from applicable 
taxes and out of pocket expenses, if any. During the 
financial year 2023-2024 a fee of ₹1,25,000/-  was paid.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof) any 
remuneration payable to Cost Auditors has to be 
approved/ ratified by the Members of the Company.
Accordingly, the Board recommends passing of the 
proposed resolution stated in Item 5 as an Ordinary 
Resolution and requests Members’ approval for the same.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, 
Promoters or their relatives are in any way concerned 
or interested, financially or otherwise, in this resolution 
except to the extent of their shareholding as Members, 
if any, in the Company.
Item No. 6: Approval for all fees and compensation 
payable by way of Commission to Non-Executive 
Directors including Independent Directors:
In terms of provisions contained in Section 197 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), a company by way of 
an Ordinary Resolution in general meeting may authorise 
payment of remuneration/compensation to Non- 
Executive Directors (including Independent Directors), 
a sum not exceeding 1% (one percent) of the Net Profits 
of such company, if there is a Managing or Whole-Time 
Director or Manager.
Further, as per Regulation 17(6)(a) of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, including 
any amendment thereto or modification thereof, the 
Board of Directors shall recommend all fees (save and 
except payment of sitting fees for attending meeting(s) 
of the Board of Directors and/or Committee(s) thereof 
or for any other purposes whatsoever as may be 
decided by the Board of Directors within the limits as 
prescribed under Section 197(5) of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Rule 4 of Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel), Rules, 2014) or 
compensation, if any, paid to Non-Executive Directors 
including Independent Directors and the same shall 
require approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Independent Directors constitute 50% of the composition 
of the Board of your Company. These Directors have 
expertise in their respective fields and have been 
contributing to the growth of the Company through 
their valuable inputs and ideas. The Board is of the view 
that it is necessary that adequate compensation be 
given to compensate Non-Executive Directors including 
Independent Directors for their time and efforts.
The Shareholders in the previous Annual General Meeting 
held on August 6, 2024 have approved the payment of 
commission payable to Independent Directors of up to 
1% of net profits (excluding sitting fees) per annum from 
the financial year 2023-24. The period of payment of 
commission to Independent Directors was not specified 
in the said resolution placed before the shareholders.
The Commission paid to Independent Directors for the 
last five financial years are as follows:
Financial Years
Commission  
(to each Independent Director)
2023-24
₹ 20.00 Lakhs
2022-23
₹ 20.00 Lakhs
2021-22
₹ 15.00 Lakhs
2020-21
₹ 10.00 Lakhs
2019-20
₹ 12.00 Lakhs
There were concerns expressed by some stakeholders 
on the resolution passed in the previous AGM as the 
remuneration payment to Non-Executive Directors 
din’t have any specified time limits. Even though the 
resolution has been duly passed earlier, as a good 
governance measure, we are again seeking the  approval 
of shareholders with a defined period of 5 years from the 
financial year 2025-26. There is no payment by way of 
commission paid to the Non- Executive Directors for the 
financial year 2025-26.
Independent Directors are concerned or interested in 
the said resolution to the extent of the remuneration/
compensation payable to them.
Except as mentioned above none of the other Directors, 
Key Managerial Personnel, Promoters or their relatives 
are in any way concerned or interested, financially or 
otherwise, in this resolution except to the extent of their 
shareholding as Members, if any, in the Company.
Notice
463
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
The Board of Directors recommends this resolution for 
your consideration and approval as an ordinary resolution.
Item No. 7: Appointment of Secretarial Auditors of 
the Company and fix their remuneration:
Pursuant to the provision of Section 204 (1) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014 and other applicable provisions, 
if any of the Companies Act, 2013, and Regulation 24(A) 
of the SEBI (LODR), Regulations, 2015 read with circulars 
issued thereunder to the extent applicable, other 
applicable regulations framed by SEBI in this regard, the 
Secretarial Auditor needs to be appointed for a period 
of 5 (five) years.
The Board of Directors at its meeting held on May 14, 
2025, considering the experience and expertise and 
based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
has proposed to Members of the Company, appointment 
of M/s. BMP & Co. LLP, practicing company secretaries 
(LLPIN: AAI-4194) as the Secretarial Auditors of the 
Company. The tenure of the proposed Secretarial 
Auditors shall be for a period of 5 consecutive years 
commencing from the financial year 2025-26 till financial 
year 2029-30, if made, will be within the limits of various 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
M/s. BMP & Co. LLP, a firm of practicing company 
secretaries (LLPIN: AAI-4194) are the Peer reviewed 
Company Secretaries and has not incurred any of the 
disqualification as specified by the SEBI. BMP & Co., 
LLP is a well-established firm of practising company 
secretaries with offices in Bengaluru, Mumbai, and Delhi 
(NCR). They deliver comprehensive consulting and 
advisory services in corporate law. The firm expertise 
encompasses a wide spectrum, including Corporate 
Secretarial Services, Secretarial Audit, SEBI compliances, 
Initial Public Offerings (IPO), Foreign Direct Investment 
(FDI) and Overseas Direct Investment (ODI) under FEMA, 
Mergers & Amalgamations, Business Setup, and Fund 
Raise compliance.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of M/s. BMP 
& Co. LLP include a tenure of five 5 consecutive years, i.e. 
from FY 2025-26 to FY 2029-30 at a fees of Rs. 2,50,000 
(Rupees Two Lakh Fifty Thousand only) plus taxes and 
out of pocket expenses, if any, as may be incurred during 
the audit process for the Financial Year 2025-26. The fee 
for the subsequent year(s) of their term shall be fixed 
by the Board of Directors of the Company based on the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee. There are no 
material changes in the fees payable to M/s. BMP & Co. 
LLP from those fees paid to the outgoing Secretarial 
Auditor of the Company.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, 
Promoters or their relatives are in any way concerned 
or interested, financially or otherwise, in this resolution 
except to the extent of their shareholding as Members, 
if any, in the Company.
Your Directors recommend the Resolution set out in Item 
No. 7 as an Ordinary Resolution for your approval.
Place : Bengaluru
By Order of the Board
Date : May 14, 2025
For Brigade Enterprises Limited
CIN: L85110KA1995PLC019126
P. Om Prakash
Registered Office:
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
29th & 30th Floors, World Trade Center
Membership No. 5435
26/1, Brigade Gateway Campus
Dr. Rajkumar Road, Malleswaram-Rajajinagar
Bengaluru – 560 055
Email: investors@brigadegroup.com
Website: www.brigadegroup.com
Brigade Enterprises Limited
464
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure
DETAILS OF DIRECTOR(S) SEEKING APPOINTMENT/ RE-APPOINTMENT 
AT THE 30TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
{Pursuant to Regulation 36 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)  
Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standards on General Meeting issued by the  
Institute of Company Secretaries of India}
Name of the Director
Mr. Amar Shivram Mysore
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
Date of Birth
June 21, 1979
October 31, 1982
Age (in years)
46 years
42 years
Date of first appointment 
on the Board
May 16, 2018
May 16, 2018
Brief Resume of the 
Director & Qualifications
Amar Mysore has more than ten years of 
experience in supply chain management, 
manufacturing, the power industry, and 
real estate. At Brigade, he plays a crucial 
role in liaising with government authorities 
and statutory bodies, particularly focusing 
on residential functions. He is also focused 
on driving the company’s expansion plans 
in Hyderabad, further extending Brigade’s 
footprint in the region.
Amar holds the responsibility of overseeing 
the business development function of 
the company. He has played a crucial role 
in procuring renewable energy for our 
portfolio of businesses.
He holds a Master of Engineering Degree 
from Pennsylvania State University in the 
United States.
Nirupa Shankar has been with Brigade since 
2009, and is responsible for overseeing 
the hospitality, office, and retail operations 
of the company. In addition, she holds 
responsibility 
for 
overseeing 
Human 
Resources (HR), Public Relations (PR), and 
Innovation apart from other functions.
She holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in 
Economics from the University of Virginia 
and a Master of Science Degree in Hospitality 
Management from Cornell University.
Nirupa 
possesses 
a 
strong 
analytical 
ability and has embraced a data-driven 
methodology when it comes to making 
decisions. She has prior experience as 
a Senior Business Analyst at Ernst & 
Young LLP, where she worked in various 
locations including New York, Washington, 
D.C., and North Carolina. She initiated the 
establishment of the Brigade Real Estate 
Accelerator Program (REAP), which is Asia’s 
first real estate accelerator. The primary 
objective of this program is to provide 
guidance and support to high-tech start-
ups operating within the real estate sector.
Nature of expertise in 
specific functional areas
He has a decade of diverse experience in 
the fields of Supply Chain Management, 
Manufacturing, Power Sector and Real 
Estate. 
She has almost 2 decades of diverse 
experience in Real Estate, Leadership, 
Hospitality, 
Sales 
& 
Marketing 
and 
Technology.
Inter-se relationship with 
any other Directors or 
KMP of the Company
None
Ms. Nirupa Shankar is part of the Promoter 
Group of the Company. Her relatives on the 
Board are as under:
Name of the 
Director
Designation
Relationship
Mr. M R. 
Jaishankar
Executive 
Chairman
Father
Ms. Pavitra 
Shankar
Managing 
Director
Sister
Directorships held in other 
Listed Entities
None
None
Listed Entities from which 
he/ she has resigned in 
the past three years
None
None
Notice
465
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Name of the Director
Mr. Amar Shivram Mysore
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
Directorships in other 
Companies
a) Brigade Hospitality Services Limited
b) Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited
c)  Brigade Estates & Projects Private 
Limited
d)  Brigade Infrastructure & Power Private 
Limited
e)  BCV Developers Private Limited
f) Tetrarch Developers Limited
g) Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited
h) BCV Real Estates Private Limited
i) Ananthay Properties Private Limited
a) Brigade Hospitality Services Limited
b)  Brigade Infrastructure & Power Private 
Limited
c) Mysore Holdings Private Limited
d) WTC Trades & Projects Private Limited
e) SRP Prosperita Hotel Ventures Limited
f)  Brigade Flexible Office Spaces Private 
Limited
g)  Brigade (Gujarat) Projects Private 
Limited
h) Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited
i) Zoiros Projects Private Limited
j) Venusta Ventures Private Limited
Committee positions  
held in Board
a) Brigade Enterprises Limited:
Name of the Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Risk Management 
Committee
Member
b) Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited
Name of the Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Risk Management 
Committee
Chairman
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Member
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Member
Committee of Directors
Member
c) Brigade Tetrarch Private Limited
Name of the Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Audit Committee
Member
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Chairman
d)  Brigade Estates and Projects Private 
Limited
Name of the Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Audit Committee
Member 
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Member
a) Brigade Enterprises Limited:
Name of the Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Member
Committee of Directors
Member
Depositories Committee
Member
b) Brigade Hotel Ventures Limited:
Name of the Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Committee of Directors
Chairperson
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Chairperson
Risk Management 
Committee
Member
Stakeholder’s 
Relationship Committee
Member
c)  Brigade Infrastructure & Power Private 
Limited:
Name of the Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Audit Committee
Member
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Chairperson
d) Brigade Hospitality Services Limited:
Name of the Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Member
Brigade Enterprises Limited
466
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Name of the Director
Mr. Amar Shivram Mysore
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
e)  Brigade Infrastructure and Power  
Private Limited
Name of the Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Audit Committee
Chairman 
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Member
f) BCV Developers Private Limited
Name of the Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Audit Committee
Chairman 
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee
Member
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Chairman
e) SRP Prosperita Hotel Ventures Limited:
Name of the Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Nomination and 
Remuneration 
Committee 
Member
f) Mysore Holding Private Limited:
Name of the Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Member
g) WTC Trades & Projects Private Limited:
Name of the Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
Member
Audit Committee
Member
Nomination & 
Remuneration 
Committee
Chairperson
h)  Brigade (Gujarat) Projects Private 
Limited:
Designation held in the 
Committee
Designation 
held in the 
Committee
Audit Committee
Member
Nomination & 
Remuneration 
Committee
Member
No. of equity shares 
held in the Company 
including shareholding 
as a beneficial owner
Direct Holding: 19,40,659 equity shares 
of ₹ 10/- each which constitutes 0.79% of 
the paid-up equity share capital of the 
Company.
Direct Holding: 1,60,63,030 equity shares 
of ₹ 10/- each which constitutes 6.57% of 
the paid-up equity share capital of the 
Company
No. of Board Meetings 
attended
Mr. Amar Shivram Mysore has attended 
all the 11 Board Meetings held during the 
financial year 2024-25.
Ms. Nirupa Shankar has attended all the 11 
Board Meetings held during the financial 
year 2024-25.
Terms and conditions of 
appointment/  
re-appointment
Re-appointment in terms of Section 152(6) 
of the Companies Act, 2013.
Re-appointment in terms of Section 152(6) 
of the Companies Act, 2013.
Notice
467
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Name of the Director
Mr. Amar Shivram Mysore
Ms. Nirupa Shankar
Skills and Capabilities 
required for the role and 
the manner in which 
proposed person meet 
such requirement
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Remuneration proposed 
to be paid
Remuneration including commission shall 
be in line with the remuneration approved by 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration including commission shall be 
in line with the remuneration approved by 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration last drawn
For the financial year 2024-25. Mr. Amar 
Shivram 
Mysore 
is 
being 
paid 
total 
remuneration of ₹ 389 Lakhs comprising of:
• Salary & Perquisite: ₹ 131 Lakhs
• Commission Payable: ₹ 258 Lakhs
For the financial year 2024-25. Ms. Nirupa 
Shankar is being paid total remuneration of 
₹ 396 Lakhs comprising of:
• Salary & Perquisite: ₹ 138 Lakhs
• Commission Payable: ₹ 258 Lakhs
Brigade Enterprises Limited
468
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
INFORMATION AT A GLANCE - KEY DETAILS FOR THE MEETING
Particulars
Details
Day, Date and time of the AGM
Thursday, August 21, 2025 at 11.30 a.m.
Mode
Video Conference and other audio-visual means
Link for live webcast of the AGM and for participation 
through Video Conferencing
www.evoting.nsdl.com
Link for remote e-voting
www.evoting.nsdl.com
Cut-off date for e-voting
Wednesday, August 13,2025
E-voting start date and time
Monday, August 18, 2025
E-voting end date and time
Wednesday, August 20, 2025
Record Date for payment of final dividend
Wednesday, August 13,2025
Payment date of final dividend
On or before Friday, September 12, 2025
Name, address and contact details of National 
Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and e-voting 
service provider
Contact Name:
Mr. Falguni C
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL)
Toll Free no. 022 - 4886 7000
Email: evoting@nsdl.com
Notice
469
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure A: Reporting Boundary 2024-25
S.No Projects/Engineering
Built Area (SFT)
1
Brigade Gem
27,748
2
Brigade Cornerstone Utopia
8,56,561
3
Brigade Calista
3,02,584
4
Brigade Padmini Tech Valley
2,29,497
5
Brigade Sanctuary
5,02,726
6
Brigade Citrine
22,871
7
Brigade Citadel
3,65,405
8
El Dorado (A, L, J, K & C)
5,82,760
9
Brigade Pearl- Atmosphere
1,23,815
10
Brigade Goldspire
51,292
11
Brigade Fairmont
76,281
12
New Villas
17,500
13
Brigade Komarla Heights
1,59,735
14
Brigade Nanda Heights
79,994
15
Brigade Valencia
4,21,772
16
Brigade St Jhon's
11,915
17
Brigade Horizon
1,67,255
18
Brigade Twin Tower
3,97,663
19
Cauvery
2,794
20
Brigade Lumina
9,228
21
IBIS Style Mysuru
62,545
22
Misty Green
12,852
23
Oak Tree Place
2,10,957
24
Brigade Vantage
55,951
25
Orchards Ivory Phase 1
2,76,130
26
Orchards Ivory Phase 2
1,12,998
27
Oasis
8,57,850
28
El Dorado (D, E, F & B)
5,26,758
29
Insignia
2,30,595
30
Brigade Xanadu- Bonito
1,90,449
31
Brigade Xanadu-Celeste
2,19,134
32
Brigade Xanadu-Destino
30,985
33
WTC Chennai-Resi
1,47,428
34
Brigade Tech Boulevard
1,89,104
35
Brigade Icon
1,58,223
36
Brigade Altius
16,910
37
Brigade Morgan Phase 1
18,051
38
Brigade Square
57,231
39
Brigade Eternia
60,421
40
Brigade Interiors
42,484
41
BHVL (Hospitality Development)
1,39,036
Total
78,67,265
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
470
S.No Estate Management Projects
SBA in SFT
1
Club House at Brigade Xanadu
36,586
2
Brigade Atmosphere Villa
1,84,409
3
Kino at Brigade Orchards
3,27,010
4
B-Utopia - Eden
11,25,366
5
B-Utopia - Serene
20,93,558
6
B-El Dorado
80,72,890
7
B-Citadel Phase 1
16,56,512
8
B-Citadel Phase 2
9
B-Tech Garden Residence
2,78,133
10
B-Sapphire
1,39,935
Total
1,39,14,399
S.No Facility Management (Lease Rentals)
SBA In SFT
1
Orion Mall Gateway
1106397
2
Orion Avenue Mall
148064
3
Orion Uptown Mall
265260
4
WTC C
1997921
5
WTC K
775480
6
Senate 1 (Phase-2)
73436
7
Brigade International Financial Centre (BGPPL)
314690
8
BTG Block-A (Comm& Ret)
3114162
9
BTG Block-B&C (SEZ)
10
Brigade Southfield
298717
11
Brigade OPUS
301470
12
WTC B
719575
13
Magnum
850
14
Senate 1 (Phase-1)
1228
15
Senate 2
4821
16
Brigade Deccan Heights
431628
17
WTC-Annex
39132
18
Brigade Twin Tower
397633
19
District-6
10229
Total
1,00,00,723
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
471
S.No Hospitality (Hotels & Clubs)
SBA in SFT
1
Sheraton Grand Bangalore Hotel at Brigade Gateway
5,29,690
2
Holiday Inn Bengaluru Racecourse, an IHG Hotel
2,38,751
3
Grand Mercure Bangalore
1,28,648
4
Holiday Inn Express & Suites Bengaluru OMR
1,21,656
5
Grand Mercure Mysore
1,23,588
6
Grand Mercure Ahmedabad GIFT City
2,07,112
7
Four Points by Sheraton Kochi Info park
2,38,154
8
Holiday Inn Chennai OMR IT Expressway, an IHG Hotel
2,80,635
9
Ibis Styles Mysuru
1,39,036
10
The Woodrose / JP Nagar, Bangalore
1,16,196
11
Augusta Club - Brigade Gardenia, Bangalore
26,967
12
Galaxy Club, Brigade Gateway, Bangalore.
63,436
13
MLR Convention Centre, JP Nagar - Bangalore.
48,192
14
Regent Club, Bengaluru
51,985
15
Signature Club Resort, Devanahalli, Bangalore.
88,579
16
MLR Convention Centre, Whitefield - Bangalore
51,219
Total
24,53,844
S.No BuzzWorks
SBA in SFT
1
BuzzWorks at WTC Annexe 1st & 2nd floor
23,321
2
BuzzWorks at WTC Annexe 6th - 9th floor
46,176
3
BuzzWorks at Skybridge
2,000
4
BuzzWorks at Brigade Twin Tower
21,500
5
BuzzWorks at Brigade Senate 1 Wing 2
16,025
6
BuzzWorks at Brigade Towers
4,150
7
BuzzWorks at Brigade Tech Garden
59,692
8
BuzzWorks at Brigade Tech Park
50,500
9
BuzzWorks at Brigade Metropolis - Summit 2 Ground Floor
13,167
10
BuzzWorks at Brigade Metropolis - Summit 2 - 10th Floor
41,260
11
BuzzWorks at Brigade Signature Towers
9,600
Total
2,87,391
S.No Corporate Office
SBA in SFT
1
Chennai Branch Office
8482
2
Corporate Office @ WTC, Bengaluru
79764
3
Gujarat Office
570
4
Mysore Office
8230
5
Kochi Office
3800
6
Brigade REAP
4984
Total
105830
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
472
Annexure B: Sustainability Data
Financials
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Revenue
Revenue (from core business segments)
INR in Million
50,742.10
48,967.00
Other Income
INR in Million
2,393.30
1,675.00
Total Revenue Generated
INR in Million
53,135.40
50,642.00
Business Portfolio
Total Built-up and Managed Area
Square Feet
3,42,36,231.00
5,06,17,042.59
Total Building Assets
Count
82.00
75.00
Real Estate
Managed Area
Square Feet
2,17,81,664.00
3,85,67,477.73
Building Assets
Count
49.00
48.00
Hospitality
Managed Area
Square Feet
24,53,844.00
23,24,560.52
Building Assets
Count
16.00
14.00
Lease Rentals
Managed Area
Square Feet
1,00,00,723.00
97,25,004.34
Building Assets
Count
17.00
13.00
Green Building Certifications till date in Real 
Estate Portfolio
Certified Green Building Built-up Area
Million Square Feet
2.15
0.17
Pre-certified Green Building Built-up Area
Million Square Feet
2.09
3.66
Water Management
Water Withdrawal by Source
Surface Water
Million Liters
13.80
1.59
Produced Water
Million Liters
3.37
1.38
Ground Water
Million Liters
488.88
607.86
Third Party Water
Million Liters
1,276.43
801.51
Total Water Withdrawal
Million Liters
1,782.47
1,412.34
Water Consumed
Million Liters
1,727.65
1,364.59
Total water consumption at each facility in
areas with water stress
Million Liters
0.00
18.66
Water Recycled and Reused
Million Liters
898.27
523.46
Water discharged
Million Liters
54.82
47.75
Water Intensity
Water Consumption Intensity
Million Liters/ Total Revenue in
Million INR
0.0340
0.0279
Kilo Liters/ Total Revenue in
Million INR
34.05
27.86
Million liters/ Built up Area in 
000' Square Feet
0.050
0.017
Energy Consumption
From Fuel
Mobile Sources
Diesel
Gigajoules
23,057.38
15,608.20
Petrol
Gigajoules
489.21
352.39
CNG
Gigajoules
304.67
283.34
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
473
Financials
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Stationary Sources
Diesel (Owned DG sets)
Gigajoules
28,939.97
30,032.23
Diesel (Contracted DG sets)
Gigajoules
8,469.53
2,945.42
LPG
Gigajoules
23,574.82
11,753.73
PNG
Gigajoules
21,396.69
20,379.98
CNG
Gigajoules
208.06
75.14
Total Fuel Consumed
Gigajoules
1,06,440.32
81,430.43
From Electricity
Grid Electricity
Gigajoules
4,30,153.87
3,09,701.63
Renewable Sources
On-site
Gigajoules
441.74
5,989.63
Off-site
Gigajoules
89,035.04
25,444.22
Total Electricity Used
Gigajoules
5,19,630.66
3,41,135.48
Energy Used
Total Non-renewable Energy Used
Gigajoules
5,11,584.30
3,91,132.06
Total Renewable Energy Used
Gigajoules
89,476.78
31,433.85
Total Energy Used
Gigajoules
6,01,061.09
4,22,565.91
Energy Intensity
Total Non-Renewable Energy Intensity
Gigajoules/Total Revenue  
in Million INR
10.57
7.72
Total Renewable Energy Intensity
Gigajoules/Total Revenue  
in Million INR
1.76
0.62
Total Energy Intensity
Gigajoules/Total Revenue  
in Million INR
12.34
8.34
Total Energy Use Intensity
Gigajoules/Built-up Area  
in Square Feet
0.0183
0.0083
Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Emissions
Direct Emissions (Scope 1)
tCO₂e
6,400.85
6,541.90
Indirect Emissions (Scope 2)
tCO₂e
30,756.80
20,147.13
Total Emissions (Scope 1 and 2)
tCO₂e
37,157.65
26,689.03
Indirect Emissions (Scope 3)
tCO₂e
4,46,203.70
3,46,637.22
Total Emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3)
tCO₂e
4,83,361.35
3,73,326.25
Emission Intensity by Revenue
Scope 1 and 2 Emission Intensity
tCO₂e/Total Revenue  
in Million INR
0.73
0.55
Scope 3 Emission Intensity
tCO₂e/Total Revenue  
in Million INR
8.79
7.08
Emission Intensity by Built-up Area
Scope 1 and 2 Emission Intensity
tCO₂e/Built up Area in  
Square Feet
0.00109
0.00053
Scope 3 Emission Intensity
tCO₂e/Built up Area  
in Square Feet
0.01303
0.00685
Other Air Emissions
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx)
kg
355.33
508.79
Sulphur Oxides (SOx)
kg
191.73
236.55
Particulate Matter (PM)
kg
636.49
683.19
Waste
Total Waste Generated
Tonnes
6,20,739.02
3,34,918.06
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
474
Financials
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Hazardous Waste
Paint Waste
Tonnes
0.00
28.98
Oil Waste
Tonnes
11.21
139.97
Biomedical Waste
Tonnes
0.00
0
Battery Waste
Tonnes
10.66
1.3
E-Waste
Tonnes
2.20
0.71
Other Hazardous Waste
Tonnes
4.86
0.95
Total Hazardous Waste
Tonnes
28.93
171.91
Non-Hazardous Waste
Construction and Demolition Waste
Tonnes
3,16,268.26
3,28,732.21
Plastic Waste
Tonnes
14.12
21.86
Other Non-Hazardous Waste
Tonnes
3,04,427.70
5,992.08
Total Non-Hazardous Waste
Tonnes
6,20,710.09
3,34,746.15
Offsite Waste Recovery
Recycled
Tonnes
2,255.81
68,225.43
Re-used
Tonnes
2,79,064.79
91,566.46
Other Operations (Composting)
Tonnes
2,52,065.07
202.32
Total Waste Recovered
Tonnes
5,33,385.67
1,59,994.21
Offsite Waste Disposal
Incineration
Tonnes
0.00
1.29
Landfill
Tonnes
87,353.34
1,74,922.55
Total Waste Disposed
Tonnes
87,353.34
1,74,923.84
Waste Intensity by Revenue
Waste Intensity
Waste Generated in Tonnes/
Total
Revenue in Million INR
12.23
6.84
Input Materials
Total Input Material used
Tonnes
26,20,951.64
20,16,247.41
Recycled and Re-used Input Materials
Recycled GGBS
Tonnes
35,636.53
36,827.65
Recycled Fly Ash
Tonnes
589.72
1,677.01
Recycled Wood
Tonnes
0.00
4
Total Recycled Input Materials
Tonnes
36,226.25
38,508.66
Re-use Concrete Waste
Tonnes
1,583.90
3,747.57
Re-use Content in Steel
Tonnes
151.00
383.61
Total Re-used Input Materials
Tonnes
1,734.90
4,131.18
Renewable Input Materials
Soil
Tonnes
12,21,561.40
983277.88
Wood
Tonnes
10,202.65
2,439.61
Other Renewable materials
Tonnes
8,242.34
779.54
Total Renewable Input Materials
Tonnes
12,40,006.39
9,86,497.03
Non-Renewable Input Materials used
Iron (Re-enforcement Steel)
Tonnes
30,970.90
25,522.57
Structural Steel
Tonnes
4,158.30
2,566.62
Other Non-Renewable Input Materials used
Tonnes
13,07,854.89
959021.35
Total Non-Renewable Input Materials Used
Tonnes
13,42,984.09
9,87,110.54
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
475
Annex: Social data table
Headcount of Workforce
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Permanent Workforce
Employees
Count
3043
2588
Workers
Count
0
0
Total Permanent Workforce
Count
3043
2588
Contract Workforce
Employees
Count
2484
2004
Workers
Count
17209
12081
Total Contract Workforce
Count
19693
14085
Workforce Diversity
Total Males in Workforce
Count
18328
14992
Total Females in Workforce
Count
1924
1681
Permanent Workforce
Male
Count
2478
2144
Female
Count
565
444
Contract Workforce
Male
Count
15850
12848
Female
Count
1359
1237
Workforce Diversity by Age
Male
Under 30 Years
Count
913
-
Between 30 to 50 Years
Count
1447
-
Over 50 Years
Count
118
-
Female
Under 30 Years
Count
296
-
Between 30 to 50 Years
Count
254
-
Over 50 Years
Count
15
-
Workforce Diversity by Designation
Male
Associate
Count
1534
1354
Middle Management
Count
729
552
Senior Management
Count
191
191
Top Management
Count
24
42
Contract Workforce
Count
15850
11424
Female
Associate
Count
366
299
Middle Management
Count
165
116
Senior Management
Count
29
22
Top Management
Count
5
5
Contract Workforce
Count
1359
657
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
476
Headcount of Workforce
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Workforce by Geography
India
Count
20239
16673
New Hire Diversity
By Gender
Male
Count
1277
914
Female
Count
322
208
Total New Hires
Count
1599
1122
By Age Group
Under 30 Years
Count
967
717
Between 30 to 50 Years
Count
615
394
Over 50 Years
Count
17
11
Workforce Turnover
By Gender
Male
Count
762
659
Female
Count
160
129
Total Workforce Turnover
Count
922
788
By Age Group
Under 30 Years
Count
579
488
Between 30 to 50 Years
Count
325
291
Over 50 Years
Count
18
9
Workforce Benefits
Paternal Leave
Eligibility
Count
Male
Count
2475
2144
Female
Count
565
444
Total Workforce Eligible for
Paternal Leave
Count
3043
2588
Availed
Count
Male
Count
69
0
Female
Count
9
12
Total Workforce that Availed
Paternal Leave
Count
78
12
Return to Work rate
Percentage
89
75
Retention Rate of Workforce
Percentage
90
90
Workforce Safety Performance
Permanent Workforce Safety Performance
Total Hours Worked by Permanent
Workforce
Hours
3643304
3111264
Injuries
High-consequence Work-related Injuries
(excluding fatalities)
Count
0
0
Work-related Injuries
Count
0
0
Fatalities
Count
0
0
Ill-health
Count
0
0
Contract Workforce Safety Performance
Total Hours Worked by Contract
Workforce
75097715
83111707
Injuries
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
477
Headcount of Workforce
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
High-consequence Work-related
Injuries (excluding fatalities)
Count
0
0
Work-related Injuries
Count
2
238
Fatalities
Count
0
0
Ill-health
Count
0
0
Near-misses
Count
404
149
Permanent Workforce Training and Development
By Gender
Male
Hours
105953
85711
Female
Hours
26099
20598
Total Permanent Workforce
Training Hours
Hours
132052
106309
By Designation
Male
Associate
Hours
63728
36579
Middle Management
Hours
33315
19558
Senior Management
Hours
8250
8332
Top Management
Hours
661
12918
Female
Associate
Hours
17174
9724
Middle Management
Hours
7224
4341
Senior Management
Hours
1402
2128
Top Management
Hours
299
3694
Average Training Hours
Male
Hours
43
40
Female
Hours
46
46
Average Permanent Workforce
Training Hours
Hours
43
43
Average Training Hours by Gender and Designation
Male
Associate
Hours
42
27
Middle Management
Hours
46
35
Senior Management
Hours
43
44
Top Management
Hours
28
308
Female
Associate
Hours
47
33
Middle Management
Hours
44
37
Senior Management
Hours
48
97
Top Management
Hours
60
528
Performance Management and Career
Development by Gender and Designation
Male
Associate
Percentage
74
81
Middle Management
Percentage
61
92
Senior Management
Percentage
82
90
Top Management
Percentage
88
100
Contract Workforce
Percentage
0.50
1.00
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
478
Headcount of Workforce
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Female
Associate
Percentage
81
100
Middle Management
Percentage
61
91
Senior Management
Percentage
86
91
Top Management
Percentage
100
100
Contract Workforce
Percentage
1.18
2.00
Board Diversity
By Age
Under 30 Years
Percentage
-
-
Between 30 to 50 Years
Percentage
33
33
Over 50 Years
Percentage
67
67
By Gender
Male
Percentage
67
75
Female
Percentage
33
25
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
479
Annexure C: GRI content index
Statement of use
[Name of organization] has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period 
[reporting period start and end dates] with reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 used
GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI STANDARD 
DISCLOSURE 
LOCATION 
GRI 2: General 
Disclosures 2021
2-1 Organizational details
6,14
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting
7
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point
4,5
2-4 Restatements of information
117
2-5 External assurance
NA
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships
6,7 & 93
2-7 Employees
78, 79 
2-8 Workers who are not employees
78, 79
2-9 Governance structure and composition
23-27
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body
Mentioned in 
CGR section of  
IR report
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management  
of impacts
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting
2-15 Conflicts of interest
20,21
2-16 Communication of critical concerns
21,22, 62,63
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body
Mentioned in 
CGR section of  
IR report
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body
2-19 Remuneration policies
2-20 Process to determine remuneration
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy
28-31
2-23 Policy commitments
20,21,87
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
87
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts
97, 98, 99, 100, 
101, 102, 106, 
114, 115, 116, 
117
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns
87, 95
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations
20
2-28 Membership associations
Mentioned in 
CGR section of  
IR report
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement
45-47, 82-84
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements
87
GRI 3: Material Topics 
2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics
48
3-2 List of material topics
49
3-3 Management of material topics
50-59
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
480
GRI STANDARD 
DISCLOSURE 
LOCATION 
GRI 101: Biodiversity 
2024
101-1 Policies to halt and reverse
biodiversity loss
NA
101-2 Management of biodiversity impacts
101-3 Access and benefit-sharing
101-4 Identification of biodiversity impacts
101-5 Locations with biodiversity impacts
101-6 Direct drivers of biodiversity loss
101-7 Changes to the state of biodiversity
101-8 Ecosystem services
GRI 201: Economic 
Performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
70,71
201-2  Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to  
climate change
106
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans
Mentioned in 
CGR section of  
IR report
201-4 Financial assistance received from government
GRI 202: Market 
Presence 2016
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to  
local minimum wage
-
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community
-
GRI 203: Indirect 
Economic Impacts 2016
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported
-
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts
-
GRI 204: Procurement 
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers
93
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 
2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption
-
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures
20,21
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken
20,21
GRI 206: Anti-
competitive  
Behavior 2016
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices
20
GRI 207: Tax 2019
207-1 Approach to tax
-
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management
-
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax
-
207-4 Country-by-country reporting
Mentioned in 
CGR section of  
IR report
GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume
94, 112, 113
301-2 Recycled input materials used
112, 113
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials
NA
GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
98, 99
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization
-
302-3 Energy intensity
98
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
99
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services
99
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
481
GRI STANDARD 
DISCLOSURE 
LOCATION 
GRI 303: Water and 
Effluents 2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource
108, 109
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts
108, 109
303-3 Water withdrawal
107, 108
303-4 Water discharge
303-5 Water consumption
107, 108, 109
GRI 304: Biodiversity 
2016
304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 
and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
114
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity
116
304-3 Habitats protected or restored
NA
304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in 
areas affected by operations
NA
GRI 305: Emissions 
2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
100
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
100
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
101
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
100, 101
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
100, 101
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
-
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions
GRI 306: Effluents and 
Waste 2016
306-3 Significant spills
NA
GRI 306: Waste 2020
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts
110
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts
110, 111
306-3 Waste generated
110
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
110
306-5 Waste directed to disposal
110
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment 2016
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria
93, 94
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
93
GRI 401: Employment 
2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover
80
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 
or part-time employees
85
401-3 Parental leave
85
GRI 402: Labor/
Management Relations 
2016
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes
87
GRI 403: Occupational 
Health and Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system
85, 86
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation
85
403-3 Occupational health services
85
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational 
health and safety
85
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety
86
403-6 Promotion of worker health
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly 
linked by business relationships
88, 89
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system
86
403-9 Work-related injuries
85,86
403-10 Work-related ill health
86
Brigade Enterprises Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
482
GRI STANDARD 
DISCLOSURE 
LOCATION 
GRI 404: Training and 
Education 2016
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
78, 80, 81
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs
78, 81 - 85
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 
development reviews
81
GRI 405: Diversity and 
Equal Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
78, 79, 80
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men
80
GRI 406: Non-
discrimination 2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken
87
GRI 407: Freedom 
of Association and 
Collective Bargaining 
2016
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 
collective bargaining may be at risk
87
GRI 408: Child Labor 
2016
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor
87
GRI 409: Forced or 
Compulsory Labor 2016
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor
87
GRI 410: Security 
Practices 2016
410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures
87
GRI 411: Rights of 
Indigenous Peoples 
2016
411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples
-
GRI 413: Local 
Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programs
91,92
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 
communities
92
GRI 414: Supplier Social 
Assessment 2016
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria
93,94
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
93
GRI 415: Public Policy 
2016
415-1 Political contributions
GRI 416: Customer 
Health and Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service 
categories
95
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 
products and services
94, 95
GRI 417: Marketing and 
Labeling 2016
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling
95
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and 
labeling
95
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications
95
GRI 418: Customer 
Privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and 
losses of customer data
20
Integrated Annual Report 2024-25
483
If undelivered, please return to the address below:
Brigade Enterprises Limited 
Corporate Identification Number 
(CIN): L85110KA1995PLC019126 
29th & 30th Floors, World Trade Center, 
Brigade Gateway Campus, 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, 
Malleswaram-Rajajinagar, Bengaluru - 560 055
Telephone No.: 91-80-41379200
www.brigadegroup.com
Concept, content and design by Report Yak 
(contact@reportyak.com)
