  
 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited 
Registered & Corporate Office: Tower 3, 1st Floor, 
East Wing, Equinox Business Park, LBS Marg, 
Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070.India 
 T: +91 22 6167 8499 F: +91 22 6167 8383 
W: www.crompton.co.in CIN: L31900MH2015PLC262254 
e-mail: crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in  
 
Date: June 14, 2024 
 
To, 
BSE Limited (“BSE”), 
Corporate Relationship Department, 
2nd Floor, New Trading Ring, 
P.J. Towers, Dalal Street, 
Mumbai – 400 001. 
To, 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”), 
“Exchange Plaza”, 5th Floor, 
Plot No. C/1, G Block,  
Bandra- Kurla Complex Bandra (East), 
Mumbai – 400 051. 
BSE Scrip Code: 539876 
NSE Symbol: CROMPTON 
ISIN: INE299U01018 
ISIN: INE299U01018 
Our Reference: 60/2024-25 
Our Reference: 60/2024-25 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Sub: Intimation under Regulation 30 and 34(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 - Notice of the 10th Annual General Meeting and Integrated Annual 
Report for the Financial Year 2023-24 
 
We wish to inform you that the 10th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited (“the Company”) will be held on Friday, July 26, 2024, at 11:00 a.m. (IST) through Video 
Conferencing (“VC”)/ Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”) in compliance with the applicable circulars issued by 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) and Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”), and that the 
deemed venue of the AGM shall be the Registered Office of the Company situated at Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing, 
Equinox Business Park, LBS Marg, Kurla (West), Mumbai – 400070. 
 
Pursuant to Regulation 34(1) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“the SEBI Listing Regulations”), as amended from time to time, please find enclosed Notice convening the                     
10th AGM and the Integrated Annual Report of the Company, including Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report for the Financial Year 2023-24. 
 
In terms of Regulation 46 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the said Notice of 10th AGM and the Integrated Annual 
Report including Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, is also available on the website of the 
Company and can be accessed at https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/financial-reports#AnnualReports and on 
the website of National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) at www.evoting.nsdl.com  
 
Further, in terms of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended and Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company is 
providing facility to its Members to exercise their right to vote by electronic means, through remote e-Voting 
services of NSDL as well as e-Voting during the AGM. The e-Voting instructions and the process to join meeting 
through VC/ OAVM is set out in the AGM Notice. 
 
Further, in accordance with the applicable circular(s) issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs and SEBI, the Notice 
of the AGM and the Integrated Annual Report of the Company for the Financial Year 2023-24, is being sent through 
electronic mode to only those Members of the Company whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company 
and/ or Depository Participant(s). 
 
Information at a glance:  
 
Particulars 
Details 
Mode 
VC/ OAVM 
Time and date of AGM 
Friday, July 26, 2024, at 11:00 a.m. (IST) 
Participation through video conferencing https://www.evoting.nsdl.com  
Helpline number for VC participation 
1800 22 55 33 
Video recording and transcripts 
https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/financial-reports#AnnualReports  
Dividend record date 
Wednesday, July 10, 2024 
  
 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited 
Registered & Corporate Office: Tower 3, 1st Floor, 
East Wing, Equinox Business Park, LBS Marg, 
Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070.India 
 T: +91 22 6167 8499 F: +91 22 6167 8383 
W: www.crompton.co.in CIN: L31900MH2015PLC262254 
e-mail: crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in  
 
Particulars 
Details 
Dividend payment date 
Within 30 (Thirty) days from the date of AGM 
Cut-off date for e-Voting 
Friday, July 19, 2024 
Remote e-Voting start time and date 
Monday, July 22, 2024, at 9:00 a.m. (IST) 
Remote e-Voting end time and date 
Thursday, July 25, 2024, at 5:00 p.m. (IST) 
Remote e-Voting website of NSDL 
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com   
 
You are requested to take the above information on record.  
 
Thanking you, 
 
For Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited 
 
 
 
Rashmi Khandelwal 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
ACS - 28839 
 
Rashmi 
Khandelwal
Digitally signed by Rashmi Khandelwal 
DN: c=IN, o=Personal, title=6571, 
pseudonym=133092532660904848ndUPG
YWFT9oI87, 
2.5.4.20=5da9433664eafa69d23a314f5c20d
a45b8c4392b456b9ff24d4c3b398bc97a9d, 
postalCode=400079, st=Maharashtra, 
serialNumber=847b14bda041d6dbff97519
363528ffafbe2af6889746847c8868c38c9be
8da4, cn=Rashmi Khandelwal 
Date: 2024.06.14 14:14:16 +05'30'
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
CIN: L31900MH2015PLC262254
Registered Office & Corporate Office: Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing, Equinox Business Park, 
LBS Marg, Kurla (West), Mumbai – 400 070.
T: +91 22 6167 8499 F: +91 22 6167 8383
E-mail: crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in
Website: www.crompton.co.in
NOTICE OF THE 10th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE is hereby given that the 10th Annual General Meeting 
(the “AGM”) of the Members of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited (the “Company”) will be held on Friday, 
July 26, 2024, at 11:00 A.M. (IST) through Video Conferencing 
(“VC”)/ Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) for which purpose 
the Registered Office of the Company situated at Tower 3, 
1st Floor, East Wing, Equinox Business Park, LBS Marg, Kurla 
(West), Mumbai – 400 070, shall be deemed as the venue for the 
Meeting and the proceedings of the AGM shall be deemed to be 
made thereat, to transact the following business(es):
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.	
Adoption of Financial Statements
	
To consider and adopt
	
a)	
the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of the 
Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024, 
together with the Reports of the Board of Directors (“the 
Board”) and the Auditors thereon; and
	
b)	
the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of 
the Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2024, together with the Report of the Auditors thereon.
2.	
Declaration of dividend
	
To declare a dividend of H 3/- (Rupees Three Only) per 
equity share of the face value of H 2/- (Rupees Two Only) 
each for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024.
3.	
Appointment of Mr. Shantanu Khosla (DIN:00059877) 
as a Director liable to retire by rotation
	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Shantanu Khosla 
(DIN:00059877) who retires by rotation and being eligible 
offers himself for re-appointment.
	
To consider, and if thought fit to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
152 and other applicable provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013, the approval of the Members of the Company 
be and is hereby accorded to re-appoint Mr. Shantanu 
Khosla (DIN:00059877) as Director, who is liable to retire 
by rotation.”
SPECIAL BUSINESS
4.	
Ratification 
of 
remuneration 
payable 
to 
M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost Auditors 
of the Company
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
148 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 14 of 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, and other 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
(including any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s) 
or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force), the 
Company hereby ratifies the remuneration of J 6,00,000/- 
(Rupees Six Lakhs Only) (exclusive of applicable taxes 
and re-imbursement of out of pocket expenses) payable to 
M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost Accountants (Firm 
Registration Number 100392), who have been appointed 
by the Board of Directors basis the recommendation of 
the Audit Committee, as Cost Auditors of the Company, 
to conduct the audit of the cost records maintained by 
the Company as prescribed under the Companies (Cost 
Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, as amended, for the 
Financial Year ending March 31, 2025.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of 
the Company (including its Committee thereof) be and are 
hereby severally authorised to do all such act(s), deed(s), 
matter(s) and thing(s) and take all such steps as may 
be necessary, proper, or expedient to give effect to this 
resolution.”
By the order of the Board
For Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Rashmi Khandelwal
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A28839
Registered Office
Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing,
Equinox Business Park, LBS Marg,
Kurla (West), Mumbai – 400 070
Date: May 16, 2024
Place: Mumbai
01
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
NOTES
1.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs, (“MCA”) has permitted 
conducting Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) through 
VC/ OAVM. In this regard, MCA vide its General Circular 
No. 14/2020 dated April 08, 2020, Circular No. 17/2020 
dated April 13, 2020, Circular No. 20/2020 dated May 
05, 2020, General Circular No. 2/2022 dated May 5, 
2022, followed by Circular No. 10/2022 dated December 
28, 2022, and subsequent Circular No. 09/2023 dated 
September  25, 2023, (collectivly referred as “MCA 
Circulars”), prescribing the procedure and manner 
of conducting the AGM through VC/ OAVM without the 
physical presence of the Members at a common venue. 
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) also 
vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 
dated May 12, 2020, Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/
CIR/P/2022/62 dated May 13, 2022, Circular No. SEBI/HO/
CFD/PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4 dated January 05, 2023, and 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/167 
dated October 07, 2023, (collectively referred as “SEBI 
Circulars”) has provided certain relaxations from 
compliance with certain provisions of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“the SEBI Listing Regulations”). In compliance 
with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
(the “Act”), MCA Circulars, SEBI Circulars and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, the AGM of the Company will be 
held through VC/ OAVM. Hence, Members can attend 
and participate in the AGM through VC/ OAVM only. The 
proceedings of the AGM will be deemed to be conducted 
at the Registered Office of the Company which shall be 
the deemed venue of the AGM.
2.	
An explanatory statement pursuant to Section 102(1) of 
the Act relating to special business as stated under Item 
No. 4 of the Notice dated Thursday, May 16, 2024, are 
annexed hereto.
3.	
A statement providing additional details of the Director(s) 
seeking re-appointment as set out in Item No. 3 of the 
Notice dated Thursday, May 16, 2024, is annexed herewith 
as required under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations as amended from time to time and Secretarial 
Standard-2 (“SS-2”) on General Meetings issued by 
the Council of the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India (“ICSI”).
4.	
Since this AGM is being conducted through VC/ OAVM, 
physical attendance of Members has been dispensed with 
in line with the MCA Circulars. Accordingly, the facility 
for appointment of proxy(ies) by the Members will not 
be available at the AGM and hence the proxy form and 
attendance slip are not annexed to this notice.
5.	
Institutional/ Corporate Members (i.e. other than 
individuals/ HUF/ NRI, etc.) intending to authorise their 
representatives to attend the AGM through VC/ OAVM 
on its behalf and to vote through electronic voting 
(“e-Voting”), are requested to send a certified scanned 
copy (PDF/ JPG Format) of its Board or governing body 
resolution/ authorisation letter to the Scrutiniser by e-mail 
through its registered e-mail address at evoting@mehta-
mehta.com with a copy marked at evoting@nsdl.com
	
Institutional Members (i.e. other than individuals, HUFs, 
NRIs etc.) can also upload their board resolution/ Authority 
Letter, etc. by clicking on “Upload Board Resolution/ 
Authority Letter” displayed under “e-Voting” tab in 
their login
6.	
The voting rights of Members shall be proportionate 
to their share in the paid-up equity share capital of the 
Company as on the cut-off date.
7.	
The Members can join the AGM through VC/ OAVM mode 
15 (Fifteen) minutes before and after the scheduled 
time of the commencement of the Meeting by following 
the procedure mentioned in the Notice. The facility 
of participation at the AGM through VC/ OAVM will be 
made available for 1,000 (One Thousand) Members on 
first come first served basis. This will not include large 
Members (i.e. Members holding 2% or more shareholding), 
Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel, the Chairperson of the Audit 
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
and Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Auditors etc. 
who are allowed to attend the AGM without restriction on 
account of first come first served basis.
8.	
Participation of Members attending AGM through 
VC/ OAVM shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning 
the quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
9.	
In accordance with the aforesaid MCA and SEBI Circulars, 
electronic copies of the Notice of the AGM alongwith 
the Integrated Annual Report for the Financial Year 
2023-24, are being sent to the Members whose e-mail 
addresses are registered with the Company or the 
Depositories/ Depository Participants (“DPs”). In case 
any Member is desirous of obtaining physical copy of 
the Integrated Annual Report for the Financial Year 2023-
24, kindly send a request to the Company by writing at 
crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in mentioning 
their folio number/ DP ID and Client ID.
	
The Notice calling the AGM has been uploaded on the 
website of the Company at www.crompton.co.in. The 
Notice can also be accessed from the websites of the 
Stock Exchanges, i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.com and 
www.nseindia.com respectively and is also available on 
the website of National Securities Depository Limited 
(“NSDL”) (agency for providing the remote e-Voting 
facility), at www.evoting.nsdl.com
02
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
10.	 Members seeking any information with regard to the 
Accounts or any matter to be placed at the AGM, Register 
of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their 
shareholding maintained under Section 170 of the Act, 
Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which Directors 
are interested under Section 189 of the Act and relevant 
documents referred to in the accompanying Notice and 
in the Explanatory Statement are requested to write to the 
Company on or before Friday, July 26, 2024, through 
e-mail on crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in 
The same will be replied by the Company suitably.
	
All documents referred to in the Notice will also be 
available electronically for inspection, without any 
payment of by the Members from the date of circulation 
of this Notice upto the date of AGM. Members seeking 
to inspect such documents can send an e-mail to 
crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in
11.	
To support the “Green Initiative”, Members who have 
not registered their e-mail addresses are requested to 
register the same with the Kfin Technologies Limited, 
Company’s Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”)/ 
their DPs in respect of shares held in physical/ electronic 
mode, respectively.
12.	 Since the AGM will be held through VC/ OAVM, the Route 
Map is not annexed with this Notice.
13.	 In compliance with Section 108 of the Act, read with Rule 
20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, Regulation 
44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and in terms of SEBI 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/ CIR/P/2020/242 dated 
December 09, 2020, on e-Voting facility provided by listed 
companies, the Company is providing facility for voting 
by electronic means for all its Members to enable them 
to cast their vote electronically and the business may be 
transacted through such e-Voting.
	
For this purpose, the Company has availed the services 
of NSDL for facilitating voting through electronic means, 
as the authorised agency, for casting votes using remote 
e-Voting system on all the resolution(s) set forth in 
this Notice.
14.	 As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act, the facility 
for making a nomination is available for the Members in 
respect of the shares held by them. Members holding 
shares in physical form who have not yet registered 
their nominations are requested to register the same by 
submitting Form No. SH-13. If a Member desires to cancel 
their earlier nomination and record a fresh nomination, 
he/ she may submit the same in Form No. SH-14. The 
said form can be downloaded from the Company’s 
website at https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/investors-
relations#InvestorService Members are requested to 
submit the said form to their DP in case the shares are 
held in electronic form and to the Company or RTA in 
case the shares are held in physical form, quoting their 
folio numbers.
	
In case of joint holders, the Member whose name appears 
as the first holder in the order of names as per the Register 
of Members of the Company as on the cut-off date will be 
entitled to vote during the AGM.
15.	 Members are requested to check that the correct account 
number has been recorded with the Depository. Members 
holding shares in electronic form are requested to intimate 
any change in their address, e-mail ID, signature or bank 
mandates to their respective DPs with whom they are 
maintaining their Demat accounts. Members holding 
shares in physical form are requested to intimate such 
changes to the RTA of the Company by furnishing Form 
No. ISR-1 and other forms pursuant to SEBI Master 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/SECFATF/P/CIR/2023/169 
dated October 12, 2023. The same are available on the 
website of the Company at https://www.crompton.co.in/
pages/investors-relations#InvestorService It may be 
noted that any service request can be processed only 
after the folio is KYC Compliant.
16.	 As per Regulation 40 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
as amended, securities of listed companies can be 
transferred only in dematerialised form. Further, the 
transmission and transposition of securities shall also be 
effected only in dematerialised form. In view of this and to 
eliminate all risks associated with physical shares and for 
ease of portfolio management, Members holding shares 
in physical form are requested to consider converting their 
holdings into dematerialised form. Members can contact 
the Company or RTA for assistance in this regard.
17.	
SEBI vide Circular Nos. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/ 
CIR/2023/131 dated July 31, 2023, and SEBI/HO/OIAE/ 
OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/135 dated August 4, 2023, read 
with Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/ OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/ 
CIR/2023/145 dated July 31, 2023 (updated as on August 
11, 2023), has established a common Online Dispute 
Resolution Portal (“ODR Portal”) for resolution of 
disputes arising in the Indian Securities Market. Pursuant 
to above-mentioned circulars, post exhausting the option 
to resolve their grievances with the RTA/ Company directly 
and through existing SCORES platform, the investors can 
initiate dispute resolution through the ODR Portal (https://
smartodr.in/login).
DIVIDEND AND IEPF RELATED INFORMATION
18.	 Members may note that the Board, at its meeting held on 
Thursday, May 16, 2024, has recommended a dividend 
of H 3/- (Rupees Three Only) per share for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2024, which if approved at the 
03
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
ensuing AGM, will be paid, subject to deduction of tax 
at source (“TDS”) within 30 (Thirty) days from the date 
of declaration to those persons or their mandates who 
holds shares:
	
i.	
in dematerialised (“Demat”) mode, based on the 
beneficial ownership details to be received from 
NSDL and Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited (“CDSL”) as at the close of business hours 
of Record Date;
	
ii.	
in physical mode, after giving effect to valid 
transmission and transposition in respect of valid 
requests lodged with the Company as of the close 
of business hours on Record Date.
19.	 The Company has fixed Wednesday, July 10, 2024, as 
the “Record Date” for the purpose of determining the 
Members eligible to receive dividend for the Financial Year 
ending March 31, 2024.
20.	 The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books 
of the Company will remain closed from Thursday,
July 11, 2024, to Friday, July 26, 2024, (both days 
inclusive) for the purpose of AGM and for the payment 
of Dividend.
21.	 If the final dividend is approved at the AGM, payment of 
such dividend shall be subject to TDS, as under:
	
i. 	
To all Beneficial Owners in respect of shares held in 
dematerialised form as per the data as may be made 
available by the Depositories, as of close of business 
hours on Wednesday, July 10, 2024;
	
ii. 	
To all Members in respect of shares held in physical 
form after giving effect to valid transmission or 
transposition requests lodged with the Company as 
of the close of business hours on Wednesday, July 
10, 2024.
	
SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_
RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/655 dated November 3, 2021 
(subsequently amended by Circular Nos. SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/687 dated December 
14, 2021, SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/37 
March 16, 2023 and SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-1/P/
CIR/2023/181 November 17, 2023) has mandated that 
with effect from April 1, 2024, dividend to security holders 
(holding securities in physical form), shall be paid only 
through electronic mode. Such payment shall be made 
only after furnishing the PAN, choice of nomination, 
contact details including mobile number, bank account 
details and specimen signature.
	
Further, relevant FAQs published by SEBI on its website 
can be viewed at the following link: https://www.sebi.gov.
in/sebi_data/faqfiles/jan-2024/1704433843359.pdf
22.	 Pursuant to the Income Tax Act, 1961, (“the IT Act”), 
as amended by the Finance Act, 2020, dividend paid 
or distributed by the Company on or after April 01, 
2020, shall be taxable in the hands of Members. For the 
prescribed rates for various categories, the Members 
are requested to refer to the Finance Act, 2020, and 
amendments thereof. The TDS/ withholding tax rate would 
vary depending on the residential status of the Member 
and documents submitted by them with the Company/ 
RTA/ DPs. The Members are requested to update their 
PAN with the Company/ RTA (in case of shares held in 
physical mode) by furnishing Form No. ISR-1 and with 
the DPs (in case of the shares held in Demat mode). The 
Company shall therefore be required to withhold/ deduct 
TDS, at the prescribed rates on the dividend paid to 
its Members.
23.	 A Resident individual Member with PAN and whose income 
does not exceed maximum amount not chargeable to tax 
or who is not liable to pay income tax, as the case may 
be, can submit a yearly declaration in Form No. 15G/ 15H, 
to avail the benefit of non-deduction of tax at source by 
writing an e-mail at inward@kfintech.com to the RTA of the 
Company or at crompton.investorrelations@crompton.
co.in on or before Friday, July 5, 2024. Members are 
requested to note that if the PAN is not correct/ invalid/ 
inoperative or have not filed their income tax returns, 
then tax will be deducted at higher rates prescribed 
under Sections 206AA or 206AB of the Income-tax Act, 
as applicable and in case of invalid PAN, they will not be 
able to get credit of TDS from the Income Tax Department.
	
Non-resident Members [including Foreign Institutional 
Investors (“FIIs”)/ Foreign Portfolio Investors (“FPIs”)] 
can avail beneficial rates under tax treaty between India 
and their country of tax residence, subject to providing 
necessary documents i.e. No Permanent Establishment 
and Beneficial Ownership Declaration, Tax Residency 
Certificate, Form 10F, any other document which may be 
required to avail the tax treaty benefits. For this purpose, 
the Member may submit the above documents (PDF/ JPG 
Format) by writing an e-mail at inward@kfintech.com to the 
RTA of the Company or at crompton.investorrelations@
crompton.co.in The aforesaid declarations and 
documents needs to be submitted by the Members on or 
before Friday, July 5, 2024.
24.	 SEBI has made it mandatory for all companies to use the 
bank account details furnished by the Depositories and the 
bank account details maintained by the RTA for payment 
of dividend to its Members electronically. Accordingly, the 
Company has extended the facility of electronic credit of 
dividend directly to the respective bank accounts of the 
Member(s) through Electronic Clearing Service (“ECS”)/ 
National Electronic Clearing Service (“NECS”)/ Automated 
Clearing House (“ACH”)/ Real Time Gross Settlement 
04
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
(“RTGS”)/ Direct Credit/ IMPS/ NEFT etc. In order to 
receive the dividend without any delay, the Members 
holding shares in physical form are requested to submit 
particulars of their bank accounts in Form No. ISR-1 along 
with the original cancelled cheque bearing the name of the 
Member to RTA/ Company to update their bank account 
details and all the eligible Members holding shares in 
demat mode are requested to update with their respective 
DPs before Wednesday, July 10, 2024, their correct Bank 
Account Number, including 9 Digit MICR Code and 11 digit 
IFSC Code, e-mail ID and mobile no(s). Members holding 
shares in physical form may communicate these details 
to RTA having address at KFin Technologies Limited, 
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, Gachibowli Financial 
District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032, on or 
before Wednesday, July 10, 2024, by quoting the reference 
folio number and attaching photocopy of the cheque leaf of 
their active bank account and a self‑attested copy of their 
PAN card.
	
Transfer of unclaimed/ unpaid amounts to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”)
25.	 Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of the 
Act read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 
2016, as amended from time to time (“the IEPF Rules”), 
all dividends, if not encashed for a period of 7 (Seven) 
years from the date of transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account 
of the Company, are liable to be transferred to the IEPF. 
Further, all the shares in respect of which dividend has 
remained unclaimed for 7 (Seven) consecutive years or 
more from the date of transfer to unpaid dividend account 
shall also be transferred to IEPF. In view of this, Members 
are requested to claim their dividends from the Company, 
within the stipulated timeline.
	
Adhering to the aforesaid statutory requirements, the 
cut-  off date for claiming unpaid/ unclaimed dividend of 
Financial Year 2016-17 is Friday, August 23, 2024.
	
The Company shall send notices/ reminders to the 
Members whose dividends are unclaimed and are due 
for transfer to the IEPF and simultaneously publish 
newspaper advertisement(s) accordingly.
	
The Company urges all the Members to encash/ claim 
their respective dividend of shares before the due date.
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the IEPF Rules, the Company 
has uploaded the details of unpaid and unclaimed dividend 
amounts lying with the Company as on March 31, 2024, 
on the Company’s website at the web-link: https://www.
crompton.co.in/pages/investors-relations#SharesIEPF as 
well as on the website of MCA.
26.	 Members holding shares in electronic form are requested 
to ensure that correct bank particulars are registered 
against their respective Depository accounts which will 
be used by the Company for any payment of dividend in 
future. The Company or its RTA cannot act on any request 
received directly from the Members holding shares in 
electronic form for any change of bank particulars or bank 
mandates. Such changes are to be advised only to the DP 
by the Members. 
27.	 Members wishing to claim dividends that remain 
unclaimed are requested to correspond with the RTA as 
mentioned above, by writing an e-mail to the Company at: 
crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in
28.	 The instructions for Members for remote e-Voting 
and joining the AGM are as under:
	
The remote e-Voting period commences from Monday, 
July 22, 2024, at 9:00 A.M. and ends on Thursday, 
July 25, 2024, at 5:00 P.M. During this period, Members 
holding shares either in physical or dematerialised form, as 
on Friday, July 19, 2024, (“cut-off date”), may cast their 
votes electronically through e-Voting system from any place 
(“remote e-Voting”). The remote e-Voting module shall be 
disabled by NSDL for voting thereafter. Members have the 
option to cast their vote on any of the resolutions using the 
remote e-Voting facility, either during the aforesaid period or 
during the AGM. Members who have voted on some of the 
resolutions during the said voting period are also eligible 
to vote on the remaining resolutions during the AGM. The 
voting right of Members shall be in proportion to their share 
in the paid-up equity share capital of the Company as on 
the cut-off date, being Friday, July 19, 2024.
	
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting 
system?
	
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system 
consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
	
Step 1: Access to the NSDL e-Voting system;
	
Step 2: Cast your votes electronically on NSDL 
e-Voting system.
	
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
	
A.	
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual 
meeting for individual Members holding 
securities in demat mode
	
	
In terms of SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/
CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 09, 2020 on 
e-Voting facility provided by listed companies and 
as a part of increasing the efficiency of e-Voting 
process, individual Members holding securities 
in demat mode are allowed to vote through their 
demat account maintained with Depositories and 
05
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
DPs. Members are advised to update their mobile number and e-mail ID in their demat accounts in order to access 
e-Voting facility.
	
	
Login method for Individual Members holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of Members
Login Method
Individual Members 
holding securities 
in demat mode with 
NSDL
1.	 Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.com either 
on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page click on the “Beneficial 
Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section, this will prompt you to enter 
your existing User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting 
services under Value added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and 
you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on Company name or e-Voting service provider i.e., 
NSDL and you will be re-directed to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote 
e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
2.	 If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.
com Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/
IdeasDirectReg.jsp
3.	 Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.
evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Voting 
system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/ Member’ 
section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e., your sixteen-digit demat 
account number hold with NSDL), Password/ OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. 
After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see 
e-Voting page. Click on Company name or e-Voting service provider i.e., NSDL and you will be 
redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or 
joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
4.	 Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning the QR code 
mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
	
NSDL Mobile App is available on
	
Individual Members 
holding securities 
in demat mode with 
CDSL
1.	 Users who have opted for CDSL Easi/ Easiest facility, can login through their existing user id and 
password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further authentication. 
The users to login Easi/ Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on 
login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then user your existing my easi username & password.
2.	 After successful login the Easi/ Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible 
companies where the e-Voting is in progress as per the information provided by Company. On 
clicking the e-Voting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service provider 
for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during 
the meeting. Additionally, there is also links provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service 
Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
3.	 If the user is not registered for Easi/ Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option.
4.	 Alternatively, the user can directly access e-Voting page by providing Demat Account Number and 
PAN No. from a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate 
the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & e-mail as recorded in the Demat Account. After 
successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-Voting option where the e-Voting is in 
progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers.
06
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Type of Members
Login Method
Individual Members 
(holding securities in 
demat mode) login 
through their DP(s)
1.	 You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your DP registered with 
NSDL/ CDSL for e-Voting facility. Upon logging in, you will be able to see e-Voting option. 
2.	 Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/ CDSL Depository site after successful 
authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. 
3.	 Click on Company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting 
website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting.
	
	
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website.
	
	
Helpdesk for Individual Members holding 
securities in demat mode for any technical 
issues related to login through Depository i.e. 
NSDL and CDSL
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Members holding securities 
in demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a 
request at evoting@nsdl.com or call at toll free no.: 022-4886 7000 
Individual Members holding securities 
in demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a 
request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at 1800 22 55 33
	
B.	
Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for Members other than Individual Members holding 
securities in demat mode and Members holding securities in physical mode
	
How to Login to NSDL e-Voting website?
	
Step 1
	
1.	
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ 
either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/ 
Member’ section.
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/ OTP and a Verification Code as shown on 
the screen.
	
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDeAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your 
existing IDeAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL e-services after using your log-in credentials, click on e-Voting and you 
can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.
	
4.	
Your User ID details are given below
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) or Physical
 Your User ID is
a)	 For Members who hold shares 
in demat account with NSDL
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** then your user ID is 
IN300***12******
b)	 For Members who hold shares 
in demat account with CDSL
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your user ID is 12**************
c)	 For Members holding shares in 
Physical Form
EVEN Number followed by folio number registered with the Company
For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 128760 then user ID is 128760001*** 
07
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
5.	
Password details for Members other than Individual 
Members are given below:
	
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-Voting then 
you can user your existing password to login 
and cast your vote.
	
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the 
first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial 
password’ which was communicated to you. 
Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you 
need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the 
system will force you to change your password.
	
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
	
i.	
If your e-mail ID is registered in your demat 
account or with the Company, your ‘initial 
password’ is communicated to you on 
your e-mail ID. Trace the e-mail sent to you 
from NSDL from your mailbox. Open the 
e-mail and open the attachment i.e. a .pdf 
file. Open the .pdf file. The password to 
open the .pdf file is your 8 digit Client ID for 
NSDL account, last 8 digits of Client ID for 
CDSL account or folio number for shares 
held in physical form. The .pdf file contains 
your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial password’.
	
	
	
ii.	
If your e-mail ID is not registered, please 
follow steps mentioned below in process 
for those Members whose e-mail IDs 
are not registered.
	
6.	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the 
“Initial password” or have forgotten your password:
	
	
a)	
Click on “Forgot User Details/ Password?” 
(If you are holding shares in your demat account 
with NSDL or CDSL) option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com
	
	
b)	
“Physical User Reset Password?” (If you 
are holding shares in physical mode) option 
available on www.evoting.nsdl.com
	
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the password by 
aforesaid two options, you can send a request 
at evoting@nsdl.com mentioning your demat 
account number/ folio number, your PAN, your 
name and your registered address etc.
	
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the votes on 
the e-Voting system of NSDL.
	
7.	
After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms 
and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
	
8.	
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
	
9.	
After you click on the “Login” button, the home page 
of e-Voting will open.
	
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL 
e-Voting system
	
1.	
After successful logging in following Step 1, you will 
be able to see all the companies “EVEN” in which 
you are holding shares and whose voting cycle and 
General Meeting is in active status.
	
2.	
Select “EVEN” of Company for which you wish to 
cast your vote during the remote e-Voting period and 
casting your vote during the General Meeting. For 
joining virtual meeting, you need to click on “VC/ 
OAVM” link placed under “Join General Meeting”.
	
3.	
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting 
page opens.
	
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options 
i.e. assent or dissent, verify/ modify the number of 
shares for which you wish to cast your vote and click 
on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
	
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed.
	
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast 
by you by clicking on the print option on the 
confirmation page.
	
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you 
will not be allowed to modify your vote.
	
Process for procuring user ID and password for 
e-Voting for those Members whose e-mail IDs are 
not registered with the Depositories/ Company and 
registration of e-mail IDs for e-Voting on all the 
resolutions set out in this notice:
	
1.	
In case shares are held in physical mode and 
have not updated their e-mail addresses with 
the Company, please provide folio number, 
name of Members, scanned copy of the share 
certificate (front and back), self-attested scanned 
copy of PAN card and Aadhar Card by e-mail to 
crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in for 
registering e-mail address.
	
2.	
In case shares are held in demat mode, 
please provide DP ID and Client ID (16 digit 
DP ID + Client ID or 16-digit beneficiary ID), 
Name of Member, client master or copy of 
Consolidated Account statement, self-attested 
scanned copy of PAN card and Aadhar Card to 
crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in
08
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
	
3.	
Alternatively, Members may send a request 
to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user 
ID and password for e-Voting by providing 
above‑mentioned documents.
	
General Guidelines for Members
	
1.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your 
password with any other person and take utmost 
care to keep your password confidential. Login 
to the e-Voting website will be disabled upon 
5 (Five) unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct 
password. In such an event, you will need to go 
through the “Forgot User Details/ Password?” or 
“Physical User Reset Password?” option available 
on www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
	
2.	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) for Members and the 
e-Voting user manual for Members available in the 
download section at www.evoting.nsdl.com or call 
on toll free number: 022-48867000 or send a 
request to Mr. Sanjeev Yadav, Assistant Manager, 
NSDL, at evoting@nsdl.com
29.	 The Instructions for Members for e-Voting on the 
day of the AGM are as under
	
1.	
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM 
is same as the instructions mentioned above for 
remote e-Voting.
	
2.	
Only those Members, who will be present in the AGM 
through VC/ OAVM facility and have not casted their 
vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting 
and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be 
eligible to vote through e-Voting system in the AGM.
	
3.	
Members who have voted through remote e-Voting 
will be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will 
not be eligible to vote at the AGM.
	
4.	
The details of the person who may be contacted 
for any grievances connected with the facility for 
e-Voting on the day of the AGM shall be the same 
person mentioned for remote e-Voting.
30.	 INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING 
THE AGM THROUGH VC/ OAVM ARE AS UNDER
i.	
Members will be provided with a facility to attend the AGM 
through VC/ OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting system. 
Members may access by following the steps mentioned 
above for Access to NSDL e-Voting system. After 
successful login, you can see link of “VC/ OAVM” placed 
under “Join meeting” menu against Company name. You 
are requested to click on VC/ OAVM link placed under Join 
Meeting menu. The link for VC/ OAVM will be available in 
Shareholder/ Member login where the EVEN of Company 
will be displayed. Please note that the Members who do 
not have the user ID and Password for e-Voting or have 
forgotten the user ID and Password may retrieve the same 
by following the remote e-Voting instructions mentioned in 
the notice to avoid last minute rush.
ii.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through 
Laptops for better experience.
iii.	
Further, the Members will be required to allow camera and 
use Internet with a good speed to avoid any disturbance 
during the meeting.
iv.	
Please note that participants connecting from mobile 
devices or tablets or through laptop or connecting via 
mobile hotspot may experience Audio/ Video loss due 
to fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore 
recommended to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to 
mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
v.	
Members who would like to express their views or ask 
questions during the AGM may register themselves as 
a speaker by sending their request from their registered 
e-mail ID mentioning their name, DP ID and Client 
ID/ folio number, PAN, mobile number at crompton.
investorrelations@crompton.co.in Those Members who 
have registered themselves as a speaker from Thursday, 
July 18, 2024, to Tuesday, July 23, 2024, upto 5:00 P.M. 
will only be allowed to express their views/ ask questions 
during the AGM. The Company reserves the right to restrict 
the number of speakers depending on the availability of 
time for the AGM.
vi. 	
Members who would like to express their views/ have 
questions may send their questions in advance mentioning 
their name demat account number/ folio number, email id, 
mobile number at crompton.investorrelations@crompton.
co.in. The same will be replied by the Company suitably
vii.	
Any person holding shares in physical form and non-
individual Members, who acquires shares of the Company 
and becomes Member of the Company after the notice is 
sent through e-mail and holding shares as of the cut-off 
date, i.e. Friday, July 19, 2024, may obtain the login ID and 
password by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.com or to 
the Issuer/ RTA. However, if you are already registered with 
NSDL for remote e-Voting, then you can use your existing 
user ID and password for casting your vote. If you forgot 
your password, you can reset your password by using 
“Forgot User Details/ Password” or “Physical User Reset 
Password” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com or 
09
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
call on toll free no. 1800 22 55 33. In case of Individual 
Members holding securities in Demat mode who acquires 
shares of the Company and becomes a Member of the 
Company after sending of the Notice and holding shares 
as of the cut-off date, i.e. Friday, July 19, 2024, may follow 
steps mentioned in the Notice of the AGM under “Access 
to NSDL e-Voting system”.
viii.	 A person who is not a Member as on the cut-off date is 
requested to treat this Notice for information purposes only.
ix.	
A Member will not be allowed to vote again on any resolution 
on which vote has already been cast.
x.	
Members attending the AGM who have not cast their 
votes on the resolutions through remote e-Voting and are 
otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to cast 
their votes through e-Voting during the AGM. The Members 
who have casted their votes prior to the AGM may also 
attend/ participate in the AGM through VC/ OAVM but shall 
not be entitled to cast their votes again.
xi.	
The remote e-Voting module on the day of the AGM shall 
be disabled by NSDL for voting after 15 (Fifteen) minutes 
of the conclusion of the AGM.
xii.	
Any Member holding shares in physical form, and non-
individual Members, who acquires shares of the Company 
and/ or become a Member after sending of the Notice 
and holds shares as on the cut-off date, may obtain 
their login ID and password by sending a request at 
evoting@nsdl.com. However, if he/ she is already registered 
with NSDL for remote e-Voting, then he/ she can use his/ 
her existing user ID and password for casting the vote.
xiii.	 In case of individual Members holding securities in demat 
mode, who acquires the shares of the Company and/ or 
become a Member after the Notice is sent and holds shares 
as on the cut-off date, may follow steps mentioned below 
under “Instructions for e-Voting”.
31.	 SCRUTINISER’S REPORT AND DECLARATION 
OF RESULTS
i.	
The Board of Directors of the Company has appointed 
Ms. Ashwini Inamdar (FCS 9409) or failing her Ms. Alifya 
Sapatwala (ACS 24091) of M/s. Mehta & Mehta, Practicing 
Company Secretaries (ICSI Unique Code P1996MH007500), 
as the Scrutiniser to scrutinise the e-Voting process 
including remote e-Voting during the AGM in a fair and 
transparent manner.
ii.	
The Scrutiniser shall, immediately after the conclusion of 
the e-Voting at the AGM, first count the votes cast during 
the AGM, thereafter unblock the votes cast through remote 
e-Voting in the presence of at least 2 (Two) witnesses not 
in the employment of the Company and submit, not later 
than 2 (Two) working days of conclusion of the AGM, a 
consolidated Scrutiniser’s Report of the total votes cast 
in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or a person 
authorised by him in writing, who shall countersign 
the same.
iii.	
The results declared along with the Scrutiniser’s Report 
shall be placed on the Company’s website at www.
crompton.co.in and on the website of NSDL, at www.
evoting.nsdl.com immediately after the submission to the 
Stock Exchanges, where the shares of the Company are 
listed. Subject to receipt of the requisite number of votes, 
the resolutions shall be deemed to have been passed on 
the date of the AGM, i.e. Friday, July 26, 2024.
32.	 NOTE TO MEMBERS
i.	
SEBI has mandated the submission of Permanent Account 
Number (“PAN”) by every participant in securities market. 
Members holding shares in dematerialised form are, 
therefore, requested to submit their PAN to the DPs with 
whom they maintain their demat accounts. Members 
holding shares in physical form should submit their PAN to 
the Company/ RTA.
ii.	
Members are requested to intimate changes, if any, 
pertaining to their name, postal address, e-mail ID, 
telephone/ mobile numbers, PAN, mandates, nominations, 
power of attorney, bank details (such as name of the bank 
and branch details, bank account number, MICR code, IFSC 
code, etc.), with necessary documentary evidence, to their 
DPs in case the shares are held by them in dematerialised 
form and to the Company/ RTA.
iii.	
Members are requested to quote their folio number or DP 
ID, Client ID, as the case may be, in all correspondence with 
the Company or the RTA.
iv.	
To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are advised 
to exercise due diligence and notify the Company of any 
change in address or demise of any Member as soon as 
possible. Members are also advised to not leave their 
demat account(s) dormant for long. Periodic statement of 
holdings should be obtained from the concerned DP and 
holdings should be verified from time to time.
v.	
The Company has sent individual letters to all the Members 
holding shares of the Company in physical form for 
furnishing their PAN, KYC details and Nomination pursuant 
to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/ HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/
CIR/2021/655 dated November 03, 2021. Attention of the 
Members holding shares of the Company in physical form 
is invited to go through the said important communication.
vi.	
To mitigate unintended challenges on account of freezing 
of folios, SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD-
10
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
1/P/CIR/2023/181 dated November 17, 2023, has done away 
with the provision regarding freezing of folios not having 
PAN, KYC, and Nomination details. Members may also 
refer to relevant FAQs published by SEBI on its website 
and can be viewed at the following link https://www.sebi.
gov.in/sebi_data/faqfiles/jan-2024/1704433843359.pdf
vii.	
Further, in compliance to the SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 
2022, if the service requests are received by RTA (like Issue 
of duplicate securities certificate, claim from unclaimed 
suspense account, renewal/ exchange, endorsement, sub-
division/splitting, consolidation of securities certificates/ 
folios, transmission and transposition of securities) from 
those Members whose details, as mentioned in SEBI 
Circular dated November 03, 2021, are duly updated in the 
system, the RTA/ Company shall verify and process the 
service requests and issue a ‘Letter of Confirmation’ in lieu 
of physical securities certificate(s), to the securities holder/ 
claimant within 30 (Thirty) days of its receipt of such request 
after removing objections, if any, which shall be valid for a 
period of 120 (One Hundred and Twenty) days from the 
date of its issuance, within which the securities holder/ 
claimant shall make a request to the DP for dematerialising 
the said securities.
	
If the Members fail to submit the dematerialisation request 
within 120 (One Hundred and Twenty) days, then the 
Company shall credit those shares in the Suspense Escrow 
Demat account held by the Company. Members can claim 
these shares transferred to Suspense Escrow Demat 
account on submission of necessary documentation.
viii.	 Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated 
January 25, 2022 has mandated the listed companies to 
issue securities in demat form only while processing service 
requests viz. issue of duplicate securities certificate, claim 
from unclaimed suspense account, renewal/ exchange of 
securities certificate, endorsement, sub-division/ splitting of 
securities certificate, consolidation of securities certificates/ 
folios, transmission and transposition. Accordingly, 
Members are requested to make service requests by 
submitting a duly filled and signed Form No. ISR-4, the 
format of which is available on the Company’s website under 
the weblink at https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/investors-
relations#InvestorService Members holding equity shares 
of the Company in physical form are requested to kindly 
get their equity shares converted into demat/ electronic 
form to get inherent benefits of dematerialisation and also 
considering that physical transfer of equity shares/ issuance 
of equity shares in physical form have been disallowed 
by SEBI.
By the order of the Board
For Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Rashmi Khandelwal
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A28839
Registered Office
Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing,
Equinox Business Park, LBS Marg,
Kurla (West), Mumbai – 400 070
Date: May 16, 2024
Place: Mumbai
11
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
STATEMENT SETTING OUT THE MATERIAL FACTS CONCERNING AND RELATING 
TO THE SPECIAL BUSINESS TO BE TRANSACTED AT THE MEETING PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 102(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Item No. 4
Ratification of remuneration payable to M/s. Ashwin 
Solanki & Associates, Cost Auditors of the Company
Under the provisions of Section 148 of the Act read with the 
Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, as amended 
from time to time, the Company is required to have the audit 
of its cost records conducted by a Cost Accountant. Further, 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Act 
read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the 
remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor needs to be ratified 
by the Members of the Company.
Accordingly, the Board of Directors of the Company basis the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, at their Meeting held 
on Thursday, May 16, 2024, has approved the appointment 
of M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost Accountants 
(Firm Registration No. 100392) as Cost Auditors to conduct 
the audit of the cost records maintained by the Company for 
the Financial Year ending March 31, 2025 at a remuneration 
H 6,00,000/- (Rupees Six Lakhs Only) (excluding all taxes and 
reimbursement of out of pocket expenses, if any at actuals).
Accordingly, consent of the Members is sought by way of an 
Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 4 of the accompanying 
Notice for ratification of the remuneration amounting toI
H 6,00,000/- (Rupees Six Lakhs Only) plus applicable taxes and 
out of pocket expenses on actual basis payable to the Cost 
Auditor for the Financial Year ending March 31, 2025.
The Board recommends the resolution as set out at Item No. 4 
of the Notice for the approval of the Members of the Company 
as an Ordinary Resolution.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel’s or their 
relatives are in any way concerned or interested, financially or 
otherwise, in the said resolution.
By the order of the Board
For Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Rashmi Khandelwal
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No. A28839
Registered Office
Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing,
Equinox Business Park, LBS Marg,
Kurla (West), Mumbai – 400 070
Date: May 16, 2024
Place: Mumbai
12
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
ANNEXURE A
Details of Director seeking appointment/ re-appointment in the forthcoming AGM
[In pursuance of Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (“SS-2”) and Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations
Brief Profile
Mr. Khosla holds a Bachelor’s degree in Mechanical Engineering from Indian Institute of 
Technology, Bombay, and MBA from Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta. Prior to joining 
Crompton, he served as the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Procter & 
Gamble from July 2002 to June 2015
Qualification
Bachelor’s degree in Mechanical Engineering from Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay and 
MBA from Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta
Experience
38 years
Expertise in specific functional area
Wide managerial experience in Consumer Products Industry 
Terms and Conditions of appointment 
or re-appointment
•	 To be appointed as a Non-Executive Director;
•	 Liable to retire by rotation;
•	 Eligible for re-appointment
Remuneration sought to be paid
As may be approved by N&RC and Board from time to time
Remuneration last drawn
Total Remuneration paid in Financial Year 2023-24 is D 9,03,77,306/- (Rupees Nine Crore Three 
Lakh Seventy Seven Thousand Three Hundred and Six Only) out of which variable pay is 
D 4,57,35,168/- (Rupees Four Crore Fifty Seven Lakh Thirty Five Thousand One Hundred and 
Sixty Eight Only) 
Number of shares held in the Company 
(directly or as a beneficial owner)
15,88,017 (Fifteen Lakh Eighty Eight Thousand Seventeen)
Number of Meetings of the Board 
attended during the year
6 (Six)
Membership/ Chairmanship of 
Committees of the Company
•	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Chairman
•	 Stakeholders Relationship and Share Transfer Committee – Member
Directorships held in listed Companies
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Listed companies from which resigned 
in the past three years
NIL
Directorships held in other Companies 
(excluding foreign, private and Section 
8 Companies)
NIL
Membership/ Chairmanship of 
Committees across other Public 
Companies (listed as well as unlisted)
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
•	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee – Chairman
•	 Audit Committee – Member
•	 Nomination & Remuneration Committee – Member
•	 Risk Management Committee – Member
*Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and elevated as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, to April 30, 2024, and then assumed the position 
of Non-Executive Vice Chairman till December 31, 2025.
Name of the Director
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Director Identification Number
00059877
Category
Non-Executive Vice Chairman*
Date of Birth
January 25, 1960
Age
64 years
Nationality
Indian
Date of first appointment on 
the Board
September 21, 2015 
Relationship with Directors, 
Managers and KMPs
There is no relationship with other Directors on the Board, 
Managers and KMPs.
13
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Information at a glance
Particulars
Details
Mode
VC/ OAVM
Time and date of AGM
Friday, July 26, 2024 at 11:00 A.M.
Participation through video-conferencing
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com
Helpline number for VC participation
1800 22 55 33
Webcast and transcripts
https://www.crompton.co.in/investors/annual-report/
Dividend record date
Wednesday, July 10, 2024
Dividend payment date
Within 30 (Thirty) days from the date of AGM
Cut-off date for e-Voting
Friday, July 19, 2024
E-voting start time and date
Monday, July 22, 2024 at 9:00 A.M.
E-voting end time and date
Thursday, July 25, 2024 at 5:00 P.M.
E-voting website of NSDL
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com
Name, address and contact details of e-Voting service 
provider
Contact details
Mr. Sanjeev Yadav - Assistant Manager
National Securities Depository Limited,
4th Floor, A Wing, Trade World, Kamala Mills Compound,
Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400 013, India
E-mail ID: evoting@nsdl.com; sanjeevy@nsdl.com
Contact number: 1800 22 55 33
Name, address and contact details of Registrar and 
Transfer Agent
Contact details
Ms. Krishna Priya Maddula
Senior Manager – Corporate Registry
KFin Technologies Limited,
Selenium Tower B, Plot No. 31 & 32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally, Hyderabad – 500 032
E-mail ID: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Contact number: 1800-309-4001
14
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Transforming
while Performing
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Crompton 2.0
CONTENTS	
Introduction 
About the report	 	
	
	
	
	
02
Corporate Overview
Who we are	
	
04
Where we operate	
09
How we create value	
10
Our Stakeholders	
12
Materiality 	
16
Megatrends 	
18
Year in Review
Business Review	
20
Chairman’s Message	
30
MD & CEO’s Message	
32
Manufacturing Highlights	
36
Innovation Highlights	
40
Transform and Perform
Our growth strategy	
46
Enabled & Empowered Organisation	
48
Consumer need-led innovation	
50
Premiumisation of portfolio	
52
Supply Chain Excellence	
54
Go-To-Market Excellence	
56
Digital Enablement	
58
Investors	
62
Consumers	
66
People	
72
Value Chain Partners	
80
Communities	
84
Environment	
94
Governance and Ethics
Governance	
102
Board of Directors & Key Managerial Personnel	
114
Management Team	
118
Policies	
119
Risk Management	
121
Awards	
128
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion & Analysis Report	
134
Board’s Report	
146
Report on Corporate Governance	
195
Corporate Governance Certificate	
257
MD & CEO and CFO Certificate	
258
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report	
260
Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements	
294
Consolidated Financial Statements	
376
Independent Assurance Statement	
458
GRI Content Index	
460
FINANCIAL YEAR 2023-24 
HIGHLIGHTS 
Crompton is among India’s leading consumer 
electrical companies with a strong presence in the 
ECD and Lighting segments.
Financial highlights
` 6,388 Crore
Revenue from 
operations
` 466 Crore
Profit after tax
` 689 Crore
EBITDA 
150%
Dividend % on 
face value ` 2
Operational highlights
` 659 Crore
Revenue from new 
products 
76%
E-commerce 
growth 
19
Patents  
165 
New Products 
launched
ESG highlights
33,950* KL
Water recycled
83,861* GJ
Energy consumed
35,661
Total training manhours 
provided to employees
   (Y-o-Y increase) 
*only including manufacturing facilities.
In June 2023, we launched 'Crompton 
2.0', a renewed focus on top-line growth 
with a profit-led approach. This strategic 
pivot involves substantial investments 
in growth spends including people and 
process capability, brand reinforcement, 
consumer led innovation and refined 
go-to-market strategies.
In Financial Year 2023-24, this strategy 
has enabled us to deliver robust financial 
performance, streamline our operations, 
intensify our distribution network, 
ameliorate our market leadership and 
build strong relations with our external 
stakeholders. Electrical Consumer 
Durables ("ECD") segment has 
demonstrated industry leading growth 
on back of our extensive pan-India 
distribution and innovation engine. 
Significant step up in advertising spends 
to enhance brand visibility for both 
Crompton and Butterfly.
While we have embarked on Crompton 
2.0 journey with the objective of 
accelerated growth at healthy margins 
to deliver strong shareholder return, our 
focus on solidifying foundation of the 
organisation, driving growth enablers 
and the pillars of strength continues.
Scope of reporting 
Reporting period
This Integrated Annual Report is 
published annually for the Financial Year 
April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024.  
Reporting boundary(ies)
For Financial disclosures 
- Consolidated
For Non Financial disclosures 
- Standalone
For environmental KPIs  
- Includes only manufacturing facilities 
Financial and Non-Financial 
Reporting
For Non-Financial parameters, we 
have covered Crompton and not 
its subsidiaries. 
For environmental KPIs, we 
have excluded Crompton offices 
and warehouses.
Targeted readers
This report is primarily intended to 
address the information requirements 
of long-term investors (our equity 
shareholders, and prospective 
investors). We have attempted to 
present information in a manner that 
is relevant to the way we create value 
for other key stakeholders, including 
our employees, customers, regulators 
and society.
Report alignment 
This report aligns with the principles and 
guidelines of the:
•	International framework published 
by the of the International Integrated 
Reporting Council (IIRC) (known as 
IFRS Foundation) 
•	United Nations Sustainable 
Development Goals (UN-SDGs)
•	In reference to the  GRI (Global 
Reporting Initiative) Standards, 
2016, for reporting non-financial 
performance
•	United Nations Global Compact 
Principles (UNGC)
•	The Companies Act, 2013 (and the 
rules made thereunder) 
•	Indian Accounting Standards 
•	Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015
•	Secretarial Standards issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India
Board Responsibility Statement 
Our Board of Directors acknowledge 
their responsibilities to ensure the 
integrity of this Integrated Annual 
Report. The Board has, accordingly, 
applied its collective knowledge 
and believes the report addresses 
all identified material issues, and 
presents the integrated performance 
of our Company and its impact fairly 
and accurately.
Assurance 
The management has conducted a 
thorough examination of the information 
and statements provided in the 
report to maintain their accuracy and 
reliability. This review process was 
undertaken to ensure that all the facts 
and qualitative information contained 
within the report were presented in an 
unbiased and transparent manner. We 
have engaged BDO India LLP ("BDO") 
to provide reasonable assurance for 
BRSR core indicators and limited 
assurance for non-financial disclosures 
in the Integrated Annual Report. BDO 
India has conducted our assurance 
engagement in accordance with 
International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised), 
“Assurance Engagements Other than 
Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial 
Information” and ISAE 3410, “Assurance 
Engagements on Greenhouse Gas 
Statement” issued by the International 
Auditing and Standards Board.
ABOUT THE REPORT 
Our Financial Year 2023-24 Integrated Annual Report communicates our financial and non-financial performance and 
achievements, governance, material issues, risks, opportunities, strategy, and prospects to all stakeholders. This report highlights 
how our vision, purpose, strategy and business model work cohesively to create value for our stakeholders over the short, 
medium and long term.
We are led by Purpose
Enriching life for generations with smart and responsible solutions
Building on Capitals
With a consistent 
eye on
Opportunities
Risks
Enabled by Strategic enablers
With a consistent eye on Stakeholders
Focusing on Material topics
 Page no 10
•	Enabled & Empowered organisation
•	Consumer need-led innovation
•	Premiumisation of portfolio
•	Supply chain excellence
•	Go-To-Market excellence
•	Digital enablement
Feedback 
We welcome feedback on our 
suite of reports to ensure that we 
continue to disclose pertinent 
information that is conducive to 
stakeholder decision-making. 
Please refer queries or 
suggestions to crompton.
investorrelations@crompton.co.in
Financial  
Capital
Human 
Capital
Manufactured  
Capital
Social and  
Relationship Capital
Intellectual  
Capital
Natural 
Capital
•	Energy efficiency 
•	Resource optimisation 
•	Occupational health and safety 
•	Business ethics and general 
business principles 
•	Data privacy and cyber security 
•	Innovation and research 
•	Employee well-being 
•	Customer relationships 
•	Talent development 
•	Brand salience 
•	Product responsibility and safety 
•	Economic growth
•	Investors
•	Consumers
•	People
•	Value Chain partners
•	Communities
•	Environment
 Page no 60
 Page no 16
 Page no 121
 Page no 48
02
03
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Business segments
WHO WE ARE
With a rich legacy of 85+ years, Crompton is a pioneering ECD brand with a wide 
portfolio of products across categories and a pan-India footprint. With a consistent 
emphasis on innovation, we go the extra mile to cater to the modern consumers. 
This has resulted in superior quality and award winning products like water heaters, 
fans, pumps, built-in kitchen appliances and the like.
Fans
#1
Market leadership
Pumps
#1
Residential Pumps
Large Domestic 
Appliances
#5
In Water heaters
#6
In Air coolers
Water heaters
Air coolers
Room heaters
Ceiling 
Pedestal
Table
Wall-mounted
Ventilating
Heavy-duty 
exhaust
ECD segment
` 775 Crore
EBIT
` 5,392 Crore
Revenue
Industrial Air Circulators
Residential
Solar
Agricultural
Speciality
Immersion rod
04
05
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
WHO WE ARE
Small Domestic 
Appliances
40%  
Revenue growth over last year
AMEO_PRO
Air Fryier - 
NourishPro DG
Fabriautotech Iron
Tandori 
Magic 35L
Chimney
Built-in oven
Built-in Hob
Dishwasher
LED lamps
LED battens
LED panels
LED streetlights 
and floodlights
High mast/
Streetlighting pole
Interior and 
architectural lighting
High intensity 
discharge lamps
Mixer Grinders
Gas Stoves
Pressure Cookers
Cookware
Large Kitchen 
Appliances
2.3x  
Revenue growth over last year
Tiranga  
Rope Light
Butterfly
Top
Player in South India
` 9 Crore
EBIT
` 931 Crore
Revenue
Lighting
#3
Market leader-ship
` 105 Crore
EBIT
` 996 Crore
Revenue
06
07
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Our manufacturing units in Goa, Vadodara, Ahmednagar, Chennai and Baddi are 
equipped with state-of-the art machinery to ensure the consistent delivery of high-quality 
products. The acquisition of Butterfly has led to a synergistic partnership, enabling 
us to enhance our appliance manufacturing capabilities, improve our operations and 
distribution, and integrate our businesses through the value chain. We aim to optimise 
performance through operational efficiencies and innovative technological solutions.
WHERE WE OPERATE 
Caring Respects people and acts with empathy. 
Demonstrates concern and tries to genuinely help.
Responsible Constantly works towards fulfilling key 
expectations through thoughtful and insightful actions. 
Sticks to commitments. Enables Crompton's journey 
towards our purpose.
Entrepreneurial Taking responsibility to drive action. 
Being bold in taking risks – fail fast, learn fast. Lead with 
passion, commitment, and unwavering courage. Being 
proactive and spots opportunities.
Accountable Demonstrating ownership and takes 
accountability of self and team performance. Is 
performance focused and result oriented.
Team Player Collaborating to innovate, solve challenges, 
foster creativity, and achieve shared objectives. Building 
trust and embraces diversity, valuing varied suggestions 
and seeking constructive feedback.
Ethical Commitment to authenticity, integrity, ethical 
conduct and sustainability defines our interactions with 
all stakeholders, with a genuine concern for what is right 
for Business, Community and Environment.
Pan India sales footprint  
(including Butterfly)
6,700+
Channel partners 
2,69,794
Retailers
WHO WE ARE
Purpose  
Enriching life for generations with smart 
and responsible solutions.  
Mission   
We strive to create products that are 
safe, energy-efficient, dependable and 
environmentally friendly by constantly 
improving our core technology.
C
R
E
A
T
E
Key facts
5
#
Manufacturing locations
6,700+
Direct Channel Partners 
 
#Including Butterfly
*Excluding Butterfly
21
*
Branch offices
(including HO & R&D centre)   
2,238
People strength 
(Permanent employees 
including permanent workers) 
ESG priority areas  
•	Energy efficiency, reduction in emissions and 
responsible sourcing 
•	Positive organisational culture 
•	Employee value proposition 
•	Ethical business practices and compliance with laws 
and regulations 
•	Customer service excellence 
 Page no 97
Values
  21 Branches
  28 Warehouses
  5 Manufacturing locations
(including Butterfly)
08
09
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
HOW WE CREATE VALUE 
We are committed to creating and amplifying long-term stakeholder 
value by offering high-quality products that differentiate us from the rest.
Patents filed: 19
New products 
launched: 165
Inputs
Process
Value generated
Outcomes
Social and relationship Capital
Channel partners  
(including Butterfly): 6,744
Retailers including Butterfly): 
2,69,794
CSR expenditure: ~J 13.81 Crore
Manufactured Capital
No. of manufacturing locations: 5*
Installed capacity
Fans: 20 Lakh units / month
Lighting: 56.5 Lakh units / month
Pumps: 49,725 units / month
Warehouses: 28
Natural Capital
Wind energy installed capacity: 0
Energy consumption: 0
Financial Capital
Equity: J 128.62 Crore
Net worth: J 3,205.48 Crore
Capital expenditure: J 87.63 Crore
Intellectual Capital
•No. of R&D professionals 
employed: 160
•Revenue from new products 
launched: ` 659 Crore
Human Capital
Permanent employees including 
permanent workers:  2,238
Total training manhours provided 
to employees: 35,661
Page no. 60
Page no. 36
Page no. 40
Page no. 72
Page no. 84
Page no. 94
Revenue: J 6,388 Crore
EBITDA: J 689 Crore
PAT: J 466 Crore
EPS: J 7.29
Return on capital 
Employed: 26.78
Manufacturing Capacity
Vadodara Plant: 
56,40,000
Goa Plant:  
12,52,500
Baddi (Lighting) Plant: 
31,12,500
Baddi (Fans) Plant:
7,50,000
LTIFR: ZERO
33,950* KL
Water recycled
*only including 
manufacturing facilities
40,000
Lives touched by 
water conservation 
efforts
1,700 
Youth trained
For providers of financial capital
We deliver consistent, profitable and 
responsible growth.
For customers
Improving customer-centricity by providing 
innovative, high-quality products and services.
For our people
We strive to provide equal opportunities to all 
our employees and ensure capacity building, 
training, and a safe work environment.
For suppliers
We ensure an optimum supply chain with 
competent suppliers for seamless operations. 
We also engage and collaborate with our 
suppliers closely for knowledge enhancement, 
process improvements and product 
applications.
For communities around us
We contribute towards improving the living 
conditions of the communities around us 
through our CSR activities. We also ensure 
that our production processes do not have any 
adverse impact on the environment.
 Pumps
Lighting
Home appliances
Kitchen appliances
Fans
Customer
Survey 
After sales
Service
Distribution
Sales
Marketing/
branding initiatives 
Manufacturing
Procurement
Research and
development  
Innovative solution
Consumer centricity
Sustainable supply chain
Operational excellence
Reliability & trust
* Including Butterfly
10
11
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Listening, connecting, and partnering with stakeholders 
enables us to focus on the impacts of our business and 
improve outcomes for customers, society, and the environment. 
Our stakeholders
We define our key stakeholders as those who influence our 
business operations and are in turn, affected by our activities. 
We recognise the importance of clear communication and 
meaningful interactions with our stakeholders in building 
and sustaining robuts and enduring relationships throughout 
our diverse stakeholder network. Continuous engagement 
with these groups is critical to our business strategy and to 
our approach to corporate responsibility, which includes our 
materiality assessment.
•	Preparing a list of material 
topics
•	Discussion with management 
to determine material topics
•	Consolidating list of most 
prioritised topics
•	Preparing a list of stakeholders
•	Classification of internal and 
external stakeholders
•	Prioritising stakeholders
•	Development of a 
questionnaire for the internal 
and external stakeholders
•	Organising the exercise with 
the selected stakeholder 
groups
•	Engaging with stakeholders 
and recording their 
responses
•	Collating responses from 
stakeholders
•	Identifying key material 
topics based on responses
•	Determining the materiality 
matrix
Process
S
t
a
k
e
h
ol
d
e
r
R
e
s
p
o
n
s
e
w
it
h 
s
ta
k
e
h
ol
d
er
s
id
e
n
ti
fi
c
at
io
n
i
d
e
n
ti
fi
c
a
ti
o
n
a
n
a
ly
s
i
s
E
n
g
a
g
e
m
e
n
t
M
a
t
e
ri
a
l 
t
o
p
i
c
13
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
12
How we engage
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Purpose of engagement
Engagement with investors 
is important to deepen their 
understanding of our business 
model and update them on new 
developments. The management 
actively communicates our strategic 
direction, capital allocation priorities, 
and responds to queries regarding 
operational or financial performance. 
Strategic priorities
•	High return on investment
•	Efficient capital allocation
•	Increased investment in brand 
building, R&D, and people 
capabilities under the Crompton 
2.0 strategy
•	Enhanced ESG impact
•	Transparent disclosure to aid 
informed investment decisions
Mode of engagement
•	One-on-one interactions and calls
•	Group meetings
•	Investor conferences
•	Non-deal roadshows
•	Quarterly results declaration
•	Media releases
Frequency of engagement
Ongoing 
Capitals impacted
   
Value created
K 3
Dividend per share 
26.78%
Return on capital
Purpose of engagement
Our employees are our most 
valuable assets. They are critical 
to increasing our competitive 
edge and strengthening market 
leadership, thereby driving our long-
term success. 
Strategic priorities
•	Employee benefits
•	Safe working environment
•	Career progression
•	Equal opportunities and treatment
•	Learning and growth
•	Work-life balance
•	Fair rewards and recognition
•	Innovation and adaptability
•	Digital transformation
Mode of engagement
•	Meetings/ Town hall briefings
•	Employee engagement surveys
•	Team building, workshops, 
capability building and training
•	Annual appraisals
•	Employee newsletters
•	Conversation Forums
•	Rewards and recognitions
•	Robust people policies
Frequency of engagement
Continuous
Capitals impacted
  
Value created
35,661
Manhours of training
Purpose of engagement
Empowering the community 
is necessary to our long-term 
sustainability. Through numerous 
upliftment projects and activities, we 
continue to develop our relationships 
with the communities and transform 
their lives.
Strategic priorities
•	Contribution to society
•	Provide opportunities for self-
sustenance and empowerment
Mode of engagement
•	CSR initiatives
•	Community interactions with 
NGOs
•	Volunteering
Frequency of engagement
Monthly 
Capitals impacted
   
   
Value created
53,000
Lives impacted
Purpose of engagement
We collaborate with the suppliers 
to maintain a seamless business 
operation by ensuring effective and 
efficient procurement practices.
Strategic priorities
•	Long-term partnerships
•	Transparent practices
•	Reliable payment schedules
•	Timely redressal of any queries
•	Cost efficiency
Mode of engagement
•	One-to-One Meetings
•	Regular operational reviews
•	Vendor meets
Frequency of engagement
Continuous 
Capitals impacted
   
   
Value created
K 1,788 Crore
Inhouse buying spend
Purpose of engagement
Consumers' purchasing habits 
influence our strategy and success. 
Thus, it is critical to have continual 
contact with them to understand their 
evolving needs and desires. 
Strategic priorities
•	Anticipating evolving needs 
•	Innovative product solutions 
to cater to changing consumer 
needs
•	Create delight through faster & 
qualitative service
Mode of engagement
•	Customer engagement surveys
•	Post service feedback
Frequency of engagement
Continuous 
Capitals impacted
   
Value created
94.9%
Complaints resolved in 1 day
Purpose of engagement
The government agencies and 
regulatory bodies provide requisite 
registrations essential to conduct the 
businesses smoothly. 
Strategic priorities
•	Compliance with rules and 
regulations
•	Timely reporting through various 
compliance-based forms
Mode of engagement
•	Disclosures and filings for 
compliance reporting
•	Meeting authorities for 
permissions/ approvals
Frequency of engagement
Need-basis 
Capitals impacted
   
Value created
•	Timely tax payment
•	High compliances with 
regulations
•	Support government initiatives
Investors
Suppliers
Employees
Consumers
Community
Government/ Regulatory 
authorities
14
15
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Data privacy and 
cyber security 
Material topics considered:
Business ethics 
and general 
business principles
Product responsibility 
and safety
Occupational  
health and safety
Brand salience
Raw materials  
and substances/  
reource optimisation 
Energy efficiency
Customer  
relationships
Talent development
Employee well-being
Innovation  
and research 
Economic growth
Materiality
At Crompton, we engage with our stakeholders to identify topics that are material to 
our value-creation process. Our materiality assessment exercise is a clearly defined, 
closed- loop interaction that involves identification, prioritisation, strategising, receiving 
feedback and incorporating the insights in the holistic analysis system to identify 
material topics. We conducted the exercise last year and it gave us a comprehensive 
understanding of the material issues that have a significant impact on our stakeholders, 
guiding us to prioritise our actions and allocate our resources  
more effectively.
Business Ethics & Integrity
Circular economy
Climate 
change 
adaptation
Corporate governance
Employee wellbeing
Data Privacy and cyver security
Occupational health and Safety
Brand ballence
Economic growth
Product responsibility and safety
Community engagement
Protection of human rights
Grievance management
Talent and development
Industry 4.0
Risk management
Raw material and substances
Transparance and reporting 
on ESG performance
Water stewardship
Supplier screening on ESG
Tax strategy
Fair and Inclusive workplace 
Responsible supply chain/
Green supply chain
Customer relationships
Innovation and research
Importance to external stakeholders
Low
Medium
Importance to internal stakeholders
High
Materiality matrix 
Top priorities
These issues are of the greatest 
importance to both stakeholders and 
Crompton. An effective and externally 
visible management response to 
these issues is vital for long-term 
business success
Priority issues
These issues are of medium to high 
importance to stakeholders and to 
Crompton. An effective and externally 
visible management response to these 
issues should be a high priority
Hidden value creators
Although not high on the agenda 
of stakeholders, these issues are 
important to the business. Crompton 
should consider raising awareness with 
stakeholders to educate them about the 
relevance to the business
Hygiene factors
These issues are of high importance 
to stakeholders but low impact on the 
business. Crompton needs to balance 
responding to stakeholder concerns 
without incurring substantial cost
Monitoring issues
These issues are less important to 
stakeholders with limited impact on 
business performance. Best practice 
suggests that Crompton should monitor 
these issues as they may become more 
impactful over time
16
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
17
02
Increase in share of  
premium, energy-  
efficient products
The Indian consumer is leaning 
towards high-end, energy-efficient 
and attractive products. To meet 
this demand, industry players are 
either establishing production 
facilities for premium goods or 
acquiring innovative companies. This 
strategic approach aims to enhance 
innovation and boost the proportion 
of high-margin premium products 
in the sales portfolio. There has 
been a shift in shopping behaviour 
towards energy-efficient products. In 
the Indian energy ratings scale, five 
stars are the most energy efficient, 
and one star is the least energy 
efficient. Each higher energy-rated 
model is at least 8-10% costlier 
than the preceding level. However, 
according to Adecco consumer 
sustainability trends 2023, over 50% 
of consumers are willing to pay more 
for sustainable products.
50%+
Consumers are willing to pay more 
for sustainable products
03
Government initiatives
The government's emphasis on 
capital expenditure will have a high 
multiplier effect on the economy, 
strengthening the physical and 
social infrastructure of the country. 
The infrastructure outlay for 
FY 2024- 25 has increase to approx. 
11 Lakh Crore, which is 3.4% of the 
GDP. Additionally, various specific 
initiatives have been rolled out. PM 
Gati Shakti programme will reduce 
logistics costs and facilitate multi-
modal connectivity. 'PM Kusum 
Scheme' for Solar pumps, 'Housing 
for All,' 'Power for All’ and rural 
electrification would play a pivotal 
role in advancing the consumer 
durable industry.
` 11.11 Lakh Crore
Budget allocation for  
infrastructure outlay  
04
Digital evolution
The widespread adoption of the 
internet across the country has 
significantly contributed to the 
growth of the industry. Digital 
platforms have enhanced access to a 
wide range of products at affordable 
rates, offering convenience to the 
consumer. Companies are also 
increasing the use of digital tools 
to improve the efficiency of their 
operations, customer service and 
marketing spends.
~1 billion
Expected internet users in  
India by 2025      
Megatrends 
We are responsive to the intrinsic risks and opportunities of the operating 
environment. While the rate and impact of the trends may vary, our strategy is to 
capitalise on the emerging opportunities and minimise risks to the extent possible.
01
Consumption trends 
600 crore
India’s urban population  
by 2030
Source: World Bank
37%
Representation of women 
workforce in 2023 
Source: India Today
28.4 years 
Median age 
Source: EY
$4,000
India’s per capita income  
in 2030
Source: Standard Chartered Bank
(i)	 India is rapidly urbanising
	
India is undergoing rapid urbanisation, although it 
currently lags behind countries like Japan, Brazil, the 
US, Russia, Indonesia, and China in terms of the urban 
population share. India's urban population is projected to 
reach 600 million by 2030 – double the size of the entire 
US population. This urbanisation trend is expected to 
facilitate knowledge diffusion, spur innovation, and boost 
productivity and employment. Consequently, there will be a 
rise in consumer demand, leading to an increased demand 
for housing and related amenities.
(ii)	 Increased participation of women workforce
	
The proportion of women in the Indian workforce has been 
on a steady rise. This is indicated in the results of the latest 
Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), released by the 
Labour Bureau in October 2023, which revealed India’s 
female labour force participation rate rose from 23.3% in 
2017-18 to 37% in 2022-23.
(iii)	 Favourable demographics
	
Urbanisation, a young aspirational population, rising 
disposable income, and a preference for quality branded 
products are expected to drive the growth of consumer 
electronic goods in India. The share of the working-age 
population is projected to reach 68.9% by 2030. With 
a median age of 28.4 years, India has the advantage of 
having a competitive workforce and the opportunity to 
leverage the consumption power of its youth population. 
A Standard Chartered report predicts India's per capita 
income to grow nearly 70% to $4,000 by 2030, from 
$2,450 in Financial Year 2023. This presents significant 
opportunities for consumer durable companies to tap into 
the expanding market and meet the evolving demands of 
the population.
Our response 
•	R&D capabilities allow for rapid product 
innovation
•	Focus on high-quality premium range to fulfil 
ambitions of young India
•	Higher marketing expenditure to strengthen 
brand value
Our response
•	Green range and energy-
efficient products across 
categories
•	Invest in technical and people 
capabilities to be future ready
Our response
•	Robust strategies in place to 
meet growing demand from 
the industry developments
•	In-house manufacturing with 
backward integration to retain 
quality focus
•	Pan-India market reach and 
accelerated efforts to make the 
brand more accessible
•	We are expanding our 
enterprise business in the 
B2B Lighting sector, aiming to 
meet the growing demand for 
specialised lighting solutions 
in commercial and industrial 
spaces.
Our response
•	Digital, IoT and artificial 
intelligence technologies are 
enabling new processes of 
value creation and promoting 
product efficiencies that were 
not possible before
•	These technologies also help 
us to create more energy-
efficient products, thus 
reducing their impact on the 
environment
18
19
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Fans 
Modern and efficient products, effective marketing campaigns 
and exceptional after sales support have established 
Crompton as a growing player in the premium and decorative 
fan segments.
 Financial Year 2023-24 performance for Fans 
•	Fans segment delivered noteworthy results led by higher 
share of premium fans, new product launches and growth 
in non-ceiling fans
•	We focused on enhancing our gross margins through 
targeted pricing strategies and cost efficiency measures.
•	Strengthened our market presence in e-commerce 
platforms, gaining a substantial share and expanding our 
digital footprint
•	We introduced several new models across categories 
such as Hyperjet, Cookie, Groove+, Roverr (non-
underlight), and Baby Enso (36") in BLDC, alongside 
innovative induction models like Toro, Rapidus, Java, 
Infinia, Star Speed, Star Breeze, and Star Spin
 Financial Year 2024-25 plans 
•	Strengthen the core and increase share in the 
premium category with a focus on executing 
successful new product development and growing 
alternative channels 
•	Bolster leadership position in Bharat-drive expansion 
in rural, regional chain stores, e-commerce and grow 
market share in under-penetrated markets
•	GTM excellence for the premium segment 
•	Leadership in energy efficiency by working on 
existing and new technologies 
BUSINESS REVIEW
Electrical Consumer 
Durables Segment 
Crompton’s ECD business provides high-quality electrical products and consumer 
durables to customers in India and around the world. Meeting the needs of both 
residential and commercial customers, we offer electrical products, known for their 
durability, efficiency and performance, across a wide range of categories such as 
fans, water heaters, air coolers, kitchen appliances and pumps, among others. 
 Financial Year 2023-24 
performance for ECD segment
Industry-leading growth of 17% Y-o-Y in 
ECD due to strong momentum in fans, 
pumps and small domestic appliances.
We are dedicated to providing meaningful solutions 
that resonate with consumers, aligning closely with 
their preferences. Our continuous focus on enhancing 
energy efficiency and delivering best-in-class designs 
underscores this commitment. Moreover, we will 
persist in serving the mass segment while expanding 
our premium offerings with innovative solutions.
Quote by Business Head
Key trends 
Changing purchasing behaviour - Evolving consumer 
buying patterns are evident, with a noticeable increase 
in spending and interest in home décor, leading to a 
preference for designer fans. This shift is accompanied 
by a rise in consultations with interior designers. The 
choice of colour finish and materials has become 
pivotal, with superior performance being considered a 
fundamental requirement.
Sustainability and technology convenience - The 
market is experiencing a notable transformation towards 
sustainability and technological convenience. There is a 
growing emphasis on energy efficiency, favoring cleaner 
and greener brands. Government regulations are now 
addressing recyclability, required quality standards, and 
manufacturing processes. The market is also witnessing 
a transition towards technologically advanced and 
innovative products, such as those equipped with remote 
control and Internet of Things (IoT) capabilities. 
From functionality to solution oriented - The focus 
is shifting from mere functionality to solution-oriented 
approaches. This includes personalised cooling solutions, 
integration of fans with other devices, and applications 
in both commercial and domestic settings. High Volume 
Low Speed fans are gaining prominence, and there is 
a growing demand for truly functional domestic and 
industrial exhaust systems.
Mr. Rajat Chopra 
Business Head – Home Electricals & Pumps
20
21
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
 Financial Year 2024-25 plans 
 Financial Year 2023-24 performance
•	We exhibited a robust growth in driven by strong traction 
in both the Agricultural and Residential segments. The 
agricultural pump category grew by 18% Y-o-Y, boosting 
our overall performance
•	The rollout of a new brand architecture contributed to an 
improvement in premiumisation across our product lines, 
enhancing market penetration and customer satisfaction
•	We made a foray into the solar pump business, 
successfully executing orders worth D 36 Crore under the 
PM KUSUM scheme, with additional empanelment for D 70 
Crore, as a commitment to sustainable energy solutions
•	New product launches included:
BUSINESS REVIEW
We provide energy efficient solutions for 
residential and agricultural applications 
to meet the consumer needs, through our 
innovative range of products. Our foray into 
Solar pumps is also a step towards the same.
Quote by Business Head
Large domestic appliances (LDA)
Crompton offers a wide variety of innovative home and kitchen 
appliances that cater to the diverse daily needs of consumers. 
 Financial Year 2023-24 performance
•	The focus on premiumisation and portfolio expansion 
across our product lines has led to improved premium 
saliency and improved margins 
•	Water heaters continued to deliver a significant growth 
on E-commerce. There has also been an increased 
contribution of premium water heaters in the trade channel
•	New product launches included:
We are focused on building the water heaters and 
air cooler  portfolio by offering consumer relevant 
innovations based on consumer insights.
Quote by PL Head
Pumps 
Crompton offers a comprehensive selection of consumer 
pumps designed for Residential, Agricultural and Specialised 
applications. Known for their durability, our pumps deliver 
consistent and reliable performance, ensuring steadfast and 
unfailing operation for various industrial needs.
Government initiatives
The government’s Jal Jeevan mission is driving the 
adoption of residential pumps, with ongoing efforts 
to formalise regulations for energy-efficient pumps. 
The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) is redefining the 
efficiency standards for agricultural pumps, and there is a 
specific governmental focus on promoting energy-saving 
solar pumps for agricultural applications.
The government also launched the PM KUSUM scheme 
to set up 20 Lakh standalone solar agricultural pumps, 
supporting farmers to install solar pumps up to 15 HP 
for irrigation. The scheme is already underway in several 
Indian states. Crompton has secured the contract to 
implement the KUSUM tender in Haryana, Maharashtra, 
Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh for the next 2 (Two) years.
Lifestyle and technology
These trends indicate a noticeable surge in consumer 
expenditure on pressure pumps for household use. 
Additionally, the upswing in commercial and construction 
activities has fuelled a demand for dewatering and sewage 
pumps. There has also been a rising consumer need for 
IoT-based products in the pump industry.
Increasing cost of ownership for agricultural 
pumps
The escalating cost of ownership for agricultural pumps 
is a significant concern, marked by a 70% increase. This 
is attributed to rising expenses in parts like pipes, cables, 
and boring processes. Furthermore, consumers now have 
higher expectations for warranties due to the considerable 
costs of repairs. Farmers are responding to this surge 
by adopting a sharing model for pumps on an hourly or 
daily basis.
Time and energy efficiency
Emphasis on time and energy efficiency, and user-
friendly solutions is driving the market towards 
sustainable and energy-efficient products.  
Enhanced user experience
Improved user experience is becoming important, with 
a shift towards digital-first product launches. Consumer 
preferences are steadily favouring thoughtfully designed 
and user-friendly products.
Air Coolers: 
Introduced a 
new range of 
industrial coolers 
and an expanded 
selection of 
personal and 
tower coolers
Water Heaters: 
Launched 
innovative 
models including 
horizontal 
water heaters, 
tankless geysers
Room Heaters: 
We launched 
carbon-based 
heaters in 
this category
Residential
Extend brand architecture across 
other product portfolio with 
revamping of the Submersible 
Borewell Series for higher 
durability as consumer offerings
Agricultural
GTM focus and range expansion 
Solar/ Specialty
Faster execution of solar orders 
to leverage the opportunities in 
government business, along with 
new product launches in Speciality 
segment to gain entry into the 
industrial segment
Distribution
Focus on high-potential, low 
market share territories for 
residential/ agricultural business 
through GTM expansion and 
brand promotion
 Financial Year 2024-25 plans  
•	Leverage synergy in the home electricals category – 
focus on increasing distribution across geographies 
by leveraging the reach of allied categories 
•	Focus on increasing brand awareness and consumer 
relevant innovation
Mr. Malhar Vadke
PL Head – LDA
Mr. Rajat Chopra 
Business Head – Home Electricals & Pumps
STP/CCP Series: 
Introduced with 
durable features 
like Anti-Rust 
CED Coating and 
the capability to 
handle fibrous 
solids, equipped 
with a float switch 
tailored for ease 
of use enhancing 
operational 
efficiency 
and lifespan. 
Solar Pumps: 
Successfully 
launched 
agricultural 
Solar Pumps of 
capacity up to 
10HP for irrigation 
systems complying 
to MNRE 
guidelines. Tender 
Qualifications 
achieved for 
Haryana, 
Rajasthan, 
Maharashtra & 
Madhya Pradesh.
Agri Pumps: 
We also expanded 
our traditional 
pumps offerings 
by launching 
Monoblock, Open 
well, and Borewell 
agricultural pumps 
with advanced 
durability features. 
Key trends 
Key trends 
22
23
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
BUSINESS REVIEW
 Financial Year 2024-25 plans 
•	Expand through continued product differentiation 
– Launch new category to accelerate growth, 
exclusive models to increase market addressability 
(e-commerce) 
•	Channel expansion is focused on Exclusive Brand 
Outlets (EBO) and Multi-Brand Outlets (MBO), aiming 
to increase profitability through targeted consumer 
reach. Consequently, we are enhancing partnerships 
with key regional and national chain stores
Small domestic appliances (SDA)
This past year has been pivotal in steering our course through new 
product launches in the mixer grinder category and completing the 
range in the small kitchen appliances category with the introduction 
of 6 (Six) new categories and 21 (Twenty One) new products. 
We are dedicated to increase our footprint in kitchen 
space by strengthening the grinders segment and 
building strong portfolio in other small kitchen 
appliances category that helps consumers to 
upgrade their lifestyle
Quote by PL Head
Crompton is seen as the fastest growing brand 
in the Industry, with India focussed differenced 
Product Portfolio, Strong sales and Service 
network and high acceptability from consumers. 
Our Conversion rates in the stores are very 
encouraging and gives us confidence to be on a 
high growth journey in the years to come.
Quote by Business Head
Immersive consumer journey
The consumer journey is immersive in this extensively 
researched category, with an omnichannel purchase 
path lasting over 45 (Forty Five) days. On average, 
consumers visit approximately 3 (Three) to 5 (Five) 
counters before making a purchase decision.
Preference for product combos from 
a single brand
There is a notable inclination towards acquiring product 
combos from a single brand, as evidenced by 75% of 
chimney purchases being accompanied by cooktops 
and hobs. Consumers prefer a single brand that 
promises coordinated aesthetics, installation, and after-
care services.
Category premiumisation 
This is driven by increasing income levels 
and aspirations.
Mr. Nitesh Mathur 
Business Head – Built-in Kitchen Appliances  
Mr. Ketan Chaudhari
PL Head - SDA 
 Financial Year 2023-24 performance
•	We achieved notable growth in the mixer grinder category, 
especially online, highlighting our competitive edge in 
digital marketplaces. 
•	Enhanced our offerings with advanced models tailored to 
consumer needs ced our offerings with advanced models 
tailored to consumer needs.
Large kitchen appliances 
Innovative product features addressing specific consumer 
pain points, effective marketing campaigns, and exceptional 
after sales support have established Crompton large kitchen 
appliances as a growing player in the premium built-in kitchen 
appliances segment.
 Financial Year 2023-24 performance
•	We achieved a remarkable 2.3x revenue growth and an 
improvement in margins, led by reach expansion and 
product innovations
•	We set up Point of Sales across leading cities 
including Exclusive Brand Outlets, Multi Brand Outlets, 
E-commerce, Regional Retail and Modern Organised 
Retail. Our product display is based on our brand 
architecture that enables our consumers to make informed 
choices
•	Built-in Kitchen Appliances Business model received 
distinguished recognition in the India Edition of 
"Essentials of Modern Marketing" by Philip Kotler and 
Tuhin Mukherjee. 
•	New Product launches included:
Chimneys 
Introduced the 
QuietPro Plus, 
setting a new 
standard in the 
market for low-
noise technology
Ovens  
Launched the 
GrandArt TFT 
Oven, Pyrolytic 
Pro Oven, and 
Viola Pro Oven, 
each designed 
to cater to 
sophisticated 
cooking needs
Hobs  
Debuted the 
Optime Hob, 
known for 
its optimal 
efficiency and 
modern design
 Financial Year 2024-25 plans 
•	Introduce products that meet the evolving needs of 
modern consumers, focusing on feature-led products, 
smart technology, health benefits and aesthetically 
appealing designs
•	Increase our distribution footprint across 
underpenetrated regions, particularly in the eastern and 
western parts of the country, while strengthening our 
presence in the north
•	Enhance our engagement strategies to better connect 
with our customers, utilising data-driven insights 
to tailor our products and marketing efforts more 
effectively
Shift towards premiumisation
Consumers are increasingly preferring products that 
combine enhanced functionality with aesthetic appeal, 
demonstrating a market shift towards premiumisation. 
Focus on health-conscious products
There is a growing trend for health-oriented products 
that promote healthier lifestyles.
Key trends 
Key trends 
24
25
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
 Financial Year 2023-24 performance  
B2C segment
•	The B2C segment continued to encounter industry-
level challenges, including price erosion and intense 
competition, which impacted revenue. Despite these 
hurdles, we focused on expanding our product range and 
enhancing market penetration through a structured Go-to-
Market (GTM) strategy
•	There was an increased emphasis on e-commerce 
platforms, supported by the introduction of new products 
designed to meet evolving consumer preferences. New 
product launches included - the Trio range of lights, High 
Wattage battens, Decorative Battens, Extension Boards, 
and Solar-powered Streetlights
•	The saliency of ceiling lights and new products in the B2C 
segment showed improvement
B2B segment
•	The B2B segment was driven by a resurgence in 
traditional markets and an uptick in government sector 
engagements
•	We secured several prestigious projects, which 
contributed to our visibility and business growth. These 
include the Mumbai Coastal Road, Noida International 
Airport, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, and 
engagements with the Chennai Municipal Administration.
•	Growth in our enterprise business aided the overall B2B 
performance, with profit improvements led by higher 
margins from new product launches
BUSINESS REVIEW
 Financial Year 2024-25 plans 
B2C segment
•	Build a comprehensive product portfolio; expand 
ceiling offering 
	
−Augment deep optics, track lights and premium 
lighting range 
	
−Launch fast-moving indoor wall lights 
•	Focus on growing distribution reach through 
strengthening direct dealer network as well as 
e-commerce and modern trade 
B2B segment
•	Strengthen brand equity and market position in 
infrastructure 
•	Expand range of solar-lighting solutions
Lighting
Our energy-efficient products deliver enhanced light output, 
improving comfort in the spaces where they are used. 
With innovative product launches in both the B2C and B2B 
segments, we have enhanced our industry presence and 
responded effectively to evolving consumer demands.
We are well positioned to deliver growth 
in the coming year through a widened 
portfolio, expanded route to market and brand 
investments in the B2C segment.
Anticipating continued Governmental focus 
and investment on infrastructure development, 
we are poised to contribute to the India growth 
story in the B2B lighting space through street 
lighting and industrial lighting solutions.
Quote by Business Head
B2C
Changes in consumer preferences
There has been a growing inclination towards brighter 
solutions, particularly profile lights
Growth in the premium category
The premium category is experiencing substantial 
growth, driven by technology and a focus on both 
automation and aesthetics
Personalisation has become a key factor contributing to 
this growth
Increasing demand for outdoors
The demand for outdoor lighting solutions for façades, 
gates, gardens, and decorative walls is high. This 
demand extends to a variety of outdoor lighting options, 
including solar powered solutions and decorative 
rope lights
B2B
Increasing investments in infrastructure 
Investments in infrastructure have grown, with increased 
capital allocations for entities such as NHAI, airports, 
metro systems, railways and ports. The government 
is also allocating additional funds for park and civic 
amenities, including street lighting, building illumination, 
city beautification projects, and the centralised 
procurement of street lights at the state level
Increased focus on sustainable solutions
The heightened emphasis on sustainable solutions is 
reflected in the government's financial commitment 
to the initiatives that  are facilitated through Nodal 
Agencies who are responsible for energy savings across 
various states
Mr. Shaleen Nayak 
Business Head – Lighting  
Key trends 
26
27
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
 Financial Year 2024-25 plans 
•	Target robust revenue growth and profitability 
through focused e-commerce strategies
•	Invest in new range of high-efficiency cookers and 
gas stoves with customer-centricity in mind 
•	Focus on emerging categories such as induction 
cook tops, chimneys and kettles
 Key Highlights 
•	Retail and modern trade channels continue to grow 
despite demand slow down
•	Several activities were conducted to drive consumer 
engagement and reinvigorate the channel
13%
Contriubution from new 
product launches
BUSINESS REVIEW
Butterfly is one of the largest integrated domestic kitchen 
appliance manufacturers in India. It has a diverse product 
portfolio that includes kitchen appliances (food processors, 
mixer grinders, table-top wet grinders), heating appliances 
(LPG stoves, pressure cookers), breakfast appliances 
(toasters, sandwich makers) and drink-ware (stainless steel 
flasks and water bottles). Butterfly maintains strong leadership 
in the kitchen appliances sector in South India, particularly 
noted for its wet grinders and LPG stoves. This sustained 
leadership is driven by compelling brand appeal, technical 
proficiency and success in the e-commerce sector. The 
enduring quality and durability of products have earned trust 
among consumers, reinforcing the brand's reputation in both 
traditional and emerging market segments.
Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
28
29
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Dear Stakeholders,
I am pleased to present to you Crompton's Integrated 
Annual Report for Financial Year 2023-24, on behalf of 
our esteemed Board of Directors. Amidst global turbulence, 
India's impressive progress stands as a beacon of hope for its 
citizens. In parallel, Crompton has undergone a transformation 
in alignment with the country's journey.
At Crompton, we uphold the highest standards of governance, 
ethics, and integrity. These principles are not mere 
buzzwords; they are crucial for sustained value creation and 
safeguarding our stakeholders' interests. Our commitment to 
good governance involves:
Chairman’s Message 
As we look ahead, India's 
consumer electrical sector 
is poised for continuous 
growth in the coming year(s). 
This growth will be driven by 
technological advancements, 
evolving consumer 
preferences, and a heightened 
awareness of durable and 
energy-efficient appliances.
Throughout the year, we implemented several 
strategic initiatives:
Realignment of Executive Leadership
We restructured our leadership team, establishing a 
second-level leadership tier for each business unit.
Organisational Structure Renewal
We introduced Centres of Excellence for both back-end 
and front-end functions, empowering our business units.
Crompton 2.0 Strategy
This strategic framework significantly contributed to 
robust revenue growth. Notably, our expansion in the 
ECD (Electrical Consumer Durables) segment played 
a pivotal role.
Investments in Branding, Innovation, and Go-To-
Market Excellence
These efforts fueled our success.
Accountability  
Reinforcement
Transparency
Robust Risk and 
Performance Management
Ethical and 
Effective Leadership
Guided by our core values and an informed Board, we remain 
steadfast in creating enduring value for our investors and 
stakeholders. Leveraging the diverse expertise within our 
organisation, we forge ahead toward a brighter future.
Our unwavering goal is to consistently deliver high 
performance and exceed expectations. Throughout the year, 
we have diligently fostered a culture of excellence that revolves 
around our clients and embraces diversity and inclusivity. 
Our workforce is a crucial asset, propelling us toward our 
desired success and productivity. We deeply appreciate the 
diverse backgrounds, perspectives, and networks of all 
our employees.
As we look ahead, India's consumer electrical sector is 
poised for continuous growth in the coming year(s). This 
growth will be driven by technological advancements, evolving 
consumer preferences, and a heightened awareness of 
durable and energy-efficient appliances. With a robust and 
dynamic team, a diverse product portfolio spanning various 
categories, and a steadfastly customer-focused approach, 
we are well-positioned to seize opportunities and deliver 
value to our stakeholders. Our business fundamentals stand 
strong, and we anticipate that our performance will reflect the 
resilience of our business model. The implementation of our 
growth strategy under Crompton 2.0 fills us with confidence 
as we strive toward our long-term aspirations.
We extend our gratitude to our stakeholders for their 
unwavering support. Equally, we recognise and appreciate 
the immense contributions of all our employees in building 
Crompton and its businesses. As we look into the future, I 
envision even greater achievements for our company, and I 
eagerly look forward to a successful year ahead.
Regards,
D. Sundaram 
Chairman & Independent Director 
31
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
30
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Under Crompton 2.0 strategy, 
the strategic investments in
brand building, innovation, 
and Go-To-Market excellence 
has delivered robust revenue 
growth, best in industry 
profitability and strengthened 
leadership position across 
categories.
Dear Stakeholders,
In a dynamic business landscape – shaped by evolving 
consumer preferences, emerging new technologies, and a 
renewed focus on sustainability – we must evolve and thrive 
simultaneously. Committed to excellence, we have initiated 
the transformative journey of Crompton 2.0. This transition 
is not merely a change in name or structure – it represents a 
bold leap into the future. Crompton 2.0 will be constructed 
upon the foundation of our values and past successes, yet 
it will be equipped with the tools, strategies, and mindset 
needed to succeed in the modern world. This ensures current 
success while establishing the groundwork for a resilient and 
prosperous future.
Throughout the year, we implemented various measures as 
part of Crompton 2.0, focusing on operational efficiency, 
empowering our workforce, and fostering long-term growth. 
We restructured our organisation into a matrix structure, 
with business unit heads responsible for both business 
and financial outcomes, supported by functional Centres of 
Excellence. Further investments were made to accelerate new 
product launches, establish robust supply chain processes, 
and enhance the success rate of products. Our engagements 
with distributors, retailers, and the sales team have increased 
significantly, ensuring clarity for all stakeholders. 
Tenets of Crompton 2.0
Enabled &  
Empowered  
Organisation
Supply Chain  
Excellence
Consumer  
Need-led  
Innovation
GTM  
Excellence
Premiumisation 
of Portfolio
Digital  
Enablement
Enabled & empowered organisation 
Crompton's strength resides in empowering talent with 
futuristic capabilities in an empathetic workplace. This makes 
us the employer of choice for both experienced professionals 
and fresh graduates. In a competitive talent market, our 
distinctiveness is maintained through a people-focused, 
purpose-driven culture, alongside cutting-edge career and 
development opportunities. Through the Crompton Leadership 
Development Programme (CLDP), we aim to cultivate 
leadership potential and enhance strategic capabilities among 
senior executives, achieving organisational excellence.
Consumer need-led innovation
Our consistent efforts in portfolio excellence have enabled 
us to deliver products – be it the affordable or the premium 
category – with enhanced performance and durability, 
superior aesthetics, and improved energy efficiency. We 
are strengthening our efforts to gather consumer insights 
and feedback.
Additionally, we encourage our employees to share their ideas 
and perspectives and to embed innovation at the core of each 
activity. The ultimate objective is not only to develop new 
products but to successfully transition those products from lab 
to shelf and to drive awareness.
MD & CEO’s Message
32
33
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Premiumisation of portfolio
The demand for convenient and time-saving consumer 
durables is on the rise, mainly driven by fast-paced lifestyles. 
Premium, feature-led products with advanced technology 
and sustainability will be key growth drivers. Given the focus 
on R&D and the continual insights journey, the prominence 
of premium products has improved over the years. However, 
perfecting the time to market is crucial, and hence we have 
been investing in creating a dedicated ecosystem for new 
product introductions.
Supply chain excellence
Our ability to develop and deliver quality products efficiently is 
based on our robust supply chain strategy. We continue to roll 
out initiatives in 4 (Four) focus areas across the supply chain: 
Manufacturing Excellence, Supplier Strategy, Continual Quality 
Improvement, and Driving Sustainability. We have dedicated 
programmes for each initiative. 
Through the Udaan programme, we are working on 
strengthening our manufacturing and quality capabilities, 
achieving the right balance of quality vendors and suppliers. 
Our flagship cost excellence programme, Unnati, helps us 
optimise processes and then reinvest savings into growth 
areas. Our recently initiated Uday programme focuses on 
improving the availability of stocks at various locations while 
maintaining optimum inventory levels.
GTM excellence
Our comprehensive Go-To-Market (GTM) strategy is focused 
on strengthening our current distribution network and creating 
a balanced channel mix to increase market presence and 
enhance customer reach. Moving ahead, our strategy involves 
broadening our GTM channels with the aid of technology. We 
place substantial emphasis on enhancing sales proficiency, a 
pivotal factor in propelling our growth trajectory and fostering 
customer satisfaction.
Digital enablement
We have embarked on the next phase of digital transformation. 
We aim to enable the business to rely on technology to 
improve the productivity of our people and the efficiency of our 
processes. While we continue to leverage our existing setup, 
our goal is to drive digitalisation across the value chain.
Financial performance 
Our investments in brand building, innovation, and GTM 
excellence resulted in a noteworthy 10% YoY growth in revenue 
growth and a robust 3% growth in absolute profit.  
The ECD segment saw a leading 13% revenue growth, driven 
by strong performances in fans, pumps, and appliances. We 
continue to expand our market share in premium fans. The 
Appliances category experienced robust growth, particularly 
Water Heaters and Small Domestic Appliances, with Water 
Heaters becoming the top brand on e-commerce platforms. 
Our focus on agricultural and solar pumps is generating 
positive outcomes. While the lighting business faced few 
challenges, corrective measures have been implemented for 
future growth. Moreover, we have bolstered our credibility 
by securing significant projects such as the Mumbai Coastal 
Road, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, and Chennai 
Municipal Administration. The expansion of Butterfly's 
presence in retail and e-commerce has helped offset the 
decline in the corporate channel.
Environment and communities 
To bring about a positive impact on our communities 
and the environment we are pioneering adherence to all 
regulatory changes, including BEE and BIS standards. Our 
multifaceted strategy to minimise emissions encompasses 
green innovation, enhancements in operational efficiency, 
and waste reduction. By actively promoting initiatives such 
as rainwater harvesting, watershed development, and 
providing clean drinking water at the community level, we 
educate communities on water conservation practices. Our 
commitment to Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) 
ensures the responsible management of products throughout 
their lifecycle.
Our community development initiatives also focus on skill and 
entrepreneurship development, sustainable livelihood, women 
empowerment, and employee engagement. We are committed 
to creating holistic societal changes, and the Changemaker 
Grant program empowers employees to contribute to the 
betterment of society by working on projects aligned with their 
chosen causes.
Way forward 
Our increased investments in brand, innovation, and people, 
emphasising accelerated topline growth and absolute profit 
growth for robust Total Shareholder Return (TSR), mark a 
shift from our previous approach. Our objective is to maintain 
agility by emphasising innovation and our GTM strategy 
while upholding our brand legacy and addressing consumer 
needs as a top priority.  Concurrently, we persistently work 
on strengthening our competitive position and exploring new 
avenues for growth.
I extend our heartfelt gratitude to our valued stakeholders, 
including customers, bankers, financial institutions, channel 
partners, business associates, suppliers, employees, and 
the community. Here's to another year of transforming the 
relentless and unstoppable forces of change into long-
term breakthroughs.
Regards,
Promeet Ghosh  
MD & CEO
34
35
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
This year, we intensified our efforts to 
optimise product efficiency, responsibly 
source raw materials and minimise waste. 
Harnessing cutting-edge technologies, 
we have further streamlined our 
operations, leading to faster product 
launches and improved performance. This 
unwavering focus on resourcefulness and 
technological advancement ensures that 
Crompton delivers exceptional products 
that contribute to a sustainable future. Our 
manufactured capital propels us forward, 
allowing us to realise our vision of creating 
value for our customers, employees, the 
environment and other stakeholders.
5
Manufacturing locations  
including Butterfly
9.3%
Reduction in complaints 
rate (PPR %) with 24 quality 
improvement projects 
completed in Financial Year 
2023-24
Manufacturing highlights
Manufacturing facilities
Goa (Fans)
8
Product lines
12,52,500
Manufacturing Capacity (Per Month)
Vadodara (Lighting)
8
Product lines
56,40,000
Manufacturing Capacity (Per Month)
Baddi (Fans)
Kundaim Plant
4
Product lines
7,50,000
Manufacturing Capacity (Per Month)
Baddi (Lighting)
5
Product lines
31,12,500
Manufacturing Capacity (Per Month)
We've prioritised growth and resilience 
through smart manufacturing and supply chain 
management, focusing on efficiency, quality, 
and agility. We have strengthened our logistics 
networks  and foster robust partnerships. Our 
commitment to sustainability remains strong and 
aligning with our corporate values.
Quote by  Function Head 
Mr. Pravin Saraf
Head Manufacturing, Planning, & Logistics
36
37
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Quality assurance   
Achieving operational excellence by emphasising quality 
throughout the entire value chain is paramount to us. Through 
a multifaceted approach, we foster a culture of continuous 
improvement and standardised practices through key 
programmes such as 5S, Quality Circles, and Daily Work 
Management. Transparency and accountability are promoted 
through initiatives like ‘Glass Walls.’
In addition, we leverage 6 (Six) Sigma to enhance our problem-
solving capabilities. This methodology empowers our teams to 
address complex quality challenges with data-driven solutions 
by enabling easy access to advanced statistical tools and 
project management training. Backed by these efforts, we 
work towards improving product quality, minimising defects, 
and ultimately delivering exceptional value to our customers.
Supply chain & logistics  
A robust supply chain is integral to our success. We achieve 
this by adhering to Standardised Operating Procedures 
(SOPs) and maintaining a stringent vendor onboarding 
process. Strategic partnerships are strengthened through 
a comprehensive scorecard system that monitors Key 
Performance Indicators (KPIs) for vendors, suppliers, 
transporters, and Carrying and Forwarding Agents (CFAs).
In response to the current economic climate, we have 
adapted our operating model to optimise resource utilisation, 
emphasising the criticality of cash flow. Initiatives are 
also taken to enhance supply chain resilience and create 
sustainable competitiveness. Environmental, Health, and 
Safety (EHS) considerations are considered through regular 
audits. Our commitment to achieving best-in-class inventory 
management is reflected in strategic measures such as 
warehouse modernisation, logistics digitalisation and 
automation advancements across procurement, physical 
distribution and integrated business planning. These efforts 
ensure a smooth material flow, optimise inventory levels 
and contribute to enhanced efficiency and responsiveness 
throughout the entire supply chain.
Enhancing operational excellence  
Crompton embraces a lean manufacturing philosophy, striving 
for peak productivity with minimal waste. This ethos permeates 
every stage of our operations, resulting in a remarkable 
90% improvement in new product development efficiency. 
Additionally, we are committed to environmental sustainability, 
implementing green packaging solutions for select products. 
These efforts have yielded impressive results, with a significant 
increase in capacity utilisation. Our relentless pursuit of 
operational excellence propels us towards continued success 
in the ever-evolving manufacturing landscape.
Various initiatives implemented to optimise factory operations:
•	Including MOST study, inventory management, Kaizen.
•	Buffer-based replenishment system from plant/ CWH 
to branches (Project Uday) being piloted with fans and 
appliances business. 
•	Stockout and near-stockout instances (black and red 
count) are reduced over time and white inventory has also 
been reduced.
Project Udaan 
Project Udaan is a strategic initiative to bring in our products 
at the lowest possible cost while maintaining best-in-class 
quality and service standards. Since the launch in 2019, the 
project has since made remarkable progress in improving our 
Company's footprint, manufacturing process and supply chain.
Across a five-year horizon, the project aims to recalibrate our 
business model by focusing on:
•	Achieving manufacturing excellence through improved 
throughput, productivity, cost and quality performance.
•	Optimising ‘Make v/s Buy’ portfolio configuration, 
considering product criticality and the supply chain ability.
•	Augmented manufacturing network capable of delivering 
products (finished goods, components) in line with cost, 
quality and service levels.
•	Sourcing excellence initiative, aligned to the requirements 
of the overall supply strategy (finished goods, 
components), considering cost, quality and service levels.
Ahmednagar (Pumps)
4
Product lines
49,725
Manufacturing Capacity (Per Month)
Chennai - Butterfly (Kitchen Appliances)
17
Product lines
11,58,750
Manufacturing Capacity (Per Month)
We ensure quality through
•	A robust NPD release and validation process
•	Preventive quality tools deployment-Process 
Capability studies, PokaYoke, Digital Inspection 
Equipment – CMM , Automated Shaft and Blade 
Measurement Systems
•	Quality Management Module Implementation in SAP 
for E2E traceability of Inspection and Validations
•	Continuous Product Quality improvement through 
design upgrades and manufacturing process 
improvements in LED bulb, Induction Motor Fans, 
Storage Water heaters, Mini Series Pump, etc.
MANUFACTURING HIGHLIGHTS
38
39
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Innovation highlights
At Crompton, innovation is the cornerstone 
of our success. We have been at the 
forefront of leveraging technology 
for product advancement, creating 
new efficiencies and bringing about 
business growth sustainably. This 
year we continued to invest in newer 
technologies and pro-actively worked 
towards regulatory changes. In Financial 
Year 2024, we pushed the boundaries 
of possibility to create a vibrant product 
range that seamlessly integrates into 
evolving lifestyles.
Key highlights
19
Patents filed
165
New products launched across various categories
160
R&D team size 
New product development 
Each business segment has specialised teams to focus on 
the different aspects of New Product Development (NPD) 
including design, development, project management 
and product testing. In strict compliance with current 
government regulations concerning safety, performance 
and reliability, the teams employ a range of engineering 
tools and software to consistently enhance their knowledge 
and skills.
Our 165 product launches in the year demonstrates our 
dedication to advancing product development. These 
advancements cater to changing consumer demands, 
prioritising aspects such as aesthetics, functionality and 
energy efficiency. We also strengthened our technology 
development team, focusing on motor controller 
development as a key technology. Additionally, by improving 
capabilities and upgrading lab infrastructure, we have 
fortified our Innovation and Development function.
In the coming months, we are set to launch additions in existing categories and add new categories with a focus on 
energy efficiency and sustainability. Using user data, we aim to deliver personalised solutions to enhance convenience, 
positioning us for continued success in the evolving market.
New products
Fans
We have launched an industry-first 
in BLDC fan technology with the 
Groove Regmote, which  combines 
both remote and regulator operations 
for enhanced user convenience. 
Additionally, our new Star Series—
comprising StarSpin, StarSpeed, 
StarBriz, and StarDrift—targets the 
economy segment with an exceptional 
feature of 400 RPM, setting new 
standards in performance and 
affordability. In the mass premium 
segment, we have expanded our 
offerings with the decorative range 
including models like Toro, Rapidus, 
and Java. Moreover, the Infinia model 
stands out with its electroplated finish 
and stunning aesthetics.
Pumps
The new Nile Plus range launched 
in Surefill Plus category of Mini 
Brand architecture gained significant 
traction in market due to its 
superior performance and cost 
competitiveness. Our Pumps R&D 
and Marketing team also collaborated 
to develop & launch Solar Pumps 
thus initiating installations at 
various locations.
Lighting
The lighting R&D team introduced 
numerous products in the B2C lighting 
segment, including the industry-first 
flagship Trio Series comprising lamps, 
battens and downlights. Additionally, 
our B2B segment has been fortified 
with the launch of street and 
floodlight platforms.
The next frontier for innovation
Pioneering sustainable technologies: Recognising 
the urgent need for environmental responsibility, we 
prioritise R&D efforts in eco-friendly solutions across 
categories. From energy-efficient motors to AI-powered 
smart homes, we empower consumers to contribute to 
the positive impact.
Human-centric design: Empathy remains our guiding 
principle. We integrate user-centric insights into every 
stage of product development, ensuring our innovations 
enhance daily lives with intuitive functionality and 
aesthetic appeal.
Harnessing digital transformation: The evolving 
digital landscape redefines the way industries work. 
We embrace agile methodologies and invest in talent 
equipped to navigate the ever-evolving technological 
terrain. This ensures our intellectual capital 
remains future-proof, adaptable, and responsive to 
emerging trends.
We believe in constantly challenging ourselves 
to explore new possibilities, and embrace 
emerging technologies to deliver smarter, more 
sustainable, user-centric products that enrich 
the lives of our consumers.
Quote by Function Head 
Mr. Sanjeev Agrawal
Chief Technology Officer (CTO)  
& Head – ESG
40
41
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
` 659 Crore
Revenue from products launched
INNOVATION HIGHLIGHTS
Sustainability in Product Innovation 
The initiation of the ESG Dashboard marks a crucial 
development in our strategy to monitor and enhance our 
sustainability performance. This tool centralises data, 
enhances decision-making capabilities, and tracks critical 
performance indicators such as greenhouse gas emissions 
and resource utilisation, paving the way for informed 
sustainability practices across our operations.
We have also significantly enhanced energy efficiency across 
our product lines. Key highlights include:
 Key priorities
Product 
premiumisation
•	Drive better consumer 
experience in existing categories 
and build unique first-time 
solutions in the market
Innovation and 
technology
•	Strengthen core technology and 
incubate futuristic technology for 
driving long-term growth
•	Comfort - Air delivery, cooling 
and heating technologies, 
noiseless operation
•	Platform development for  
•	Material technologies -Antidust, 
Antistain, Disinfectant
•	New materials -Light diffusion, 
heat and electrical conductivity
Systems and 
capabilities
•	Establish an integrated 
product development process 
using digitalisation to fuel 
innovation and NPD journey
•	Digitalisation to increase 
rigour and drive post facto 
learning
Ceiling Fans 
We achieved ~27% improvement in energy 
efficiency by transitioning to BEE Star-rated 
fans, thereby reducing energy consumption and 
enhancing product sustainability.
Water Heaters 
Our storage water heaters now feature improved 
insulation, resulting in an average of 9% reduction 
in standing loss, aligning with the latest BEE Star 
rating upgrades.
Lighting Solutions  
In our B2C segment, the luminous efficacy of our 
bulbs has improved by 15%, as a part of BEE star 
rating upgradation
Environment, Social and Governance Score
45
36
Govemance
49
21
Environement
47
41
Social
 FY22
 FY23
During the year, we implemented several key changes to 
streamline our processes and empower the R&D team. 
These include:
•	Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) and Product 
Data Management (PDM): These processes enhance 
efficiency and transparency in product development, 
ensuring everyone has access to the latest information.
•	Digital change management: This system replaces 
manual change notification with a digital workflow, 
facilitating faster approvals and execution. 
Consumer-centric innovation
At Crompton, understanding and exceeding consumer 
expectations is paramount. The R&D philosophy centres around 
creating products that seamlessly integrate into users' lives, 
offering both functionality and aesthetic appeal. This consumer-
centric approach manifests in several ways:
Prioritising health and hygiene: We showcase a dedication 
to user well-being through products like the anti-dust fan and 
antibacterial mixer grinder. 
Energy efficiency advocacy: We empower environmentally 
conscious choices with 33% of products being star-rated while 
ensuring performance is not compromised. 
Intuitive design excellence: User-friendly elements such 
as ergonomic knobs and spill-proof designs underscore our 
commitment to simplifying daily tasks.
At Crompton, the way forward is to explore smart and 
connected products, utilising AI for personalised user 
experiences. Our understanding of consumer needs helps 
us keep pace with the latest innovation trends, enabling us to 
deliver products that delight and empower our users.
We prioritise process improvements through investments 
in talent and state-of-the-art facilities. Embracing a 
culture of innovation with ample resources, we continue 
to build on our successes in R&D. We also celebrated 
two years since the inauguration of our R&D office - 
with renewed determination to advance research and 
development for driving future growth and innovation.
R&D infrastructure 
DJSI Score Improvement 
34
FY22
9
FY21
FY23
48
42
43
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Leveraging our brand and 
people strength backed by 
extensive distribution network, 
the outlined Crompton 2.0 
strategy focusses on delivering 
robust and sustainable 
growth with healthy margins 
while we continue to invest 
in enhancing brand visibility, 
broadening product offerings 
led by premiumisation and 
diversification in Go-To-Market 
channel. Our commitment 
to core values remains 
unwavering and it is crucial 
that we remain adaptable 
and forward-thinking to 
stay ahead. Through these 
transformative initiatives, we 
aim to consolidate leadership 
and create superior value for 
our stakeholders.
Perform
While we march on the 
tranformation journey, we 
emphasise the importance of 
short term goals as stepping 
stones towards long-term 
success. We remain focussed 
on how we consistently achieve 
operational excellence driven 
by continuous improvement 
initiatives and leveraging 
realtime data to refine 
processes and enhance 
decision making. This approach 
ensures that we meet our 
productivity goals, delivering 
superior products and 
services that ensure customer 
satisfaction and competitive 
advantage.
Transform
44
45
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Our growth strategy 
Both Crompton and Butterfly have strong brand legacy and are known for serving 
consumers and creating a long-lasting partnership with various stakeholders. 
Knowing our strengths and success and considering the evolving market 
landscape, we have outlined the Crompton 2.0 strategy to drive accelerated 
growth. The fundamental change is moving from ‘profitability led’ to ‘profit led’. 
Underpinning this, there are 6 tenets of Crompton 2.0
Protect and grow the core
The fans segment is being 
enhanced by strengthening core 
offerings and capturing a larger 
share of the premium segment. 
Large domestic appliances 
are seeing a push towards 
premiumisation to sustain growth, 
while pumps are being repositioned 
to expand the agricultural footprint.
Win in the kitchen  
The strategy for kitchen 
appliances focuses on leveraging 
mutual strengths to expand 
market share and reach. In 
large kitchen appliances, there 
is a continuous effort to create 
a differentiated portfolio that 
responds to consumer demands, 
emphasising higher value 
extraction and market expansion.
Foray into new segments    
Plans include evaluating 2-3 new 
attractive market spaces that align 
with the overall strategic vision and 
exploring opportunities to leverage 
existing capabilities in new areas.
Transform lighting business    
This involves driving innovation and 
repositioning products, enhancing 
go-to-market and sales processes, 
and broadening the range across 
panels and other segments to 
revitalise the lighting business.
Crompton 2.0 Strategy
To drive accelerated growth while maintaining healthy 
margins, ultimately delivering strong Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR).
01
02
03
04
Enabled by  
Enabled and empowered 
organisation
Consumer need-led 
innovation                                   
Premiumisation of 
portfolio                                                                           
Go-to-Market 
excellence                                         
Digital 
enablement                       
Supply chain 
excellence
46
47
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Our goal is to build a team of high-performing and 
empowered individuals who are deeply committed 
to our organisational values but also exemplify 
outstanding behaviour.
With an emphasis on professional development opportunities, we 
strive to create an inclusive and recognition-driven environment for 
our employees, enabling them to achieve their career aspirations. We 
envision a workplace where our team members are valued and ultimately 
contribute to the continued success of our organisation.
During the year, we restructured our leadership to pave the way for 
an empowered organisation under the ‘Crompton 2.0’ vision. This 
transformation involved substantial changes including clustering business 
units around common products and establishing new business units 
specifically dedicated to strategic initiatives.
Further enhancing our corporate culture, we introduced our Purpose, 
"Enriching life for generations with smart and responsible solutions." 
The core values – Caring, Responsible, Entrepreneurial, Accountable, 
Team Player, Ethical – are integral to our operations, guiding us in 
making decisions that uphold integrity, foster collaboration, and ensure 
sustainability in all our practices.
Enabled & Empowered 
Organisation
 Financial Year 2024-25 key focus areas
•	Drive improvement in talent hiring and retention
•	Evolve a ‘Young Talent Nurture Program’ for 
management trainees and graduate engineer 
trainees 
•	Strengthen the Performance Management 
System (PMS) to make the process more robust 
and have assessment competencies derived 
from Purpose and Values
•	Introduced a specialised learning platform aimed at enhancing 
employee capabilities
•	Implemented AI-driven tools to assess and address employee 
concerns effectively
•	Ongoing efforts to enhance employee engagement through 
inputs derived from ongoing surveys
•	Implementation of the Crompton Leadership Development 
Programme (CLDP), Future Leadership Development 
Programme (FLDP), and Emerging Leadership Development 
Programme (ELDP) to foster leadership qualities across 
different career stages
•	Engagement in Design Thinking workshops, Sales Development 
centres, and specialised customer service training to boost 
functional expertise
•	Conducting Health Awareness programmes, personal hygiene 
workshops, and rigorous safety training including electrical 
hazards and first aid to ensure employee well-being and safety
 Key initiatives
48
49
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
At Crompton, our dedication to consumer need-led innovation is anchored in 
robust consumer insights and research, guiding our product development and 
marketing strategies. We continuously engage in employee idea workshops 
and partnerships with technology innovators to bring these insights to fruition. 
New product development is driven by the identified focused themes
Energy efficiency
•	Focus on reducing power and water consumption.
•	Use of energy-efficient materials
•	Implementation of energy loss detection and energy-
saving measures
Healthy living
•	Development of antibacterial and antifungal surfaces.
•	Features that kill viruses and promote pollution-free 
environments
•	Emphasis on kitchen, bathroom, and entryway hygiene
Smart connectivity
•	Integration of smart home technologies
•	Enhancement of appliances with smart capabilities
•	Addition of smart product converters/ adapters and 
intelligent features
Consumer-centric design
•	Improvement of comfort and convenience in product 
designs
•	Addition of exciting features to existing products.
•	Focus on redefining user perceptions through innovative 
design
 Financial Year 2024-25 key focus areas
•	Amplifying consumer immersion programs to derive 
actionable insights
•	Escalating investments in cutting-edge, consumer-
preferred digital platforms
•	Focusing on enhancing research, innovation, and 
technology development to keep pace with evolving 
consumer expectations and technological advancements
Consumer  
need-led innovation
165
Products launched
19
Patent filed
160
R&D team size
` 659 Crore
Revenue from new products
50
51
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Crompton is steering towards 
premiumisation of its product 
portfolio, recognising the rising 
consumer demand for premium 
features and overall enhanced 
product experiences. 
We are innovating across all categories - 
introducing superior BLDC fans, expanding 
the range of residential pumps based on our 
redefined brand architecture, and diversifying 
offerings in the appliances category with a 
focus on energy efficiency and advanced 
technology. We have further added signature 
studios to expand our presence into built-in 
kitchen appliances. These efforts are aimed 
at meeting consumer expectations of quality 
and functionality, setting new standards in the 
consumer durables industry.
 Financial Year 2024-25 key focus areas
•	Drive better consumer experience in existing 
categories and build unique first-time solutions in the 
market
•	Strengthen product uniqueness through advanced 
technology and meticulous control over processes 
•	Evaluate attractive whitespaces that align with the 
overarching vision 
The premium segment is experiencing faster growth 
compared to mid-mass products. The introduction of new 
innovative products, predominantly BLDC fans, presents 
a substantial opportunity to capture a greater share of the 
premium market.
We are building a comprehensive portfolio with a 
focus on ceiling lights, growing distribution, leveraging 
traditional channels and strengthening modern trade and 
e-commerce.
Successfully released premium pumps through deployment 
of brand architecture in mini & high suction pump series with 
durability features & performance enhancement.
To stimulate growth in this appliances category, we are 
diversifying our portfolio by expanding the range in small & 
large domestic appliances.
Fans
Lighting
Pumps
Appliances
 Key highlights of the portfolio 
Premiumisation  
of portfolio
53
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
52
We are dedicated to achieving operational excellence through the reinforcement of our 
supply chain, ensuring the timely and cost-efficient delivery of our products.
 Key initiatives
Manufacturing excellence
Strengthened through Project Unnati and Project 
Udaan, our process and cost improvement initiatives 
targets the elimination of non-value-added costs, 
reinforcing our position as a cost leader.
Continual quality improvement
We have stepped up our efforts on improving our quality 
across value chain through focused execution of key 
initiatives including 5S, Six Sigma, Quality circles etc. 
We conducted various training and awareness programs 
across our factories and supply chain partners. 
Supplier strategy
We have initiated a journey towards vendor/ supplier 
optimisation to enhance vendor performance and 
drive cost excellence, aligning with our strategy 
to optimise both direct and indirect costs through 
strategic partnerships.
Driving sustainability across the supply chain
Our commitment is demonstrated through investments 
in technology and digitalisation to improve operational 
efficiency and data security. We incorporate customer 
feedback directly into our systems for real-time 
market trend monitoring and competitive positioning. 
Environmental stewardship is also a priority, showcased 
by our Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) initiatives 
that promote recycling and waste reduction.
153
203
FY22
FY21
304
245
FY23
FY24
Cost saving (` in Crore)
Supplier
Vendor
FY21
FY22
FY23
103
539
106
601
114
554
98
392
FY 24
Supplier/ vendor base 
Supply Chain Excellence
 Financial Year 2024-25 key focus areas   
•	Transition towards distribution based on replenishment 
and manufacturing driven by demand
•	To optimise the supply base and spend concentration with 
strategic supplier
•	Build capabilities to reduce new model launch time 
to market, through efficient resource planning, early 
procurement and supplier involvement and reduce non 
value- added activities 
•	Focus on standardisation and digitalisation of the 
procurement process to enhance resource efficiency 
We view our supply chain as a strategic 
asset that drives efficiency, innovation, and 
sustainability across our operations. Our 
commitment to operational excellence, cost 
optimisation, and risk mitigation ensures that we 
deliver value to our customers while upholding 
the highest standards of ethical sourcing and 
environmental stewardship
Quote by Function Head
Mr. Manoj Kumar
Chief Supply Chain Officer
Manufactured Capital    
Intellectual Capital   
Natural Capital
Drive operational excellence through 
simplifying and digitising key process
Cost sheet  
Standardise and digitise cost sheets for products
Analytics 
Build process for QVE (Qualitative Value 
Engineering), tear down analysis, BOM verification
New product development 
A dedicated team to be created for new product 
development to reduce time to market
Pricing 
Establish stable price visibility and predictability 
mechanism
Process 
Simplify cost and discount negotiation frequency 
and strategic negotiations
54
55
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Our Omni Channel Go-To-Market strategy has been focused 
on leveraging various channels to improve our touch points 
in the market by increasing our numeric reach and depth 
of distribution. This approach reflects our commitment to 
adaptability and customer first approach in the evolving 
market landscape.
We are actively tapping into new channels such as e-commerce, modern 
retail, rurban and institutional channels to foster growth across our 
business units. In the realm of large kitchen appliances, our reach is 
extending, and Butterfly has ambitious plans for nationwide expansion 
through all these channels. Moreover, we anticipate growth in domestic 
appliances, fans, heaters and pumps by fortifying our presence in 
emerging channels like e-commerce.
We are also exploring opportunities for expansion through exports. This 
comprehensive approach guides our commitment to driving growth 
across diverse markets and channels.
 Key initiatives   
•	Pumps – Working towards expanding our base of channel partners 
and enhancing their participation in the agricultural segment 
•	Large kitchen appliances – Commenced tie up with national & 
regional chain stores 
•	Lighting – Stronger focus on trade channel development through 
direct dealer appointments and on e-commerce
•	Expansion of product portfolio, improved product availability, and 
heightened investments in digital marketing 
 Financial Year 2024-25 key focus areas   
•	Drive channel engagement through premium channel partner meets, 
retailer meets and influencer meets across the country
•	Faster settlement of claims through scheme automation 
•	Integration of internal systems to increase employee efficiency 
•	Conducting behavioural and technical programmes for sales & 
service team for capability enhancement 
Diversification in GTM channels enabled by technology
Grow existing channels
Reach expansion (trade)
Channel engagement
Build future-ready channels
D2C and omnichannel
Export 
Leverage new channels
E-commerce
Institutional channel
Modern retail
Go-To-Market Excellence
Our focus remains steadfast on driving sales growth and 
expanding our distribution network. We are implementing 
innovative strategies to be omnipresent, to enhance 
customer engagement and leverage new market 
opportunities to be closer to the consumer.
 Building capability not only in team but also with partners 
to drive premiumisation will be our focus agenda. We are 
committed to create consumer delight through qualitative 
after sales service and faster response.
Quote by  Function Head
Mr. Anand Kumar 
Group Sales & Services Head (GSSH) 
      Go-to-market excellence is not just about reaching the 
market; it's about making an impact that resonates with 
customers and drives sustainable growth. In the pursuit of 
go-to-market excellence, every interaction with customers 
should be viewed as an opportunity to create value and 
build lasting relationships
57
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
56
In the fast-paced and ever-evolving business landscape of today, the adoption 
and integration of digital technologies are imperative for staying competitive. Our 
strategic commitment to digital transformation transcends mere technological 
upgrades – it is an essential driver of operational excellence, productivity 
enhancement, and innovation across every facet of our organisation, 
Cyber and information security
In the rapidly evolving digital landscape, ensuring the 
security and resilience of our digital infrastructure remains 
a top priority. As cyber threats grow more frequent 
and sophisticated, they pose increasing risks to our 
operational integrity and reputation. Our dedicated digital 
team is actively engaged in fortifying our cyber defenses 
to mitigate these risks effectively.
Strategic cybersecurity initiatives
•	External collaborations 
We enhance our cyber resilience by partnering with 
specialised firms to conduct comprehensive cyber 
assessments, vulnerability and penetration testing, 
and privacy assessments of Personally Identifiable 
Information (PII)
•	Advanced monitoring and response systems 
Our deployment of cutting-edge tools and 
technologies enables real-time monitoring, detection, 
and response to cyber incidents. These systems 
are crucial in preventing and recovering from data 
breaches and ransomware attacks
•	Endpoint device management and data recovery 
We maintain rigorous control over endpoint device 
management, which includes regular backups of 
critical systems and conducting disaster recovery 
drills to ensure quick recovery and minimal disruption 
in the event of a cyber incident
•	Employee and stakeholder awareness 
To cultivate a culture of vigilance, we conduct regular 
training sessions, simulated phishing drills, and 
provide ongoing guidance on cybersecurity best 
practices. Our goal is to empower our employees 
and stakeholders to recognise and respond to cyber 
threats proactively
 Financial Year 2024-25 key focus areas  
•	Further automation of schemes and quality management 
procedures to streamline operations 
•	Upgrades to our CRM systems and optimisation of HR 
applications to improve user experience and operational 
efficiency
•	Implementation of advanced traceability measures throughout 
our manufacturing and Supply-chain processes
•	Enhancing our dealer and vendor portals to improve user 
experience and transparency
•	Development of a cloud-based data lake to transition from 
descriptive to diagnostic analytics
•	Strengthening the cybersecurity infrastructure to protect against 
emerging threats and ensure the integrity of our digital assets 
 Key initiatives   
•	Enterprise data management: Establishing a single 
source of truth for our enterprise data, emphasising 
quality, consistency, and accessibility. Through robust 
data governance frameworks and policies, we define roles, 
standards, and ensure accuracy throughout the data lifecycle. 
Adopting cutting-edge platforms and tools, we facilitate 
seamless data sharing and collaboration, empowering our 
teams to make informed decisions
•	Internal communication portal:'SyncUp,' our new intranet 
portal was introduced, serving as the centralised hub for 
internal communication and resources. Featuring news, 
updates, policies, and access to various applications, it 
enhances engagement, collaboration, and productivity. With 
single sign-on convenience, it fosters a culture of learning and 
improvement, keeping us connected and informed.
•	Sales digitalisation: As part of sales digitalisation, we've 
revamped promotion management, doubling our dealer 
portal footprint. Now, our channel partners access real-time 
order, delivery, payment, and promotion info, enhancing 
communication and feedback, boosting operational 
efficiency, and loyalty
•	New website: Launch of our new mobile friendly external 
website showcasing our products, services, and solutions in 
a secure and engaging manner, aiding in customer attraction, 
brand awareness, and lead generation.
•	Inventory optimisation: Another significant milestone in our 
digitalisation journey is the successful implementation of 
inventory norms and material resource planning. This initiative 
has optimised inventory management, manufacturing, and 
supply chain operations, resulting in reduced stock-outs, 
overstocking, and wastage. Streamlining procurement, 
manufacturing, and distribution processes has led to cost 
savings and improved customer satisfaction
Our digital initiatives have fundamentally transformed the 
operational dynamics of our business units. These changes 
have equipped them to adeptly navigate the complexities 
of today's market, adapt swiftly to evolving consumer 
expectations, and stand out in a competitive landscape.
Digital enablement
As we embark on our digitalisation journey, we 
continue to safeguard our digital infrastructure, 
enrich experiences for partners and 
employees with an emphasis on data driven 
decision making.
Quote by Function Head 
Mr. Vikram Sridharan 
Chief Digital Officer (CDO)
59
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
58
Investors 
We are proud of our ability to steer our finances in a manner that 
fosters sustained long-term growth and profitability. A robust balance 
sheet, achieved through effective cost optimisation and access to a 
varied pool of economical funding, has enabled us to venture into 
numerous opportunities within the dynamic operating environment.
SDGs impacted
•	Economic growth
•	Business ethics and general business 
principles
•	Supply
•	Information and Technology
Material issues
Key risks considered  
Key highlights (Consolidated) 
` 7,312.81 Crore
Revenue 
` 713.69 Crore
EBITDA 
` 441.78 Crore
PAT 
` 843.41 Crore
Operating cash flow 
  
Financial Capital
Performance
In the face of macroeconomic 
difficulties, the ECD business 
demonstrated robust performance, 
achieving a 13% Y-o-Y growth, primarily 
driven by fans and appliances. The 
pumps category witnessed an upswing, 
fuelled by the agricultural segment. The 
lighting business experienced persistent 
high competitive pressure, resulting 
in price erosion in the B2C segment 
but displayed encouraging signs of 
recovery in B2B. The segment managed 
to improve its EBIT margin by 250 bps. 
Large Kitchen Appliances businesses 
expanded its reach with opening of 100 
exclusive stores. 
Substantial investments were directed 
towards brand-building activities 
across various platforms, and efforts to 
expand our distribution network through 
alternate channels are ongoing. 
INVESTORS
Return on Capital Employed 
(ROCE) (%)
85.96
83.62
60.11
166.18	
204.11
FY21
FY20
FY23
FY22
FY24
Return on Equity (ROE) (%)
13.48
38.69
36.29
22.39
15.02
FY21
FY20
FY23
FY22
FY24
Dividend per share (K)
3.00
5.50
2.50
3.00
FY21
FY20
FY23
FY22
FY24
Financial metrics 
Networth* (K in Crore)
3,000
1,468
1,931
2,453
2,660
FY21
FY20
FY23
FY22
FY24
Book value per share* (K)
46.64
23.41
30.77
38.73
41.82
FY21
FY20
FY23
FY22
FY24
Market capitalisation (K in Crore)
17,184
13,091
24,700
23,683
18,635
FY21
*Excluding non controlling interest
FY20
FY23
FY22
FY24
Net fixed asset (K in Crore)
1,970
929
926
2,001
1,991
FY21
FY20
FY23
FY22
FY24
Consolidated Financial metrics
Revenue (K in Crore)
7,313
4,520
4,804
5,394
6,870
FY21
FY20
FY23
FY22
FY24
EBITDA (K in Crore)
714
599
720
769
770
FY21
FY20
FY23
FY22
FY24
9.76
FY24
EBITDA margin (%)
13.25
15.00
14.26
11.22
FY21
FY20
FY23
FY22
Profit Before Tax (PBT) (K in Crore)
573
591
724
752
612
FY21
FY20
FY23
FY22
FY24
Profit After Tax (PAT) (K in Crore)
442
496
617
578
476
FY21
FY20
FY23
FY22
FY24
EPS (K)
6.88
7.92
9.83
9.21
7.29
FY21
FY20
FY23
FY22
FY24
We continue to focus on optimal 
capital allocation and perfecting 
unit economics across our 
businesses which in turn creates 
value for all our stakeholder.
Quote by  Function Head
Mr. Kaleeswaran  
Arunachalam
Group Chief Financial 
Officer  -  (Group CFO) 
& Head of Strategy
0.00
62
63
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Economic value contribution
Bringing economic value to stakeholders 
Crompton is committed to conducting business ethically and 
responsibly by implementing best practices and consistently 
evaluating its performance across both financial and non-
financial parameters.
Economic value generated 
Revenue
6,388
5,809
FY 2023
FY 2024
4,412.91
4,009.45
FY 2023
FY 2024
474.21
439.63
FY 2023
FY 2024
260.67
228.20
FY 2023
FY 2024
13.81
13.56
FY 2023
FY 2024
Economic value distributed
Operating costs
Employee benefits and expenses
Payments to providers of capital
Community investments
Economic value retained (calculated as economic value generated 
less economic value distributed)
INVESTORS
(K in Crore)
64
65
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Consumers 
We depend on comprehensive consumer insights to 
develop products that directly meet the evolving needs, 
preferences, and challenges of our Consumers. This 
motivates us to embrace the latest innovations and 
ensure our solutions remain relevant and impactful.
SDGs impacted
•	Customer relationships 
•	Brand 
•	Supply 
•	Disruption 
•	EHS
•	Culture 
•	People 
Material issues
Key risks considered  
94.9%7
1 day TAT   
95.4%7
Happy Code  
Key highlights
Financial Capital 
Social and relationship Capital
Brand Excellence
We have been successfully driving consumer-centric communication that is meaningful, differentiated and relevant to our target 
audience. The core insights for each of the categories are defined as per the top equity measures for each category. Accordingly, 
the proposition is developed and deployed across mediums with high reach, affinity and impact. We have significantly increased 
our investments on digital platforms including performance marketing to target in-market audience and high intent consumers, 
driving consideration and preference for the brand.
For us, customer satisfaction is the final testimony to our success in the market. We invest significant time and effort to understand 
the evolving needs of our customers, prioritising the delivery of high-quality products. We also remain actively engaged with our 
customers and provide dependable after-sales support.
CUSTOMERS
Consumer Insights
Over the years, we have adopted 
a consumer-first approach by 
easing out the in-sighting process 
through initiatives like ‘Know Your 
Consumer’ academy.
Brand Proposition
The brand proposition has 
been developed after a detailed 
understanding of top equity drivers for 
each of our categories. We constantly 
strive to achieve a superior brand 
positioning based on these equity 
drivers to enable consideration 
and preference for our brand 
among consumers.
Media Excellence
Considering our core categories 
are highly penetrated, we reach 
our consumers through optimised 
investments in mass mediums. We also 
follow the approach of sharp targeting 
with new-age digital media to curate our 
audiences who are in-market as well as 
high-intent consumers.
We are proud of the strides the brand has made across several categories with increased saliency underpinned by 
meaningful consumer proposition. We have not only maintained our commitment to delivering top-tier products and 
services but also embrace innovation in ways that have significantly enhanced our market presence.
Looking ahead, we are committed to fostering a culture of continuous improvement and consumer-centricity, ensuring 
that every decision we make aligns with our core values. Together, we are poised to achieve even greater milestones, 
solidifying our brand’s legacy of excellence and trust thereby creating unparalleled value for our stakeholders.
Quote by  Function Head
Ms. Pragya Bijalwan
Head-Marketing
Strengthening digital discoverability
We have disproportionately   stepped up our investments on 
digital platforms to drive consideration and preference for the 
brand. This has led to an increase in the brand salience and 
resulted in higher engagement on social media given that the 
new-age audience, spend significant time on social platforms. 
While we aim for high awareness through high-reach platforms 
like YouTube. Also, we also look at having a high impact by 
participating on key OTT platforms. Considering the consumer 
journey starts with key searches on Google and marketplace, 
we have optimised our discoverability efforts through SEO and 
SEM leading to higher ranking on the platforms and thereby 
higher traffic on our website. 
120%
Growth in Website Sessions over last year
>50%  
of our target audiences reached 
through marketing campaigns launched 
across all categories
 Key highlights  
•	Implemented Brand Equity studies to fine-tune our 
marketing approaches
•	Launched high-impact marketing campaigns, achieving 
substantial message recall
•	Sustained investment in crucial product categories to 
boost market share and consumer engagement
•	45x increase in PR reach
68
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
69
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Improving consumer experience at the Point of Sale (PoS)
While we optimise our A+ content on marketplace platforms, we are also aware of the fact that nearly 90% of our sales happen 
on offline channels where consumers can physically experience the product. Hence, we endeavour to elevate the brand 
experience with required assets at the physical stores. 
Retail transformation
Collaborating with our channel partners, Crompton 
has upgraded the appearance of the stores to 
ensure a more consistent and positive brand 
experience for consumers. 
Product availability
We ensure widespread availability of our products 
across store formats and geographies simplifying 
consumers’ search and purchase process.
Customer service
Investment and training in customer service have 
equipped our representatives to deliver excellent 
post-sales service, fostering customer loyalty.
Approach towards customer complaints
We consider customer complaints with utmost importance and 
believe we need to be agile, transparent and solution-oriented 
to resolve them efficiently and satisfactorily. We are the best in 
terms of speed of response and quality of response. 
At Crompton, we are committed to improving our response 
time to address consumer complaints effectively. We 
have established various outreach platforms, including a 
dedicated email address, a toll-free hotline, and recently 
introduced WhatsApp Chatbot. Our WhatsApp Chatbot, 
along with upgraded capabilities in our new call centres, 
enable comprehensive 360-degree complaint registration. 
Additionally, a dedicated technician mobile app has been 
rolled out to efficiently handle and resolve customer 
concerns, ensuring a streamlined and effective customer 
service experience.
94.9%
1 day TAT   
95.4%
Happy Code  
CUSTOMERS
70
71
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
People 
Attracting and retaining a diverse pool of talented and skilled 
people is fundamental to Crompton’s success. Through 
consistent learning and development initiatives, we empower 
our workforce to enhance their skills, in alignment with the 
evolving demands of the dynamic sector we operate in. 
SDGs impacted
•	Occupational health and safety 
•	Employee well-being 
•	Talent development 
•	EHS
•	Culture 
•	People 
Material issues
Key risks considered  
Key highlights 
2,238
Permanent 
employees including 
permanent workers
35,661
Training manhours
ZERO
LTIFR 
Human Capital  
Intellectual Capital
Financial Capital
Our goal is to create a meritocratic organisation that empowers 
our employees to make the right business decisions, by 
providing a safe and motivating work environment that 
encourages learning and growth. This approach enables 
us to cultivate a next-generation organisation committed to 
fostering innovation, delivering business value, and driving 
thought leadership.
Workforce specifics 
Age group 
Category 
Top Management 
Senior Management
Middle Management 
Junior Management 
Non-executives 
Less than 30 years 	
Gender 
Between 30-50 years 	
Above 50 Years
9
8
65
16
51
517
59
179
857
18
6
286
167
1
16
7
74
66
561
51
1003
58
401
Female
Male 
PEOPLE
Investing in continuous skills and 
development
To maintain competitive edge in a rapidly evolving 
business landscape, we need to focus on constant 
reinvention. At Crompton, we have always believed 
that learning is vital to drive innovation, productivity, 
and business impact. We guide our employees 
towards a prosperous future by fostering a culture of 
continuous learning and skill development. This includes 
opportunities for growth through micro, macro, and on-
the-job learning initiatives.
Crompton Leadership 
Development Programme (CLDP)
CLDP is an extensive effort dedicated to 
fostering leadership potential and elevating 
strategic capabilities within our organisation. 
This comprehensive programme extends from 
August to December and consists of a range of 
initiatives designed to nurture senior executives 
into effective leaders, thereby promoting 
organisational excellence.
Future Leadership Development 
Programme (FLDP)
Tailored for our Regional Sales Managers and 
Branch Managers, the 5-month FLDP demonstrates 
our commitment to nurturing internal talent. 
Split into two batches, it begins with modules 
on “Entrepreneurial Thinking” and “Execution 
Excellence”. The programme advances to a 
dynamic development centre module, culminating 
in personalised for Individual Development Plan 
for each participant. High-performing individuals 
are eligible for an enriching B-school immersion 
programme, focusing on Vision, Strategic 
Orientation, Customer Centricity and more.
ContinuED Policy
Our commitment to nurturing a culture of 
continuous growth and innovation is embodied in 
our ContinuED Policy. This policy is designed to 
empower our employees to embark on a lifelong 
learning journey, encouraging the acquisition 
of new skills and staying updated with evolving 
industry trends. Inspired by the principles of 
design thinking - which emphasise understanding 
human needs, exploring technological feasibility, 
and ensuring business viability, we aim to inspire, 
ideate, and implement strategies that foster 
individual growth and organisational advancement.
Ruralisation
The Rural Capability Building Programme 
empowers our Rural Sales Managers through 
skill development and succession planning. It 
includes training on roles, responsibilities, call 
processes, and sub-stockist appointments. Senior 
managers undergo On-the-Job Training (OJT) and 
a Development Centre with personal interviews, 
business case studies, and group discussions. 
Outstanding performers receive special projects to 
enhance their skills further.
Emerging Leadership 
Development Programme (ELDP)
ELDP, a simulation-based programme for first-
line managers, focuses on cultivating high-
performance teams. Participants engage in 
simulations tackling missions and challenges, 
and making strategic decisions for execution. The 
programme stresses critical thinking, reflection, 
situational evaluation, and the significance of 
departmental relationships, interdependence, role 
appreciation, and maximising ROI. Presented in 
a specific and engaging language, the session 
simplifies key methods for enhancing group or 
organisational performance.
In Crompton, we remain steadfast in our 
commitment to “CREATE” out organisational 
values, striving consistently and constantly towards 
our Purpose of “Enriching life for generations with 
smart and responsible solutions”. We deeply value 
and sincerely appreciate the dedicated efforts of 
our employees in building Crompton. We remain 
committed to creating a great place to work for 
all employees.
Quote by  Function Head 
Mr. Prasanth Nair 
Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) 
74
75
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Creating inclusive workspaces
Our diversity, equity and inclusion approach focuses on hiring, developing, and retaining the best people. A diverse 
workforce, supported by an inclusive and caring environment that respects and nurtures people, is how we improve 
safety and business performance. Our recruitment and promotion system is based on the candidate's achievements, 
capabilities, and potential.
As an organisation, the creation of such an environment within Crompton, among our customers, and between our 
business partners and suppliers is imperative for us.
ZERO 
Lost time injury  
frequency rate	(LTIFR)
ZERO 
Fatal
3 
Total recordable  
incidents
ZERO  
High-consequence work-
related injury 	
27  
First aid cases
606  
Near misses
PEOPLE
Strengthening our health and safety 
performance
Safety of our employees and stakeholders is the foremost 
priority. It is at the core of facilitating enhanced workforce 
productivity, ultimately leading to enhanced operational 
efficiencies. Our approach to occupational health and 
safety centers around strategies to create a zero-harm 
work environment:
Enhancing workplace safety
Workplace safety is enhanced by engagement at all 
levels through relevant subcommittees
100% compliance
Ensuring 100% compliance with applicable rules 
and regulations
Continual improvement
Achieved through the self-assessments of facilities like 
IS 14489, electrical safety, fire safety, machine level 
& ranking to identify gaps and take actions to ensure 
continual safety improvement
Empowering through training
Learning & sharing done across levels related to EHS 
empowering employees with the knowledge and skills 
required for a safer workplace
Cultivating safety awareness
Recognising and rewarding employee participation in 
safety campaigns, fostering a culture of safety awareness 
and responsibility
Fire safety awareness
Fire Safety Awareness campaign month is organised 
awareness training and live demo are conducted where all 
the employees participate.
Proactive safety culture
Culture developed with the support of the company’s safety 
management system which covers aspects like leadership 
and accountability, risk assessment, design, operational 
control, incident reporting, investigation and learning
2023-24 Safety dashboard
Pillars that support and promote our diversity and inclusion agenda
Employee 
awareness
Hiring Strategy
Talent integration
Supporting 
policies
76
77
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
6C Framework
Our commitment to fostering a vibrant workplace culture is embodied in our "6C Framework." Launched in Financial Year 
2023- 24, this framework is designed to transform our work environment into a dynamic space that promotes growth, encourages 
innovation, and supports personal and professional development. Centred around six core drivers – Care, Connect, Collaborate, 
Create, Conquer, and Celebrate – our 6C initiative aims to nurture bonds among employees, bridge distances, unite talents, 
ignite innovation, surpass limits, and celebrate achievements. This approach ensures a workplace that drives performance and 
organisational excellence while making Crompton a truly great place to work.
Employee engagement
Engaging with our people and giving them a platform to voice 
their feedback helps us create a supportive work environment. 
Through consistent communication, we encourage greater 
enterprise-wide collaboration, continuous learning and 
open and transparent dialogue. Our employee engagement 
programmes include various activities such as celebrations, 
sports events, talent shows, health and wellness initiatives, 
communication channels, employee surveys, wedding 
benefits, and rewards & recognition programmes. The initiative 
aims to boost productivity, improve teamwork, promote work-
life balance, and enhance employee delight.
“SyncUp” – Our new intranet portal for 
Crompton employees
SyncUp is a distinctive platform created exclusively for our 
employees. The portal is designed to enhance communication 
in our remarkable Crompton family. SyncUp also serves as 
a dynamic community space where the achievements and 
connections of our people are featured.
Key objectives include
1.	
Monitoring and assessing engagement 
levels: Evaluate the current levels of employee 
engagement within the organisation.
2.	
Identifying factors impacting engagement: 
Pinpoint the factors that positively or negatively 
affect employee engagement.
3.	
Recognising gaps and obstacles: Identify 
any gaps or obstacles hindering optimal 
employee engagement.
4.	
Providing a platform for expression: Offer a 
platform for employees to express their thoughts, 
concerns, and ideas, ensuring their voices 
are heard.
5.	
Benchmarking against industry: Compare our 
employee engagement levels with industry to 
gauge our standing.
6.	
Identifying improvement measures: Highlight 
effective measures to enhance employee 
engagement based on the survey findings.
7.	
Guiding organisational growth: Use survey 
insights to guide the organisation towards continuous 
growth and success.
Key features include:
•	Quick access to Crompton’s applications
•	Stay updated with new initiatives and 
announcements
•	Employee appreciation corner
•	Mark special moments such as Birthdays, work 
anniversaries and welcoming new joiners
Employee engagement survey
We will be launching our Employee Engagement Survey 
to recognise the areas that need improvement and 
ensure that we continue to create a positive and engaging 
work environment.
Human rights
Respect for human rights, ethically and environmentally 
sound business practices, fair and safe working conditions 
and employees’ well-being are fundamental to our culture and 
identity. We explicitly identify human rights as a part of our 
policies, procedures, and ethics training to ensure ongoing 
awareness and prevent any future concerns regarding 
this matter.
PEOPLE
78
79
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Value Chain Partners  
Our objective is to establish enduring relationships with all 
stakeholders, based on trust, integrity and transparency. The 
insights derived from these relationships are pivotal in creating 
sustainable value for everyone involved.
SDGs impacted
•	Business ethics and general business 
principles 
•	Brand 
•	Supply 
•	Disruption 
•	EHS
•	Culture 
•	People 
Material issues
Key risks considered  
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Manufactured Capital 
Intellectual Capital
Natural Capital
 
 
 
 
Our business is accelerated by partnering with a vast network 
of dealers and distributors who make up part of our trade 
network. Our collaboration with strategic vendors and partners 
helps enhance their product lines and technical capabilities. 
We engage with them consistently through various training 
and development activities, frequent visits to vendor plants, 
and seminars designed to reward and recognise their valuable 
contributions, assessed through scorecard assessments. 
The ongoing monitoring of the Supplier Performance Index 
(SPI) and the Vendor Performance Index (VPI) has proven 
effective in enhancing vendor efficiency over time. This 
collaborative approach delivers mutual benefits, helping in the 
overall improvement of our products as well as the technical 
prowess of our partners.
Strategic priorities
Develop a refine sourcing footprint
•	With the combined forces of Crompton and Butterfly, 
refine the sourcing footprint to achieve the lowest total 
delivered cost while maintaining best-in-class product 
quality. This involves strategically optimising the locations 
and sources from which materials are procured to 
enhance efficiency and cost-effectiveness
•	Cross Functional team (CFT) has been formed to identify 
and build strategic suppliers and vendors based on 
exhaustive selection criteria
	
−Capability, quality, performance and on-time delivery
	
−Compliance with legal, environmental, health and safety 
guidelines
	
−Readiness to participate in sustainable supply chain 
management programme
	
−Total landed cost competitiveness
	
−Financial strength by continuously mapping their 
performance
Consolidation of vendor/ supplier base
•	Foster long-term relationships with strategic vendors with 
multi-business unit manufacturing capabilities
•	Implement a consolidation strategy through a distribution 
approach, streamlining the supply chain for increased 
efficiency and effectiveness
Simplification and digitalisation of the process
•	Drive visibility and reduce manual interventions by 
simplifying and digitising procurement processes
•	Utilise technology to enhance transparency, streamline 
workflows, and reduce the need for manual oversight, 
thereby improving overall operational efficiency
Supply chain
At Crompton, our objective is to build a consumer-centric, agile 
and cost-conscious supply chain by embedding technology, 
and digitalisation and facilitating simplification of processes. 
We are integrating real-time market signals and customer 
requirements into all supply chain activities – right from 
procurement of raw materials, and production to delivery to 
our consumers, and after-sales service.
Through ethical procurement programmes and stringent 
selection criteria, we ensure our suppliers align with our 
commitment to long-term sustainability. This underscores the 
critical role they play in promoting ethical, environmentally 
conscious, and socially beneficial practices.
VALUE CHAIN PARTNERS
82
83
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Communities 
We recognise our responsibility to contribute 
to the well-being of the communities we serve, 
reaffirming our commitment to being a socially 
responsible organisation.
SDGs impacted
•	Business ethics and general business 
principles
•	Brand 
•	Culture 
•	People 
Material issues
Key risks considered  
Social and relationship Capital
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Water conservation 
Through the Jal Jeevan initiative, Crompton has actively 
advocated for rainwater harvesting, watershed development, 
groundwater replenishment, at the community level. We have 
also been educating people on general water usage and 
conservation practices. The initiatives are directed towards 
ensuring water security in targeted villages, strengthening 
drought resilience and enhancing the capacity of water bodies.
In partnership with local social impact organisations our 
water conservation initiatives in Financial Year 2023-24 
have positively influenced more than 28,000 residents in 
Ahmednagar, Gujarat and Rajasthan. A total of 190 water 
conservation structures rejuvenated and 40,000+ lives 
touched These facilities will play a crucial role in facilitating 
access to water to villages for agricultural purposes as well as 
for drinking and livestock needs.
Acting responsibly and giving back to society is integral to the way we do business. We understand the importance of becoming 
an active to bettering the lives of our communities. Furthermore, it is our ongoing commitment to share value where it has been 
created. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program aligns with Crompton’s long-term commitment to build positive and 
shared value for our stakeholders. Aimed at igniting a positive social change, our CSR initiatives has evolved over the years to 
focus on four key areas
Additionally, the continuous availability of water opens up 
fresh avenues for farmers to improve their quality of life. It 
encourages more households to become involved in animal 
husbandry, leading to potential increases in milk production. 
This, in turn, encourages the establishment of new market 
connections and attracts dairy cooperatives to the village. The 
increased availability of groundwater also empowers farmers 
to enhance the frequency of irrigation, ultimately improving 
crop yields.
At Crompton, we value the involvement of women in our 
projects, encouraging them to take ownership of water 
structures. We host tailored seminars from self-help groups, 
equipping them with skills needed to maintain water structures 
and support farm-based livelihoods. This fosters inclusivity 
and sustainability in our projects.
The access to water sustains the expansion of varied 
agricultural practices, nurturing both crop diversification 
and resilience to climate variability. This enhances food 
security, increases rural incomes, and bolsters community 
economic prosperity.
COMMUNITIES
To instil a sense of ownership among villagers, enhance 
environmental management systems, and encourage vibrant 
local economies and social harmony, Crompton expanded 
its Jal Jeevan programme villages near the Ahmednagar 
manufacturing plant and Aspirational district in Rajastan. This 
positively impacted 40,000 villagers.
190
Water Conservation 
structures rejuvenated 
40,000+
lives touched 
588.7 TCM
of  potential water  
storage created 
1500 acres 
of additional land under 
cultivation 
10%
 increase in farmers income 
Water 
conservation
Skill and 
entrepreneurship 
development
Focus areas
Community 
care
Employee 
engagement
Water security training conducted in Abu Road, Rajasthan
Agadgaon village, Ahmednagar, Maharashtra
Before
After
86
87
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
COMMUNITIES
Skill and entrepreneurship development
The goal of the skill and entrepreneurship development 
initiative is to create opportunities for underprivileged youth 
by imparting skills, providing placement assistance, fostering 
entrepreneurship development, and upskilling technicians from 
the informal sector to enhance employability and contribute 
to the nation's economy. These initiatives are structured in 
alignment with the objectives of the National Skill Development 
Mission (NSDM), contributing to the larger goal of India 
becoming a centre for a proficient and skilled workforce.
Nayi Disha
This project aims to empower the youth around our 
manufacturing units with employable skills. Our skill centres in 
Ahmednagar, Baddi, Goa and Vadodara, foster knowledge and 
confidence among youth through behavioural modification, 
knowledge enhancement, and skill development. This intensive 
3 (Three) month training programme covers technical and 
soft skills, equipping India’s youth with the necessary tools 
for success.
1,700+
youth trained 
`16 Crore
Income opportunities 
generated  
Upskilling Technicians
Upskilling Technicians
Young women undergoing training in a laboratory setting.
Crompton has initiated an all-women skill development programme in collaboration with a local social impact organisation, 
to cultivate a highly skilled and professional female workforce in the Mechanical, Electrical, and Plumbing (MEP) sector. The 
programme includes a first-of-its-kind all-women MEP batch designed to encourage women to explore non-traditional job roles 
usually dominated by men.
Project Samrudhi
Project Samrudhi is designed to upskill the existing plumbing and electrician workforce through the Recognition of Prior Learning 
(RPL) platform. The project aims to recognise the informal learning of technicians, giving it the same validity as formal learning, 
and to increase their employment opportunities. In the current year, a total of 3,900 young individuals have undergone training by 
sector skill council.
Project Swabhiman
Project Swabhiman, Crompton's Entrepreneurship 
Development Programme, is intricately aligned with the 
Startup India initiative and has been created in partnership 
with a local social impact organisation. Its objective is to 
augment the entrepreneurial skills of youth with aspirations 
to launch small-scale businesses. Chosen entrepreneurs 
undergo a comprehensive 10-day mini-MBA training and 
receive returnable seed funding, accompanied by continuous 
handholding and mentoring support to effectively manage 
their ventures. In the current year, the Company has  
provided training and support to 90 budding entrepreneurs, 
empowering them to establish enterprises in the MEP sector.
60
Small scale Enterprises supported 
5,500+
technician upskilled  
88
89
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
At Government Primary School, Manpura, a shed was built 
above the drinking water facility, ensuring protection and 
easy access for students to clean water. Following this, 
another shed was constructed over the mid-day meal kitchen, 
improving the safety and hygiene standards for the school's 
meal programme.
Under this school transformation initiative, five schools 
in Vadodara received five 55-inch Sony Smart TVs, each 
equipped with removable stands. These Smart TVs are highly 
beneficial for language learning subjects. This initiative aligns 
with the Government of India's Digital India initiative and is by 
the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020.
COMMUNITIES
Community care
As a socially responsible corporate entity, we actively support 
surrounding communities through various initiatives targeting 
education and the well-being of the local community.
As a part of Crompton's community care initiative, a milk 
bank has been established in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, to 
address the nutritional needs of infants and young children by 
providing them with safe and hygienic donor milk.
We have also collaborated with a unique tech platform that 
enables villagers to access Government welfare schemes. 
Through this initiative, 3,600 villagers residents of Ahmednagar 
and other areas in Maharashtra, particularly women, stand to 
benefit from government schemes.
All Women electric batch
Project Umang
Crompton, in collaboration with a local social impact 
organisation, initiated Project Umang to assist female students 
facing financial barriers to education. This programme focuses 
on offering scholarships to female students from low-income 
families residing near Crompton's manufacturing units in 
Ahmednagar, Baddi, Goa, and Vadodara, aiming to improve 
their social and economic well-being. This initiative has 
benefitted 246 Girls students, encouraging them to pursue 
higher education and fulfil their aspirations.
246
Students availed scholarship 
1,076
Students benefitted   
3,600
Villagers availed 7200 
Government Scheme 
Project Patang
Crompton's Project Patang, a school transformation initiative, 
is dedicated to upgrading the infrastructure of 19 goverment 
schools. The overarching objective is to significantly improve 
the learning outcomes for 1,200 students, with a targeted 
increase of 40% in proficiency levels in both mathematics 
and language.
Classroom training in Vadodara, Gujarat.
Classroom training in maths and English conducted by teachers in 
a school in Baddi
90
91
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Distribution of schoolbags to children by Crompton employees
149
Applications received
1,000+
Lives impacted 
10
Change makers elected 
through employee votes
30
Projects shortlisted
Employee engagement – Crompton Care
At Crompton, our employees are the driving force behind 
our endeavours. Their unwavering commitment and active 
participation in our CSR initiatives inspire us to do more. 
Employees actively contribute to our CSR engagement, 
showcasing a deep sense of corporate responsibility. We 
have implemented various initiatives to foster employee 
engagement and deepen our ties with the communities 
we serve.
Crompton employees participated in huge numbers to vote for Change
Care for Community
On World Environment Day, Crompton involved more than 
300 employees across diverse locations to contribute to 
our communities. In a dedicated effort, 400 school bags 
were distributed to children from low-income groups, 
complemented by the planting of trees across our 
manufacturing premises. This is a testament to Crompton's 
dedication to environmental sustainability and commitment to 
community welfare, cultivating a culture of social responsibility 
among its employees.
Changemaker Grant
The Changemaker Grant stands as an initiative for our 
employees to contribute to society by empowering 
communities through the execution of social impact projects 
for causes that resonate with them. The core objective of 
this programme is to provide a platform for employees to 
channel their ideas, fostering impactful initiatives that address 
community needs. Through the Changemaker Grant, we 
actively involve employees and redefine CSR.
A total of 149 project applications were received, out of which 
30 projects were shortlisted for voting to determine Crompton's 
next Changemakers. With an overwhelming response, 1,175 
Crompton employees participated in the voting process. 
10 Changemakers emerged as the top-voted projects. The 
selected ones will spearhead Social Impact Projects, with the 
support of implementation assistance and CSR grants, aiming 
to make a positive difference.
COMMUNITIES
92
93
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Environment
We actively make the right choices to reduce 
our environmental footprint. Our commitment to 
environmental sustainability promotes the health of 
our business, the quality of service we provide and 
the value created for our employees, communities, 
customers and investors. 
SDGs impacted
•	Energy efficiency 
•	Raw materials and substances/ resource 
optimisation 
•	Product responsibility and safety  
•	Product 
•	EHS  
Material issues
Key risks considered  
Key highlights 
17.60%
Reduction in emissions  	  
*1762.83MT
Waste recycled  
*1.50%
Water savings  
30%
Reduction in Fans 
energy consumption 
*Includes manufacturing facilities
Natural Capital  
Financial Capital
Social and relationship Capital
At Crompton, prioritising environmental sustainability is of 
utmost importance to our business. Our sustainability strategy 
is intricately woven into the fabric of our core purpose, which 
revolves around "Enriching life for generations with smart and 
responsible solutions."
Key principles
•	Ensuring product sustainability involves conducting a life 
cycle assessment spanning from inception to disposal.
•	Addressing climate change is integral to our approach, 
encompassing the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 
and the enhancement of product energy efficiency.
•	Advocating for the utilisation of renewable energy sources 
and products is a key aspect of our strategy.
•	Upholding responsible consumption of natural resources 
in the production of goods and services is a central tenet.
•	The promotion of a circular economy is actively pursued 
to minimise the generation of waste.
•	Emphasising water conservation and implementing 
rainwater harvesting practices are critical components of 
our sustainability efforts.
•	Striving for compliance with regulatory requirements and 
aligning with the global sustainability reporting framework 
is a fundamental aspect of our approach.
ENVIRONMENT
Energy management
As a manufacturing enterprise, a substantial portion of 
our Company's carbon emissions arises from energy 
consumption. Therefore, enhancing energy efficiency is 
crucial. We have developed a performance-based energy 
management plan aimed at curbing energy consumption, 
incorporating renewable energy sources, and adopting 
energy-efficient practices.
In response to heightened customer awareness and the 
government's emphasis on energy regulation, our innovation 
is now centered on creating energy-efficient products. We 
have initiated various measures to enhance energy efficiency, 
reduce emissions, and optimise the utilisation of natural 
resources. Our focus is on developing energy-saving products 
that enable consumers to lead more sustainable lives.
At Crompton, we understand the significance of energy 
conservation through the adoption of clean technologies. 
Over the years, we have progressively elevated the proportion 
of renewable and clean energy in our overall energy mix. 
Our commitment to operational excellence spans all our 
manufacturing plants. By integrating renewable energy 
infrastructure, we not only reduce our carbon footprint but also 
lower our per-unit power costs.
9,211*KWH
Renewable  
energy generated 
63%
Fan models certified under 
BEE star ratings 
We have implemented strategic initiatives 
to promote efficient energy use
Energy loss reduction
By optimising process set points and eliminating idle 
running of machines, such as load-unload pressure 
set point optimisation at compressors, we actively 
reduce energy losses in our operations.
Alternate energy sources
To further mitigate our environmental impact, we are 
actively involved in planning and utilising renewable 
energy sources. This strategic initiative aligns with our 
commitment to sustainability and aims to reduce our 
dependence on conventional energy sources with 
adverse environmental effects.
Technology upgradation
We are committed to improving the efficiency of existing 
facilities and process equipment through technology 
upgrades. Examples include retrofitting with energy-
efficient motors and installing Variable Frequency Drives 
(VFDs) to enhance overall energy efficiency.
Low-cost automation
Our approach to energy conservation involves the 
implementation of low-cost process automation. This 
includes the use of sensors to control lighting, ventilation, 
and air-conditioning operations, ensuring optimal energy 
usage while minimising waste.
Environmental sustainability initiatives 
across our product portfolio
Improve energy efficiency
Our ceiling fans now adhere to BEE star 
ratings, with an average of 27% reduction in 
energy consumption during the transition 
from conventional to BEE 1-star rated fans.
Energy waste/ loss reduction
A significant step in energy efficiency includes 
ensuring that 86% of our water heaters are certified 
with a 5-star Rating by the Bureau of Energy 
Efficiency, leading to an average 9% reduction in 
standing water heat loss.
Raw material weight optimisation
Through value engineering, we have successfully 
optimised the weight of raw materials by 10- 12%, 
contributing to a more resource-efficient 
production process.
Recycled content packaging material
Embracing sustainable packaging, our products utilise 
recycled materials, minimising the environmental impact 
of packaging while promoting a circular economy.
Local sourcing of material
We prioritise local sourcing of materials, contributing 
to the reduction of carbon emissions associated with 
transportation and supporting local economies.
Renewable energy-based products
We are dedicated to developing and promoting products 
that harness renewable energy sources, contributing to a 
cleaner and more sustainable energy landscape.
Energy, water and waste management in 
manufacturing facilities
Our manufacturing facilities are equipped with 
comprehensive energy, water, and waste management 
systems, ensuring responsible resource consumption 
and minimising environmental impact.
*Includes manufacturing facilities
Sustainable design is our commitment to a greener 
future. By crafting appliances that conserve energy, 
utilise recycled materials, and stand the test of time, we 
empower consumers to make choices that benefit both 
their lives and the planet.
Quote by Function Head
Mr. Sanjeev Agarwal 
Chief Technology Officer (CTO) &  
Head – ESG
96
97
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Reducing GHG emissions
We understand the potential 
consequences of climate change 
caused by the emission of Greenhouse 
Gases (GHGs). We are earnest in our 
attempt to reduce our carbon footprint 
at the operational level. Our carbon 
footprint is closely linked to energy 
consumption and the source of energy 
we depend on.
Therefore, we aim to reduce our 
emissions through a multifaceted 
strategy that includes green innovation, 
enhanced operational efficiency and 
waste reduction.
*GHG emissions 
Scope 1 (M tCO2e)
3,660.01
4,752.00
FY23
FY24
*Scope 2 (M tCO2e)
3927.02
4,054.40
FY23
FY24
ENVIRONMENT
Scope 3 emissions
Environmental sustainability is a critical business priority for 
us. Further to enhance our climate accountability, we plan to 
analyze Scope 3 emission in Financial Year 2024-25.
Primary focus is to analyze business value chain emission 
impacts, including upstream and downstream activities.
This comprehensive approach underscores our aim to:
•	Gain a Deeper Understanding: Thoroughly assess the 
broader environmental footprint associated with our 
operations.
•	Identify Reduction Opportunities: Pinpoint key areas 
within our value chain where targeted interventions can 
yield significant emissions reductions.
•	Drive Collaborative Action: Engage with suppliers, 
partners, and customers to promote collective climate 
responsibility.
Guiding Framework: We adhere to the principles and 
guidance of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value 
Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard. 
This internationally recognised standard provides a 
robust methodology for calculating and disclosing Scope 
3 emissions.
We are committed to a full assessment of all 15 Scope 3 categories as defined by the GHG Protocol. This includes:
Upstream Emissions
Downstream
•	Purchased Goods and Services
•	Capital Goods
•	Fuel & Energy Activities (not included in Scope 1&2)
•	Transportation and Distribution
•	Waste Generated in Operations
•	Business Travel
•	Employee Commuting
•	Leased Assets
•	Transportation and Distribution
•	Processing of Sold Products
•	Use of Sold Products
•	End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products
•	Leased Assets
•	Franchises
•	Investments
*Includes manufacturing facilities
98
99
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Reduce 
Water consumption reduction: Implementation of low-flow 
fixtures and water-saving aerators has significantly reduced 
water consumption in our facilities.
Drip and sprinkler irrigation systems: Our commitment 
extends to water conservation in external spaces, where 
we have adopted drip and sprinkler irrigation systems for 
gardens and landscapes, minimising water usage while 
maintaining greenery.
Water management
Water is a necessary resource in the operation of our facilities 
and for our communities. It is therefore becoming increasingly 
important for us to be committed to responsible water 
stewardship for both current and future generations.
We are enhancing our water management practices in our 
operations while extending our community outreach efforts. 
Furthermore, all our units now operate under the zero liquid 
discharge system, ensuring responsible water usage across 
our operations.
*67,730KL
Water consumption  
*33,950KL
Water recycled    
*39,169KL
Water withdrawn    
*1.50%
Water savings   
Reuse
Reuse of STP-treated water: Treated water from Sewage 
Treatment Plants (STP) is efficiently reused in our facilities. 
Health faucets flush through plumbing modifications, ensuring 
that treated water serves a valuable purpose in the system.
Recharge 
Rainwater harvesting: We actively promote rainwater 
harvesting through the installation of recharge wells. This 
sustainable practice not only conserves water resources but 
also contributes to the replenishment of groundwater.
*Includes manufacturing facilities
Waste management
We make efforts to facilitate proper waste segregation and 
resource conservation at our facilities by minimising waste 
generation and maximising our positive influence.
We extend our evaluation beyond the design phase to analyse 
the environmental impact of our products throughout their 
entire life cycle, encompassing raw material selection to 
end-of-life considerations. Our product development involves 
a diverse range of raw materials, and our continuous efforts 
are directed towards enhancing material efficiency, adopting 
eco-friendly packaging, and promoting waste recycling. 
This commitment to increased material efficiency has led 
to a reduction in industrial waste, minimised raw material 
consumption, improved waste segregation, and lower 
greenhouse gas emissions.
In line with our commitment to fostering a circular economy 
and enhancing waste management practices, we have 
directed our efforts towards the extensive utilisation of both 
recyclable and recycled materials in our manufacturing 
processes. We have also established a target to eliminate 
the use of Expanded Polystyrene (EPS) in the packaging of 
our specified range of water heater products. In addition, 
we are proactively planning to incorporate biodegradable 
packaging materials into our packaging. This step reflects 
our commitment to reducing the environmental footprint of 
our packaging materials and promoting the adoption of eco-
friendly alternatives.
E-waste (Tonnes)
295
 454
FY23
FY24
Battery waste (Tonnes)
4
FY23
FY24
Hazardous waste (Tonnes)
199
FY23
FY24
*Waste generated 
Plastic waste (Tonnes)
249
896
FY23
FY24
Bio medical waste (Tonnes)
0.01
0.01
FY23
FY24
Extended Producer Responsibility
We are dedicated to adhering to Extended Producer 
Responsibility (EPR) principles, demonstrating a responsible 
stance towards environmental stewardship and sustainable 
waste management practices. EPR emphasises transferring 
responsibility to producers, incorporating incentives in product 
design. We have secured EPR Authorisation from the Central 
Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for managing plastic waste 
and e-waste. Successfully meeting CPCB targets, we have 
excelled in plastic waste collection, channelisation, and 
recycling of electrical and electronic equipment.
0.00
*1. Numbers are based on the assumption that 
waste disposal is waste generated
*2. Includes manufacturing facilities
103
ENVIRONMENT
100
101
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Core principles of governance
Trusteeship 
We recognise that we hold Crompton’s 
resources in trust for future generations and 
are committed to utilising them responsibly 
and sustainably.
Sustainability 
We prioritise environmental sustainability and 
seek to reduce our carbon footprint through 
efficient resource usage and waste reduction.
Compliance with laws and 
regulations 
We adhere to all applicable laws and 
regulations to ensure that our business 
practices are ethical and transparent. 
Accountability 
We take responsibility for our actions and 
decisions and are committed to transparency 
and open communication with all stakeholders.
Strategic oversight 
We continually evaluate and adjust our 
long-term strategy to ensure that Crompton 
remains competitive and is well-positioned in 
the marketplace. 
Reinforcing a risk culture 
We maintain a culture of risk awareness and 
actively identify and mitigate potential risks to 
our business operations.
Corporate social responsibility 
We prioritise the well-being of our employees, 
consumers and the communities in which 
we operate and regularly engage in 
philanthropic initiatives.
Stakeholder engagement 
Crompton possesses a highly resilient 
stakeholder management framework that fosters 
productive communication and engagement with 
our diverse range of stakeholders.
Governance 
Our governance framework reflects 
our ethics, values, and commitment to 
professionalism, overseen by the Board 
to ensure sustainable wealth creation. We 
integrate global best practices into our 
growth strategy, prioritising transparency 
and accountability to safeguard stakeholder 
interests.
At Crompton, our approach to corporate governance is aligned 
with our core values and is designed to enhance our capacity 
for wealth creation and fulfil stakeholders’ expectations. 
We prioritise fairness and transparency across all business 
functions, and we are committed to maintaining the highest 
standards of corporate governance.
In addition, we conduct thematic Board meetings to delve 
into areas crucial for organisational integrity and innovation, 
including Compliance, Enterprise Risk Management, Supply 
Chain, Manufacturing Excellence, Innovation, Digitisation, and 
Succession Planning. These focused discussions ensure that 
our governance practices are comprehensive and aligned with 
our strategic goals.
A balanced governance structure
Board of 
Directors
Board Committees
Management
1
2
3
Tasked with formulating and ensuring the execution of long-term 
business strategies, this role involves enhancing shareholder value 
and safeguarding the interests of all stakeholders.
Overseeing specialised operational areas and delivering expert 
recommendations to drive informed decision-making processes.
Responsible for enacting policies and procedures 
that govern daily operations, ensuring the smooth and 
effective functioning of the organisation.
102
103
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Related party transactions
We uphold transparency and fairness in all interactions 
with related parties, strictly adhering to applicable laws. In 
handling such transactions, we involve only the Independent 
Directors who actively participate in both discussion and 
voting processes.
Strictures and penalties
During the review period, there were no strictures or penalties 
imposed on our Company, the Directors, or Key Management 
Personnel (KMP) by Stock Exchanges, the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI), or any other regulatory 
authorities concerning capital markets.
Donations and political contributions
Committed to maintaining political neutrality, as outlined in 
our Code of Conduct, Crompton does not engage in political 
donations or campaigns. We uphold a policy of strict neutrality 
and discourage any political promotions by employees.
MD & CEO remuneration
The remuneration for the Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer ("MD & CEO") comprises fixed and variable 
components. The variable pay, determined annually by the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee (N&RC), is based 
on the achievement of individual Key Performance Indicators 
(KPIs) and the overall performance of the Company. The MD 
& CEO’s current remuneration structure does not include a 
clawback provision or mandate stock ownership.
Stock options granted to the MD & CEO are regulated 
under the Company’s Employee Stock Option Plans and 
Performance Share Plans that have been approved by 
shareholders. The N&RC administers these plans and 
determines eligibility and individual and company performance 
for the granting and vesting of options. Details regarding 
the grant, vesting, and exercised options can be found on 
page 236 in the Report on Corporate Governance.
Internal control framework
To protect our assets and uphold operational excellence, 
we have established a robust internal control system. This 
comprehensive framework includes controls across financial, 
operational, compliance, and information technology domains, 
coupled with risk management policies and systems. All 
transaction details are documented to maintain regulatory 
compliance.  Our operations follow well-integrated risk 
management processes, which enable us to efficiently identify, 
evaluate, record, and monitor significant risks. This ensures 
compliance and strengthens our organisational resilience.
Fixed and Variable pay
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
MD & CEO*
Mr. Shantanu Khosla 
Non-Executive Vice Chairman#
*Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director till April 23, 2023, 
appointed as an Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as MD 
& CEO w.e.f. May 1, 2023, till April 30, 2028, his appointment was 
subsequently approved by the Members at the 9th AGM of the Company 
held on July 22, 2023.
#Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and elevated as Executive 
Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, to April 30, 2024, and assumed the 
position of Non-Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2024 and will 
hold the position till December 31, 2025.
Familiarisation programme for Directors
Your Company maintains a comprehensive induction and 
familiarisation programme for our Directors. The Directors 
are issued a detailed Letter of Appointment that outlines their 
appointment terms, duties, responsibilities, and obligations, 
Code of Conduct to regulate, monitor and report trading 
by Designated Persons for Prevention of Insider Trading 
and Code of Conduct applicable to all Directors and Senior 
Management Personnel. Additionally, to ensure they stay well-
informed, they are regularly updated on business matters and 
new initiatives.
Regular presentations and updates on relevant statutory 
changes encompassing economic outlook; market trends; 
peer trends; changes in laws where Company is operating 
are made to the Directors at regular Board Meetings of 
the Company. 
The MD & CEO along with senior leadership team make(s) 
presentation(s) on the performance & strategic initiatives of 
the Company.
34 Programmes 403 Hours
GOVERNANCE
We have established a governance framework 
that emphasises efficiency, transparency, and 
accountability, thereby ensuring our corporate 
governance practices meet the highest global 
standards. Furthermore, we have integrated 
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) 
considerations into the core of our strategy, 
underscoring our dedication to sustainable and 
responsible business conduct.
Quote by Company Secretary 
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
Fixed
Variable
39.62%
60.38%
Fixed
Variable
41.36%
58.64%
Memberships and collaborations
Name of the 
trade and industry 
chambers/ 
associations
Name of the 
trade and industry 
chambers/ 
associations
Indian Pump Manufacturers 
Association (IPMA)
Goa Chamber of Commerce & 
Industry (GCCI)
Indian Society of 
Lighting Engineers
Confederation of Indian 
Industry (CII)
The Southern India Engineering 
Manufacturers Association (SIEMA)
Consumer Electronics and Appliances 
Manufacturers Association
Indian Fan Manufacturers Association 
(IFMA)
The Advertising Standards 
Council of India
Indian Society of Advertisers
Federation of Indian 
Chambers of Commerce & 
Industry (FICCI)
IMA IP Ltd
Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE)
Electric Lamps and Components 
Manufacturers of India
Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS)
National Lighting Code
Bombay Chamber of Commerce 
& Industry
104
105
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
GOVERNANCE
Succession planning
An essential component of our human resources strategy, succession planning is integrated into our annual talent review 
process, where individual development plans are crafted and discussed. During these reviews, we identify and prepare key 
talents for potential advancement to higher roles in the future. Read more on Page 106 of the Report on Corporate Governance. 
Rights  
of shareholders
Right to participate in and to 
be sufficiently informed of, 
decisions concerning fundamental 
corporate changes
To inspect statutory registers and 
documents, including minutes books 
of the general meetings, as permitted 
under the law; any other rights as 
specified in the statutory enactments 
from time to time
To receive Dividends and other 
corporate benefits like rights, bonuses 
etc. once approved
Protection of minority shareholders from 
abusive actions by, or in the interest of, 
controlling shareholders acting either 
directly or indirectly and effective means 
of redress
Adequate mechanism to 
address the grievances of 
the shareholders
Exercise of ownership rights 
by all shareholders, including 
institutional investors
Effective shareholder participation 
in key corporate governance 
decisions such as the election 
of members of the Board 
of Directors
Opportunity to participate effectively and 
vote in general shareholder meetings
Being informed of the rules, 
including voting procedures 
that govern general 
shareholder meetings
Opportunity to ask questions to the 
board of directors at general meetings
Board architecture
Bolstered by seasoned leaders boasting varied backgrounds 
and skills, the Board furnishes the management with 
strategic direction. It maintains an ideal composition of 
Independent Directors, fostering accountability and openness. 
Each member of the Board brings extensive expertise in 
manufacturing, sales, marketing, sustainability, governance, 
finance, technology, cybersecurity, human resources, mergers 
& acquisitions, management, operations, enterprise risk 
management, and academia. Furthermore, the Board operates 
through various sub-committees, collaborating to translate 
decisions into tangible business outcomes.
Metallurgical  
Engineering
Finance
Electrical and  
Electronics
Telecommunications
Consumer Goods
Healthcare
Mechanical  
Engineering
Mergers and Acquisition
Chartered  
Accountants
Banking
Masters of 
Business Administration
Human Resource
Professional skills
Sector specific skills
ZERO 
Fatalities
4.93
Average tenure of Board  
65.03
Median Director age
100% 
Indian nationality
95.24%  
Average attendance rate  
at Board meetings
4.04 
Average tenure of  
Independent Director
22.22% 
Women representation 
on the Board
77.78% 
Independent Directors  
on the Board
Economics
106
107
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
GOVERNANCE
Role of the Board 
The Board plays a crucial role in driving our Company's enduring objectives forward. It's tasked with 
safeguarding the harmony between our business pursuits and our overarching vision and mission. Through 
the outlined process, we uphold strategic clarity and adaptability to changing landscapes. By doing so, the 
Board fosters strong corporate governance, ensuring the resilience and integrity of our operations.
Role of the Board
Voluntary dissemination of quarterly results to the 
shareholders
The Company has initiated voluntary dissemination of the 
quarterly results through e-mails to all the shareholders.
Adaptation and evolution
The Board periodically reviews and rationalises the vision 
and mission in line with evolving changing market conditions, 
stakeholder expectations, and internal factors.
Feedback and course correction
The Board periodically monitors the alignment of our 
Company with its vision and mission. This oversight 
helps maintain strategic focus and ensures that 
the Company remains relevant and responsive to 
changing circumstances.
Transparency and accountability
Our Company’s progress is showcased with transparency 
and the leadership is held accountable for the operations, 
thereby strengthening trust among its stakeholders.
Succession Planning
The Board plays a critical role in ensuring leadership 
continuity. This involves identifying and developing internal 
candidates with potential to fill key business leadership 
positions in the future.
Strategic Planning
The Board is often involved in the strategic planning 
process, ensuring that the strategic goals and initiatives are 
consistent with the organisation's purpose.
ESG
The Board oversees Crompton's commitment to ESG 
principles, ensuring that environmental stewardship, social 
responsibility, and ethical governance are embedded in all 
business operations. 
Sustainability
Sustainability is a key focus area for the Board. They are 
responsible for ensuring that Crompton operates in an 
environmentally sustainable manner, reducing its carbon 
footprint and minimising environmental impact. 
Appointing the Right Management
The Board is involved in the rigorous process of recruiting and 
appointing senior executives who align with Crompton's strategic 
goals and corporate culture. This ensures a leadership team 
capable of driving performance and innovation while adhering to 
the highest standards of corporate governance.
Setting expectations
The Board defines a strategic framework that guides the 
Company's decision-making, goal-setting, and overall direction. 
The Board identifies what the Company aspires to achieve and 
how it intends to get there.
Regular reporting
The MD & CEO and respective Business Heads provide 
periodic updates to the Board at their respective meetings, 
demonstrating how the Company's activities and performance 
are aligned with the vision and mission.
Risk assessment
The Board also assesses any risks or potential conflicts 
that could hinder alignment and takes appropriate actions 
to mitigate them. This also includes overseeing compliance 
with regulations, assessing strategic risks, and ensuring 
appropriate risk management practices are in place.
Social Development
The Board is deeply committed to social development, 
focusing on initiatives that benefit communities and 
contribute to societal well-being. This includes overseeing 
corporate social responsibility (CSR) programmes that 
address education, health, and community development. 
Diverse expertise    
The Board is composed of individuals with extensive expertise and varied backgrounds, each 
contributing unique insights and innovative strategies. Their collective proficiency spans governance, 
technical issues, and both financial and strategic domains, ensuring well-rounded and effective oversight.
Cybersecurity
Strategy & Operations
General Management
Sustainability and Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG)
Compliance and Risk
Sale and Marketing
Board Service and Governance
Mergers and Acquisitions
Innovation & Technology
Mentoring Ability
Talent Development
Leadership
Gender, Nationality  
or other Diversity
Financial
Industry Acumen
33.33
3
66.67
6
88.89
8
33.33
3
77.78
7
55.56
5
100.00
9
55.56
5
55.56
5
88.89
8
55.56
5
88.89
8
22.22
2
77.78
7
88.89
8
 % of Directors possessing the relevant expertise	
 No of Directors possessing the relevant expertise
!
108
109
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
GOVERNANCE
AA (Leader) 
MSCI rating 
84 
SES – Core ESG Score  
48 
DJSI score 
Industry Exposure
25-35 years 
> 35 years
2
7
Board Age diversity 
50-60 years  
> 60 years 
1
8
Board Gender Diversity
Male
Female 
78%
22%
Crompton ranks among the highest in comparison to its global 
counterparts, indicating governance practices that are largely in line 
with investor interests.
ESG ratings 
Overview of the MSCI ESG Ratings  
assigned to the Company
Industry Average
Overall Governance
Corporate Behavior
Corporate Governance
Crompton's Score
7.8
7.0
6.7
5.8
5.1
5.8
Audit Committee
Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee
Stakeholders' Relationship 
Committee
2nd 
Integrated Annual Report
Crompton has been recognised under 
the ‘NEXT LEADERS’ category on 
the ‘IFC-BSE-IiAS Indian Corporate 
Governance Scorecard’, a study 
conducted by the Institutional Investor 
Advisory Services.
We were among the top five 
companies at the 23rd ICSI National 
Awards for Excellence in Corporate 
Governance, 2023.
100% 3
100% 3
50% 4
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee
50% 4
Risk Management 
Committee
100% 3
Independence
Members
Insight into Board Room
Risk Management
4%
ESG & Stakeholder 
Management
2%
Financia Overview & 
Inteernal Control
23%
Strategy & 
Operations
21%
Governance
47%
IT & Innovation
3%
110
111
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
GOVERNANCE
Present tenure of Directors 
> 5 years
2-5 years 
<2 years 
5
2
2
Board evaluation
The process of Board Evaluation is conducted through 
structured questionnaires which includes various aspects 
of the Board’s functioning such as adequacy of the 
Board composition diversity, and skill set of members, 
the appointment process, understanding of roles and 
responsibilities, circulation of board papers, quality of 
information provided, strategic oversight, risk evaluation, 
acquisitions guidance, individual board members’ and 
contributions, execution of duties, governance performance 
for the Board as a whole, Committees of the Board and 
Individual Directors and has been undertaken digitally. 
Further, Performance Evaluation Criteria for Directors 
including Independent Directors is detailed out under Board’s 
Effectiveness section of the Board’s Report which forms part of 
this Integrated Annual Report.
Board committees 
Board Committees are established to address specific 
areas or activities as mandated by the applicable rules 
and regulations or as delegated by the Board, requiring 
detailed scrutiny. The scope, powers, responsibilities, and 
composition of these Committees are outlined in their terms 
of reference and in the Corporate Governance Section of 
this Integrated Annual Report. The Chairperson of each 
Committee provides the Board with a summary of the 
discussions held during meetings for review. 
Further also, Throughout the year, the Board has 
consistently adopted all necessary recommendations from 
its Committees, as per mandate. The Company has the 
following Nine (9) Board-level Committees, which have 
been established in compliance with the requirements of 
the business and relevant provisions of applicable laws 
and statutes:
1.	
Audit Committee;
2.	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“N&RC”);
3.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (“CSR”);
4.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship & Share Transfer Committee 
(“SRC”);
5.	
Risk Management Committee (“RMC”);
6.	
Environment Social and Governance Committee (“ESG”);
7.	
Allotment Committee;
8.	
Strategic Investment Committee (“SIC”);
9.	
Committee for Debentures
Average tenure in years (category-wise) 
Average tenure of Board
Average tenure of
Independent Director
Average tenure of
Executive Director 
4.71
4.93
4.04
112
113
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Committee details 
	
Chairman
	
Member 
AC 	
Audit Committee
N&RC 	 Nomination & Remuneration Committee
BOARD OF DIRECTORS & KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
*Appointed as the Chairperson of the Board w.e.f. October 21, 2023, following the retirement of Mr. Hemant Nerurkar effective from the close of 
business hours on October 20, 2023, consequent to completion of his second term upon reaching the age of 75 (Seventy Five) years.
&Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and elevated as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, to April 30, 2024, and assumed the position of 
Non-Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f May 1, 2024, and will hold the position till December 31, 2025.
#Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director till April 23, 2023, appointed as an Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as MD & CEO  
w.e.f. May 1, 2023, till April 30, 2028, his appointment was subsequently approved by the Members at the 9th AGM of the Company  
held on July 22, 2023.
SRC 	
Stakeholders Relationship and Share Transfer Committee  
RMC 	
Risk Management Committee 
CSR 	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
KMP 	
Key Managerial Personnel
Appointed 
August 26, 2015
Skills and expertise
Mr. Sundaram's expertise includes corporate 
finance, business performance, operations 
monitoring, governance, mergers & acquisitions, 
and talent management. His tenure at Hindustan 
Unilever Limited (HUL) began in 1975 as a 
management trainee, leading to roles such as 
Commercial Officer in Unilever, London, and 
later as CFO and Vice Chairman of HUL.
He is a two-time winner of the prestigious 
“CFO of the Year for FMCG Sector” award by 
CNBC TV18 (2006 and 2008). He was awarded 
as the 'Best Independent Director in 2019' by 
Asian Centre for Corporate Governance and 
Sustainability in December 2020.
Qualification
Mr. Sundaram holds a post-graduate degree in 
Management Studies, is a Fellow of the Institute 
of Cost Accountants, and has completed the 
Advanced Management Program at Harvard 
Business School.
Appointed 
September 21, 2015
Skills and expertise
Mr. Shantanu Khosla is recognised for his 
strategic acumen, consumer focus, and thought 
leadership in building brand equity. Formerly 
the Managing Director and CEO of Procter & 
Gamble India, he expanded the business and 
drove innovation, enhancing P&G's global 
consumer goods standing.
He has received Distinguished Alumnus Awards 
from IIT Bombay and IIM Calcutta in 2012 and 
2020 respectively.
Qualification
Mr. Khosla earned a bachelor’s degree in 
mechanical engineering from IIT Bombay and an 
MBA from IIM Calcutta.
Appointed 
August 16, 2016
Skills and expertise
Mr. Promeet Ghosh is an experienced 
investment banker with over two decades of 
expertise. He has also spent 18 years at DSP 
Merrill Lynch, where he played a pivotal role 
in building its M&A franchise. Additionally, he 
held the position of deputy head at Temasek 
India, where he significantly expanded the firm's 
investments in India. Even after transitioning 
from his full-time position, Mr. Ghosh remained 
an advisor to Temasek until March 2023 
and harbors a fervent dedication towards 
sustainability transition.
Qualification
Mr. Ghosh holds a bachelor’s degree in 
engineering (Electrical & Electronics) from 
the National Institute of Technology, Trichy, 
and an MBA from the Indian Institute of 
Management, Calcutta.
Mr. D. Sundaram*
Chairman & Independent Director
Mr. Shantanu Khosla&
Non-Executive Vice Chairman
Mr. Promeet Ghosh#
MD & CEO
SRC
AC
N&RC
CSR
RMC
CSR
SRC
SRC
CSR
Appointed 
August 26, 2015
Skills and expertise
Mr. P.M Murty brings over 41 years of experience 
from Asian Paints Limited, serving in various 
senior roles including Managing Director from 
2009 to 2012. He earned the "CEO of the Year" 
award by Business Standard for 2009-2010.
Qualification
Mr. Murty holds a Postgraduate Diploma 
in Management from the Indian Institute of 
Management, Calcutta.
Appointed 
December 10, 2018
Skills and expertise
Ms. Smita Anand has over 30 years of 
experience in global management consulting 
and human resources. Her roles include serving 
as Managing Director at Leadership Consulting 
India, Asia head of Board/ CEO Succession 
Solutions at Korn Ferry, and President of 
Leadership and Lifelong Learning business. She 
also served as Regional Leader of Consulting 
businesses for the Asia Pacific region at AON-
Hewitt in Shanghai from 2002 to 2011. Her early 
career included senior leadership roles at Ernst 
& Young and Head of Human Capital Services 
at PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Qualification
Ms. Anand completed her MBA in Human 
Resources from Allahabad University.
Appointed 
May 21, 2021
Skills and expertise
Mr. P. R. Ramesh brings over 40 years of 
experience, he has served clients across various 
sectors including manufacturing, finance, 
technology, and more. He retired as Director 
from Deloitte & Touche Assurance & Enterprise 
Risk Services India on March 31, 2020 and was 
also a former member of Deloitte’s Global and 
Asia Pacific Boards, Mr. Ramesh is a recognised 
speaker at events hosted by institutions like 
ICAI, RBI, and SEBI, and has been involved 
with various regulatory and industry bodies, 
including a past presidency at the Bombay 
Chamber of Commerce & Industry, he is also a 
Partner at Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP.
Qualification
Mr. Ramesh holds a Commerce degree from 
Osmania University and is a Fellow Member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (ICAI).
Mr. P. M. Murty
Non-Executive Independent Director
Ms. Smita Anand
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. P. R. Ramesh
Non-Executive Independent Director
SRC
N&RC
AC
RMC
N&RC
CSR
AC
RMC
KMP
114
115
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
BOARD OF DIRECTORS & KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
Appointed 
January 28, 2022
Skills and expertise
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani brings decade-long 
board experience of twelve boards in consumer 
goods, healthcare, financial services, telecom, 
and hospitality sectors. Her knowledge of 
corporate governance, P&L management, ESG, 
consumer insights and financial acumen adds 
to her presence on boards. She also taps into 
her thirty years of operational experience in 
P&L management,Sales & Marketing  to provide 
counsel and strategic inputs to management. 
Ms. Mirchandani stays updated on the latest 
corporate governance practices through 
continuous learning. She recently completed 
an international ESG Certification Programme 
where she is now a trainer. 
She facilitates cross-pollination of best practices 
from her experience as an independent director 
and a retail investor. Prior to her career on 
boards, Ms. Mirchandani held customer-facing 
leadership roles primarily in consumer goods 
and healthcare companies. She advanced 
from being Branch Manager at Asian Paints, 
Marketing Head at Dabur and Marketing Director 
at World Gold Council to Business Unit Director 
and Executive Committee member at Pfizer.
Qualification
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani holds a bachelor’s 
degree in commerce from Shri Ram College 
of Commerce and an MBA from the Faculty of 
Management Studies, Delhi University. She 
is also a Chevening Gurukul scholar from the 
London School of Economics.
Appointed 
October 17, 2023
Skills and expertise
Mr. Anil Chaudhry is a seasoned leader with 
over four decades of experience in the energy, 
automation, and infrastructure sectors. He has 
championed sustainability, energy efficiency, 
and diversity initiatives throughout his career. 
As the Founding CEO & Managing Director of 
Schneider Electric India Pvt. Ltd (SEIPL), an 
entity formed through the merger of Schneider 
Electric India’s Low Voltage and Industry 
Automation business with L&Ts Electrical and 
Automation business from 2020. Before this 
role, he was the Managing Director and Zone 
President of Schneider Electric, Greater India 
from 2013 to 2020, and previously served 
as Senior Vice President at the Global Sales 
Organisation in Paris. 
He has extensive leadership experience 
spanning management, operations, sales, 
strategy, and business development across 
Europe and India and is a staunch advocate for 
energy-efficient and green technologies, he is 
also actively engaged in global projects focused 
on infrastructure development, sustainability, 
climate change, energy access, and skill 
development. Furthermore, he exhibits a strong 
dedication to promoting diversity and inclusion, 
consistently spearheading initiatives in this 
regard throughout his career.
Qualification
Mr. Chaudhry holds an engineering degree from 
Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, 
Patiala. He has also completed Executive 
Management Programs at Harvard Business 
School, Stanford Business School, and INSEAD.
Appointed 
October 17, 2023
Skills and expertise
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar is a veteran leader with a 
38-year career at Unilever, retiring as Executive 
Vice President, leading operations across North 
Africa, Middle East, Russia, Ukraine, Turkey, and 
Central Asia. His leadership transformed this 
cluster into one of Unilever’s fastest growing and 
most profitable regions. He started his career 
in sales and marketing in India, progressing 
to major leadership roles including Executive 
Director roles at Hindustan Unilever and regional 
leadership in Dubai and Russia. He has been 
recognised for his impactful leadership in 
challenging markets and was the founding 
Chairman of the Advertising Business Group in 
Dubai and a board member of the International 
Chamber of Commerce, Dubai.
Furthermore, the Ruler of Dubai nominated 
him as a Member, Board of Directors, for the 
International Chamber of Commerce, Dubai, 
he was also adjudged as the Forbes’ Topmost 
Indian Business Leader in the Middle East.
Qualification
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar is a BA (Hons) Economics 
gold medalist from Hindu College, Delhi 
University, and an MBA from the Indian Institute 
of Management, Ahmedabad, graduated 
in 1984.
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Anil Chaudhry
Non-Executive Independent Director
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar
Non-Executive Independent Director
Appointed 
September 05, 2022
Skills and expertise
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam, with a career 
spanning over two decades, possesses 
extensive expertise in corporate finance, 
financial planning and analysis, business 
partnering, investor relations, fundraising, 
treasury management, strategic planning, 
audit, and risk management. In his most recent 
position as Global CFO of Eicher Motors 
Limited, Mr. Kaleeswaran played a pivotal 
role in establishing a platform for the next 
decade's journey of Royal Enfield. This involved 
creating a robust business and financial model, 
emphasising portfolio pricing programs, 
driving cost leadership, achieving significant 
penetration in retail finance, and bolstering 
digital marketplace presence. During his tenure 
at Eicher Motors, he successfully established a 
Center of Excellence for internal controls and a 
shared services platform for global accounting 
and reporting. 
Qualification
Mr. Kaleeswaran is a Member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI).
Appointed 
November 28, 2022
Skills and expertise
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal is a seasoned 
secretarial and legal professional with over 
15 years of experience. She has managed 
numerous secretarial tasks, provided 
comprehensive corporate advice, and 
represented cases before esteemed institutions 
such as RBI, NSE, BSE, SEBI, and MCA. 
Additionally, she has co-authored two books 
on the Companies Act of 2013 and actively 
participated in various private equity deals, 
acquisitions, and due diligence processes. 
Qualification
Ms. Rashmi is a qualified Company Secretary 
and a rank holder, with a degree in B.A. 
Economics Honors, LLB, and a PGDBM 
in Finance.
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Group Chief Financial Officer  
(Group CFO) & Head of Strategy
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
KMP 	
Key Managerial Personnel
KMP
KMP
116
117
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Policies
To align our business with our Group's values and principles, we have defined a set of policies. We empower our employees to 
learn, comprehend, and apply improvement techniques to surpass industry-leading standards. For further information on our 
policies, please refer the following link: https://www.crompton.co.in/investors/corporate-governance/ 
Company’s Code  
of Conduct
Investment Policy
Environmental, Health & 
Safety (EHS) Policy
Materiality Policy
Dividend Distribution Policy
Risk Management Policy
Policy for Determining 
Material Subsidiary
Codes of Practices and 
Procedures for Fair 
Disclosure of Unpublished 
Price Sensitive Information
Policy on Foreign Exchange 
Risk Management
Code of Conduct to 
regulate, monitor and report 
trading by designated 
persons
Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy
Stakeholders Relationship 
and Share Transfer Policy
Prevention of Documents 
and Archival Policy
Policy on Materiality and 
Dealing with Related Party 
Transactions
Rules of Procedure
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy
Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment Policy
Vigil Mechanism and While 
Blower Policy
 Diversity & Inclusion 
(D&I) Policy
Statutory policies
Non-statutory policies
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
MD & CEO 
Mr. Kaleeswaran  
Arunachalam 
Group Chief Financial 
Officer (Group CFO) & Head 
of Strategy
Mr. Rajat Chopra 
Business Head – Home 
Electricals & Pumps
Mr. Nitesh Mathur 
Business Head – Built-in 
Kitchen Appliances  
Mr. Shaleen Nayak 
Business Head – Lighting  
Mr. Anand Kumar N. 
Group Sales & Services 
Head (GSSH)  
Mr. Sanjeev Agrawal 
Chief Technology Officer 
(CTO) & Head –  
Innovation and ESG
Ms. Pragya Bijalwan 
Head – Marketing 
Mr. Pravin Saraf 
Head – Manufacturing, 
Planning, & Logistics
Dr. Prasanth Nair 
Chief Human Resources 
Officer (CHRO) 
Mr. Vikram Sridharan 
Chief Digital Officer (CDO)
  
Mr. Manoj Kumar 
Chief Supply Chain Officer
MANAGEMENT TEAM
118
119
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
A Culture of Integrity
Crompton adheres to essential principles in its operations 
and risk management, focusing on ethical business conduct, 
anti-corruption, and the protection of insider information and 
human rights. We actively work towards building a supportive 
culture that encourages our employees to express their 
concerns and contribute to maintaining a responsible and 
transparent work environment. To address fraud, we have 
established a comprehensive policy framework, beginning 
with the Code of Conduct, the Whistleblower Policy, and the 
Fraud Prevention Policy. Regular awareness sessions are 
conducted, and individuals are encouraged to report any 
suspected fraud through the whistle-blower mechanism.
Your Company has also constituted Internal Complaints 
Committee (“ICC”) to consider and resolve all the sexual 
harassment complaints. Further, your Company has taken 
proactive measures to promote awareness and compliance 
with the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition, and Redressal) Act, including 
conducting e-learning sessions on POSH for all regular and 
new employees. Additionally, awareness programmes have 
been organised throughout the year to sensitise employees 
on POSH for upholding the dignity of their female colleagues 
in the workplace, reaching all employees across various 
locations. Moreover, a Toll-Free Number has been provided to 
facilitate the telephonic registration of any POSH complaints, 
further enhancing accessibility and support for employees.
EHS policy
Our Board has established a Corporate Environment, Health, 
and Safety (EHS) policy, which incorporates Environmental, 
Social, and Governance (ESG) factors into our daily 
operations. It also focuses on investing in the workforce, 
promoting a diverse and inclusive workplace, supporting 
the communities in which we operate, and implementing 
sustainable practices for both consumers and our 
internal operations.
Supplier selection process
The process for onboarding new suppliers at our Company 
is thorough, involving evaluations of potential suppliers' 
capabilities, quality, timeliness, and overall performance. They 
are assessed based on their adherence to legal standards, 
and environmental, health, and safety regulations, as well as 
their involvement in sustainable supply chain management 
initiatives. Furthermore, cost competitiveness and financial 
stability are considered to ensure that the suppliers meet our 
procurement standards.
Code of Conduct
We prioritise upholding ethical standards, as outlined in our 
Code of Conduct/ Ethics. We have an online portal called 
‘Success Factors’, to ensure that all employees affirm their 
commitment to these standards. New hires are required to 
adhere to the Code of Conduct. Additionally, we provide 
training modules for existing employees to reinforce the 
importance of ethical behaviour.
Our employees actively support the internal control system by 
consistently demonstrating integrity and ethical values through 
their actions, directives and overall behaviour. Our Code of 
Conduct emphasises the crucial role that employees play in 
promoting a values-based organisation.
Whistleblower policy
Crompton is dedicated to fostering openness, transparency, 
and encouraging the reporting of improvements without 
the fear of retaliation. We actively work towards cultivating a 
culture that upholds high ethical standards and maintains fair 
and safe working conditions for all employees, ensuring a 
positive and responsible work environment.
Crompton's Whistleblower Policy supports employees who 
report violations, ensuring a confidential and fair reporting 
process. The policy outlines procedures for tracking 
complaints, conducting investigations, and imposing 
disciplinary measures. It protects complainants from retaliation 
and maintains confidentiality during the reporting process. The 
policy also extends to vendors, encouraging them to report 
any incidents.
Any reported violation is thoroughly investigated, and 
appropriate actions are taken per the policy. To promote 
awareness of the Whistleblower Policy, we have initiated 
Company-wide training sessions for all our employees along 
with e-training modules for new hires during their induction. 
Additionally, we have set up an e-mail ID and a toll-free number 
for employees to register complaints.
The Company has initiated providing of in-person 
training on the Code of Conduct and POSH at branch 
offices, factory premises, and regional offices.
Risk management
At Crompton, we continuously foster risk 
management to identify and address potential 
threats and opportunities that may impact our 
commitments.
Risk management is integral to our growth and realising our long-term 
goals. We constantly identify our risks and opportunities to ensure that our 
business strategy is aligned to the internal and external environment. We 
have put in place a strong risk-management structure that enables meticulous 
examination of business activities for identification, evaluation and mitigation 
of potential internal or external risks.
POLICIES
120
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
121
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Enterprise risk management framework 
Crompton’s Enterprise risk management (ERM) framework 
addresses our business needs while remaining simple and 
pragmatic. Our Enterprise Risk Management Committee, 
chaired by an Independent Director, reviews identified risks 
bi-annually and guides the ERM head, who collaborates closely 
with business and functional teams to identify, monitor and 
execute agreed-upon risk responses. Meanwhile, the Risk 
Council comprising of senior functional leadership, reviews 
the major risks identified by the business and the status of 
mitigation actions, systematically. Moreover, the Board RMC 
oversees our Risk Management Policy, framework and process, 
as well as the risk management structure and risk mitigation 
system. The Audit Committee ensures additional oversight on 
financial risks and the effectiveness of process controls.
Governance
Integrated Risk Management Framework
ERM 
PROCESS
Risk 
Management Committee
Functional 
Leadership Members
Board 
of Directors
Control  
Assessment
Monitoring 
& Reporting
Risk  
Identification
Risk  
Assessment
Risk  
Mitigation
Risk 
Mitigation measures and progress 
Capitals 
impacted 
Product risk 
Energy efficiency 
(regulatory BEE 
norms)
We are committed to staying ahead of regulatory changes, ensuring that 
our product design and compliance are ahead of industry standards. 
To achieve this, we have established a dedicated team responsible for 
representing Crompton in all leading standard and regulatory bodies. 
Furthermore, we want to maintain active and influential participation in 
industry bodies, continuing our leadership and excellence in the sector.
 
 
Quality 
Our organisation is focused on improving product performance and 
reducing the cost of poor quality. We have implemented a structured 
KPI review through a quality scorecard and introduced systems such 
as Continuous Quality Management System (CQMS), Daily Work 
Management (DWM), Stop to Fix protocol, and a Zero Tolerance policy to 
ensure stringent quality control and operational excellence.
Sustainability 
Our organisation has taken significant steps towards sustainability, 
beginning with an enterprise-level gap assessment to pinpoint areas 
for enhancement. In our commitment to sustainability, we now embed 
sustainability-related KPIs into every stage of new product development. 
Additionally, our improved ranking in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 
(DJSI) reflects positive progress compared to previous assessments.
Innovation 
In our pursuit of innovation, we have engaged deeply with consumers 
through immersions to gather valuable feedback. This input steers our 
focus towards pioneering smart technologies and new products that 
enhance energy efficiency, health, hygiene, comfort, and convenience. 
Supporting these advancements, we have implemented a robust New 
Product Development process equipped with an automated Product Data 
Management (PDM) workflow. This system allows us to precisely define 
and track key performance indicators (KPIs) related to revenue, margins, 
and learning outcomes, ensuring our innovation aligns seamlessly with our 
strategic goals.
RISK MANAGEMENT
122
123
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Risk 
Mitigation measures and progress 
Capitals 
impacted 
Brand risk 
Consumer  
feedback
Our organisation has partnered with a third-party agency to enhance our 
social media feedback management, ensuring customer interactions are 
handled with professionalism and efficiency. To further refine this process, 
we are establishing Service Level Agreements (SLAs) that will set clear 
expectations for internal communications and define specific response 
times for addressing customer inquiries and concerns. This systematic 
approach is designed to optimise our social media engagement, boost 
customer satisfaction, and uphold a positive brand image across all 
social platforms.
 
Service quality 
Our organisation maintains a broad, PAN India network of authorised 
service centres to promptly address customer complaints and improve 
service quality. We equip our service teams with comprehensive training 
to enhance their effectiveness in resolving consumer issues. To measure 
consumer satisfaction, we employ a 'happy code index' that tracks and 
assesses service quality. Additionally, we are expanding our service 
coverage into remote areas to ensure efficient resolution of complaints, 
regardless of geographical challenges.
Counterfeit product 
Our approach to protecting our brand against counterfeit products 
involves proactive monitoring through market intelligence and statutory 
methods, such as reviewing trademark journals to identify potential 
counterfeit activities. Upon detecting such issues, we act swiftly in line with 
Crompton's IP Policy, initiating appropriate legal actions to combat the 
distribution and sale of counterfeit goods. This ensures the protection of 
our brand integrity and the quality of products that our customers receive.
Risk 
Mitigation measures and progress 
Capitals 
impacted 
Supply risk 
Import risk 
We are enhancing our supply chain resilience by diversifying sourcing, 
expanding domestic production, and broadening our vendor networks. 
Our strategy includes developing supply plans that incorporate both 
domestic and multiple international alternatives to ensure consistent 
product availability.
 
 
 
Production 
disruption 
and single-
source dependency 
Our strategy emphasises consolidating our vendor and supplier 
base to enhance production flexibility and supply chain resilience. 
We regularly identify and develop alternate vendors and suppliers for 
key SKUs and components as part of our comprehensive supply risk 
management approach.
Volatile 
commodity cost 
Our organisation actively pursues a continuous programme of cost-saving 
and technical innovation initiatives at all levels to mitigate the impact of 
volatile commodity prices. Additionally, we are forming long-term strategic 
agreements with commodity suppliers to stabilise costs and ensure a 
reliable supply. This strategy is designed to maintain operational efficiency 
and financial stability in the face of market fluctuations.
Disruption risk 
Competition 
Our strategy to stay competitive involves continuously monitoring market 
trends and technological advancements to respond swiftly and effectively. 
We also emphasise cost-efficient product development through enhanced 
R&D and production processes, enabling us to offer competitively priced 
products. This dual approach ensures we adapt quickly to market changes 
and maintain affordability in our offerings.
 
 
Distribution and 
alternate channel 
Our distribution strategy is evolving to enhance rural market penetration 
through the development of alternative channels. We are implementing 
an omni-channel approach to ensure uniform pricing across all sales 
platforms. Additionally, to strengthen our digital presence, we have formed 
partnerships with various e-commerce platforms, boosting our online 
visibility and capabilities.
Market share and 
brand investment 
Our organisation continues to maintain strong market share across 
all segments, with success in our digital campaign initiatives. These 
campaigns, which complement our traditional mass media efforts, are 
effectively enhancing brand visibility and engagement. Crompton remains 
the market leader in the fans category, underlining our strategic prowess in 
both traditional and digital marketing arenas.
RISK MANAGEMENT
124
125
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Risk 
Mitigation measures and progress 
Capitals 
impacted 
EHS risk 
Safety 
and compliance 
Our organisation is firmly committed to safety and compliance, strictly 
adhering to statutory and regulatory requirements, including electronic 
waste management under the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) 
policy. We prioritise Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) policy 
compliance within our operations and at our vendor locations - monitored 
through regular internal audits. Furthermore, we actively keep our 
compliance with various laws up to date by incorporating regular legal 
updates. This thorough approach enables us to maintain high standards of 
safety, environmental stewardship, and legal compliance across all aspects 
of our operations.
 
  
 
Culture risk 
Diversity 
engagement 
Our organisation has implemented a comprehensive Diversity and 
Inclusion (D&I) policy with a strong emphasis on gender diversity, driven 
by a council including senior leadership to ensure commitment and impact. 
Our efforts include crafting gender-neutral job descriptions, supporting 
frameworks for expecting parents, and maintaining gender-neutral 
harassment prevention policies. Additionally, we ensure equity across pay, 
benefits, promotions, and succession planning, fostering an inclusive and 
supportive workplace for all employees.
 
People risk 
Attrition 
management 
We have launched several initiatives aimed at retaining key talents and 
reducing turnover rates. These programmes focus on managing work-
related stress, fostering leadership, and promoting well-being in the 
workplace. We prioritise work-life balance, strive to create a fun work 
environment, and continuously enhance our rewards and recognition 
framework to effectively motivate and acknowledge our employees. 
Additionally, we invest in various training programmes designed for talent 
management to facilitate upskilling and reskilling, ensuring our workforce 
remains adaptable and well-equipped for future challenges.
 
 
Adequacy of 
succession  
planning 
Our organisation has implemented a succession planning framework 
that actively identifies and evaluates both internal and external talent. 
This involves benchmarking capabilities and facilitating the creation of 
detailed succession profiles. Additionally, our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) 
agenda is integrated into the succession planning process to ensure a 
comprehensive and inclusive approach to talent development.
Risk 
Mitigation measures and progress 
Capitals 
impacted 
Information Technology Risk 
Emerging data 
privacy laws
Our organisation is diligently working to comply with the Digital Personal 
Data Protection Act 2023. We are integrating a Data Privacy Process into 
all new projects to embed data protection from the outset. Additionally, 
we have established roles for a Consent Manager and a Data Protection 
Officer (DPO), both equipped with specialised training to effectively 
manage data privacy breaches and consent modifications. This 
commitment is underscored by the completion of our Gap Assessment, 
marking a milestone in achieving full compliance and strengthening our 
data protection measures.
 
 
Data and 
cyber security
Our organisation has strategically located our Data Centre and Disaster 
Recovery (DR) sites to mitigate risks effectively. We have strengthened 
our security posture by completing a Data Protection Assessment and 
implementing Mobile Device Management and AzureAD Premium for 
secure, conditional access to Microsoft apps. 
Annually, we conduct a Disaster Recovery drill for SAP to test and 
ensure the resilience of our systems. Both Active Directory and SAP 
are hosted in our Data Centre equipped with DR capabilities, securing 
operational continuity.
Additionally, we maintain a rigorous access management system 
complemented by a thorough User Access Review. To further enhance 
security awareness among our staff, we conduct multiple user awareness 
sessions, including simulated phishing campaigns, reinforcing our 
defences against potential cyber threats.
RISK MANAGEMENT
126
127
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Awards
We proudly showcase the recognition our team's dedication and innovation 
have earned over the past year. These accolades reflect unmatched 
excellence in a competitive industry and highlight our contributions to 
energy-efficient solutions and customer satisfaction.
Awarded India Design Mark for Blossom Smart 
and Roverr Smart.
National Energy conservation Award-Ministry of 
Power for most Energy Efficient Appliance of the 
Year award by President of India.
Greentech Safety Award 2023 -  
Ahmednagar - Pump Plant.
Received Best Managed Companies- Deloitte 
India-2023 award for second consecutive time.
Environment excellence for fan division, Goa – 
Bethora Greentech Environment Award.
Greentech Safety Award 2023 - Baddi Fan Plant, 
Ahmednagar Pump Plant.
Safe-tech Award 2023 for best employee 
participation in safety awareness –  
Baddi Lighting.
National Safety Award 2023 –  
11th Global Safety Summit.
Leadership Award for Mr. Amit Srivastava –  
Plant Head.
Gold Award won by Baddi Lighting division.
Leadership Award for Mr. Vishwanatha R –  
Plant Head.
Built-in Kitchen Appliances Business Model featured 
as case study in "Essentials of Modern Marketing - 
India Edition by Philip Kotler and T Mukerjee
128
129
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Gold Award won by the Baddi Fan division.
Safety Mentor Award won by Mr. Vineet Sharma.
Bimlesh Kumar recognised as India Emerging HSE 
Leader in India HSE Conclave & Awards 2023.
Chosen as the "Most Preferred Workplace 2024-25" 
by Marksmen daily in association with India Today.
Crompton is amongst the only ten companies to be 
recognised under the “Next Leaders” category by 
the Institutional Investor Advisory Services (IiAS).
International Award  
from British Safety Council.
Received Smart Manufacturing in Consumer 
durable at CNBC-TV18 Zetwerk Smart 
Manufacturing Summit 2024.
Crompton Built-in Kitchen Appliances Business 
Case awarded as “Customer Retail Journey 
Innovation” at the Retail, Distribution & E-Commerce 
Summit & Awards 2024.
Large Kitchen Appliance Business Case featured 
in the India Edition of “Essentials of Modern 
Marketing” by Philip Kotler & T. Mukherjee.
AWARDS
130
131
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Statutory Reports
Management Discussion & Analysis Report	
134
Board’s Report & Annexures	
146
Report on Corporate Governance & Annexures	
195
Corporate Governance Certificate	
257
MD & CEO and CFO Certificate	
258
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report	
260
Financial Statements
Standalone Financial Statements	
294
Consolidated Financial Statements	
376
Independent Assurance Statement	
458
GRI Content Index	
460
Statutory Reports and 
Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION  
AND ANALYSIS
1. Economic overview
1.1 Global economy
The global economy in FY 2023-24 displayed exemplary 
resilience, with the United States of America (USA) leading 
the charge towards recovery and emerging markets exhibiting 
robustness. Inflation, which had been a lingering concern, 
receded more swiftly than anticipated, dropping to 6.9% due to 
smoother supply chains and stringent monetary controls. This 
trajectory is expected to maintain its course, with global inflation 
forecast to decline steadily, from 6.8% in 2023 to 5.9% in 2024 and 
4.5% in 2025.
Strengthening labour markets provided a foundation for 
equilibrium as improved job conditions buoyed consumer 
confidence and caused an uptick in spending. This surge in 
consumption has revived various sectors, with a ripple effect 
on industries linked to consumer spending. The real household 
spending in India is expected to grow by 6.7% in 2024. 
(Source: BMI Research).
This optimistic phase was moderated by some economic 
pressures, including high borrowing costs and rising government 
debt in advanced and emerging markets. Despite this, the 
manufacturing and services sectors found solid footing, powered 
by consumer and government expenditure in developed nations. 
Emerging markets have held a neutral fiscal position, while 
liquidity and debt service challenges have continued to test 
low-income countries.
1.1.1 Outlook
The International Monetary Fund ("IMF") forecasts a steady 
global growth of 3.1% in 2024, with a marginal increase to 3.2% 
in 2025. While advanced economies may see fluctuations in 
growth, there is much optimism about the eurozone recovery 
and sustained progress in the USA. The IMF sees a soft landing 
for the USA econnomy, with an estimated growth rate of 2.1%, 
an upward revision of 0.6% as compared to earlier projections.
Geopolitical tensions continue to loom, threatening economic 
stability in certain regions and potentially reverberating 
across borders. Furthermore, adverse weather conditions are 
increasingly impacting food supply chains, exacerbating the 
challenge of managing inflationary pressures. Many nations 
have tightened monetary policies in response, further influencing 
demand dynamics across consumer and business sectors. After 
three years of extreme volatility, commodity prices are set to 
broadly stabilise in 2024. However, soaring shipping costs and 
supply chain disruptions are among the risks to watch.
That said, emerging markets and developing economies show 
promising consistency in growth rates for the forthcoming 
period. China and India, Asia’s two growth engines, are slated 
to continue their upward climb, with India maintaining a strong 
performance at 6.5% for both years. In this global setting, 
certain sectors, especially those sensitive to discretionary 
consumer spending, such as lifestyle and technology goods, 
may experience indirect positive impacts.
With disinflation and steady growth, the likelihood of a 
hard landing has receded, and risks to global growth are 
broadly balanced.
Source: World Economic Outlook Update, January 2024
1.2	 Indian economy 
India is experiencing a K-shaped recovery, where entities 
with robust financial standings, including well-established 
corporations and affluent households, are witnessing a 
stronger rebound. Conversely, smaller enterprises and less 
wealthy families are likely caught in a detrimental cycle of 
poverty and debt, a situation exacerbated by the pandemic's 
economic impacts. 
The National Statistical Office ("NSO's") Second Advance 
Estimates signal an impressive growth trajectory for India, with 
real GDP expected to increase to 7.6% in Financial Year 2023-
24. The GDP growth rate surpassed expectations to rise to a 
six-quarter high of 8.4% in Q3 Financial Year 2023-24. Robust 
growth in manufacturing and a surge in investment put India in 
an advantageous position.
The government’s response to global economic shifts 
included strengthening domestic production and enhancing 
infrastructure. India’s strategic push to become a manufacturing 
hub began to pay dividends, with global businesses drawn to 
the nation’s growing telecom and mobile assembly industries. 
Simultaneously, the infrastructure sector in India witnessed 
growth, given the country’s ambition for swift development and 
urbanisation trends.
Financial Year 2023-24 also saw a softening of inflation rates, 
descending to a four-month low of 4.87% in Q3. This acted 
as a reflection of the RBI's adeptness in curbing inflation and 
fostering growth. Supported by fiscal incentives, a revitalised 
private sector, and increased infrastructure investment, the stage 
for continued economic acceleration was set.
1.2.1 Outlook
The Indian economy has demonstrated vitality, with forecasts 
affirming its status as one of the world’s most rapidly expanding 
economies. The Indian economy will experience an annual 
expansion rate of 6-7% between 2024 and 2026. The private 
sector will be instrumental in driving this growth, empowered by 
a slew of government policies and incentives. 
Companies now anticipate workforce expansions by 5% or more, 
alongside planned increases in product and service pricing, 
reflecting renewed confidence in the market’s potential. This 
upward trend has resulted from India's enhanced manufacturing 
competitiveness, favourable demographics, and an encouraging 
policy environment, including attractive production-linked 
incentives and a liberal Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) stance.
While inflation is projected to remain somewhat above the 
target range in Financial Year 2023-24 and Financial Year 2024-
25, the RBI is expected to take a careful approach. The apex 
bank’s reserves and a balanced external account position may 
afford it the latitude to consider rate reductions in the latter 
half of Financial Year 2024-25, providing a stimulus for further 
economic activity.
The government has announced an 11% increase in 
capital infrastructure. Capital expenditure outlay is now 
pegged at K 11.11 Lakh Crore for the next fiscal.
Source: Interim Budget Financial Year 2024-25
134
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
135
2.	 Industry overview
Electrical Consumer Durables industry 
The Electrical Consumer Durables ("ECD") industry in India 
experienced an uplift in FY 2023-24 given the positive consumer 
sentiment led by surging demand for premium products. This 
momentum is projected to carry forward into 2024, with the 
industry poised for an anticipated growth of 7-9%.
The growth trajectory is underpinned by rural electrification, an 
expanding real estate sector, increased per capita electricity 
consumption, and supportive government policies, including 
capital outlay and initiatives like Production Linked Incentive 
("PLI") and Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products 
(RoDTEP).
The push for energy efficiency through the Bureau of Indian 
Standards ("BIS") and Bureau of Energy Efficiency ("BEE") 
star ratings, the shift towards solar lights and pumps, and 
the consumer-driven demand for product upgrades and 
replacements are set to drive the industry. In alignment with 
regulatory requirements, the adoption of Extended Producer 
Responsibility ("EPR") principles further fortifies the commitment 
to sustainable growth, ensuring responsible production and 
consumption patterns across the industry.
Moreover, there is a shift towards smart and connected homes, 
powered by the integration of Internet of Things (IoT). The trend 
is expected to escalate with the advent of Web 3.0, making 
smart home connectivity even more accessible. Voice assistant 
features, in particular, are becoming a standard expectation as 
the new generation of consumers demands the latest technology 
at competitive prices.
Additionally, the consumer journey is evolving into an 
omni-channel experience where customers often first explore 
products online before making the final purchase in-store. 
This hybrid shopping behaviour underscores the importance 
of seamless integration between digital platforms and physical 
retail spaces, catering to the modern consumer's preference for 
informed purchasing decisions.
Fans
Fans remain a staple in households and offices, marking high 
market penetration and essentiality across demographics, 
especially in India. Positioned as a primary necessity, fans rank 
just after bicycles in terms of demand in rural India, highlighting 
their significance in everyday life.
The industry is characterised by a wide range of products 
including ceiling, table, pedestal, wall, exhaust, and specialised 
fans like cooling or fresher fans. The Indian Electric Fan Market 
is on a trajectory of growth, projected to surpass revenues 
of J 16,000 Crore by Financial Year 2027-28, with growth 
expected at 7-8%. This growth is driven by the diversification 
into niche categories such as premium, energy-efficient, and 
decorative fans.
The rise of the fan industry is further supported by increased 
distribution channels and replacement-driven demand. The 
popularity of premium fans is escalating, spurred by rising 
consumer purchasing power and a shift towards quality 
and aesthetics in consumer preferences. The fans market 
is distinguished by its successful premiumisation strategy, 
achieving growth at twice the rate of the overall category.
The construction of new homes, replacement needs within 
existing households, higher installation rates of fans per 
household, and the effective implementation of energy efficiency 
standards are anticipated to drive the demand for fans in India.
K 11,000 Crore
Fans market size in India as of 2023
Pumps 
The pumps industry is crucial to sectors such as agriculture, 
water management, oil and gas, residential requirements and 
manufacturing, due to its essential function in fluid transportation. 
The global pumps market size was estimated at $ 57.7 Billion in 2023 
and is anticipated to grow at a CAGR of 4.2% from 2024 to 2030.
In India, the pumps sector has been supported by an 
increasing demand for agriculture and municipal water 
management, as well as the expanding industrial and 
construction sectors. The India pumps market size reached 
J 7,500 Crore in 2023. Looking forward, IMARC Group expects 
the water pump market in India to exhibit a CAGR of 4.5% 
between 2024 and 2032. At the same time, the solar pump 
market in India is anticipating robust growth between 2025-2029 
at a CAGR of 28%. 
Government initiatives, like the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee 
Yojana (PMKSY) and Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha evam 
Utthan Mahabhiyan (PM KUSUM), aimed at enhancing farm 
irrigation, and schemes for promoting solar pumping systems, 
are expected to drive growth in the eco-friendly and energy-
efficient pumps segment. 
K 7,500 Crore 
Pumps market size in India, as of 2023
Built-in Kitchen Appliances 
The built-in kitchen appliances industry is characterised by 
premium products such as integrated microwaves, ovens, 
chimneys, and dishwashers. These appliances are designed 
to blend with kitchen cabinetry, offering a sleek and modern 
aesthetic that appeals to contemporary homeowners. The 
global built-in kitchen appliances market size was estimated at 
$ 13.8 Billion in 2022 and is expected to grow at a CAGR of 7.6% 
from 2023 to 2030. At the same time, the Indian large kitchen 
appliances market is valued at J 2,900 Crore.
This growth is driven by increasing consumer preference 
for modular kitchens and the trend towards home renovation 
and customisation that emphasises efficient space utilisation 
and aesthetic appeal. The demand for built-in appliances is 
particularly strong in urban areas, where space constraints make 
compact and integrated solutions more attractive.
In markets such as India, the built-in kitchen appliances sector is 
witnessing rapid growth. Consumers are increasingly investing 
in high-quality built-in appliances that offer convenience and 
enhance the overall cooking experience, supported by rising 
awareness of the latest kitchen technologies.
Large Domestic Appliances 
The Large Domestic Appliances ("LDA") industry has been 
witnessing robust growth driven by technological advancements, 
consumer demand for energy efficiency, and the digital 
transformation of retail. The global market for air coolers is 
projected to reach $ 2.5 Billion by 2025, growing at a CAGR of 
10.8% between 2019 and 2025, while the Indian air cooler market 
stands at J 3,050 Crore. The global water heater market size was 
estimated at $ 29.26 Billion in 2023 and is anticipated to grow 
at a CAGR of 4.7% from 2024 to 2030, fuelled by innovations 
in heating technologies and a shift towards sustainable energy 
solutions. The Indian water heater market size stands at J 4,600 
Crore. At the same time, the value of the electric heaters market 
globally had observed a significant increase over the years rising 
to over $ 10 Billion in 2023. 
In India, the diversity of climate and rapid urbanisation have 
catalysed demand across the large domestic appliances sector. 
Air coolers are rising in popularity due to their cost-effectiveness, 
reduced noise, and inverter compatibility. Furthermore, their 
sustainability advantage over air conditioners, using water for 
natural cooling and minimising greenhouse gas emissions, 
aligns with the increasing preference for eco-friendly and 
energy-efficient appliances. 
Similarly, the water heater market is experiencing growth, with 
a clear trend towards environmentally friendly and intelligent 
heating solutions. In line with these trends, the room heater 
market is also on the rise, driven by the need for affordable 
and efficient heating solutions in colder regions, reflecting 
consumers’ growing preference for comfort and energy 
efficiency in home heating options. 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
136
137
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Small Domestic Appliances
In 2023, the Indian Small Domestic Appliances ("SDA") industry 
was valued at J 3,900 Crore, showcasing the sector’s presence 
in the consumer goods market. Looking ahead, the industry is 
on a trajectory of substantial growth, with forecasts predicting 
the market size to reach J 7,800 Crore by the year 2032. This 
expansion reflects a CAGR of 8.17% from 2024 to 2032.
The industry is integral to the modern Indian kitchen – catering 
to the needs of both residential and commercial settings – 
and encompasses a wide array of products, including food 
Lighting 
The lighting industry in India is undergoing major advancements 
in technology and increasing awareness of energy efficiency. 
There has been a rapid adoption of LED technology, which 
offers superior energy efficiency, longer lifespan, and better 
light quality compared to traditional lighting solutions. LEDs have 
become the dominant product segment due to their widespread 
application in residential, commercial, and industrial settings.
The Indian lighting industry, valued at J 16,900 Crore in 2023, 
is projected to experience moderated growth, reflecting the 
impact of value erosion in the LED lighting segment. This takes 
into account the market saturation leading to more conservative 
growth estimates. The major players in the market are focusing 
on innovation, product diversification, and smart lighting 
solutions to meet the needs of consumers and capitalise on the 
growing demand for sustainable lighting options.
The shift towards smart and connected lighting systems, 
integrated with IoT, is another trend shaping the future of the 
industry. These systems offer enhanced functionality, remote 
control, and customisation, further driving market expansion.
K 16,900 Crore
Lighting market size  
in India, as of 2023
processors, mixers, toasters, and sandwich makers. The 
demand for these appliances is spurred by the growing 
awareness among consumers about the importance of quality, 
durability, and the utility of incorporating advanced technology 
into daily cooking practices. The market is further buoyed by 
the increasing popularity of premium and connected kitchen 
gadgets, such as smart frying pans, precision cookers, and 
digital scales.
The trend towards easy-to-use devices resonates strongly with 
the country’s increasingly busy lifestyle, driving demand for 
appliances that offer convenience and time-saving benefits. 
The proliferation of online distribution channels has made 
these appliances more accessible, encouraging consumers to 
embrace modern kitchen technologies. 
K 3,900 Crore
Small domestic appliances  
market size in India, as of 2023
3.	 Key growth drivers
Consumer trends 
Today's consumers are solution-oriented and lifestyle-focused, 
seeking more than just functionality in the products they 
purchase. They desire goods that meet their immediate needs 
while aligning with their aspirations, uniqueness, aesthetic 
appeal, and enhancement of their overall well-being. This shift 
towards aspirational and demanding consumer behaviour is 
reshaping product development and marketing strategies, 
compelling companies to innovate and tailor their offerings to 
meet these evolving preferences.
Home sector
The home sector is experiencing an increase in consumer 
spending, driven by a growing emphasis on home 
enhancements, the adoption of smart home technologies, and 
connected devices. Furthermore, the incorporation of Internet 
of Things (IoT) into residential environments, coupled with the 
rising trend towards compact, fully connected homes, is also 
driving expansion in this domain. Such technological integration 
changes how homes are designed, equipped, and experienced, 
aligning with modern lifestyles that value connectivity and smart 
living solutions.
India Smart Home Market is expected to expand 
at a growth rate of 10.36% during the forecast 
period 2023-2029. 
Brand strength
The strength of a brand lies in its ability to convey trustworthiness, 
dependability, and a history of excellence. These attributes are 
fundamental in guiding consumer choices, with individuals 
gravitating towards brands that have established a reputation 
for reliability and superior quality over time.
Sustainability 
With an increasing focus on Environmental, Social, and 
Governance ("ESG") criteria, companies are integrating 
sustainable practices into their operations and product lines. 
Consumers are more conscious of their ecological footprint, 
seeking out products that are environment-friendly and socially 
responsible, pushing companies to prioritise sustainability in 
their business models.
Government initiatives 
Government initiatives such as the Nal Jal Yojana, PM Kusum 
Scheme, and rural electrification projects play a crucial role 
in stimulating market growth. By focusing on the foundational 
aspects of infrastructure, these programmes are enhancing 
the quality of life in rural areas and opening up new avenues 
for market expansion and innovation. 
As of 2023, the PM Kusum Scheme has been 
instrumental in setting up 140 MW of solar power 
plants and installing 2.73 Lakh standalone solar 
pumps, demonstrating a step towards achieving solar 
power capacity addition of 34.8 GW by March 31, 2026. 
The scheme, with a total central financial support of 
J 34,422 Crore, targets the decentralisation of solar 
power and the solarisation of agricultural pumps, both 
standalone and grid-connected. 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
138
139
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Innovation
The capacity to innovate and pioneer novel solutions provides 
companies with a distinct competitive advantage. By developing 
unique products that bring new value to the market and effectively 
address consumer challenges, businesses set themselves 
apart. This focus on innovation includes anticipating future 
demands, thereby securing a leadership position in the ever-
evolving marketplace.
Omni channel presence 
As consumer shopping behaviours evolve, the prominence of 
e-commerce, direct-to-consumer (D2C) models, and alternative 
retail channels is increasingly evident. To effectively reach and 
engage with a broader audience, companies must establish a 
strong presence across a diverse array of platforms. This entails a 
blend of traditional and digital retail approaches, complemented 
by a deliberate shift towards direct-to-consumer channels. 
Embracing D2C maximises market reach while fostering a direct 
connection with consumers, allowing for more personalised 
marketing and sales experience.
India’s e-retail market is anticipated to reach growth 
levels of 23-25%, reaching over J 16,000 Crore by 2028. 
Consumer centricity 
In the digital era, a deep consumer engagement is crucial for 
understanding and meeting consumer expectations. Leveraging 
digital channels to gather insights into consumer preferences 
and behaviours enables companies to tailor their marketing 
efforts and product offerings, ensuring relevance and resonance 
in a competitive marketplace.
4.	 Company overview
With a rich history of 85+ years, Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited ("Crompton") is a leading name in India’s 
consumer electricals sector. The organisation operates across 
core business segments: The organisation operates in ECD 
and Lighting segment, offering products under the “Crompton” 
brand in India and abroad.
In June 2023, Crompton embarked on the Crompton 2.0 
journey, targeting enhanced performance across segments. Our 
initiatives in the ECD segment have demonstrated remarkable 
results, enabling our company to consistently outperform in 
a competitive market. Strategic investments in advertising, 
innovation, and talent development have been key to Crompton’s 
recent revenue growth. 
We are guided by our purpose of “Enriching life for generations 
with smart and responsible solutions.” Moreover, we encourage 
individuals to imbibe and inculcate the values of being Caring, 
Responsible, Entrepreneurial, Accountable, Team player, and 
Ethical. Together, our purpose and values enable us to deliver 
on our growth strategy.
Crompton 2.0
With our Crompton 2.0 growth strategy, our goal is to deliver 
sustained growth in the long-term. This enables us to adapt 
and evolve our work and leadership culture to respond to 
contemporary industry trends, while strengthening our market 
position. The tenets of Crompton 2.0 include:
•	Enabled and empowered organisation
•	Consumer need-led innovation
•	Premiumisation of portfolio
•	Supply chain excellence
•	Go-to-Market excellence
•	Digital enablement
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited ("Butterfly") is one of 
India's premier domestic kitchen appliance manufacturers known 
for innovation and quality. Butterfly leads the market, particularly 
in Southern India, with its extensive range of products including 
LPG stoves, pressure cookers, mixer grinders, and wet grinders. 
Crompton’s 75% stake acquisition in Butterfly represents 
a strategic move to strengthen our position in the kitchen 
appliance sector. Leveraging Butterfly's market leadership 
in innovation and quality in southern India, Crompton gains 
access to advanced manufacturing, R&D capabilities, and a 
wide distribution network. 
1,066
Service centres, 
including Butterfly
3,130
Unique Distributors,  
including Butterfly
2,69,794 
Retailers, including Butterfly
Standalone Financial Performance
Ratios
2023-24
2022-23
Debtors Turnover Ratio
11.23
10.98
Inventory Turnover Ratio (on Cost of goods sold)
6.70
7.10
Interest Coverage Ratio
10.77
7.41
Current Ratio
1.52
1.59
Debt Equity Ratio
0.19
0.32
Operating Profit Margin
10.78%
11.56%
Net Profit Margin
7.23%
8.08%
Return on Net Worth (RoNW)* *
15.43%
17.96%
*RONW is lower due to increase in shareholders fund over the years on account of profits accumulations
Consolidated Financial Performance
Key highlights of financial performance
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
(K in Crore)
% to Revenue from 
Operations
(K in Crore)
% to Revenue from 
Operations
Revenue from Operations
7,312.81
100.00%
6,869.61
100.00%
Material Costs
5,000.31
68.38%
4,680.35
68.13%
Employee Benefit Expenses
589.87
8.07%
540.80
7.87%
Finance Cost
79.19
1.08%
109.18
1.59%
Depreciation & Amortisation Expenses
128.82
1.76%
115.92
1.69%
Advertisement & Sales Promotion
297.19
4.06%
206.48
3.01%
Other Expenses
711.75
9.93%
671.51
9.78%
Total Expenses
6,807.13
93.08%
6,324.24
92.07%
Other Income
67.39
0.92%
66.78
0.97
Exceptional items
-
0.00%
-
0.00%
Profit Before Tax
573.07
7.84%
612.15
8.90%
Tax Expense
131.29
1.80%
135.75
1.98%
Profit After Tax
441.78
6.04%
476.40
6.92%
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
140
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
141
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
5.	 Manufacturing
We place a strong emphasis on adopting efficient manufacturing 
practices that integrate advanced technology and lower 
operational costs. Embracing lean manufacturing principles, 
our Company has streamlined production processes across 
the product lifecycle -- aimed at heightened efficiency in all 
manufacturing operations. The pursuit of this efficiency is evident 
in the Company’s strategic capital investments and operational 
efforts, designed to maximise resource utilisation.
With the acquisition of Butterfly, we have broadened 
manufacturing capabilities, adding to our production sites. A key 
initiative in enhancing the cost-effectiveness of our operations is 
Project Unnati. Furthermore, our Company has launched Project 
UDAAN, aiming to elevate manufacturing excellence across 
Crompton’s -- as well as its vendors’ and suppliers’ facilities. 
 Read more on page 36 
5
Manufacturing locations  
(Including Butterfly)
6.	 Innovation centre
We recognise the importance of innovation for sustained growth 
and adaptability in a milieu of changing consumer preferences. 
In pursuit of this, Crompton has a state-of-the-art Innovation & 
Experience Centre in Vikhroli, Mumbai. This facility, complete 
with a modern design studio, is equipped with the latest 
technology (ies) and softwares.
Our Company employs a structured approach to developing and 
introducing new products, setting them apart from competitors 
with superior consumer functionalities, experiences, and 
performance metrics. We are committed to continuous system 
development, enhancing operational efficiencies and fostering 
innovation in product design and functionality.
Dedicated New Product Development (NPD) teams for each 
business unit, operate on a forward-looking 12 to 18 months 
roadmap, ensuring that Crompton’s offerings remain innovative. 
Our Company utilises a stage-gate process to enhance 
collaboration among stakeholders and increase the likelihood 
of success for NPD initiatives. 
Furthermore, Crompton engages in open innovation initiatives 
both internally and externally. Collaborations with academic 
institutions, startups, and the central R&D department are 
instrumental in developing scalable solutions that resonate with 
upcoming consumer trends and demands. 
 Read more on page 40 
K 76.14 Crore*
R&D investment
191*
Number of new product launches
K 750+ Crore*
Revenue from new product launches
* Consolidated numbers
7.	
Marketing
Our Company has increased investment in digital marketing 
initiatives, enhancing visibility and engagement across various 
digital platforms to spotlight latest product offerings. We have 
witnessed a phenomenal 120% surge in website sessions. This 
highlights Crompton’s successful digital strategy and the ability 
to captivate and retain consumer interest online.
In addition to these accomplishments, we have taken decisive 
steps to recalibrate our investment behind the brand to align 
more closely with the industry-standard range of 3-5% of 
sales. This adjustment ensures that we maintain a strong 
market presence while enhancing our ability to connect with 
our audience. This has been further evidenced by our leading 
position in social media engagement and premier ranking in 
Google search results.
The fusion of our reinforced digital marketing efforts, corrected 
brand investment strategy, and our continued industry leadership 
in consumer engagement highlights Crompton’s strategic 
approach to marketing and customer interaction, solidifying our 
market leadership and brand resonance with consumers. 
 Read more on page 66 
8.	 Sustainability
Crompton is committed to implementing sustainable and green 
practices throughout the operations. Our Company rigorously 
complies with all regulatory requirements including EPR 
mandates, BIS and BEE norms, ensuring high standards of 
product sustainability, safety, and energy efficiency. 
We focus on automation to streamline processes, ensuring 
efficiency and minimal environmental impact. We also opt for 
eco-conscious packaging solutions, utilising biodegradable 
materials instead of traditional thermocol and asbestos. Our 
water conservation efforts have led to zero wastewater discharge 
at all manufacturing sites, exemplifying our holistic approach to 
preserving natural resources. 
 Read more on page 94 
9.	 Supply Chain
Crompton boasts a robust distribution infrastructure, featuring 22 
(Twenty Two) warehouses and 6 (Six) central hubs strategically 
located across India to strengthen the supply chain. Our 
Company is well placed to leverage opportunities in South 
India to enhance distribution efficiency and lay the groundwork 
for growth.
Crompton employs a rigorous process for integrating new 
suppliers, including a detailed assessment protocol. This 
evaluation process scrutinises potential partners for their 
operational capabilities, product quality, punctuality, and 
adherence to legal and environmental standards. Additionally, 
it considers their commitment to engaging with Crompton’s 
initiatives aimed at promoting sustainability within the 
supply chain.
 Read more on page 54 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
142
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
143
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
10.	 Quality
Crompton maintains superior quality standards in every aspect 
of the business operations. To achieve this, our Company has 
instituted a variety of programmes aimed at boosting operational 
efficiency and a culture of excellence. Among these are the 
adoption of the 5S system for workplace organisation, the 
establishment of Quality Circles for employee engagement, the 
implementation of Daily Work Management for process efficiency, 
the utilisation of the Glass Wall strategy for transparency 
in performance metrics, and the deployment of Structured 
Problem-Solving to facilitate collaborative issue resolution.
These initiatives actively involve employees in improvement 
processes, enhance the efficiency of daily tasks, provide clear 
visibility into operational performance, and encourage teamwork 
in tackling intricate problems. 
 Read more on page 39 
11.	 People
At Crompton, we are dedicated to building a workforce of high-
performing, empowered individuals who deeply resonate with 
our organisational values and demonstrate exemplary behaviour. 
Our focus on professional development and recognition helps 
foster an inclusive environment where employees can thrive 
and advance their careers. As part of our 'Crompton 2.0' vision, 
we restructured our leadership to enhance dynamism and 
empowerment within the organisation.
This year's key initiatives included launching a specialised 
learning platform, implementing AI-driven tools to address 
employee concerns effectively, and enhancing engagement 
through regular surveys. We also established an ESG Committee 
and a Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Council, with a comprehensive 
policy to support these areas.
Looking ahead to Financial Year 2024-25, we will focus on 
improving talent acquisition and retention, developing our 
'Crompton Young Leader Acceleration' programme for trainees, 
and revamping our Performance Management System (PMS) 
to better align with our values. These steps are part of our 
commitment to making Crompton a place where employees are 
valued and essential to our success.
12.	 Opportunities
The consumer durable industry has benefitted from the rapid 
evolution of technology, changing consumer demographics and 
preferences. These are the areas of opportunity that are shaping 
the future of this sector:
Technological advancements 
The pace of technological innovation offers fertile ground for the 
industry to launch cutting-edge products. From smart appliances 
that offer convenience to connected devices that enhance home 
automation, there is a growing market of tech-savvy consumers 
eager for the latest advancements. This trend sets the stage for 
future growth by continually pushing the boundaries of what 
is possible.
Growing middle-class population
The expansion of the middle class, particularly in emerging 
economies, presents a golden opportunity for the consumer 
durable sector. As disposable incomes rise, a larger segment of 
the population now finds itself in a position to invest in durable 
goods, broadening the customer base and driving demand 
across a range of product categories.
Rising consumer preference for health  
and hygiene 
Today’s consumers are inclined towards offerings that are 
distinguished by their unique designs, advanced features, 
and superior user experiences. Additionally, there is a growing 
preference for products that emphasise health and hygiene, 
reflecting a broader awareness and demand for wellness-
oriented solutions. Catering to these trends enables companies 
to tap into a niche yet profitable market segment, leveraging the 
dual appeal of luxury and wellness to meet the sophisticated 
needs of modern consumers.
13.	 Risk management
We are dedicated to protecting the interests of our stakeholders 
through a robust risk management framework designed to 
identify, assess, and mitigate business risks effectively. At 
the heart of Crompton’s approach to risk management and 
governance lies a solid internal financial control infrastructure. 
This risk management framework prioritises prompt and efficient 
risk identification and mitigation - employing both top-down 
and bottom-up approaches and remains adaptable to meet the 
needs of the business environment.
The overarching objective of the Enterprise Risk Management 
(ERM) process is 2 (Two) fold: to minimise potential negative 
outcomes and to capitalise on market opportunities. This dual 
focus aims to drive continuous growth and maintain Crompton's 
competitive edge within the industry, ensuring long-term success 
and resilience.
 Read more on page 121 
14.	 Cautionary statement
This document contains statements about expected future 
events, financial and operating results of your Company, which 
are forward-looking. By their nature, forward-looking statements 
require our Company to make assumptions and are subject to 
inherent risks and uncertainties.
There is significant risk that the assumptions, predictions and 
other forward-looking statements will not prove to be accurate. 
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-
looking statements as several factors could cause assumptions, 
actual future results and events to differ materially from those 
expressed in the forward-looking statements. Accordingly, this 
document is subject to the disclaimer and qualified in its entirety 
by the assumptions, qualifications and risk factors referred to 
in the management’s discussion and analysis of Crompton's 
Integrated Annual Report for the Financial Year 2023-24.
Sustainability and Green Initiatives
With an increasing global focus on sustainability, there is a 
marked shift towards products that are environmentally friendly 
and energy efficient. This trend presents an opportunity for 
companies to differentiate themselves by offering products that 
align with broader environmental goals and corporate social 
responsibility initiatives.
E-commerce growth
The rise of online shopping has revolutionised the retail 
landscape, offering a growth opportunity for the consumer 
durable industry. By leveraging e-commerce platforms, 
companies can extend their reach, provide greater convenience 
to customers, and tap into new markets with ease.
Smart-home trends
The advent of smart homes has created a new frontier for 
consumer durables, particularly with the integration of Internet 
of Things (IoT). Products that can connect with other smart 
devices and contribute to a holistic smart home ecosystem are 
in high demand, offering a lucrative niche for companies ready 
to innovate in this space.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
 Read more on page 72
144
145
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
BOARD’S REPORT
Dear Members,
The Board of Directors are pleased to present the Company’s Integrated Annual Report on the business and operations of your 
Company (“the Company” or “Crompton”), along with the audited Financial Statements (Standalone & Consolidated) for the 
Financial Year ended March 31, 2024.
1.	 STATE OF THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY
	
The performance of the businesses are detailed out in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report (“MDA”) which 
forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
2.	 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
	
The highlights of the Financial Statements (Standalone & Consolidated) are as under:
(I in Crore)
Particulars 
Consolidated
Standalone
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23
Revenue from Operations
7,312.81
6,869.61
6,388.38
5,809.31
Other Income
67.39
66.78
60.34
74.41
Total Income
7,380.20
6,936.39
6,448.72
5,883.72
Profit before Tax
573.07
612.15
611.04
594.31
Tax Expenses
131.29
135.75
144.59
118.75
Profit for the year
441.78
476.40
466.45
475.56
Attributable to owners of the Company
439.92
463.21
466.45
475.56
Non-controlling Interest 
1.86
13.19
--
--
Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)
(0.30)
(2.34)
0.55
(1.31)
Total Comprehensive Income
441.48
474.06
467.00
474.25
Owners of the Company
439.83
461.04
467.00
474.25
Non-controlling Interest 
1.65
13.02
--
--
Opening Balance in retained earnings
2181.73
1964.50
2361.15
1,967.19
Amount available for appropriations
2624.57
2,340.14
2380.52
2,519.57
Appropriations
Final Dividend Paid for 2022-23
(191.90)
--
(191.90) 
--
Interim Dividend Paid for 2021-22
--
(158.41)
--
(158.41)
Closing balance in retained earnings
2432.67
2,181.73
2638.62
2,361.15
3.	 OVERVIEW/ OPERATIONS OF GROUP’S 
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
•	 Consolidated income, comprising Revenue from 
Operations and Other Income, for the year was 
I 7,380.20 Crore, 6.40% higher compared to I 6,936.39 
Crore in Financial Year 2022-23.
•	 Total Consolidated Revenue from Operations for the year 
increased to I 7,312.81 Crore vis-à-vis I 6,869.61 Crore 
in Financial Year 2022-23.
•	 Consolidated Profit before Tax for the year was I 573.07 
Crore vis-à-vis I 612.15 Crore in Financial Year 2022-23.
•	 Consolidated Profit after Tax for the year was I 441.78 
Crore compared to I 476.40 Crore in Financial Year 
2022-23.
•	 During the year under review, your Company’s export 
business experienced growth. This growth underscores 
your Company’s commitment to reach new customers 
and deliver high-quality products to the global mark.
•	 No material changes or commitments have occurred 
between the end of the Financial Year and the date of 
this Report, which affect the Financial Statements.
Note: All the above figures are on standalone basis
4512
4750
5373
5809
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
6388
Sales 
(` in Crore)
1,468
1,919
2,456
2,839
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
3,205
Members Funds 
(` in Crore)
495
605
593
476
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
466
Earnings 
(` in Crore)
7.89
9.64
5.50
9.45
2.50
7.49
3.00
7.29
3.00
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
EPS# (Basic) DPS* 
(in `)
  #Earning Per Share (Basic) 
  *Dividend Per Share
0
146
147
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
4.	 DIVIDEND
	
Your Directors are pleased to recommend a dividend of 
I 3 (Rupees Three Only) (150%) per equity share of 
face value of I 2 (Rupees Two Only) each on the share 
capital amounting to I 192.93 Crore, working out to be 
payout ratio of 41.14%, for the Financial Year ended March 
31, 2024.
	
The dividend, subject to the approval of the Members at 
the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) to be held on Friday, 
July 26, 2024, will be paid within a period of 30 (Thirty) 
days from the date of AGM to the Members whose names 
appear in the Register of Members, as on the Record Date, 
i.e. Wednesday, July 10, 2024.
	
In view of the changes made under the Income-Tax 
Act, 1961, by the Finance Act, 2020, dividends paid or 
distributed by the Company shall be taxable in the hands 
of the Members. Your Company shall, accordingly, make 
the payment of the Final Dividend after deduction of tax 
at source.
	
In terms of the provisions of Regulation 43A of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended (“the SEBI Listing 
Regulations”), the Company has formulated a 
Dividend Distribution Policy. The policy is enclosed as 
Annexure 1 to this Report. It is also available on the 
Company’s website and can be accessed at https://
reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/aaeGlqQcuR_
Dividend-Distribution-Policy-1.pdf
5.	 TRANSFER TO RESERVES
	
Your Directors do not propose to transfer of any amount 
to the General Reserve.
6.	 DEBENTURE REDEMPTION RESERVE
	
Pursuant to Rule 18 of Companies (Share Capital and 
Debentures) Rules, 2014, the Company is not required to 
maintain Debenture Redemption Reserve (“DRR”).
	
Further, as required under SEBI Circular SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ 
CRADT/ CIR/ P/ 2020/ 207 dated October 22, 2020, your 
Company has created Recovery Expense Fund in respect 
of outstanding debentures.
7.	 MDA
	
In terms of the provisions of Regulation 34 read with 
Schedule V(B) of the SEBI Listing Regulations report on 
MDA forms an integral part of this Integrated Annual Report 
and gives an update, inter alia, on the following matters:
•	 Economic Overview
•	 Industry Overview
•	 Key Growth Drivers
•	 Company Overview
•	 Manufacturing
•	 Research and Development
•	 Marketing
•	 Sustainability 
•	 Supply Chain
•	 Quality 
•	 People
•	 Opportunities
•	 Risk Management
8.	 SHARE CAPITAL
8.1	 Paid-up capital:
	
During the year under review, your Company has made 
following allotments pursuant to the exercise of options 
by eligible employees under various ESOP schemes:
Sl. 
No. Name of the ESOP Scheme
No. of 
Shares
1
Crompton Performance Share Plan - 1 - 2016  
(PSP 1 2016)
44,10,033
2
Crompton Performance Share Plan - 2 - 2016  
(PSP 2 2016)
23,27,297
3
Crompton Employee Stock Option  
Scheme - 2016 (ESOP 2016)
2,59,930
4
Crompton Employee Stock Option  
(ESOP 2019)
-
Total
69,97,260
	
Accordingly, the total paid-up share capital of the 
Company as on March 31, 2024, stood at I 128.62 Crore 
divided into 64,31,06,979 equity shares of I 2.00 (Rupees 
Two Only) each.
	
Further, during the year under review your Company 
has granted 25,55,000 equity shares under ESOP 
2019 scheme.
8.2	 Authorised Capital
	
During the year under review, there was no change in the 
authorised capital of the Company.
	
Your Company has neither issued any shares with 
differential rights as to dividends, voting or otherwise 
nor issued any sweat equity shares during the year 
under review.
9.	 FINANCIAL LIQUIDITY
	
Consolidated cash and cash equivalent as on 
March 31, 2024, stood at I 172.06 Crore (Rupees One 
Hundred Seventy Two Crore and Six Lakh Only) vis-à-
vis I 76.84 Crore (Rupees Seventy Six Crore and Eighty 
Four Lakh Only) in the previous year. The Company’s 
working capital management is robust and involves a 
well organised process, which facilitates continuous 
monitoring and control over receivables, inventories and 
other parameters.
10.	CREDIT RATING
	
The Company has received credit ratings from CRISIL 
Ratings Limited, and India Ratings and Research Private 
Limited (collectively referred to as “Agencies”). There 
has been no revision in credit ratings during the year. 
The ratings given by these agencies as on the date of the 
report are as follows:
Instrument 
Rating Agency
Rating 
Outlook
Non-convertible 
Debentures (“NCDs”)
CRISIL 
AA+
Stable
Long-Term 
India Ratings & 
Research
AA+
Stable
Short-Term 
India Ratings & 
Research
A1+
Stable
The ratings reflects your Company’s diversified business 
risk profile, established brand, leading position in 
multiple consumer durable segments and strong growth 
prospects, driven by focus on brand building and 
consumer sentiments.
11.	PUBLIC DEPOSITS
During the year under review, the Company has neither 
accepted nor renewed deposits from the public falling 
within the ambit of Section 73 and 74 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (the “Act”), read together with the Companies 
(Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014. Hence, the 
requirement for furnishing of details relating to deposits 
covered under Chapter V of the Act or the details of 
deposits which are not in compliance with Chapter V of 
the Act is not applicable.
The requisite return for the Financial Year 2022-23 with 
respect to amount(s) not considered as deposits has 
been filed. The Company does not have any unclaimed 
deposits as on the date of this report.
12.	PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES 
OR INVESTMENTS
The details of investments made and guarantee provided 
by the Company under Section 186 of the Act, Regulation 
34(3) and Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
forms part of this Integrated Annual Report in the Notes 
to the standalone financial statements for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2024.
Further, your Company has not given any loan or provided 
any security which are covered under the provisions of 
Section 186 of the Act during the year under review.
13.	INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS
13.1	Internal Controls and its adequacy
Your Company prioritises reinforcing financial and 
operational controls to enhance transparency, 
accountability and efficiency in its processes. Your 
Company adheres to an internal control framework 
that includes key process coverage that impacts the 
reliability of financial reporting such as periodic control 
testing to assure design and operational effectiveness, 
and implementation of remedial measures and regular 
monitoring by Senior Management and the Audit 
Committee of the Board. Internal audits are conducted 
periodically, and any design deficiencies or operational 
inefficiencies are reported and improvement measures are 
recommended. The adequacy of controls are reviewed by 
the Audit Committee of the Board and specific processes 
are assessed for improvement in systems and outcomes 
periodically. The adequacy of the internal control systems 
and procedures forms part of MD & CEO Certificate in 
the Certification Section of this Integrated Annual Report.
Your Company has initiated awareness sessions 
on the Company’s Code of Conduct, Prevention of 
Sexual Harassment (“POSH”) and whistleblowing 
rights by conducting Company-wide trainings for all its 
employees. Additionally, e-learning modules have also 
been developed to keep employees informed of these 
policies. This not only ensures compliance and a well-
regulated environment but also helps us achieve our 
organisational objectives.
	
Process controls with evolving SAP solutions
Your Company is actively enhancing IT in key processes, 
embedding major controls in SAP for accuracy. 
Third-party validation is initiated to ensure system 
configuration effectiveness, while periodic reviews 
are conducted to control authorisation to SAP through 
function-based user access supported by the Governance 
Risk and Controls module. Evolving SAP solutions are 
utilised for process controls, with continued monitoring 
facililated by automations and exception management.
	
Standardising processes for better decision-making
To ensure data and IT system security, your Company 
has implemented a Single Sign-On (“SSO”) feature 
for authorised access to the systems and applications. 
148
149
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Your Company is standardising processes across key 
functions such as Innovation, Design, Procurement 
and Quality for superior decision-making. Additionally, 
shared services for Accounts Payable process have been 
implemented to drive process improvement and facilitate 
better decision-making, with potential for expansion to 
other operational areas.
13.2 Internal Controls over Financial Reporting
The Company’s internal financial controls commensurates 
with the scale and complexity of its operations. The 
controls were tested during the year and no reportable 
material weaknesses either in their design or operations 
were observed. The Company has put in place robust 
policies and procedures, which inter alia, ensure integrity 
in conducting its business, safeguarding of its assets, 
timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
accuracy and completeness in maintaining accounting 
records and prevention & detection of frauds & errors.
14.	VIGIL MECHANISM/ WHISTLE 
BLOWER POLICY (“WB Policy”)
Over the years, your Company has built a reputation 
for conducting business with integrity, maintaining a 
zero-tolerance policy towards unethical behaviour, thereby 
fostering a positive work environment and enhancing 
credibility among stakeholders.
Your Company has formulated a WB Policy which provides 
adequate safeguards against victimisation of Director(s)/ 
Employee(s) and also provides for direct access to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee in exceptional cases. It 
also assures them of the process that will be observed to 
address the reported violation. The Policy also lays down 
the procedures to be followed for tracking complaints, 
giving feedback, conducting investigations and taking 
disciplinary actions. It also provides assurances and 
guidelines on confidentiality of the reporting process 
and protection from reprisal to complainants. The Audit 
Committee oversees the functioning of this policy and 
no personnel have been denied access to the Audit 
Committee of the Board.
Protected disclosures can be made by a whistle‑blower 
through several channels to report actual or suspected 
frauds and violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct. 
The Policy also provides a mechanism to encourage and 
protect genuine whistleblowing amongst the Vendors.
Any incident that is reported is investigated and suitable 
action is taken in line with the WB Policy. The WB Policy of 
your Company is available on the website of the Company 
and can be accessed at https://reports.crompton.co.in/
shopify/public/files/hxamy77St7_Vigil-Mechanism-and-
WB-Policy_19-May_updated.pdf The WB policy of the 
Company was last amended on May 19, 2023.
Your Company has also initiated awareness sessions on 
WB Policy for all regular employees across regions and 
plants along with an e-training module for both regular 
and new employees. Your Company has also provided 
an e-mail ID and a toll free number to its employees and 
vendors for registering any WB complaint.
17 (Seventeen) Whistle-Blower complaints were received 
during the Financial Year 2023-24 and suitable action has 
been taken in accordance with the WB policy.
15.	SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES, ASSOCIATES 
& JOINT VENTURE COMPANIES
15.1 Subsidiaries
Your Company has 4 (Four) Subsidiaries, the details of 
which are as follows:
	
1.	
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited  
(CIN: U74999MH2018PTC318891)
	
A wholly-owned subsidiary incorporated on 
December 31, 2018, to execute, design, manufacture, 
test, supply, O&M of LED Street Lights & Poles 
and other related works for the implementation of 
Greenfield Street Lighting Project for 19 (Nineteen)
Urban Local Bodies (“ULBs”) in Odisha. This 
contract received from Government of Odisha, 
Housing & Urban Development Department is on 
Public-Private Partnership (“PPP”) basis.
	
Total Revenue booked for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2024, was I 1.98 Crore (including 
I 0.96 Crore as Other Income). Profit after Tax was 
I 0.65 Crore as compared to a profit of I 0.50 Crore 
in the previous year.
	
2.	
Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited 
(CIN: U74999MH2019PTC318955)
	
A wholly-owned subsidiary incorporated on January 
02, 2019, to execute, design, manufacture, test, 
supply, O&M of LED Street Lights & Poles and other 
related works for the implementation of Greenfield 
Street Lighting Project for 36 (Thirty Six) (“ULBs”) in 
Odisha. This contract received from the Government 
of Odisha, Housing & Urban Development 
Department is on PPP basis.
	
Total Revenue for the Financial Year ended March 
31, 2024, was I 2.24 Crore (including I 1.28 Crore as 
Other income) and Profit after Tax was I 1.00 Crore 
as compared to I 0.55 Crore in the previous year.
	
3.	
Crompton CSR Foundation  
(CIN: U85300MH2019NPL324784) 
(CSR Unique Identification No: CSR00001086)
	
A wholly-owned subsidiary incorporated under 
Section 8 of the Act (being a Company limited 
by guarantee not having share capital) on 
May 01, 2019, primarily with an objective of 
undertaking/ channelising the CSR activities of the 
Company. Crompton CSR Foundation is registered 
under Section 80G and Section 12A of the Income 
Tax Act, 1961. Based on the control assessment 
carried out by the Company, the same is not 
consolidated as per Indian Accounting Standards 
(the “Ind AS”) 110.
	
4.	
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited 
(CIN:  L28931TN1986PLC012728)
	
It was incorporated on February 24, 1986, to carry on 
the business as Importers, Exporters, Manufacturers 
and Dealers of household and industrial vessels and 
utensils from all type of metals, plastics, ebonite, 
in particular all household appliances, lighting 
Products and all types of consumer electrical goods.
	
Total Revenue for the Financial Year ended March 
31, 2024, ended was I 936.14 Crore (including 
I 4.86 Crore as Other Income) and Profit after Tax was 
I 7.39 Crore as compared to a profit of I 51.67 Crore 
in the previous year.
	
Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation 34(3) read 
with Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
details of Loans/ Advances made to and investments 
made in the subsidiary have been furnished in Notes 
forming part of the Accounts.
15.2	 Joint Ventures (“JVs”)/ Associate Companies
The Company does not have any JVs or Associate 
Companies during the year or at any time after the closure 
of the year and till the date of this Integrated Annual Report.
16.	CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been 
prepared in compliance with the Ind AS notified under 
Section 133 of the Act read with Rule 3 of the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended 
and other relevant provisions of the Act. The said 
Consolidated Financial Statements forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3) of the Act 
read with Rule 5 and 8 of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014, a statement containing salient features 
of financial statements of subsidiaries in Form 
AOC-1 is attached herewith as Annexure 2. The separate 
audited financial statements in respect of each of the 
subsidiary companies are open for inspection and are 
also available on the website of Company and can be 
accessed at https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/financial-
reports#SubsidiariesFinancials
The Company shall provide free of cost a copy of the 
Financial Statements of its Subsidiary Companies to the 
Members upon their request. 
17.	BOARD OF DIRECTORS & KEY 
MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
Your Company actively strives to adopt global best 
practices to ensure the effective functioning of the Board. 
It emphasises the importance of having a truly diverse 
Board whose collective wisdom and strength can be 
leveraged to create greater stakeholder value, protect 
their interests, and uphold better corporate governance 
standards. Your Company’s Board comprises eminent 
professionals with proven competence and integrity. They 
bring in vast experience and expertise, strategic guidance 
and strong leadership qualities.
17.1	 Directorate
	
a.	
Appointments/ Re-appointments and Retirement 
by rotation
	
The appointment and remuneration of Directors are 
governed by the Policy devised by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee (“N&RC”) of 
your Company. The details of Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy is mentioned in the Report 
on Corporate Governance which forms part of 
this Section of this Integrated Annual Report. 
The N&RC policy is also available on the website 
of the Company and can be accessed at 
https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/
files/Fj46RqOSbO_Nomination%20and%20
Remuneration%20Policy.pdf
150
151
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
Further, there were following changes in the 
directorate during the year under review:
	
•	
Appointment of  Mr. Anil Chaudhry (DIN:03213517) 
and Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar (DIN:00591027) as 
Non- Executive Independent Directors
	
During the year under review, the Board of Directors 
of the Company at its meeting held on October 
17, 2023, basis the recommendation of the N&RC 
of the Board and based on the evaluation of the 
balance of skills, knowledge, experience and 
expertise considered and approved the appointment 
of Mr. Anil Chaudhry (DIN:03213517) and 
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar (DIN:00591027) as Additional 
Director (Non-Executive, Independent) for a period 
of 5 (Five consecutive years commencing from 
October 17, 2023, to October 16, 2028, who are not 
liable to retire by rotation.
	
The resolutions pertaining to the above appointments 
were duly approved by the Members of the Company, 
on December 19, 2023, by means of Postal Ballot, 
exclusively through remote e-Voting details of which 
have been provided in the Report on Corporate 
Governance which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
	
•	
Appointment of Mr. Promeet Ghosh as an 
Executive Director and as MD & CEO
	
Mr. Promeet Ghosh (DIN:03213517) was appointed 
as an Executive Director on the Board w.e.f. April 24, 
2023, and assumed charge as the MD & CEO of the 
Company w.e.f. May 01, 2023, uptil April 30, 2028. 
The said appointment was subsequently approved 
by the Members at the 9th AGM of the Company held 
on July 22, 2023. 
	
• 	
Re-appointment of Ms. Smita Anand (DIN:00059228) 
as a Non-Executive, Independent Director
	
The Board of Directors basis the recommendation 
of the N&RC of the Board and considering the 
positive outcome of performance evaluation 
and significant contributions made by Ms. Smita 
Anand (DIN:00059228) during her initial term as an 
Independent Director, re-appointed her for a second 
consecutive term of 5 (Five) years w.e.f. December 
10, 2023. The said re-appointment was subsequently 
approved by the Members at the 9th AGM of the 
Company held on July 22, 2023.
	
•	
Retirement by rotation and subsequent re-
appointment
	
In terms of Section 152 of the Act, Mr. Shantanu 
Khosla being liable to retire by rotation, was 
re-appointed by the Members at the AGM held on 
July 22, 2023.
	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 
152 of the Act and the Company’s Articles 
of 
Association, 
Mr. 
Shantanu 
Khosla 
(DIN:00059877) is liable to retire by rotation 
at the forthcoming AGM and being eligible 
offers himself for re-appointment. The Board 
recommends re-appointment of Mr. Shantanu 
Khosla for the consideration of the Members 
of the Company at the forthcoming AGM. 
The relevant details including profile of Mr. Shantanu 
Khosla is included separately in the Notice of AGM 
and Report on Corporate Governance, forming part 
of this Integrated Annual Report.
	
•	
Change in designation of Mr. Shantanu Khosla 
and Mr. D Sundaram
	
During the year under review, Mr. Shantanu Khosla, 
relinquished his position as the Company’s Managing 
Director w.e.f. April 30, 2023, and was subsequently 
elevated to the position of Executive Vice Chairman 
w.e.f. May 01, 2023, till April 30, 2024, and thereafter 
he assumed the position of Non-Executive Vice 
Chairman w.e.f. May 01, 2024, till December 31, 2025.
	
Mr. D Sundaram, Non-Executive Independent 
Director was appointed as the Chairman of the Board 
w.e.f. October 21, 2023.
	
b.	
Retirement & Cessation
	
Mr. Mathew Job, Executive Director and Chief 
Executive Officer, had resigned from the position of 
Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as the Chief 
Executive Officer w.e.f. close of business hours on 
April 30, 2023, to pursue other career interests. 
Mr. Mathew Job confirmed that there was no other 
material reason other than those provided herein 
above. The Board recognised and expressed 
their gratitude for the exceptional leadership and 
contributions made by Mr. Job during his tenure as 
the Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer of 
the Company.
	
Mr. H M Nerurkar was appointed as a Non-Executive, 
Independent Director and Chairman of the Board 
for the first term of 5 (Five) consecutive years, 
w.e.f. January 25, 2016, to January 24, 2021, and 
further, was re-appointed for the second term w.e.f. 
January 25, 2021, to October 20, 2023, considering 
his attainment of age of 75 (Seventy-Five) years. 
Pursuant to completion of his tenure, Mr. Nerurkar 
retired w.e.f. October 20, 2023. The Board placed 
on record its appreciation for the contribution made 
by Mr. Nerurkar during his tenure as Chairman 
and Non-Executive, Independent Director of 
the Company.
17.2	 Key Managerial Personnel (“KMPs”)
In accordance with the provisions of Section 2(51) 
and Section 203 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Appointment & Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014, including any statutory modification(s) or 
re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force the 
following are the KMPs of the Company:
1.	
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, Executive Director w.e.f. 
April 24, 2023, and MD & CEO w.e.f. May 01, 2023; 
2.	
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam, Chief Financial 
Officer; and
3.	
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal, Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer.
During the year under review, Mr. Shantanu Khosla, has 
relinquished his position as the Company’s Managing 
Director w.e.f. April 30, 2023, Mr. Mathew Job has resigned 
from the position of Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, 
and also resigned as the Company’s CEO w.e.f. April 30, 
2023, and Mr. Promeet Ghosh was appointed as the 
Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as the MD & 
CEO w.e.f. May 01, 2023.
17.3 Independent Directors
All the Independent Directors of your Company have 
submitted requisite declarations confirming that they 
continue to meet the criteria of independence as 
prescribed under Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 
16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The Board is of the 
opinion that the Independent Directors of the Company 
including those appointed during the year possess 
requisite qualifications, expertise and experience in the 
varied fields and holds highest standards of integrity. 
The Independent Directors have also confirmed that 
they have complied with Schedule IV of the Act and the 
Company’s Code of Conduct. The terms and conditions 
of appointment of the Independent Directors are placed 
on the website of the Company and can be accessed 
at: https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/
yFnc3ag3DW_Letter-of-Appointment-of-Independent-
Director-1.pdf
All the Independent Directors of the Company have 
registered themselves with Indian Institute of Corporate 
Affairs, Manesar (“IICA”) for the inclusion of their names 
in the data bank maintained by IICA. In terms of Section 
150 of the Act read with the Companies (Appointment 
& Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended, 
since all the Independent Directors have served on the 
Board of listed companies for a period of not less than 
3 (Three) years at the time of inclusion of their names in 
the database, they are exempted from undertaking the 
online proficiency self-assessment test conducted by 
the Institute.
Mr. D Sundaram, Mr. P M Murty, Mr. P R Ramesh, 
Mr. Anil Chaudhry, Mr. Sajiv Kakkar, Ms. Smita Anand and 
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani serve as the Independent Directors 
on the Board of the Company. Further, the details of the 
membership of committees and the qualifications and 
expertise of all the Directors are covered in the Report on 
Corporate Governance which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
17.4	 Non-Independent Directors
As on March 31, 2024, Mr. Promeet Ghosh and 
Mr. Shantanu  Khosla were the Non-Independent 
Directors.
The Board of Directors of the Company on April 
24, 2023, based on the recommendation of N&RC, 
appointed Mr. Promeet Ghosh as an Executive Director 
w.e.f. April 24, 2023. He was appointed as the MD & 
CEO w.e.f. May 01, 2023, till April 30, 2028. The same 
was approved by the Members of the Company at the 
AGM held on July 22, 2023. Additionally, Mr. Shantanu 
Khosla was elevated as the Executive Vice Chairman 
of the Board for 1 (One) year w.e.f. May 01, 2023, till 
April 30, 2024. He then assumed the position 
Non-Executive Vice Chairman, w.e.f. May 01, 2024, till 
December 31, 2025.
17.5	 Board Effectiveness
	
(a)	 Familiarisation Programme for Independent 
Directors
	
34 Programmes 403 hours
	
Over the years, the Company has developed 
a robust familiarisation process for the newly 
appointed Directors with respect to their roles and 
responsibilities, way ahead of the prescription of the 
regulatory provisions. The process has been aligned 
with the requirements under the Act and other 
related regulations. This process inter alia includes 
152
153
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
providing an overview of the industry, the Company’s 
business model, the risks and opportunities, the 
new products, innovation, sustainability measures, 
digitisation measures etc.
	
Your Company has in place an structured induction 
and familiarisation programme for its Directors.
	
Upon appointment, Directors receive a Letter of 
Appointment setting out in detail, the terms of 
appointment, duties, responsibilities, obligations, 
Code of Conduct to regulate, monitor and report 
trading by Designated Persons for Prevention of 
Insider Trading and Code of Conduct applicable 
to all Directors and Senior Management Personnel 
(“SMP”). They are also updated on all business 
related issues and new initiatives. Regular 
presentations and updates on relevant statutory 
changes encompassing economic outlook, market 
trends, peer trends, changes in laws where Company 
is operating are made to the Directors at regular 
Board Meetings of the Company.
	
The MD & CEO along with senior leadership team 
make(s) presentation(s) on the performance & 
strategic initiatives of the Company. Brief details 
of the familiarisation Programme are uploaded 
on the website of the Company and can be 
accessed at https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/
public/files/2x9Om5cMWS_Familiarization%20
Programme%20for%20FY%2023-24.pdf
	
(b)	 Formal Board Performance Annual Evaluation
	
In terms of requirements of the Act read with the 
Rules issued thereunder and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Board carried out the annual 
performance evaluation of the Board of Directors 
as a whole, Committees of the Board and Individual 
Directors. Your Company believes that the process 
of performance evaluation at the Board level is 
pivotal to its Board engagement and effectiveness. 
Criteria for Board evaluation is duly approved by 
N&RC based on the guidance note issued by the 
SEBI. Performance evaluation is facilitated by the 
Chairman of the Board who is supported by the 
Chairman of N&RC.
	
The process of Board Evaluation is conducted 
through structured questionnaires which includes 
various aspects of the Board’s functioning such 
as adequacy of the Board composition diversity, 
skill set of members, the appointment process, 
understanding of roles and responsibilities, 
circulation of board papers, quality of information 
provided, strategic oversight, risk evaluation, 
acquisitions guidance, individual Board Members’ 
and contributions, execution of duties, governance 
performance for the Board as a whole, Committees 
of the Board and Individual Directors and has been 
undertaken digitally.
	
The performance indicators for the Committees 
inter alia includes composition of the Committee, 
understanding the terms of reference, adherence to 
the charters, the effectiveness of discussions at the 
Committee Meetings, the information provided to the 
Committee to discharge its duties/ obligations and 
performance of the Committee, support provided to 
the Board vis-à-vis its responsibilities.
	
The performance of individual Director(s) was 
evaluated based on parameters such as attendance 
at the meeting(s), contribution to Board deliberations, 
engagement with colleagues on the Board, ability 
to guide the Company in key matters, knowledge, 
understanding of relevant areas, and responsibility 
towards stakeholders. All the Directors were subject 
to self-evaluation and peer evaluation.
	
The performance of the Independent Directors 
was evaluated taking into account the above 
factors as well as independent decision-making 
and non-conflict of interest. Further, the evaluation 
process was based on the affirmation received 
from the Independent Directors that they meet the 
independence criteria as required under the Act and 
the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
In addition to the questionnaires, detailed one-on-one 
in-sighting was carried out by the Chairperson of the 
N&RC with individual Board Members. A quantitative 
analysis and Board Effectiveness brief including 
insightful feedback and trends was shared by the 
Chairperson of the N&RC to all the Board Members. 
Thereafter, the following process was followed to 
assimilate and process the feedback:
•	 A separate meeting of Independent Directors, 
Performance of Non-Independent Directors, the 
Board as a whole and Chairman of the Company 
was evaluated, taking into account the views of 
Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors;
•	 The entire Board discussed the findings of the 
evaluation with the Independent Directors and 
also evaluated the performance of the Individual 
Directors including the MD & CEO, the Board as a 
whole and all Committees of the Board; and
•	 As an outcome of the above process, individual 
feedback was shared with each Director.
		 The Board Evaluation discussion was focused on 
how to make the Board more effective as a collective 
body in the context of the business and the external 
environment in which the Company functions. The 
Board was from time to time apprised of relevant 
business issues and related opportunities and 
risks. The Board discussed various aspects of its 
functioning and that of its Committees such as 
structure, composition, meetings, functions and 
interaction with management and what needs to 
be done to further augment the effectiveness of 
the Board’s functioning.
		 The Board’s overall assessment indicated that it 
was operating cohesively, including its various 
Committees. These Committees were performing 
effectively, regularly reporting to the Board on their 
activities and progress during the reporting period. 
The Board also noted that the actions identified 
in previous questionnaire-based evaluations had 
been implemented.
		 During the Financial Year 2023-24, the Company 
actioned the feedback from the Board evaluation 
process conducted in a the even year. The Board 
noted the key improvement areas emerging 
from this exercise including but not limited to 
improving the talent management, process with 
specific focus on strengthening top talent pipeline, 
improving the attrition rate, business strategy and 
annual plan etc. 
		 The Board of Directors has expressed its 
satisfaction with the evaluation process.
17.6	Remuneration policy and criteria for selection of 
candidates for appointment as Directors, KMPs and 
SMPs
The Company has in place a policy for remuneration 
of Directors, KMPs and SMPs as well as a well‑defined 
criterion for the selection of candidates for appointment to 
the said positions, which has been approved by the Board.
The Policy broadly lays down the guiding principles, 
philosophy and the basis for payment of remuneration 
to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors (by way of 
sitting fees and commission), KMPs and SMPs. The criteria 
for the selection of candidates for the above positions 
cover various factors and attributes, which are considered 
by the N&RC and the Board of Directors while selecting 
candidates. The policy on remuneration of Directors, KMPs 
and SMPs can be accessed at https://reports.crompton.
co.in/shopify/public/files/Fj46RqOSbO_Nomination%20
and%20Remuneration%20Policy.pdf
17.7	Executive Director(s) Remuneration
The Board on the recommendation of N&RC 
appointed Mr. Promeet Ghosh, as the MD & CEO w.e.f. 
May 01, 2023, which was subsequently approved 
by the Members of the Company in its AGM held on 
July 22, 2023.
The remuneration to MD & CEO includes the fixed pay and 
the variable pay. The variable pay of MD & CEO is paid 
annually which is determined by the N&RC after factoring 
in the individual performance, i.e. KPIs achieved and the 
Company’s performance. There is no clawback provision 
in the remuneration paid to the MD & CEO of the Company.
In terms of applicable laws, there is no mandatory 
stock ownerships requirement for MD & CEO. Stock 
Options granted to MD & CEO are governed by various 
Employee Stock Option Plans & Performance Share 
Plans of the Company as approved by Members from 
154
155
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
time to time. N&RC is responsible for administrating 
the stock incentives and performance incentives plans 
of the Company and determines the eligibility of all the 
employees including MD & CEO of the Company. The 
vesting of options for the MD & CEO is based solely on 
the Company’s performance, with no consideration given 
to individual performance.
For details of grant, vesting and exercised options please 
refer to Report on Corporate Governance which forms 
part of this Integrated Annual Report. The bifurcation of 
fixed pay and variable pay for MD & CEO and Executive 
Director as on March 31, 2024, is as under:
	
Fixed and Variable pay – Mr. Promeet Ghosh  
(MD & CEO)*
Fixed
Variable
39.62%
60.38%
	
Fixed and Variable pay – Mr. Shantanu Khosla 
(Executive Director)#
Fixed
Variable
41.36%
58.64%
	
*Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director till April 23, 2023, 
appointed as an Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as 
MD & CEO w.e.f. May 1, 2023, till April 30, 2028, his appointment 
was subsequently approved by the Members at the 9th AGM of 
the Company held on July 22, 2023.
	
#Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and elevated as Executive 
Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, to April 30, 2024, and assumed 
the position of Non-Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2024, 
and will hold the position till December 31, 2025.
18.	NUMBER OF MEETINGS OF THE 
BOARD & ITS COMMITTEES
18.1	Board Meetings
In the normal course of business the meetings of the 
Board and its Committees are held to discuss and decide 
on various business policies, strategies, financial matters, 
digitalisation, governance and other businesses.
The schedule of the Board/ Committee Meetings to be 
held in the forthcoming Financial Year is circulated to the 
Directors in advance to enable them to plan their schedule 
for effective participation in the meetings. Due to business 
exigencies, the Board has also been approving several 
proposals by circulation from time to time. This expedited 
process allows for timely decision-making in response to 
urgent business needs.
Your Board of Directors met 7 (Seven) times during the 
Financial Year 2023-24. The details of the meetings and 
the attendance of the Directors are mentioned in the 
Report on Corporate Governance which forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report. The intervening gap between 
the meetings was within the period prescribed under the 
Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
18.2 Board Committees
The Board has established several Committees as a 
matter of good corporate governance practices and as 
per the requirements of the Act and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. The Company has the following 9 (Nine)
Board-level Committees, which have been established in 
compliance with the requirements of the business and 
relevant provisions of applicable laws and statutes:
1.	
Audit Committee;
2.	
Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
3.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee;
4.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship & Share Transfer Committee;
5.	
Risk Management Committee;
6.	
Environment Social and Governance Committee;
7.	
Allotment Committee for allotment of shares arising 
out of Stock Options;
8.	
Strategic Investment Committee;
9.	
Committee for Debentures;
The composition, terms of reference, number of meetings 
held and business transacted by the Committees are 
mentioned in the Report on Corporate Governance which 
forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Pursuant to the requirements of Schedule IV to the 
Companies Act, 2013, and the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
separate meetings of the Independent Directors 
of the Company was held on August 11, 2023, and 
November 03, 2023, without the presence of Non-
Independent Directors and members of the management, 
to review the performance of Non-Independent Directors 
and the Board as a whole, the performance of the 
Chairperson of the Company, taking into account the 
views of Executive Directors, Non-Executive, Non-
Independent Directors and also to assess the quality, 
quantity and timeliness of flow of information between 
the Company management and the Board.
During the year under review, and based on the 
recommendations of the N&RC, the Board re-constituted 
Board Committees at its meeting held on April 24, 2023 
and October 17, 2023.
The details and composition of the mandatory Committees 
of the Board are as follows:
18.18.1 AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee comprises of 3 (Three) 
Members, all the Members of the Committee are 
Independent Directors. The Committee is chaired 
by Mr. P R Ramesh (Non-Executive, Independent 
Director). The other Members of the Committee are 
Mr. P M Murty (Non-Executive, Independent Director) 
and Mr. D Sundaram (Non-Executive, Independent 
Director). Details of the role and responsibilities of 
the Audit Committee, the particulars of meetings held 
and attendance of the Members at such Meetings are 
mentioned in the Report on Corporate Governance, which 
forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be a Committee Member w.e.f. 
October 20, 2023, pursuant to his retirement as a Director 
of the Company. Additionally, Mr. D Sundaram ceased 
to be the Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. October 20, 
2023, and Mr. Ramesh was appointed as the Chairman of 
the Committee w.e.f. October 21, 2023.
During the year under review, all the recommendations 
made by the Audit Committee were accepted by the Board.
18.18.2  NOMINATION & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 
(“N&RC”)
As on the date of this report, the N&RC comprises 
of 3 (Three) Members. The Committee is chaired by 
Mr. P M Murty (Non-Executive, Independent Director). The 
other Members of the Committee are Mr. D Sundaram 
(Non-Executive, Independent Director) and Ms. Smita 
Anand (Non-Executive, Independent Director). Details of 
the role and responsibilities of the N&RC, the particulars 
of meetings held and attendance of the Members at such 
Meetings are mentioned in the Report on Corporate 
Governance, which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
Pursuant to the appointment of Mr. Promeet Ghosh as 
Exceutive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as MD & CEO 
w.e.f. May 1, 2023, he ceased to be the member of N&RC 
w.e.f. May 1, 2023.
Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be a Committee Member 
w.e.f. October 20, 2023, pursuant to his retirement as an 
Director of the Company.
N&RC is responsible for inter alia, recommendation 
and approval of appointment and remuneration of the 
Directors, KMPs and SMPs. The Committee also acts 
as the Compensation Committee for the purpose of 
administration of the several Employee Stock Option 
Plans and Performance Share-Based plans, as amended 
from time to time. N&RC is also entrusted with the 
responsibility of framing the criteria for evaluation of 
the individual Directors, Chairperson of the Board, the 
Board as a whole and its Committees. It also frequently 
evaluates the working and effectiveness of the Board and 
manages the succession planning for Board Members, 
KMPs and SMPs.
During the year under review, all the recommendations 
made by the N&RC were accepted by the Board.
18.18.3 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (“CSR”) 
COMMITTEE
The CSR Committee comprises of 4 (Four) Members, 
out of which 2 (Two) are Non-Executive, Independent 
Directors. The Committee is chaired by Mr. Shantanu 
Khosla (Non-Executive Vice-Chairman). The other 
Members of the Committee are Mr. D Sundaram 
(Non-Executive, Independent Director), Ms. Smita Anand 
(Non-Executive, Independent Director) and Mr. Promeet 
Ghosh (MD & CEO). Details of the role and responsibilities 
of the CSR Committee, the particulars of meetings held 
and attendance of the Members at such Meetings are 
mentioned in the Report on Corporate Governance, which 
forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be a Committee Member w.e.f. 
October 20, 2023, pursuant to his retirement as a Director 
of the Company.
In compliance with Section 135 of the Act read with the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) 
Rules, 2014, as amended, the Company has set up a CSR 
Committee and statutory disclosures with respect to the 
CSR Committee and an Annual Report on CSR Activities 
forms part of this Integrated Annual Report as Annexure 3. 
The CSR Policy as recommended by the CSR Committee 
and as approved by the Board is available on the website 
of the Company and can be accessed at https://reports.
crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/U6kk0A8Uoy_
Corporate-Social-Responsibility-Policy-1.pdf
156
157
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
18.18.4 STAKEHOLDERS’ 
RELATIONSHIP 
& 
SHARE 
TRANSFER COMMITTEE (“SRC”)
As on the date of this report the SRC comprises of 4 (Four) 
Members, out of which 2 (Two) are Non-Executive, 
Independent Directors. The Committee is chaired by 
Mr. D Sundaram (Non-Executive, Independent Director). 
The other Members of the Committee are Mr. P M Murty 
(Non-Executive, Independent Director) Mr. Shantanu 
Khosla (Non-Executive Vice Chairman) and Mr. Promeet 
Ghosh (MD & CEO). Details of the role and responsibilities 
of the SRC, the particulars of meetings held and 
attendance of the Members at such Meetings are given 
in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part 
of this Integrated Annual Report. During the year under 
review, all the recommendations made by the SRC were 
accepted by the Board.
Mr. Promeet Ghosh was appointed as the Member of the 
Committee w.e.f. May 1, 2023.
Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be the Chairman of the 
Committee and Member w.e.f. October 20, 2023, 
pursuant to his retirement as a Director of the Company. 
Mr. D Sundaram was appointed as the Chairman of the 
Committee and Mr. P. M. Murty was appointed as the 
Member of the Committee w.e.f. October 21, 2023.
SRC is responsible for inter alia various aspects of interest 
of the stakeholders, monitoring the performance of the 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent and recommends 
measures for overall improvement of the quality of 
investor services as and when the need arises, resolve 
the grievances of the security holders of the Company 
including complaints related to transfer/ transmission 
of shares, non-receipt of Annual Report, non-receipt of 
declared dividends and issue of duplicate certificates, etc.
18.18.5 RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (“RMC”)
The RMC comprises of 3 (Three) Members, all the 
Members of the Committee are Non-Executive, 
Independent Directors. The Committee is chaired 
by Mr. P R Ramesh (Non-Executive, Independent 
Director). The other Members of the Committee are 
Mr. P M Murty (Non- Executive, Independent Director), 
and Mr. D Sundaram, (Non-Executive, Independent 
Director). Details of the role and responsibilities of the 
RMC, the particulars of meetings held and attendance 
of the Members at such Meetings are mentioned in the 
Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of 
this Integrated Annual Report. During the year under 
review, all the recommendations made by the RMC were 
accepted by the Board.
Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be a Committee Member w.e.f. 
October 20, 2023, pursuant to his retirement as a Director 
of the Company. Additionally, Mr. D Sundaram ceased to 
be the Chairman of the Committee and Mr. P R  Ramesh 
was appointed as the Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. 
October 21, 2023.
RMC assists the Board in monitoring and reviewing the 
risk management plan and implementation of the risk 
management and mitigation framework of the Company. 
The main objective of the RMC is to assist the Board in 
fulfilling its corporate governance oversight responsibilities 
with regard to the identification, evaluation and mitigation 
of risks including risks related to cyber security.
19.	RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
The Board of Directors of the Company has the RMC 
to frame, implement and monitor the risk management 
plan for the Company. The Committee is responsible 
for reviewing the risk management plan and ensuring 
its effectiveness. The Audit Committee has additional 
oversight in the area of financial risks and controls.
The Risk Management Framework is reviewed periodically 
by the RMC and the Board is informed about the risk 
assessment and minimisation procedures to ensure that 
executive management controls the risk by means of a 
properly designed framework, which includes discussing 
the Management submissions on risks, prioritising 
key risks and approving action plans to mitigate such 
risks. In addition to that Company’s Board of Directors 
oversees how management monitors compliance with 
the Company’s risk management policies and procedures 
and reviews the adequacy of the Risk Management 
Framework in relation to the risks faced by the Company.
The detailed discussion on risk management forms part 
of the Management Discussion and Analysis, which forms 
part of this Integrated Annual Report.
20.	PARTICULARS OF CONTRACTS OR 
ARRANGEMENTS 
WITH 
RELATED 
PARTIES
In accordance with the requirements of the Act and the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, your Company has framed 
an Policy on Related-Party Transactions (“RPT”) which 
is uploaded on the website of the Company and can 
be accessed at https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/
public/files/UA9MvX4Yb5_Policy-on-Materiality-of-and-
dealing-with-Related-Party-Transactions.pdf
All RPTs are placed before the Audit Committee for review 
and approval and recommendation to the Board for its 
approval, wherever required. Prior omnibus approval of 
the Audit Committee and the Board is obtained for the all 
the transactions which are foreseen, repetitive in nature. 
A statement giving details of all RPTs is placed before the 
Audit Committee for their noting every quarter.
The Board of Directors of your Company have approved 
the criteria to grant omnibus approval by the Audit 
Committee within the overall framework of the RPT Policy 
on related party transactions. All members of the Audit 
Committee are Independent Directors.
There were no material significant transactions with 
related parties in terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
requiring approval of the Members during the year under 
review. The details pertaining to transactions which were 
not at arm’s length basis is given in Form AOC-2, along 
with the all the RPTs entered during the year as a good 
corporate governance practice attached as Annexure 4 
which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
None of the Directors and the KMPs have any pecuniary 
relationships or transactions vis-à-vis the Company. The 
Directors draw attention of the Members to Note No. 32 
of the standalone financial statements setting out the 
disclosure on RPTs for the Financial Year 2023-24.
Pursuant to Regulation 23(9) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, your Company has filed the reports on RPTs 
with the Stock Exchanges within statutory timelines.
21.	TRANSFER 
OF 
EQUITY 
SHARES 
UNPAID/ UNCLAIMED DIVIDEND TO 
THE IEPF
Pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Act, Investor 
Education and Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, 
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”) 
read with the relevant circulars and amendments thereto, 
the amount of dividend remaining unpaid or unclaimed 
for a period of 7 (Seven) years from the due date is 
required to be transferred by the Company to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”), constituted by 
the Central Government.
Further, according to the IEPF Rules, all the shares in 
respect of which any dividend has not been claimed by 
the Members for 7 (Seven) consecutive years or more shall 
also be transferred by the Company to the designated 
Demat Account of the IEPF Authority (“IEPF Account”) 
within a period of 30 (Thirty) days of such shares becoming 
due to be transferred to the IEPF Account.
The Company will transfer for the first time unclaimed 
dividend declared for the Financial Year 2016-17, along 
with corresponding shares on which dividends are 
unclaimed for 7 (Seven) consecutive years as per the 
requirements of the IEPF Rules. Accordingly, the Company 
shall give a Newspaper Advertisement to the Members of 
the Company to claim their unclaimed dividend/ shares 
underlying in Company’s unpaid dividend account.
Members whose shares/ dividend are transferred to 
IEPF as stated above, can still claim the shares/ dividend 
from the IEPF Authority by submitting an application in 
Web Form No. IEPF-5 available on www.iepf.gov.in The 
voting rights on shares transferred to the IEPF Authority 
shall remain frozen until the rightful owner claims the 
shares. The shares held in such Demat account shall not 
be transferred or dealt with in any manner whatsoever 
except for the purpose of transferring the shares back to 
the claimant as and when he approaches the Authority. All 
benefits except rights issue accruing on such shares e.g. 
bonus shares, split, consolidation, fraction shares etc., 
shall also be credited to such Demat account. Any further 
dividend received on such shares shall be credited to the 
IEPF Fund.
Members are requested to claim the shares/ 
dividend, which have remained unclaimed/ unpaid, 
by sending a written request to the Company at 
crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in or to 
the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agent, KFin 
Technologies Limited at einward.ris@kfintech.com or at 
their address at KFin Technologies Limited at Selenium 
Tower B, Plot 31-32, Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally 
Mandal, 
Hyderabad 
500032. 
Members can find the details of Nodal officer appointed 
by the Company under the provisions of IEPF at 
ht tps://w w w.crompton.co.in/pages/investors-
relations#ConInvestors
In terms of Regulation 43A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
the Company has adopted a Dividend Distribution Policy 
and the same is available on the website of the Company 
and can be accessed at https://reports.crompton.co.in/
shopify/public/files/aaeGlqQcuR_Dividend-Distribution-
Policy-1.pdf
22.	SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS 
PASSED BY THE REGULATORS OR 
COURTS
During the year under review, there were no significant 
and material orders passed by the regulators or courts 
or tribunals impacting the going concern status of your 
Company and its operations in future.
158
159
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
23.	RISK ARISING OUT OF LITIGATION, 
CLAIMS 
AND 
UNCERTAIN 
TAX 
POSITIONS
The Company is exposed to a variety of different laws, 
regulations, positions and interpretations thereof which 
encompasses direct taxation and legal matters. In the 
normal course of business, provisions and contingencies 
may arise due to uncertain tax positions and legal matters.
Based on the nature of matters, the management applies 
significant judgement when considering evaluation of 
risk, including how much to provide for the potential 
exposure of each of the matters. These estimates could 
change substantially over time as new facts emerge 
as each matter progresses, hence these are reviewed 
regularly. For matters where expert opinion is required, 
the Company involves the best legal counsel. Reference 
is drawn to the “Key audit matters” by the auditors in their 
reports on the above matters.
24.	AUDITORS
a)	
Statutory Auditors
M/s. M S K A & Associates, Chartered Accountants (ICAI 
Firm Registration Number 105047W) were appointed as 
Statutory Auditors of the Company by the Members at the 
Extra-Ordinary General Meeting held on August 27, 2021, 
to hold office as Statutory Auditors for a term of 5 (Five) 
consecutive years, i.e. till the conclusion of 12th AGM of 
the Company to be held for the Financial Year 2025-26.
The Board of Directors at their meeting held on May 16, 
2024, basis the recommendation of the Audit Committee 
approved the remuneration of M/s. M S K A & Associates 
I 1,16,00,000 (Rupees One Crore and Sixteen Lakh Only) 
for the Financial Year 2024-25.
Established in 1978, M S K A & Associates is an Indian 
partnership firm registered with the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“ICAI”) and the US Public Company 
Accountancy Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) having offices 
across 12 (Twelve) cities in India at Mumbai, Gurugram, 
Chandigarh, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Goa, Pune, 
Bengaluru, Kochi, Hyderabad and Coimbatore. The audit 
firm has a valid peer review certificate. 
The Firm primarily provides audit and assurance services, 
tax and advisory services, to its clients. The Firm’s Audit 
and Assurance practice has significant experience across 
various industries, markets and geographies.
The Auditor’s Report on the financial statements of the 
Company for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024, 
forms part of this Integrated Annual Report. The said report 
was issued by the Statutory Auditors with an unmodified 
opinion and does not contain any qualifications, 
reservations or adverse remarks. Auditors’ Report is 
self explanatory and therefore, does not require further 
comments and explanation. During the year under review, 
the Auditors have not reported any fraud under Section 
143(12) of the Act and therefore disclosure of details under 
Section 134(3)(ca) of the Act is not applicable.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and 
objectivity of the Auditors and the effectiveness of the 
Audit process.
The Auditors attends the AGM of the Company.
b)	
Cost Auditors
Pursuant to Section 148 of the Act read with the 
Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Amendment Rules, 
2014, your Company is required to maintain cost records 
as specified by the Central Government. Accordingly, the 
Company has maintained cost accounts and records in 
the prescribed manner. The records maintained by the 
Company under Section 148 of the Act are required to be 
audited by a Cost Accountant.
The Board of Directors of the Company at their meeting 
held on May 16, 2024, based on the recommendation 
of the Audit Committee, approved the appointment of 
M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, Cost Accountants 
(Firm Registration Number: 100392) as the Cost Auditors 
of the Company to conduct audit of the cost records of the 
Company for the Financial Year 2024-25. The Company 
has received a certificate from M/s. Ashwin Solanki & 
Associates, confirming their consent and that they are not 
disqualified from being appointed as the Cost Auditors 
of the Company. A remuneration of I 6,00,000 (Rupees 
Six Lakh Only) plus applicable taxes and out-of-pocket 
expenses, has been fixed for the Cost Auditors subject to 
the ratification of such fees by the Members at the ensuing 
AGM. Accordingly, the matter relating to the ratification 
of the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors for 
Financial Year 2024-25 will be placed at the ensuing AGM.
M/s. Ashwin Solanki & Associates, have confirmed that 
the cost records for the Financial Year ended March 31, 
2023, are free from any disqualifications as specified 
under Section 141(3) and proviso to Section 148(3) read 
with Section 141(4) of the Act. They have further confirmed 
their independent status.
c)	
Secretarial Auditors & Secretarial Audit Report
The Board at its meeting held on May 19, 2023, appointed 
Parikh & Associates, Company Secretaries as Secretarial 
Auditors of the Company to conduct the Secretarial Audit 
for the Financial Year 2023-24. The Secretarial Audit 
Report in Form MR-3 is annexed herewith as Annexure 
5 to this Integrated Annual Report. The Secretarial Audit 
Report does not contain any qualification, reservation, 
adverse remark or disclaimer.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Act, read 
with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, based on the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board 
of Directors in their meeting held on May 16, 2024, 
approved the appointment of Parikh & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries (ICSI Unique Code 
P1988MH009800) as the Secretarial Auditors to conduct 
audit of the secretarial records of the Company for the 
Financial Year 2024-25 at a remuneration of I 2,00,000 
(Rupees Two Lakh Only).
Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 24A of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations read with SEBI Circulars issued in 
this regard, the Company has undertaken an audit for 
the Financial Year 2023-24 for all applicable compliances 
as per SEBI Regulations and circulars/ guidelines 
issued thereunder. 
Further, the wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company as 
mentioned above are not material unlisted subsidiaries. 
Therefore, the provisions regarding the Secretarial Audit 
as mentioned in Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, do not apply to such subsidiaries.
d)	
Internal Auditors
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 138 of the Act, the 
Board, at its meeting held on May 19, 2023, based on the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee, approved the 
appointment of M/s. Grant Thornton Bharat LLP (Identity 
number AAA-7677) to conduct the internal audit of your 
Company for the Financial Year 2023-24.
The Board of Directors at their meeting held on May 16, 
2024, has re-appointed M/s. Grant Thornton Bharat LLP 
as the Internal Auditors of your Company for the Financial 
Year 2024-25 to review various operations of the Company 
at remuneration of I 68,95,000 (Rupees Sixty Eight Lakh 
and Ninety Five Thousand Only).
25.	MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENT 
AFFECTING FINANCIAL POSITION OF 
THE COMPANY
There have been no material changes and commitments 
affecting the financial position of the Company which 
occurred between the end of the Financial Year of the 
Company to which the financial statements related to and 
date of this report. There is no change in the nature of 
business of the Company.
26.	AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS
The detailed Section on awards & recognitions forms part 
of this Integrated Annual Report.
27.	ENHANCING STAKEHOLDER VALUE
We constantly endeavour to fulfill the expectations of our 
investors through responsible business decisions and 
governance. Integrity and transparency are top priorities 
in our relationship with our investors. Your Company is 
committed to creating and returning value to Members. 
Accordingly, the Company is dedicated to achieving high 
levels of operating performance, cost competitiveness, 
and striving for excellence in all areas of operations. We 
are privileged to share a strong relationship with investors 
based on a deep understanding of their expectations and 
our commitment to creating value for them.
The Company firmly believes that its success in the 
marketplace and good reputation are amongst the 
primary determinants of shareholder value. Its close 
relationship with customers and a deep understanding of 
their challenges and expectations drive the development 
of new products and services. Anticipating customer 
requirements early and being able to address them 
effectively requires a strong commercial backbone. 
Your Company continues to develop this strength by 
institutionalising sound commercial processes and 
building world-class commercial capabilities across 
its marketing and sales teams. The Company uses an 
innovative approach in the development of its products 
and services, as well as execution of growth opportunities. 
Your Company is also committed to creating value 
for all its stakeholders by ensuring that its corporate 
actions positively impact the economic, societal and 
environmental dimensions of the triple bottom line.
28.	CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Your Company is committed to maintain the highest 
standards of Corporate Governance and adheres to all 
requirements of corporate governance in letter and spirit. 
All the Committees of the Board of Directors meet at regular 
intervals as required in terms of Listing Regulations. 
The Board of Directors has taken the necessary steps 
to ensure compliance with statutory requirements. The 
Directors, KMP, and SMPs of the Company have complied 
with the approved Code of Conduct for Board of Directors 
and Senior Management Personnel. A declaration to 
this effect, according to Schedule V of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, signed by the MD & CEO of the Company, 
forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
The Board of Directors re-affirm their continued 
commitment to good corporate governance practices. 
160
161
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
During the year under review, the Company complied 
with the provisions relating to corporate governance as 
provided under the SEBI Listing Regulations. Pursuant 
to Regulation 34 read with Schedule V of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, a separate report on Corporate 
Governance is annexed to this report. Further, following 
certificate(s)/ declaration(s) forms an integral part of this 
Corporate Governance Report:
a)	
A declaration signed by Mr. Promeet Ghosh, 
MD & CEO, stating that the Members of Board of 
Directors and SMPs have affirmed compliance 
with the Company’s Code of Business Conduct 
and Ethics;
b)	
A compliance certificate from the Company’s 
Secretarial Auditors confirming compliance with the 
conditions of Corporate Governance;
c)	
A certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors from 
the Secretarial Auditor of the Company; and
d)	
A certificate of the MD & CEO and CFO of the 
Company, inter alia, confirming the correctness of 
the financial statements and cash flow statements, 
adequacy of the internal control measures and 
reporting of matters to the Audit Committee.
Your Company believes that effective leadership, 
robust policies, processes and systems and a rich 
legacy of values form the hallmark of our best corporate 
governance framework. The Board, in conjunction with 
the management, sets values of your Company and 
drives the Company’s business with these principles. 
These ethics and values are reflected in your Company’s 
culture, business practices, disclosure policies and 
relationship with its stakeholders. These ethics and values 
are practiced by the Company, which is at par with best 
international standards and good corporate conduct.
29.	BUSINESS 
RESPONSIBILITY 
& 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (“BRSR”)
Your Company strongly believes that resilient and inclusive 
growth is only possible on strong pillars of environmental 
and social responsibility balanced with good governance 
and communicating its ESG performance in a transparent 
manner and in line with global standards to our 
stakeholders. The report is a testimony to our continuous 
efforts towards embracing and implementing balanced 
approach to ESG parameters in our business operations 
and forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
The BRSR Crore is a sub-set of BRSR, consisting of a set 
of Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)/ metrics under 9 
(Nine) ESG attributes/ principles of the National Guidelines 
on Responsible Business Conduct (“NGRBC”) notified 
by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India. 
Further, the Company has conducted limited assurance 
for the BRSR non-core indicators and reasonable 
assurance for BRSR Core for the Financial Year 2023-24.
We have also provided the requisite mapping of information 
and principles between the Sustainability disclosures and 
the BRSR as prescribed by SEBI. The same shall also 
available on the website of the Company at https://www.
crompton.co.in/pages/financial-reports#AnnualReports 
Further, the financial sections of BRSR are presented 
in line with the requirements of the Act read with the 
rules made thereunder, the Ind AS, the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and the requisite Secretarial Standards 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India. 
The non-financial section (Sustainability and Corporate 
Social Responsibility) is presented in conformance to 
the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Standard’s Core 
Performance Indicators, the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals (“SDGs”) and other sector relevant international 
sustainability disclosure guidelines.
The Company has engaged services of BDO India LLP to 
provide reasonable assurance for BRSR core indicators 
and limited assurance for BRSR non-core indicators and 
non-financial disclosures in the Integrated Annual Report. 
BDO India LLP conducted the assurance in accordance 
with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 
(ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other 
than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information 
and ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse 
Gas Statement issued by the International Auditing and 
Standards Board.
The initiatives as indicated in the report aims to reduce 
its environmental impact, balance profitability with 
sustainability, and implement a more transparent, 
efficient, and effective corporate governance framework.
30.	PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES
There are 21 (Twenty One) employees who were in receipt 
of remuneration of not less than I 1,02,00,000 (Rupees 
One Crore and Two Lakh Only) if employed for the full 
year and 9 (Nine) employees who were in receipt of 
remuneration of not less than I 8,50,000 (Rupees Eight 
Lakh and Fifty Thousand Only) per month if employed for 
part of the year. Disclosures concerning the remuneration 
and other details as required in terms of Section 197(12) of 
the Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
(“Rules”) is provided in Annexure 6 to this Report. 
Your Directors affirm that the remuneration is as per the 
remuneration policy of the Company.
Further, details of employee remuneration as required 
under provisions of Section 197(12) of the Act read with 
Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Rules of the Act is available for 
inspection at the Registered Office of your Company 
during working hours. As per second proviso to Section 
136(1) of the Act and second proviso of Rule 5 of the Rules 
the Integrated Annual Report and has been sent to the 
Members excluding the aforesaid exhibit. Any Member 
interested in obtaining copy of such information may 
write to the Company Secretary & Compliance Officer at 
crompton.inverstorrelations@crompton.co.in
31.	REPORTING 
OF 
FRAUDS 
BY 
AUDITORS
During the year under review, neither the Statutory 
Auditors, the Secretarial Auditor, the Cost Auditors nor the 
Internal Auditors have reported to the Audit Committee of 
the Board, under Section 143(12) of the Act, any instances 
of fraud committed against the Company by its officers 
or employees.
32.	ANNUAL RETURN
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 134(3)(a) and Section 
92(3) of the Act read with Rule 12 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, the 
Annual Return of the Company for the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2024 is available on the website of the 
Company at https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/financial-
reports#AnnualReports
33.	COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL 
STANDARDS
During the year under review, the Company has complied 
with all the applicable provisions of Secretarial Standard – 
1 and Secretarial Standard – 2, “Meetings of the Board of 
Directors” and “General Meetings”, respectively issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and 
notified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
34.	STATUTORY DISCLOSURES
a.	
Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption and 
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
As required under Section 134(3)(m) of the Act, read 
with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 
2014, the relevant data pertaining to conservation of 
energy, technology absorption and foreign exchange 
earnings and outgo is given in the prescribed format in 
Annexure 7 to this Integrated Annual Report.
b.	
Research and Development (“R&D”)
Your Company is dedicated to achieving excellence 
by prioritising R&D as a cornerstone of innovation. We 
cultivate a culture of creativity ingrained within our people 
and processes. Our in-house R&D team is committed to 
pioneering sustainable product innovations driven by 
cutting-edge technology, ensuring efficiency across the 
entire product lifecycle, from design and development to 
manufacturing processes.
The Company’s in-house R&D team strives for best 
technology- based sustainable product innovations, with 
efficient product lifecycle, including design, development 
and manufacturing process.
Crompton has “Innovation & Experience Centre” in 
Mumbai serving as the hub for all R&D innovation teams. 
This center fosters fungibility and creativity within its 
Design Studio and encourages experimentation within its 
labs, which are equipped with ultra-modern infrastructure. 
In line with its commitment of creating consumer delight, 
the Company has launched a diverse range of products 
across various segments. These products are designed 
to showcase excellence both in terms of technology 
and aesthetics:
	
(A)	 Fans
	
Highspeed Toro: A sleek and stylish fan that 
effortlessly enhances any space with its modern 
design and multiple color options. Equipped with 
Anti-Dust technology, it attracts 50% less dust than 
traditional fans for easy maintenance. With wider 
blades and an airflow capacity of 220 cubic meters per 
minute, it ensures a refreshing breeze. Plus, its Active 
Power technology and 1-Star rating prioritise energy 
efficiency without compromising performance
	
Highspeed Rapidus: Elevate your space with its 
sleek and modern design that seamlessly blends 
into contemporary interiors. Inspired by the elegance 
of emerald cuts, this fan adds a touch of opulence to 
any room while maintaining a clean and uncluttered 
aesthetic. Equipped with Anti-Dust technology, it 
keeps maintenance hassle-free by attracting 50% 
less dust than standard fans. Its wider blades ensure 
superior airflow, delivering a refreshing breeze 
of 220 cubic meters per minute. Plus, with Active 
Power technology and a 1-Star rating, it maximises 
energy efficiency without sacrificing performance. 
Experience sophistication and functionality with the 
Highspeed Rapidus.
162
163
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
Luxian Infinia: A harmonious blend of elegance and 
functionality, this fan adds timeless sophistication to 
any space. With ActivPower Technology, it delivers 
powerful performance at 220CMM airflow and 370 
RPM. Perfect for antique themes, it elevates the style 
of any room, offering a classic, timeless look.
 	
Energion Hyperjet: An entry level BLDC remote 
control ceiling fan which was launched for the tech 
savvy online consumers is sold primarily through 
the ecommerce channel and has gained is placed 
in the top 10 ceiling fans on ecommerce platforms. 
It is driven by Crompton’s ActivBLDC technology and 
uses a boost mode at 35W which delivers a powerful 
220 CMM air delivery.
	
Energion Groove Regmote is a testament to our 
commitment to technological prowess and ultimate 
comfort. Unlike any other ceiling fan in the market, 
this revolutionary fan can be seamlessly controlled 
using both a remote control and a traditional 
regulator simultaneously. This novel technology is 
built on our best BLDC ceiling fan – Energion Groove 
which is an epitome of performance (220 CMM Air 
Delivery & 350 RPM) and minimal aesthetics. This 
model comes in extensive array of Colors, including 
3 in Anti Rust, 5 in Anti Dust and 2 in Wooden has 
context menu.
	
(B)	 Pumps
•	 Mini Brand Architecture: Launched DURA series 
in Mini category with durable features like Anti Jam 
Insert, Anti Rust Coating & ADDS Adapter.
	
−Successfully developed & launched a new 
category of Solar Pumps.
	
−Received order from HAREDA for 1388nos. of 
Pumps, worth I 65.66 Crore, Contribution from 
Solar Pumps for I 32.7 Crore.
	
−Received MEDA LOA for 2000 Nos of Pumps 
Worth I 50.15 Crore
	
−Received MSEDCL LOA for 250 number of 
Pumps Worth I 6 Crore 
	
−Qualifications achieved in RHDS & MPUVN 
PM Kusum Tender for Rajasthan & Madhya 
Pradesh, respectively.
•	 Successfully developed & launched Full AL Series 
in Surefill Plus category. Revenue generated 
I 100 Crore.
•	 Successfully developed & launched STP/ CCP 
series in India (Indigenisation) thus de-risking the 
import supplies and quality issues. Generated 
revenue of I 8.59 Crore.
•	 Successfully deployed Brand Architecture in 
High Suction Pumps series (Aquagold, SWJ, 
CMB, DMB, Flomax) with consumer insights like 
Faster tank filling time and Durability. Revenue 
generated-I10.31 Crore.
•	 Launched V3 Submersible (AP Series) with Dura 
Features & aesthetical offering to consumer. Well 
accepted in market. Total revenue generated 
I 9.17 Crore.
•	 Launched 4VO revamped series with improved 
durability & BEE star labelling. Very good 
response from market, Total Revenue generated 
I 28.72 Crore.
•	 New product launched in Agri category 
based on identified product gaps and new 
product requirements:
	
−650CS Eco Series: to ensure a competitive 
offering to consumers with durability and 
reliability offerings, total revenue I 0.36 Crore
	
−MBQ22(1PH)-14 SLV: to ensure penetration in to 
regional or territorial low voltage requirements. 
total revenue I 1.12 Crore
	
−MBM12(1PH)Z-SE: Ensure product gap filling 
for east region has ensured revenue of I 0.22 
Crore
	
−MBN22-I: for Competitive offerings shifting the 
SKU from inhouse to Sourcing mode to ensure 
effective penetration in central India territory.
•	 Ensured 10 (Ten) Product demos into Bihar & 
Lucknow branches for MBG segments to ensure 
confidence in product and new offering. This has 
ensured total revenue of MBG 60.92 Crore INR with 
29% Growth over last year.
•	 Special Focus on product training & additional 
offering in control panels & Agri Starters to 
ensure incremental pump+ Panel ratio which 
has increased from 75% to 82% and helped in 
reduction of PPR of V4 Submersibles.
	
	
Other Highlights:
•	 State-of-the-art Test lab has been commissioned 
at Innovation center, Vikhroli for facilitating 
comprehensive 
pumps 
testing 
from 
June 2024, onwards;
•	 Received BIS certification for 33 number of Pumps 
and BEE certification completed for 22 number of 
Pumps as on March 31, 2024;
•	 This is the fifth consecutive year that Crompton 
Pumps has been voted and awarded as 
“Superbrands”;
•	 Received 23rd Greentech Safety Award 2023 
(Winner in Safety Excellence Category); and
•	 Received 23rd Greentech Safety Award 2023 
(Winner in Environmental Excellence Category).
	
(C)	 Appliances
•	 34 (Thirty Four) SKU’s launched in Financial Year.
•	 Storage Water Heater: 12 SKU’s. 6L range 
extension in plastic round (Versa series) & Square 
plastic (Solarium Care Series). 35L & 50L range 
extension in Arno Neo series. A new range of 
round plastic series in Hydrajet with 5-star rating 
available in 10L, 15L & 25L. Metal round series in 
Acenza, available in 15L & 25L. To strengthen the 
horizontal range, launched plastic round horizontal 
series-Versa in 3-star rating.
•	 Instant water heater: 6 SKU’s. Entered tankless 
geyser range with 2 models- Rapidjet Royale & 
Rapidjet Pro, available in 5.5kW. Launched 2 new 
models in 5L for trade in Solarium neo and Rapidjet. 
2 new region-specific models of 3L were launched.
•	 Air Coolers: 13 SKU’s. Launched industrial coolers 
in 95L and 135L. Strengthened the desert series 
with innovative extensions with more convenience 
features. Optimus comfort (65 & 100L) lowest noise 
in industry. Ozone Royal (55L, 75L & 88L) with 
humidity control and auto drain. Surebreeze series 
in personal, tower and desert segment launched to 
strengthen our offering. Supremus series launched 
in desert segment. 95L and Supremus 70L were 
portfolio gaps in capacity. In personal coolers 
2 (Two) new models in 30L & 45L were launched 
in Surebreeze PAC series. In tower coolers, 24L & 
34L models launched in surebreeze TAC series.
•	 In room heaters, the Company has launched 
Insta Genial-PTC heater (Positive Temperature 
Coefficient) based room heater. They do not 
reduce the oxygen content of the room thus 
prevent suffocation & skin dryness and are 
slightly expensive.
•	 In Immersion Rods, launched a new series in 1kW 
and 1.5kW.
	
	
Kitchen Appliances
•	 Mixer Grinder & Iron Category: Mixer Grinder has 
been revamped with launch of 11 new models in 
various segment to strengthen portfolio and 4 new 
model in steam iron category.
•	 Small Kitchen Appliances: Strengthen SKA 
segment with the launch of 6 new model to 
strengthen induction and kettles categories.
	 State of art Validation lab has been developed to test 
our products.
	
All these products are meticulously designed with 
enhanced aesthetics and packaging.
	
(D)	 Lighting
	
B2C
•	 Your Company has introduced many new products 
which are based on consumer insight and 
feedback. Consumer lighting space has evolved 
in last few years from only functionality to Décor 
and style. Connected products are also making 
entry in consumer homes with technology getting 
more affordable for masses.
•	 Your Company launched an innovative range 
of Trio ceiling light/ Batten and Lamp anchored 
on creating ambient lighting with direct and 
indirect lighting.
•	 Capitalising on increasing movement of consumers 
from functionality to décor & style, your Company 
has launched a range of decorative battens and 
outdoor garden and gate lamps.
•	 Your Company has expanded its presence to 
lighting-adjacent categories like Extension Boards 
and Torches.
•	 To win in an increasingly competitive market, your 
Company has launched a range of 20W Laser Ray 
Smile economy battens and fighter models in the 
lamps category.
 	
	
B2B
•	 Extension to the road and flood light luminaire 
range was introduced with upgraded specifications 
to cater to different applications.
•	 With the infrastructure boom, the extension to 
highway street light with improved optics to cater to 
wider highways and expressways were introduced 
which help in reducing total cost to customer.
164
165
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
•	 As an extension to infrastructure application, new 
range of high wattage flood lights with higher 
performance were introduced to cater to railway 
yards, airports and sports application.
•	 To cater to SOHO office requirement your Company 
introduced, industry first, high performance 
aesthetic CRCA down lights.
35.	MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS
The Board of Directors of the Company at their meeting held 
on March 25, 2023, considered and approved the Scheme 
of Amalgamation (“Scheme”) of the Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited (“Transferor Company or Butterfly”) 
with the Company (“Transferee Company”) and their 
respective Members and creditors under Sections 230 to 
232 and other applicable provisions of the Act read with 
rules made thereunder. The Scheme was filed with BSE 
Ltd. and the National Stock Exchange Limited of India 
Limited (“Stock Exchanges”) on April 07, 2023, and 
subsequently, it was approved by the stock exchanges 
on July 21, 2023, and July 24, 2023, respectively.
Further, the Transferor Company had filed the Application 
with the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, Chennai 
Bench (“NCLT”) on August 20, 2023, and pursuant to 
the order issued by NCLT on September 12, 2023, the 
Transferor Company had convened an Extra-Ordinary 
General Meeting for the Equity Members, Secured 
Creditors and Unsecured Creditors of the Company on 
October 28, 2023. However, the approval of majority of 
the public Members of the Company was not received in 
favour of the Scheme and accordingly, the Scheme was 
not acted upon.
This does not have any impact on the Company’s growth 
strategy and both entities continued to operate as separate 
entities and work towards fulfilling their mutual strengths 
while growing in the kitchen appliances category thereby 
creating value for all the stakeholders.
36.	NON-CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES
During the year under review, your Company has redeemed 
Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”) amounting of 
I 325 Crore (Rupees Three Hundred and Twenty Five 
Crore Only) on January 12, 2024.
Presently, total outstanding NCDs of ` 600 Crore (Rupees 
Six Hundred Crore Only) are listed on the debt segment of 
the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and of which 
` 300 Crore (Rupees Three Hundred Crore Only) are due 
for redemption in July, 2024.
Catalyst Trusteeship Limited is the Debenture Trustee 
for the Debenture holders. The details of the Debenture 
Trustee is available on the website of the Company 
and can be accessed at https://www.crompton.co.in/
pages/investors-relations#DebentureTrustee and is also 
provided in the Report on Corporate Governance which 
forms a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
37.	EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLAN 
(“ESOP”)
Stock options have long been proven to be an effective 
tool for organisations to incentivise employees for 
accelerating profitable growth and wealth creation 
while also working as a performance reward and attract 
and retain high potential and critical employees in a 
competitive talent environment.
The Company has framed various Employees Stock 
Option Scheme (“ESOP Schemes”) in accordance with 
the SEBI (Share‑Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 
2014, read with Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share-Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 (“the SBEB & SE”) as a measure to 
reward and motivate employees and attract & retain talent.
Presently your Company has following ESOP Schemes:
•	 Crompton Employee Stock Option Scheme–2016 
(“ESOP-2016”)
•	 Crompton 
Performance 
Share 
Plan-1–2016 
(“PSP-1 2016”)
•	 Crompton 
Performance 
Share 
Plan-2–2016 
(“PSP- 2- 2016”)
•	 Crompton Employee Stock Option Scheme–2019 
(“ESOP-2019”)
There has been no material change in any of the subsisting 
ESOP Schemes.
The disclosure relating to ESOPs required to be made 
under the provisions of the Act, and the rules made 
thereunder and the SBEB & SE Regulations is provided 
in Annexure 8 which forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
No employee has been issued stock options, during the 
year, equal to or exceeding 1% of the issued capital of 
the Company at the time of grant. The issuance of equity 
shares pursuant to exercise of stock options does not 
affect the profit and loss account of the Company, as the 
exercise is made at the market price prevailing as on the 
date of the grant plus taxes as applicable.
38.	EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Your Company’s employee engagement initiatives 
build trust, enthusiasm and a sense of belonging 
to the organisation. For further details on employee 
engagement, please refer to Page No. 72 of this Integrated 
Annual Report. Continuous employee feedback is 
also gathered with the AI enabled employee listening 
tool “Amber”. The leadership continues to act on the 
feedback given by the employees in various forums. The 
strong employee engagement initiatives are continued 
through multi-layer communication, engagement, and 
recognition programmes.
38.1	Inclusion & Welfare
Your Company has always been conscious to promote all 
round employee welfare. Environment, Health and Safety 
(“EHS”) guidelines are deployed to promote workplace 
health and safety and create a healthy environment. 
Regularly, the policies are benchmarked with market 
standards and are upgraded as and when necessary. 
Some of the practices, programmes, policies, and welfare 
measures that were put in place to demonstrate care and 
empathy towards employees are listed below:
Your Company has well defined policies around “Diversity 
& Inclusion”:
1.	
Capability Building and Employee Wellness 
related programmes: Your Company has initiated 
a new capability-development programme for its 
employees called “EDGE”. An organisational-level 
programme, EDGE has been devised as part of the 
Company’s long-term learning and development 
(“L&D”) strategy. Edge has been designed to 
enhance the capabilities of the people at Crompton 
to give an edge to the Company in the competitive 
Indian market. The courses designed as part of 
EDGE include upskilling people in functional and 
behavioural skills. Your Company is following a 
mixed strategy of virtual, digital and face-to-face 
learning. Your Company has been making efforts to 
use gamified solutions, certifications, recognitions 
and small prises to encourage employees to take 
part in learning initiatives.
	
Your Company has also arranged an online medical 
facility for all the employees and their families 
through Doc Online, one of the renowned companies 
in this field, so that employees can get their health 
concerns addressed virtually.
2.	
Employee & Family Connect: Your Company 
always believes that success of employees is 
in major part dependent on the support system 
provided by the family Members at home and made it 
a point to engage family Members in events through 
online talent shows and singing competitions. Your 
Company believes that our employees are much 
more than their accomplishments at work and 
therefore we take every opportunity to celebrate 
employees and teammates whether its Quarterly 
Rewards and Recognition programme or as simple 
as sending out personalised birthday cards. To add 
value and build the manager-employee relationships, 
we’ve crafted key initiatives like Chai pe Charcha 
and Dil Se that has boosted real-time conversations 
that make a difference and enable to bond better. 
Programmes like HR connect allow new joinees to 
feel more comfortable, put their role into perspective 
and feel part of the business, which encourages 
positive contribution to the overall Company 
goals and vision. The festive fervour is back, with 
us celebrating festivals in physical mode after the 
lackluster years of festive exchanging greetings 
virtually. Every nook and corner of our offices have 
been decorated along with theme-based employee 
engagement activities. To add to the joviality of the 
festive time, personalised greetings on Diwali were 
sent to employees and their family Members, letting 
them know they are important! Family get-together, 
Annual Functions and Sports events are conducted.
38.2	 Building Talent
Your Company continues to be committed to developing 
internal leaders and a talent pipeline. The same was 
further strengthened through the launch of structured 
training architecture EDGE. The talent assessment 
process of the organisation for recruitment and internal 
talents also continued to be strengthened through the 
implementation of data- driven tools including Hogan, 
Korn Ferry and Development Centre by DDI. Eligible 
employees underwent 360 feedback on Crompton 
Behaviours to build greater awareness.
38.3 Employee and Leadership Development
In line with your Company’s long-term business strategy, 
there are robust employee development programmes 
through structured interventions and on-the-job and 
experiential learning through career movements, special 
assignments and projects. It is intended to build best-in- 
class capability in the area of Go-to-Market, Operational 
Excellence and Quality, Brand and Portfolio Management 
and Innovation During the year, following unique initiatives 
were launched.
a)	
Manufacturing Excellence Programme – All 
employees in the manufacturing team have been 
enrolled for the programme which covers the concepts 
of quality management basics like continuous and 
lean management, value stream mapping, LEAN 
166
167
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
tools etc. The objective of the programme is to build 
capability on operational excellence.
b)	
Functional Capability for Innovation team – This 
year the focus was on building functional capability in 
the innovation process deployment through trainings 
on PDM, NPD etc. and building core competence 
through programmes like GD&T, ALTIUM etc.
c)	
Procurement Value Enhancement Programme – 
The objective of the programme was to identify the 
procurement levers of value enhancement to the 
business and learn how to apply these levers through 
practical examples. The programme also helped 
understand how to strategise supplier collaboration 
through segmentation, relationship management 
practices, performance and compliance governance 
to co-create value and improve customer service. 
Another focus area for the procurement team this 
year was to develop and hone negotiation skills 
which was done through practical case studies and 
role-plays.
38.4	 Sales Capability Development
a)	
Taking Ownership for One’s Development – Career 
development workshop for employees to sensitise 
them on the importance of life-long learning and how 
they need to take charge of their own development 
were conducted. The employees also realised that 
they continuously need to up-skill/ reskill themselves 
if they need to stay relevant in the job market.
b)	
Digitalising HR Practices – Your Company 
has SAP Success Factors, which is a cloud-
based Human Capital Management (“HCM”) 
solution that can help automate and streamline 
HR processes. Success Factors is mainly used to 
manage employee data, Performance Management, 
Onboarding. This year, your Company has used AI-
powered recruitment platform that uses machine 
learning algorithms to match job candidates with 
open positions. The platform can help HR teams 
save time by automatically screening resumes and 
identifying top candidates based on their skills and 
experience. Your Company continues to use a pulse 
survey platform that allows us to gather feedback 
from employees on a regular basis. The platform 
uses AI to analyse employee feedback and provide 
insights to HR teams, such as identifying areas for 
improvement or trends in employee sentiment. Best 
in class learning management platform allows us 
to provide learning and development opportunities 
to employees by giving them access to a variety of 
courses and learning resources, including online 
courses, books, videos, and articles. The platform 
also provides analytics and insights to help HR teams 
track employee learning and development progress.
39.	ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY 
(“EHS”)
The Health, Safety, and Environmental Management System 
at Crompton epitomise our unwavering dedication to 
safeguarding the environment, fostering a conducive working 
atmosphere, and ensuring the well-being and safety of all 
individuals, including employees, contractors, and visitors. 
Through meticulous planning, rigorous implementation, 
and continuous monitoring, we uphold stringent standards 
to mitigate environmental impact, promote sustainability, 
and comply with regulatory requirements. Our commitment 
extends beyond mere compliance; it encompasses a culture 
of proactive risk management, hazard identification, and 
safety awareness training to cultivate a workplace where 
everyone feels valued, supported, and empowered to 
prioritise health, safety, and environmental stewardship. 
By prioritising these core values, we not only protect our 
personnel but also contribute to the greater community 
and demonstrate our responsibility as a conscientious 
corporate citizen.
Crompton EHS strategies are aimed at achieving the 
greenest and safest operations across all Manufacturing 
units by optimising the usage of natural resources and 
providing a safe and healthy workplace. Safety remains 
a top priority for the Crompton, and we are committed 
to providing a safe and productive environment for 
our workforce, maintaining the best health and safety 
measures across all our manufacturing and office 
locations. We prioritise enhancing our workforce’s 
skills levels through various learning & development 
programmes throughout the year, ensuring continuous 
improvement, and at the time of induction, providing basic 
safety trainings to all employees and workers at all our 
manufacturing sites.
Your Company has a comprehensive EHS manual 
“KAVACH 3.0” comprising the policies, procedures and 
work instructions and it has been implemented across all 
the products lines manufacturing sites.
To strengthen the EHS culture, under corporate EHS, Your 
Company initiated and conducted various campaigns and 
awareness programmes such as Near Miss Reporting, Hand 
and Finger Injury Control & Prevention, and road safety 
under Behavioural-Based Safety (“BBS”). Additionally, 
manufacturing sites are also conducting EHS training 
programmes periodically to enhance EHS activities.
Your Company is committed to conserving and enhancing 
the EHS culture. CGCEL owned all manufacturing sites 
has conducted the surveillance audit for its Integrated 
Management System (“IMS”) certification which comprises 
ISO14001:2015, ISO45001:2018 and ISO9001:2015 which 
is an important milestone for continuous improvement for 
an organisation.
Corporate EHS has initiated and conducted quantitative 
self-assessments on various EHS topics like BIS14489:2018, 
Fire safety, Fire Load Calculations and Electrical Safety for 
CGCEL manufacturing sites. Annual EHS audit programme 
has been kicked off, which focuses on manufacturing sites, 
central warehouses and regional sales offices.
Closure of safety audit observations is ensured by 
following the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) cycle and 
implementing effective Corrective and Preventive 
Actions (“CAPA”) within a reasonable timeframe, thereby 
continuously improving safety practices and mitigating 
risks. The observations are also shared amongst units for 
cross-learning and improvement. Learnings from other 
organisation incidents and taking preventive actions 
are also initiated as a proactive approach in ensuring 
safety performance.
A comprehensive EHS-based Leading and Lagging 
Indicator dashboard is being prepared and followed 
across all manufacturing sites on a monthly basis to 
capture unit-wise KPI performance, facilitating proactive 
monitoring of safety metrics. Monthly EHS meetings 
are conducted to discuss unit performance, fostering 
collaboration and continuous improvement in safety 
practices. EHS meetings are being conducted to promote 
cross- learning between Manufacturing units, focusing 
on conserving natural resources through initiatives like 
water and electricity consumption reduction, and effective 
management of hazardous wastes. Additionally, safety 
fronts including accident incident details with investigation 
report are discussed, alongwith onsite emergency and 
preparedness plan through conducting mock drill and fire 
drill on set frequency etc. ensuring a proactive approach 
to safety and environmental management.
A brief on EHS programmes of CGCEL is as under:
39.1	Environment – a green pursuit
Your Company is committed to fostering a culture 
of sustainable progress across the organisation. On 
account, Key Result Areas (“KRAs”) are identified and 
fixed, with monthly tracking under leading and lagging 
indicators of EHS.
Moreover, your Company is highly focused on reducing 
its carbon footprint by manufacturing world class 
energy efficient products and adopting sustainable 
packaging concept.
39.2	Reduction in energy consumption
Under energy reduction programme, your Company has 
achieved an approximately 56.29% reduction in electricity 
consumption. During Financial Year 2023-24, the overall 
energy consumption was 19745 GJ against Financial Year 
2022-23 which was 35074 GJ. This significant achievement 
is basis to various energy conservation activities, closure 
of energy incentive process of glass plant at Baroda and 
the transition of using of natural gas as a source of energy 
instead of using GSEB power.
Similarly, the Pump unit in Ahmednagar has initiated 
the sustainable product development by innovating the 
solar pump category to use renewable source of energy. 
Additionally, the existing solar panels sourced energy are 
used for street lighting canteen blower continuous load 
totaling to approximately ~8 KW load.
Until July 2023, the Domex Line operation at Baddi Unit 
I was active which resulted in electricity reduction of 
0.0077 KW/Unit of production. Subsequently, in October 
2023, the production from Unit-I was transferred to 
Unit-II.
The ongoing electricity savings of 7 KW per day in Fans 
Baddi Unit-I and Unit-II - are attributed to the installation 
of new grinding machinery in January 2023. The ongoing 
electricity savings of 7 KW per day in Fans Baddi Unit-I 
and Unit-II - are attributed to the installation of 2 (Two) new 
grinding machinery in Financial Year 2023-24. Furthermore, 
as part of our energy-efficient initiatives, we have replaced 
114 (One Hundred and Fourteen) conventional fans with 
BLDC fans at our manufacturing site.
In the Financial Year 2023-24, our electricity consumption 
reached 2,56,852 KWH for Baddi-II. Comparatively, in the 
same period of the previous Financial Year 2022-23, the 
consumption was 2,01,558 KWH. Notably, the production 
output during the Financial Year 2023-24 is 26,51,482 
units; compared to 19,11,232 units in the Financial Year 
2022-23. This production enhancement is purely basis to 
start up of 2 shift in the Baddi-II.
In the Financial Year 2023-24 year-to-date (“YTD”), 
our electricity consumption reached 2,30,180 KWH. 
Comparatively, in the same period of the previous 
Financial Year 2022-23 (till December), the consumption 
was 2, 22,380 KWH. Notably, the production output during 
the Financial Year 2023-24 YTD is 21,67,217 units (at 0.10 
168
169
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
KW per fan produced), compared to 18,43,379 units (at 
0.12 KW per fan produced) in the Financial Year 2022-23. 
This data reflects a commendable 1.4% reduction in KW 
per unit of production.
Apart from above Baddi-II has reduced electricity 
consumption per unit from 0.105 KWH/ unit of production 
to 0.099 KWH/ unit of production for Financial Year 
2023-24. This was achieved by replacement of induction 
motor fan to BLDC fan and removing exhaust fans from 
Gold Line Fan Hangers and high Bay lights on shop 
floor and installed station wise LED battens. Baddi-III in 
Financial Year 2023-24 there is 0.053 0.066 KWH/ LED 
power consumed against the Financial Year 2022-23 
which was 0.0325 KWH/ LED. This is due to the reduction 
of production volume and SMT and extrusion machine 
installation for inhouse batten housing production.
39.3	Reduction in water consumption
During Financial Year 2023-24, the volume of water 
withdrawal amounted to 67,731 KL, compared to 68,767 KL in 
Financial Year 2022-23; reflecting significant reduction 
of 0.98%. This reduction is attributed to unit specific 
initiatives as outlined below;
•	 Pump unit- Ahmednagar initiated the water conservation 
programme by driving the waterless urinal and arial 
taps provision in factory saved up to ~200 KL water 
per annum.
•	 Baddi unit I- Due to reduction in production volume and 
fluctuated labour numbers during Financial Year 2023-
24 the overall water consumption raised to 679 KL (55.87 
ltr / person/ day) and Financial Year 2022-23 which was 
388 KL of water consumed (25.52 Ltr/ Person/ Day). 
Further unit initiated the project on water line leakage 
repair and maintenance to control wastage of water.
•	 Baddi Fans II has consumed water during Financial 
Year 2023-24 is 3,001 KL approx. 53.36 Lt/ Person/ 
Day as compare to Financial Year 2022-23 which was 
1,916.4 KL and the ratio 41.72 Ltr/ Person/ Day. The 
water consumption is reported high due to the second 
shift start up and increase in the contractual strength. 
Further in water conversation front unit has installed 
auto shutoff valve on rooftop storage tanks and re-
routing of pipelines to prevent water losses.
•	 Baddi Lighting Unit III, in Financial Year 2023-24 
reported water consumption 1,849 KL for Financial 
Year 2023- 24 & the ratio was 45.56 Ltr/ Person/ Day 
against the Financial Year 2022-23 water consumption 
was 2090 KL and 35.245 Ltr/ Person/ Day. The sudden 
hike of overall water consumption is due to the 
process water use in extrusion machine installation for 
inhouse production of batten housing. Further unit has 
conducted awareness sessions among all employees 
to reduce and/ or conserve the water resource and unit 
has identified and controlled all water line leakages from 
the plant.
39.4	Hazardous waste reduction and management
The Company’s operational units ensure that all 
hazardous waste is sent to the authorised disposal facility/
recycler approved by the State Pollution Control Board. In 
the Financial Year 2023-24 organisation has successfully 
achieved the EPR E-waste authorisation from Central 
Pollution Control Board (“CPCB”) and processed 75% of 
the total target obligation. CGCEL has channelised 100% 
of plastic waste and fulfilled CPCB target of Financial Year 
2023-24.
Under Extended Producer Responsibility (“EPR”) 
plastic waste management obligation, your Company 
is in process of issuing agreements to channelise 100% 
of plastic waste to fulfill CPCB target of Financial Year 
2023-24. Additionally, your Company has developed the 
substitute for pump packaging to eliminate the use of 
thermocol & plastic bags. Furthermore, in consideration 
of non-hazardous waste generation, there has been a 
reduction of 21.38% in Financial Year 2023-24 quantum, 
amounting to 1,322.95 MT compared to 1,682.67 MT in 
Financial Year 2022-23.
39.5	Safety
The Company’s EHS policy is absolute in its 
commitment to integrating EHS considerations as 
a top most priority throughout the organisation. In 
the Financial Year 2023-24, there is zero reportable 
injuries, reflecting our dedication to safety and 
well-being.
Further, Corporate EHS have strengthened our 
commitment, focusing on enhancing EHS orientation, 
conducting safety system assessments across 
manufacturing sites, and continuously improving to 
establish a sustainable, injury free workplace. We have 
diligently revised and developed various Standard 
Operating Procedure (“SOPs”) including Hazard 
Identification and Risk Assessment, Environmental 
Impact Assessment, Work permitting, Contract Safety 
Management, and Incident investigation, among 
others, among others, to ensure comprehensive EHS 
management across all facets of our operations.
The Company’s manufacturing facilities prioritises strict 
adherence to all rules and regulations outlined in Fire No 
Objection Certificate (“NOC”), ensuring the safety of our 
personnel and assets. Regular fire drills are conducted 
as per defined frequencies to ensure preparedness and 
swift response in the event of an emergency. During 
the Financial Year 2023-24, there were no reported fire 
incidents across our organisation.
Regular safety walks and meetings, are conducted and 
a robust review mechanism ensures timely closure of 
open points. Periodic internal and external audits verifies 
compliances and there were no fatalities or Lost Time 
Injuries (“LTIs”) for Financial Year 2023-24.
Organisation is committed to building a safety culture by 
implementing stringent EHS Policy, Corporate SOPs, a 
Work Permit System (“WPS”) and Daily Toolbox talk.
Regular interaction is facilitated through Safety Committee 
Meetings, while initiatives such as fire-safety drills, 
safety week celebration, and ongoing safety training to 
all employees begin with adequate induction. Internal 
plant safety audits are conducted and all actions and 
recommendations are also recorded, evaluated and acted 
upon by respective EHS leaders.
	
Key Safety programmes implemented during the 
year include
•	 Provision of auto braking in vertical impeller balancing 
machine which enhanced ergonomics safety aspects 
of the operators in Pump unit Ahmednagar.
•	 Side Guarding and Fencing provided in nailing area and 
provision of Tempera Socket in Type Test Area.
•	 Separate Lightning arrester for pump paint storage area.
•	 54th National Safety Week celebration is planned 
across all Units by organising various initiatives 
and programmes.
•	 Leading lagging EHS indicators we are tracking 
separately and review those at PL and corporate 
level regularly.
•	 Fire Equipment Operation Awareness and Training and 
Mock/ Fire Drill.
•	 Corporate EHS initiatives on road safety campaign, 
World Environment Day celebration, assessment drive 
by corporate EHS i.e., Electrical safety assessment, 
IS14489 assessment, Machine safety and fire safety.
•	 Corporate EHS driving campaigns on Near Miss 
Reporting, Hand & Finger Injury control & Prevention 
and road safety etc.
•	 IMS ISO14001, ISO45001 and ISO9001 re-certification 
audit completed at Goa & Baddi units.
•	 Increase in sell of star rated pumps products in this H1, 
resulted in more energy savings (17.88%).
39.6 Health
During COVID-19 pandemic, your Company has prioritised 
the health and safety of all employees, implementing 
rigorous measures to ensure their well-being. Corporate 
EHS has initiated monthly health perspective training and 
awareness programmes with the support of “Doc-Online”, 
witnessing excellent participation from ‘sales & non-sales 
employees in online presentation.
	
Packaging Materials and Process
The Company has adopted recycling and reuse of metal 
bins for the handling of semi-finished components 
for selected categories, thereby eliminating wooden 
packaging. The Company is investing to secure cargo 
during dispatches by improving loading procedures.
During the year, your Company has received multiple 
awards towards its excellence in EHS which are as follows;
Award
Authority 
Division/ Unit
8th Annual HSE Excellence & 
ESG Global Award 2023
OHSSAI 
Foundation
Fans Division- 
Baddi 2.
8th Annual HSE Excellence & 
ESG Global Award 2023
OHSSAI 
Foundation
Lighting Division- 
Baddi 3.
Greentech 
Environmental 
Excellence Award 2023
Greentech 
Foundation
Fans Division- 
Bethora, Goa
11th GSS-National Safety Award Fire and 
Safety 
Forum
Fans Division- 
Bethora, Goa
Gomant Sarvochcha Suraksha 
Puraskar in Category ‘C’
Green 
Triangle 
Society
Fans Division- 
Bethora, Goa
Uttam Suraksha Adhikari award Green 
Triangle 
Society
Fans Division- 
Bethora, Goa
21st Greentech Safety Award 
2023 for Safety Excellence
Greentech 
Foundation
Pumps Division 
Ahmednagar 
(Additional award)
International Safety Award 2024 British Safety 
Council
Pumps Division 
Ahmednagar 
(Additional
40.	CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
(“CSR”) FRAMEWORK AND VISION
Your Company believes that economic value and social 
value are inter-linked, and it has a commitment towards 
the inter-dependent ecosystem consisting of various 
stakeholders. In addition to that Corporates have a 
significant role to play in bringing about social change and 
Crompton has kept its social and development mandate 
flexible and responsive to development challenges.
Your Company has chosen the grant-making approach, 
strategically selecting the implementation partners with 
required expertise in their respective sector and strong 
community connection to effectively impact the lives of the 
end beneficiary. Aligned with its long-term commitment 
170
171
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
to create positive and shared value for its stakeholders, 
the CSR programmes addresses developmental priorities 
as identified by the Act, aiming to ignite a positive 
social change.
	
The Company’s CSR initiatives have undergone significant 
evolution, primarily executed through the Crompton CSR 
Foundation, focusing on key areas such as skill and 
entrepreneurship development, water conservation, 
community care, and employee engagement. For detailed 
information, please refer to on page number 84 of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
The Company has constituted a CSR Committee in terms 
of the requirements of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with the rules made thereunder. Details of the 
same is provided in the Corporate Governance Report 
which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report. The 
Company’s CSR Policy is available on the website of 
the Company and can be accessed at https://reports.
crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/U6kk0A8Uoy_
Corporate-Social-Responsibility-Policy-1.pdf
The Chief Financial Officer of the Company has certified 
that CSR funds disbursed for the projects have been 
utilised for the purposes and in the manner as approved 
by the Board.
41.	SEXUAL HARASSMENT AT WORKPLACE
As a responsible employer, your Company is deeply 
committed to preventing and addressing sexual 
harassment at workplace, striving to cultivate a healthy 
and safe working environment that enables employees 
to work without fear of prejudice and gender bias. The 
Company maintains a zero-tolerance towards any act on 
the part of any executive, which fall under the ambit of 
“sexual harassment” at workplace and is fully committed 
to uphold and maintain the dignity of every woman 
executive working in the Company. Additionally, your 
Company continuously works towards fostering a work 
culture that promotes respect and dignity of all women 
employees throughout the organisation, aiming to provide 
an empowering and supportive atmosphere at workplace.
The Company has complied with provisions relating to 
the constitution of Internal Complaints Committee (“ICC”) 
under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“the 
POSH Act”). The ICC includes an external member who 
serves as an independent POSH consultant with relevant 
expertise. Furthermore, the Company has formulated 
a comprehensive policy on prevention, prohibition 
and redressal against sexual harassment of women at 
workplace, which alings with the POSH Act. This policy 
covers all employees including permanent, contractual, 
temporary and trainees. The said policy has been made 
available on the internal portal of the Company as well 
as the website of the Company which can be accessed 
at https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/
UxKXXDfbtE_PoSH-at-Workplace-19May2023_updated.
pdf
Your Company has taken proactive measures to promote 
awareness and compliance with the POSH Act, including 
conducting e-learning sessions on POSH for all regular 
and new employees. Additionally, awareness programmes 
on POSH have been organised through out the year 
to sensitise the employees on upholding the dignity of 
their female colleagues in the workplace, reaching all 
employees across various locations. Moreover, a Toll-Free 
Number has been provided to facilitate the telephonic 
registration of any POSH complaints, further enhancing 
accessibility and support for employees.
The details of complaint(s) received and action taken by 
the Company are presented before the Audit Committee 
of the Board of Directors. During the year under review, 
3 (Three) cases of sexual harassment were reported, all 
of which were thoroughly investigated and resolved in 
accordance with the provisions of the POSH Act.
42.	REGISTRAR & SHARE TRANSFER AGENT 
(“R&T/ RTA”)
M/s. KFin Technologies Limited (Formerly Kfin 
Technologies Private Limited) is the RTA Agent of your 
Company. Their contact details are mentioned in the 
Report on Corporate Governance which forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
43.	LISTING
The equity shares of your Company are listed on BSE Ltd. 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) 
(collectively referred to as “Stock Exchanges”). The Non-
Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”) of the Company are 
listed on the Debt Segment of NSE.
Your Company has paid the Listing fees for Equity Shares 
to both the Stock Exchanges and Listing fees for NCDs 
to the NSE for the Financial Year 2023-24 and 2024-25.
44.	DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
Your Directors would like to assure the Members that the 
Financial Statements for the year under review confirm in 
their entirety the requirements of the Act and guidelines 
issued by SEBI. The financial statements are prepared in 
accordance with the IND AS, pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 134(3)(c) of the Act.
To the best of their knowledge and based on the 
information and explanations received from the Company, 
your Directors confirm that:
1.	
in preparation of the Annual Financial Statements 
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024, the 
applicable accounting standards have been followed 
and there are no material departures.
2.	
they have selected the accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgements 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so 
as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Company at the end of the Financial Year and of 
the profit of the Company for that period.
3.	
they have taken proper and sufficient care towards 
the maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and for preventing and detecting fraud 
and other irregularities.
4.	
the annual accounts are prepared on a going 
concern basis.
5.	
they have laid down internal financial controls, which 
are adequate and are operating effectively.
6.	
they have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable 
laws, and such systems are adequate and 
operating effectively.
45.	INTEGRATED REPORTING
The Company has diligently prepared an Integrated 
Annual Report, incorporating a comprehensive array of 
financial and non-financial information. This report aims 
to provide Members with the necessary insights to make 
informed decisions and gain a better understanding of 
the Company’s long-term perspective. The Report also 
touches upon various aspects such as organisation’s 
strategy, governance framework, performance and 
prospects of value creation based on the 6 (Six) forms 
of capital viz. Financial Capital, Manufacturing Capital, 
Intellectual Capital, Human Capital, Social & Relationship 
Capital and Natural Capital.
46.	GENERAL
Your Directors state that no disclosure or reporting 
is required in respect of the following matters as there 
were no transactions on these items during the year 
under review:
•	 Issue of equity shares with differential rights as to 
dividend, voting or otherwise as per Section 43(a)(ii) 
of the Act;
•	 Issue of Shares including Sweat Equity Shares to the 
employees of the Company under any scheme as per 
provisions of Section 54(1)(d) of the Act;
•	 The Company does not have any scheme of provision of 
money for the purchase of its own shares by employees 
or by trustees for the benefit of employees;
•	 No instances of non-exercising of voting rights in 
respect of shares purchased directly by employees 
under a scheme pursuant to Section 67(3) of the Act;
•	 Neither the MD & CEO nor the Executive Director of the 
Company receive any remuneration or commission from 
any of its Subsidiaries;
•	 No fraud has been reported by the Auditors to the Audit 
Committee or the Board;
•	 Disclosure of reason for difference between valuation 
done at the time of taking loan from bank and at the 
172
173
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY
ANNEXURE 1
1.	 PREAMBLE
	
Regulation 43(A) of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”) requires 
the top 1,000 listed entities based on their market 
capitalisation calculated on March 31 of every financial 
year to formulate a Dividend Distribution Policy which 
shall be disclosed in their Integrated Annual Reports and 
on their websites. a Dividend Distribution Policy.
	
The Company being one of the top one thousand listed 
companies as per the market capitalisation as on the last 
day of the immediately preceding Financial Year, frames 
this Policy to comply with the requirements of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
2.	 PHILOSOPHY/ OBJECTIVE
	
The Dividend Policy of the Company aims to strike 
a balance between the dual objectives of rewarding 
shareholders through Dividends and ploughing back 
earnings to support sustained growth.
	
The objective of this Policy is to reward the shareholders 
of the Company by sharing a portion of the profits, whilst 
also ensuring that sufficient funds are retained for future 
growth of the Company. Towards this end, the Policy 
lays down parameters to be considered by the Board 
of Directors of the Company for declaration of Dividend 
from time to time. Through this Policy, the Company would 
endeavour to maintain a consistent approach to Dividend 
pay-out plans.
3.	 DEFINITIONS
	
“Act” shall mean the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
rules made thereunder, including any modifications, 
amendments or re-enactment thereof.
	
“Applicable Laws” shall mean the Companies Act, 
2013 and the rules made thereunder, the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015; as amended 
from time to time and such other act, rules or regulations 
which provides for the distribution of Dividend.
	
“Board or Board of Directors” shall mean the Board of 
Directors of the Company.
	
“Company” shall mean Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited and wherever the context requires, 
shall signify the Company acting through its Board.
	
“Dividend” shall mean Dividend as defined under 
Companies Act, 2013.
	
“Financial Year” shall mean the period beginning from 
April 01, of every year to March 31, of the succeeding year.
	
“Policy or this Policy” shall mean this Dividend 
Distribution Policy and as may be amended from time 
to time.
	
“SEBI Regulations” shall mean the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 together with 
the circulars issued thereunder, including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time 
being in force.
4.	 PARAMETERS FOR DECLARATION 
OF DIVIDEND
	
In line with the philosophy stated above, the Board of 
Directors of the Company, shall consider the following 
parameters for declaration of Dividend:
	
FINANCIAL PARAMETERS/ INTERNAL FACTORS:
•	 Consolidated net operating profit after tax;
•	 Accumulated reserves;
•	 Working capital requirements;
•	 Capital expenditure requirements;
•	 Resources required to fund acquisitions and/ or 
new businesses;
•	 Cash flow required to meet contingencies;
•	 Outstanding borrowings;
•	 Past Dividend Trends (Whenever applicable);
•	 Earnings outlook;
•	 Expected future capital/ liquidity requirements;
•	 Any other relevant factors and material events.
	
EXTERNAL FACTORS:
•	 Prevailing legal requirements, regulatory conditions 
or restrictions laid down under the Applicable Laws 
including tax laws;
•	 Dividend pay-out ratios of companies in the 
same industry.
time of one-time settlement. There was no instance of 
onetime settlement with any Bank or Financial Institution;
•	 There was no revision in the Financial Statements 
and Board’s Report of the Company during the year 
under review;
•	 There has been no change in the nature of business of 
the Company as on the date of this report; and
•	 There are no proceedings, either filed by the Company 
or filed against Company, pending under the Insolvency 
and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 as amended, before 
National Company Law Tribunal or other courts during 
the Financial Year 2023-24.
47.	RIGHTS OF MEMBERS
•	 Right to participate in, and to be sufficiently informed of 
decisions concerning fundamental corporate changes;
•	 Opportunity to participate effectively and vote in 
General Meetings;
•	 Being informed of the rules, including voting procedures 
that govern General Meetings;
•	 Opportunity to ask questions to the Board of Directors 
at General Meetings;
•	 Effective Member participation in key corporate 
governance decisions such as election of Members 
of Board of Directors, appointment of Statutory 
Auditors, Declaration of Dividend, Adoption of financial 
statements etc;
•	 Exercise of ownership rights by all the Members, 
including institutional investors;
•	 Adequate mechanism to address the grievances of 
the Members;
•	 Protection of minority Members from abusive actions by, 
or in the interest of, controlling Members acting either 
directly or indirectly, and effective means of redress;
•	 To receive dividends and other corporate benefits like 
rights, bonus etc. once approved;
•	 To inspect statutory registers and documents, including 
minutes books of the general meetings, as permitted 
under law; and
•	 Any other rights as specified in the statutory enactments 
from time to time.
48.	ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Your Directors place on record their deep appreciation to 
all the employees of the Company posted at all locations 
and levels for their whole-hearted efforts as well as 
collective dedication, commitment and contribution, which 
is vital in achieving the overall growth of the Company.
Your Directors would also like to thank the vendors, 
suppliers, bankers, financial institutions, employee unions, 
members, customers, dealers, Government authorities, 
Regulatory authorities, stock exchanges and all other 
business associates, consultants’ and other stakeholders 
for their continued cooperation and support extended to 
the Company and the Management.
We look forward to continued support of all these 
associates in the future.
49.	CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
Statements in the Board’s Report and the Management 
Discussion and Analysis Report describing the Company’s 
objectives, projections, estimates, expectations or 
predictions may be “forward looking statements” within 
the meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations.
Actual results could differ materially from those expressed 
or implied. Important factors that could make a difference 
to the Company’s operations include global and Indian 
demand supply conditions, finished goods prices, 
feed stock availability and prices, cyclical demand and 
pricing in the Company’s principal markets, changes 
in government regulations, tax regimes, economic 
developments within India and the countries within which 
the Company conducts business and other factors such 
as litigation and labour negotiations. The Company is 
not obliged to publicly amend, modify or revise any 
forward-looking statement, on the basis of any subsequent 
development, information or events or otherwise.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
D Sundaram
Place: Mumbai		
	
	
	
	
Chairman
Date: May 16, 2024	 	
	
	
	
DIN:00016304
174
175
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
•	 Any significant changes in macro-economic 
environment affecting India or the geographies in which 
the Company operates, or the business of the Company 
or of its clients;
•	 Any political, tax and regulatory changes in the 
geographies in which the Company operates;
•	 Any significant change in the business or technological 
environment resulting in the Company making 
significant investments to effect the necessary changes 
to its business model;
•	 Any changes in the competitive environment requiring 
significant investment;
•	 Inflation rate;
•	 Cost of external financing;
•	 Any other relevant factors and material events.
5.	 UTILISATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS
	
The profits earned by the Company can either be retained 
in business and used for acquisitions, expansion or 
diversification, or it can be distributed to shareholders. 
The Company may choose to retain a part of its profits and 
distribute the balance among its shareholders as Dividend 
after having due regard to the parameters laid down in 
this Policy.
6.	 DIVIDEND PAYOUT
	
The dividend payout in each Financial Year, including 
interim dividends, will be decided by the Board keeping 
in mind the above-mentioned criteria. Special dividends, 
if any, will be declared in addition to the regular 
dividend payout.
7.	 CIRCUMSTANCES 
UNDER 
WHICH 
THE SHAREHOLDERS MAY OR MAY 
NOT EXPECT DIVIDEND
	
The shareholders of the Company may or may not expect 
Dividend under the following circumstances:
	
i.	
Whenever it undertakes or proposes to undertake 
a significant expansion project requiring higher 
allocation of capital.
	
ii.	
Significant higher working capital requirements 
adversely impacting free cash flow.
	
iii.	
Whenever it undertakes any acquisitions or 
restructuring or joint ventures requiring significant 
allocation or reduction of capital.
	
iv.	
Whenever it proposes to utilise surplus cash for buy-
back of securities or
	
v.	
In the event of inadequacy of profits or whenever the 
Company has incurred losses.
8.	 DIVIDEND ELIGIBILITY
	
The Company has only one class of equity shareholders 
and does not have any preference share capital.
9.	 POLICY REVIEW, UPDATES AND 
AMENDMENTS
	
This policy will be reviewed annually by the Board to ensure 
that it meets the objectives of the relevant legislation and 
needs of the Company. The Board has the right to change/ 
amend the policy as may be expedient taking into account 
the law for the time being in force.
	
Any changes or revisions to the policy will be disseminated 
on the Company’s Website.
	
In the event of any amendment(s), clarification(s), 
circular(s), provision(s) etc. issued by the relevant 
authorities, not being consistent with the provisions laid 
down under this Policy, then the same shall prevail upon 
the provisions hereunder and this Policy shall stand 
amended accordingly.
	
Declaration of Dividend on the basis of parameters in 
addition to the elements of this Policy or resulting in 
amendment of any element or the Policy will be regarded 
as deviation. Any such deviation on elements of this Policy 
in extraordinary circumstances, when deemed necessary 
in the interests of the Company, along with the rationale 
will be disclosed in the Annual Report by the Board.
10.	EFFECTIVE DATE
	
The policy was first approved by the Board of Directors on 
October 25, 2016 and has been amended by the Board 
of Directors on February 02, 2023 and is effective from 
February 02, 2023.
11.	DISCLOSURE
	
This Policy, as approved by the Board of Directors, 
at its meeting held on October 25, 2016, and 
amended thereafter shall be disclosed in the Annual 
Reports and hosted on the website of the Company 
www.crompton.co.in
12.	CONFLICT IN POLICY
	
In the event of any conflict between this Policy and the 
provisions contained in the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Regulations shall prevail.
FORM AOC-1
ANNEXURE 2
(Pursuant to first proviso to Sub-Section (3) of Section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries/ associate companies/ joint ventures)
PART “A”: SUBSIDIARIES
Sl. No.
Particulars
Details
1.
Name of the subsidiary
(i)	 Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited (“NLPPL”)
(ii)	 Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited (“PLPPL”)
(iii)	 Crompton CSR Foundation (“CCF”)
(iv)	 Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited (“Butterfly”)
2.
Reporting period for the subsidiary 
concerned, if different from the holding 
Company’s reporting period
NA
3.
Reporting currency and Exchange rate as 
on the last date of the relevant Financial 
Year in the case of foreign subsidiaries
Not Applicable as the above-mentioned subsidiaries are Indian Subsidiaries
4.
Share capital
(i)	 NLPPL: 	 Authorised Capital: I 10.00 Crore
	
	
Paid-Up Capital: I 7.50 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL: 	 Authorised Capital: I 10.00 Crore  
	
Paid-Up Capital: I 6.70 Crore
(iii)	 CCF: 	
Authorised Capital: NA*  
	
Paid-Up Capital: NA*
(iv)	 Butterfly: Authorised Capital: I 40.00 Crore  
	
Paid-Up Capital: I 17.88 Crore
5.
Reserves & Surplus
(i)	 NLPPL: I 1.88 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL: I 1.88 Crore
(iii)	 CCF: Nil
(iv)	 Butterfly: I 274.31 Crore
6.
Total Assets
(i)	 NLPPL: I 22.94 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL: I 21.69 Crore
(iii)	 CCF: Nil
(iv)	 Butterfly: I 535.90 Crore
7.
Total Liabilities
(i)	 NLPPL: I 13.56 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL: I 13.12 Crore
(iii)	 CCF: Nil
(iv)	 Butterfly: I 243.71 Crore 
8.
Investments
(i)	 NLPPL: I 15.83 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL: I 12.96 Crore
(iii)	 CCF: Nil
(iv)	 Butterfly: I 32.17 Crore
9.
Turnover
(i)	 NLPPL: I 0.96 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL: I 1.02 Crore
(iii)	 CCF: Nil
(iv)	 Butterfly: I 931.28 Crore
10.
Profit before taxation
(i)	 NLPPL: I 1.34 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL: I 0.87 Crore
(iii)	 CCF: I (1.44) Crore
(iv)	 Butterfly: I 5.63 Crore
11.
Provision for Taxation
(i)	 NLPPL: I 0.34 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL: I 0.22 Crore
(iii)	 CCF: Nil
(iv)	 Butterfly: I (1.76) Crore
12.
Profit after Taxation
(i)	 NLPPL: I 1.00 Crore
(ii)	 PLPPL: I 0.65 Crore
(iii)	 CCF: I (1.44) Crore
(iv)	 Butterfly: I 7.39 Crore
13.
Proposed dividend
(i)	 NLPPL: Nil
(ii)	 PLPPL: Nil
(iii)	 CCF: Nil
(iv)	 Butterfly: Nil
176
177
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Sl. No.
Particulars
Details
14.
% of shareholding
(i)	 NLPPL: 100% 
(ii)	 PLPPL: 100%
(iii)	 CCF: 0*
(iv)	 Butterfly: 75%#
*Crompton CSR Foundation, a Company incorporated under Section 8 of the Act (being a Company limited by guarantee not having share capital) 
primarily with an objective of undertaking/ channelising the CSR activities of the Company, is a subsidiary of the Company with effect from May 
01, 2019. Based on the control assessment carried out by the Company, the same is not consolidated as per Ind AS 110.
# Butterfly became a subsidiary of the Company w.e.f. March 30, 2022. During the year in accordance with regulations 3(1) and 4 of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 2011, after acquisition of 55% stake of Butterfly on 
March 30, 2022, an open offer was made by the Company for acquisition of upto 26% of the issued and paid-up equity share capital of 
Butterfly from its public Members. The open offer was fully subscribed and therefore the Company’s holding increased from 55% to 81% w.e.f. 
June 4, 2022. To comply with the minimum public shareholding (“MPS”) requirements mandated under Rule 19A of the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Rules, 1957, as amended, read with Regulation 38 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 2015, the Company divested 6.00% of the issued 
and paid-up equity share capital of Butterfly on September 20, 2022, & September 21, 2022, through Offer for Sale (“OFS”) mechanism, which 
resulted into decrease in holding from 81% to 75%.
1. 	
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: Nil
2. 	
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year: Nil
PART “B”: ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES
Statement pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Act related to Associate Companies and Joint Ventures
Not Applicable as there are no associates and joint ventures
Name of Associates/ Joint Ventures
1.
Latest Audited Balance Sheet Date
NA
2.
Shares of Associate/ Joint Ventures held by the Company at the year end
NA
No.
NA
Amount of Investment in Associates/ Joint Venture
NA
Extent of Holding %
NA
3.
Description of how there is significant influence
NA
4.
Reason why the Associate/ Joint Venture is not consolidated
NA
5.
Net worth attributable to shareholding as per latest audited Balance Sheet
NA
6.
Profit/ Loss for the year:
NA
i.	
Considered in Consolidation
NA
ii.	
Not Considered in Consolidation
NA
1.	
Names of associates or joint ventures which are yet to commence operations: Nil
2.	
Names of associates or joint ventures which have been liquidated or sold during the year: Nil
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
D Sundaram
Chairman
DIN:00016304
Promeet Ghosh
MD & CEO
DIN:05307658
P R Ramesh
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
DIN:01915274
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Chief Financial Officer
Rashmi Khandelwal
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 16, 2024
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
(“CSR”) ACTIVITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2023-24
[Pursuant to Section 135 of the Act read with Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, as amended]
1.	  Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company 
	
Company’s CSR strategy framework is based on the principles of ‘Responsible Business’ and ‘Shared Value’. The CSR 
programme framework is both in line with the Company’s long-term commitment to building positive value for the communities 
(including key stakeholders) as well as addresses key developmental priorities as identified by Schedule VII to the Act.
2.	 Composition of CSR Committee
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation/ Nature of  
Directorship
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee attended 
during the year
1.
Mr. Shantanu Khosla 
(DIN:00059877)
Chairman
2
2
2.
Mr. D Sundaram 
(DIN:00016304)
Member
2
2
3.
Ms. Smita Anand 
(DIN:00059228)
Member
2
2
4.
Mr. Promeet Ghosh 
(DIN:05307658)
Member
2
2
5.
Mr. H M Nerurkar*
(DIN:00265887)
Member
2
1
*Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be a Committee Member w.e.f. October 20, 2023, pursuant to his retirement as a Director of the Company.
3.	 Provide the web-link(s) where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR 
Projects approved by the board are disclosed on the website of the Company
•	 Composition of CSR committee: https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/board-committee
•	 CSR Policy: https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/U6kk0A8Uoy_Corporate-Social-Responsibility-Policy-1.pdf
•	 CSR Project: https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/csr
4.	 Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR 
Projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable
Summary of Impact Assessment Reports is available on the website of the Company and can be accessed at 
https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/csr#
Detailed Impact Assessment Reports are also available on the website of the Company and can be accessed at 
https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/csr#
5.	 (a)	
Average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135: K 689.88 Crore
(b)	
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135: K 13.80 Crore
(c)	
Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial Years. Nil
(d)	
Amount required to be set-off for the Financial Year, if any: Nil
(e)	
Total CSR obligation for the Financial Year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: K 13.80 Crore
ANNEXURE 3
178
179
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
6.	
(a)	
Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): K 13.20 Crore
(b)	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: K 0.50 Crore
(c)	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: K 0.11 Crore
(d)	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: K 13.81 Crore
(e)	
CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year:
Amount Unspent (in K)
Total Amount Spent for 
the Financial Year (in K)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR 
Account as per sub-section (6)  
of Section 135
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso to sub-section (5) of Section 135
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
13.81 Crore
NA
	
(f)	
Excess amount for set-off, if any:
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Amount (in K)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135
 13.80 Crore
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
13.81 Crore
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]
 0.01 Crore
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous Financial Years, if any
Nil
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
 0.01 Crore
7.	 Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three 
Financial Years
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sl. 
No.
Preceding Financial 
Year(s)
Amount transferred 
to Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub-section (6) of 
Section 135 (in K)
Balance Amount 
in Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub-section (6) of 
Section 135 (in K)
Amount Spent 
in the Financial 
Year (in K)
Amount transferred to a Fund 
as specified under Schedule 
VII as per second proviso to 
sub‑section (5) of Section 
135, if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial Years 
(in K)
Deficiency, if 
any
Amount (in K)
Date of 
Transfer
1
NA
2
3
8.	 Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social 
Responsibility amount spent in the Financial Year
No
Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent 
in the Financial Year:
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the property or 
asset(s) [including complete address and 
location of the property]
Pin code of the 
property or 
asset(s)
Date of creation
Amount of CSR 
amount spent
Details of entity/ authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
CSR 
registration 
number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
NA
(All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/ Municipal 
Corporation/ Gram Panchayat are to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries)
9.	 Specify the reason(s), if the Company has failed to spend two per cent of the average 
net profit as per sub-section (5) of Section 135 - Not applicable
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
Promeet Ghosh
MD & CEO
DIN:05307658
Shantanu Khosla
Chairman of CSR Committee
DIN:00059877
D Sundaram
Chairman
DIN:00016304
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 16, 2024
180
181
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
FORM NO. AOC -2
ANNEXURE 4
Particulars of contracts/ arrangements made with related parties. 
[Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 8(2)  
of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014]
This form pertains to the disclosure of particulars of contracts/ arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties 
referred to in sub section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transaction under third 
proviso thereto.
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis
The details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024 
are as follows:
Particulars
Nature of 
Relationship Duration of Contract
Date of
Approval by
Board*
Salient  
Terms
Justification 
Date of 
Special 
Resolution
Amount 
paid as 
advances
Amount 
(in Crore)
Nature of Contract
Rendering of services
Butterfly 
Gandhimathi 
Appliances 
Limited 
(“Butterfly”)
Subsidiary
2 years
(June 1, 2022, to 
May 31, 2024)
May 27, 
2022
Secondment 
of 
Employee(s) 
To provide management resource 
for marketing on Secondment to 
Butterfly. (Mr. Anil Gurnani)
NA
Nil
0.61
2 years
(November 1, 2022, 
to October 31, 2024
October 
26, 2022
To provide management resource for 
Human Resources on Secondment 
to Butterfly. (Mr. Rajasekar T.)
0.85
2 years
(November 1, 2022, 
to October 31, 2024)
October 
26, 2022
To provide management resource 
for oversee IT related functions on 
Secondment to Butterfly  
(Mr. Gaurishankar Mathapati)
0.76
2 years
(November 1, 2022, 
to October 31, 2024)
October 
26, 2022
To provide management resource 
for Procurement on Secondment to 
Butterfly (Mr. Vaibhav Kunkolinkar)
0.63
2 years
(February 2, 2023, to 
February 1, 2025)
February 1, 
2023
To provide management resource for 
all Planning & Logistics related 
activities on Secondment to Butterfly
(Ms. Shristi Gupta) 
0.44
2 years
(March 25, 2023, to 
March 24, 2025)
March 25, 
2023
To provide management resource for 
all secretarial related
activities on Secondment to Butterfly. 
(Mr. Viral Sarvaiya)
0.21
2 years
(March 30, 2022, 
to March 29, 2024) 
renewed for further 
2 years March 30, 
2024, to March 29, 
2026
March 
28, 2022, 
Renewed 
on 
February 
14, 2024
To provide management resource 
to oversee business operations and 
provide the identified services on 
Secondment to Butterfly. 
(Mr. Rangarajan Sriram) 
2.90
2 years
(March 30, 2022, to 
March 29, 2024)
March 28, 
2022
To provide management resource 
to oversee finance operations on 
Secondment to Butterfly. 
(Ms. Ananda Shalini) 
0.56
2 years 
(August 12, 2023, to 
August 11, 2025)
August 12, 
2023
To provide management resources 
to oversee finance related activities 
on Secondment to Butterfly. 
(Mr. Rishabh Bengani)
0.24
2 years
(November 9, 2023, 
to November 8, 
2025)
November 
3, 2023
To provide management resources 
for oversee finance functions on 
Secondment to Butterfly. 
(Mr. V A Joseph)
0.62
*All the transaction(s) were approved by the Audit Committee and by the Board wherever required.
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis
Particulars
Nature of 
Relationship
Duration of 
Contract
Date of Approval  
by Board*
Salient Terms
Amount 
(in Crore)
Nature of Contract
Purchase of Goods
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances 
Limited (“Butterfly”)
Subsidiary
April 01, 2023, to 
March 31, 2024
February 1, 2023 
and May 18, 2023
Purchase of Goods
9.67
Sale of Goods
Butterfly
Subsidiary
April 01, 2023, to 
March 31, 2024
February 1, 2023
Sale of Products
0.12
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private 
Limited 
Wholly owned 
subsidiary
April 01, 2023, to 
March 31, 2024
February 1, 2023
Management Services
0.05
Nexustar Lighting Project Private 
Limited 
Wholly owned 
subsidiary
April 01, 2023, to 
March 31, 2024
February 1, 2023
Management Services
0.05
Leasing of property
Butterfly
Subsidiary
August 11, 2023, 
to March 31, 
2024
August 11, 2023
Consideration for usage of warehouse 
space of the Company
0.05
Butterfly
Subsidiary
April 01, 2023, to 
March 31, 2024
February 1, 2023
Consideration for usage of trademark of 
the Company (Royalty Fees)
0.57
Availing or rendering of services
Butterfly
Subsidiary
April 01, 2023, to 
March 31, 2024
February 1, 2023
Management fees for legal support
0.20
Butterfly
Subsidiary
August 11, 2023, 
to March 31, 
2024
August 11, 2023
Manpower Sharing Service
0.43
Opera Gratia Private Limited
Director (Mr. 
Mathew Job) 
was a member 
of Opera 
Gratia Private 
Limited
April 01, 2023, to 
March 31, 2024
February 1, 2023
Defectives inspection services
0.33
Crompton CSR Foundation
Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary
April 01, 2023, to 
March 31, 2024
May 18, 2023
Undertaking the CSR activities/ projects 
of the Company
13.81
Total
*All the transaction(s) were approved by the Audit Committee and by the Board.
Note:
The transactions mentioned above are not material as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended. However, the same is disclosed under AOC-2 as a matter of good corporate governance practice.
182
183
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
ANNEXURE 5
FORM MR-3
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2024
(Pursuant to Section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule No. 9 of the Companies  
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014)
To,
The Members,
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited (hereinafter called ‘the Company’). 
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided 
us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/
statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company, to the extent the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorised 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, 
the explanations and clarifications given to us and the 
representations made by the Management and considering 
the relaxations granted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs 
and Securities and Exchange Board of India, we hereby report 
that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period 
covering the Financial Year ended on March 31, 2024 generally 
complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and 
also that the Company has proper Board processes and 
compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner 
and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records made available to us and 
maintained by the Company for the Financial Year ended on 
March 31, 2024 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) and the rules 
made thereunder;
(ii)	
The Securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed 	
thereunder;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and 
External Commercial Borrowings;
(v)	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’)
	
(a) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
	
(b) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
	
(c) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018 and amendments from time to time; (Not 
applicable to the Company during the audit period)
	
(d) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
(e) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021;
	
(f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Act and dealing with 
client; (Not applicable to the Company during the 
audit period)
	
(g) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable 
to the Company during the audit period) and
	
(h) 	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not 
applicable to the Company during the audit period)
(vi)	 Other laws specifically applicable to the Company namely
•	 Bureau of Indian Standards. The National Standards 
Body of India
•	 Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Government of India, 
Ministry of Power)
	
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
	
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India with respect to Board 
and General Meetings.
	
(ii) 	 The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company 
with BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited read with the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
	
During the period under review, the Company has 
complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines, standards etc. mentioned above.
We further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with 
proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors 
and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of 
the Board of Directors that took place during the period under 
review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of 
the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at 
least seven days in advance other than those held at shorter 
notice, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further 
information and clarifications on the agenda items before the 
meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting. 
Decisions at the Board Meetings were taken unanimously.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance 
with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period no event occurred 
which had bearing on the Company’s affairs in pursuance 
of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, 
standards etc.
For Parikh & Associates
Company Secretaries 
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 16, 2024 
Mitesh Dhabliwala
Partner
FCS No: 8331 CP No: 9511
UDIN:F008331F000379174 
PR No.: 1129/2021
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of this report.
184
185
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
‘Annexure A’
To, 
The Members, 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in Secretarial records. We believe that the process and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the Compliance of laws, rules and regulations 
and happening of events, etc.
5.	
The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility 
of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Company Secretaries 
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 16, 2024 
Mitesh Dhabliwala
Partner
FCS No: 8331 CP No: 9511
UDIN: F008331F000379174 
PR No.: 1129/2021
Details pertaining to remuneration as required under Section 197(12) 
read with Rule 5(1) of Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
ANNEXURE 6
a)	 The ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the 
employees of the Company for 2023-24
	
The median remuneration of employees of the Company during Financial Year 2023-24 was I 9,20,100 and ratio of the remuneration 
of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the Financial Year 2023-24 is provided in the 
table below:
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation
% increase/ decrease 
in remuneration
Ratio of Remuneration of each 
Director to Median Remuneration 
of employees for Financial Year
1
Mr. Shantanu Khosla 
(DIN:00059877)*#
Non-Executive Director & 
Vice Chairman
(6.53)
99.25
2
Mr. Mathew Job 
(DIN:02922413)&# 
Executive Director & 
Chief Executive Officer
(36.79)
50.85
3
Mr. H M Nerurkar
(DIN:00265887)@
Chairman, Independent
Director^
(9.82)
3.79
4
Mr. D Sundaram
(DIN:00016304)^
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
(2.87)
3.68
5
Mr. P M Murty
(DIN:00011179)^
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
2.15
3.62
6
Ms. Smita Anand
(DIN:00059228)^
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
8.55
2.76
7
Mr. P R Ramesh
(DIN:01915274)^
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
(3.55)
2.76
8
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
(DIN:06992518)^ !
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
159.14
2.62
9
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
(DIN:05307658)$^
Non-Executive Director
5700.73
41.61
10. 
Mr. Anil Chaudhary
(DIN:03213517)^**
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
NA
0.20
11. 
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar
(DIN:00591027)^**
Non-Executive Independent 
Director
NA
0.20
	
*Mr. Shantanu Khosla ceased to the Managing Director w.e.f. April 30, 2023 and was evaluated to Executive Director & Vice Chairman from 
May 1, 2023 until April 30, 2024 and then he assumed the position of Non -Executive Vice Chairman till December 31, 2025.The remuneration 
to Mr. Khosla is excluding ESOPs of I 44,55,75,452. 
	
&Mr. Mathew Job ceased to be the Whole time Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023 and as the Chief Executive Officer w.e.f. April 30, 2023. The 
remuneration paid to Mr. Mathew Job is only considered for his tenure as Chief Executive Officer and is is excluding ESOPs of I 57,04,15,020. 
	
@Mr. H M Nerurkar pursuant to completion of his tenure the retired w.e.f. October 20, 202 as the Chairman and Independent Non-Executive Director.
	
$Mr. Promeet Ghosh was appointed as the Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023 and as the Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer 
w.e.f May 1, 2023. The increase in remuneration of Mr. Promeet Ghosh is pursuant to his appointment as MD & CEO.
	
**Mr. Anil Chaudhry & Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar were appointed as Non-Executive, Independent Director w.e.f. October 17, 2023.
	
^The remuneration of Independent Directors consists of sitting fees and commission. Commission is for 2022-2023 paid in 2023-24.
	
#Calculation is excluding perquisite value on exercise of ESOP.
	
!The increase remuneration percentage is due to payment of commission of F.Y. 2022-23 paid in F.Y. 2023-24.
	
The remuneration includes fixed pay and variable pay. Variable pay is for 2022-2023 paid in 2023-24. 
186
187
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
b)	 The percentage increase in remuneration of Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Company 
Secretary or Manager, if any, in the Financial Year
The percentage Increase/ Decrease in remuneration Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Company Secretary or Manager, if any, 
in Financial Year 2023-24 is provided in the table below:
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director/ KMP
Designation
% Increase/ (Decrease) in Remuneration  
in 2023-24
1.
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Chief Financial Officer 
10%
2.
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Nil*
	
*Appointed w.e.f. November 28, 2022, hence, percentage increase was not applicable as on March 31, 2023.
c)	 The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the Financial 
Year
	
In the Financial Year, there was a decrease of 1% in the median remuneration of employees.
d)	 The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company
	
There were 2,238 permanent employees including permanent workers on the rolls of the Company as on March 31, 2024.
e)	 Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than 
the managerial personnel in the last Financial Year and its comparison with the 
percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and 
point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial 
remuneration
	
Average percentile increase made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last Financial 
Year 2023-24 was 8% whereas the increase in managerial remuneration for the Financial Year 2023-24 was 4% (Calculated 
as per Weighted Average).
	
The remuneration of Independent Directors consists of commission and sitting fees. While deciding the remuneration, various 
factors such as Director’s participation in Board and Committee Meetings during the year, other responsibilities undertaken, 
such as Membership or Chairmanship of Committees etc., were taken into consideration.
f)	 Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company
	
It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid is as per the Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company.
	
“Median” means the numerical value separating the higher half of a population from the lower half and the median of a finite 
list of numbers may be found by arranging all the observations from lowest value to highest value and picking the middle 
one. If there is an even number of observations, the median shall be the average of the two middle values.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 16, 2024
D Sundaram
Chairman
DIN:00016304
Pursuant to Clause (m) of sub-section 3 of Section 134 of the Act and 
Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
ANNEXURE 7
A.	 CONSERVATION OF ENERGY
(a)	 Energy Conservation Measures Taken
	
As a leading brand in electrical sector your Company has 
taken various initiatives towards energy conservation. 
This is reflected in our product development efforts and 
process upgrades.
	
Some of the activities carried out in the area of energy 
conservation were:
	
Reduction in energy consumption
	
1.	
Baddi Fan Unit-II, projecting installation of 20 KW solar 
power panel as a source of renewable energy. Unit has 
installed 2 (Two) new grinding machine, which has 
given energy saving of 7 (Seven) KW/ day electricity 
from each machine. In Financial Year 2023-24 there 
are 1,76,053 KWH electricity consumed and for 
Financial Year 2022-23 it was 2,01,558 KWH.
	
2.	
In consideration of above Baddi II electricity 
consumption per unit 0.101 KWH/ unit of production 
for Financial Year 2023-24 and Financial Year 2022-
23 it was 0.110 KWH/ unit of production and this is 
typically on increase in production number.
	
3.	
Alternate lights provision in plant gangways resulted 
in increased productivity for maximum utilisation 
of power.
(b)	 Capital Investment on Energy Conservation Equipment
	
Nil
B.	 TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION
	
The technology focus for the Company has been on 
process improvement for better quality, lower cost, 
new product development speed and to get the better 
technology working with international companies.
	
Some of the areas of technology focus and initiatives 
have been:
	
1.	
Deployment of Active power motor technology for 
induction motors to transition from non-BEE to BEE 
compliance in ceiling Fans.
	
2.	
Building capabilities in electronics and software 
testing for BLDC technology.
	
3.	
Explored and implemented various material 
optimisation/ alternate material introduction to 
improve sustainability in Fans.
	
4.	
Explored more sustainable packaging in ceiling Fans.
	
5.	
Ceiling Fan range is 100% complied as per BEE star 
rating guidelines and BIS guidelines.
	
6.	
Crompton registered highest number of BEE certified 
models (272 nos. as on March 31, 2024) in ceiling 
fans on BEE portal.
	
7.	
Crompton factories are all certified by BIS for ceiling 
fans manufacturing.
	
8.	
More focus on sustainable technologies development 
in fans.
	
9.	
Crompton launched new range of fans in Sure breeze 
(Star Speed, Star Briz, Star Spin, Star drift etc.) 
category with state-of-the-art design and 400 RPM.
	
10.	 Crompton launched new range of fans in Mass 
premium category with state-of-the-art design 
and specifications.
	
11.	
Expansion of BLDC range with Hyperjet and cookie 
with most optimised design.
	
12.	 Expansion of BLDC range with Groove plus 
decorative ranges and with Rover Non under light 
version.	
	
13.	 Extension of High Speed TPW range with state-of-
the-art new design – Gale classic.
	
14.	 BEE compliant new range introduced in luxion 
segment – Luxion Infinia and Cairo.
	
15.	 Launched Trio downlight & lamp A-type projects, 
creates ambience light with Direct & indirect lighting 
features worth 12Cr of annual biz potential.
	
16.	 Release higher wattage LED bulbs (14W~60W) with 
DOB technology after successful launch of 3W~12W 
DOB lamp range help to improve lamp PPR from 
6.8% to 3.8% in Financial Year 2023-24.
	
17.	
Successfully released & launch of 20W LaserRay 
Smile economic batten to sustain cost competitive 
batten market.
	
18.	 Launched first time in the lighting market the 
decorative range 20W battens, such as STYLUS 
GLO, STYLUS ARA, PREMION with minimalist 
changes into existing design.
	
19.	 Lighting B2B/ B2C achieve cost saving target of 
90~100CR in Financial Year 2024 by contributing 
value engineering & an alternate vendor release.
188
189
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
20.	 Launched energy efficient Solar AIO series 15W, 20W 
and 30W with Sensor with Fixed dimming option.
	
21.	 Released High efficiency Street light with IP leans in 
60W, 70W, 90W and 120 Watt.
	
22.	 Released High efficiency Flood Light with IP Lens in 
150 and 200W.
	
23.	 Launched 80W Linear under Canopy with improved 
uniform spread to carter Fuel stations requirement.
	
24.	 Released High wattage flood light 350,400 and 500W 
with better efficiency.
	
25.	 Launched for the first time in market of CRCA 
Downlight of 20W in IP40 protection.
	
26.	 Received NABL re aggradation.
	
27.	 Our 79% of water heater are certified for 5 star by 
Bureau of Energy Efficiency (“BEE”).
	
28.	 Won the prestigious National Energy Conservation 
Award 2023 from President of India for Storage 
Water Heater.
	
29.	 Launched first In-house design range of 750W mixer.
	
30.	 Strengthened 750W range of mixer with complete 
line up in Ameo Pro, Boltmix range.
	
31.	 Launched range of Induction Cooktop range with 
Ceramic Tile to drive best in class cost structure.
	
32.	 Test lab commissioned for complete Pumps 
Testing from June 2024 onwards at Innovation 
center, Vikhroli.
	
33.	 Launched DURA series in Mini category with durable 
features like Anti Jam Insert, Anti Rust Coating & 
ADDS Adapter.
	
34.	 Successfully developed & launched STP/ CCP series 
in India (Indigenisation) thus de-risking the import 
supplies & quality issues.
	
35.	 This is the fifth consecutive year that Crompton Pumps 
has been voted & awarded as “Superbrands”.
	
36.	 Initiation of PLM Implementations for the Robust 
BOM Management.
	
37.	 State of art lab creation in Mumbai Innovation & 
Experience Centre. Inhouse Testing facility created 
for the product and components in Water Heater.
	
38.	 Building Capabilities in Electronics to cater to future 
technology requirements.
	
39.	 Investments in the latest software for simulation 
capability building.
	
40.	 All our storage water heaters are energy efficient and 
certified as per the new amendment.
	
41.	 Our inhouse water heater Lab is in the process of 
NABL certification.
	
42.	 Digitalisation of Change management Process.
	
43.	 Investments in latest software for simulation 
capability building.
	
44.	 Launched new model with Lowest noise(eliminated 
the water dripping noise) in air cooler industry.
	
45.	 Launched first In-house design range of 750W mixer.
	
46.	 Strengthened 750W range of mixer with complete 
line up in Ameo Pro, Boltmix range.
	
47.	
Launched range of Induction Cooktop range with 
Ceramic Tile to drive best-in-class cost structure.
C.	 IMPORTED TECHNOLOGY 
	
Nil
D.	 EXPENDITURE ON R&D
	
R&D expenditure for the year was: I 71.37 Crore
E.	 FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS 
AND OUTGO
	
Foreign exchange earned: I 102.87 Crore
	
Foreign exchange used: I 147.44 Crore
For and on behalf of the Board  
of Directors
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 16, 2024
D Sundaram
Chairman
DIN:00016304
AS PER THE DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENT SPECIFIED UNDER SEBI (SHARE-BASED 
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS) REGULATIONS, 2014 AND SECTION 62(1)(b) OF THE ACT READ 
WITH RULE 12(9) OF THE COMPANIES (SHARE CAPITAL & DEBENTURES) RULES, 
2014, THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION IS DISCLOSED WITH RESPECT TO EMPLOYEE 
STOCK BENEFIT PLANS
ANNEXURE 8
I.	 Description of each ESOP that existed at any time during the year
Details of ESOP
ESOP-2016
PSP-1 2016
PSP-2 2016
ESOP-2019
1.	 Date of Members’ 
approval
October 22, 2016
October 22, 2016
October 22, 2016
January 19, 2020 and amended 
on January 06, 2021
2.	 Total number of 
options approved 
under ESOP
40,00,000
1,09,68,057
31,33,731
98,00,000
3.	 Vesting requirements
As specified by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee subject to minimum one year from  
the date of grant.
4.	 Exercise price or 
pricing formula (I)
Exercise Price is the 
closing market price on 
the Stock Exchange 
which has higher Trading 
Volume, as on the day 
prior to the date on which 
the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee 
(N&RC) approves the 
grant.
Exercise price per 
Option is I 92.83
Exercise price per Option 
is I 185.66
Exercise Price is the closing 
market price on the Stock 
Exchange which has higher 
Trading Volume, as on the day 
prior to the date on which the 
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee (N&RC) approves 
the grant.
5.	 Maximum term of 
options granted 
(years)
Options granted under 
ESOP 2016 would vest 
not earlier than one year 
and not later than five 
years from the date of 
grant.
Options granted under PSP 1 and PSP 2 would 
vest not earlier than one year and not later than ten 
years from the date of grant.
Options granted under ESOP 
2019 would vest not earlier 
than one year and not later 
than five years from the date 
of grant.
6.	 Source of shares 
(Primary, Secondary 
or combination)
Primary
7.	 Variation in terms of 
options
There have been no variations in the terms of the options.
II.	 Method used to account for ESOP
	
The Group has calculated the employee compensation cost using the Fair value method of accounting for the Options granted.
	
The stock-based compensation cost was calculated as per the fair value method prescribed by SEBI the total cost to be 
recognised in the financial statements for the period April 1, 2023, to March 31, 2024, would be I 2,36,14,076.81.
190
191
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
III.	 Option Movement during the year
1.	 Number of options 
outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
992,576
4,410,033
2,327,297
8,566,950
2.	 Number of options 
granted during the year
-
-
-
2,555,000
3.	 Number of options 
forfeited/ lapsed during 
the year
126,413
-
-
3,238,390
4.	 Number of options 
vested during the year*
89,978
-
-
1,001,558
5.	 Number of options 
exercised during the 
year
259,930
4,410,033
2,327,297
-
6.	 Total number of shares 
arising as a result of 
exercise of options
259,930
4,410,033
2,327,297
-
7.	 Money realised by 
exercise of options (in `)
51,953,342.85
409,383,363.39
432,085,961.02
-
8.	 Number of options 
outstanding at the end 
of the year
606,233
-
-
7,883,560
9.	 Number of options 
exercisable at the end of 
the year
606,233
-
-
2,548,560
	
*Note: Vested during the year includes Vested Exercised and Vested Unexercised during the year.
IV.	 Weighted average exercise price of options granted during the year whose
Details of ESOP
ESOP-2016
PSP-1 2016
PSP-2 2016
ESOP-2019 (in `)
i.	
Exercise price equals 
market price
Nil
Nil
Nil
289.73
ii.	
Exercise price is greater 
than market price
Nil
Nil
Nil
274.80
iii.	 Exercise price is less 
than market price
Nil
Nil
Nil
287.75
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year whose
i.	
Exercise price equals 
market price
Nil
Nil
Nil
102.72
ii.	
Exercise price is greater 
than market price
Nil
Nil
Nil
110.47
iii.	 Exercise price is less 
than market price
Nil
Nil
Nil
118.48
V.	 Employee-wise details of options granted during the Financial Year 2023-24 to
Particulars
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
ESOP 2019
i.	
KMP and SMPs
Nil
Nil
Nil Mr. Promeet Ghosh-  
MD & CEO- 
20,00,000 options granted at  
I 294.65*
Mr. Shaleen Nayak-  
Business Head- Lighting-  
1,50,000 options granted at   
I 253.95
Mr. Vikram Sridharan-  
Chief Digital Officer-  
1,55,000 options granted at  
I 287.75
Mr. Prasanth Nair- 
Chief Human Resources Officer- 
1,25,000 options granted at  
I 253.95
Mr. Manoj Kumar- 
Chief Supply Officer- 
1,25,000 options granted at  
I 274.80
ii.	
Employees who were granted, during 
any one year, options amounting to 
5% or more of the options granted 
during the year
Mr. Promeet Ghosh- MD & CEO- 20,00,000 options granted at I 294.65*
 
Mr. Shaleen Nayak- Business Head- Lighting- 1,50,000 options granted at I 253.95
 
Mr. Vikram Sridharan- Chief Digital Officer- 1,55,000 options granted at I 287.75
iii.	 Identified 
employees 
who 
were 
granted options, during any one 
year, equal to or exceeding 1% of the 
issued capital (excluding outstanding 
warrants and conversions) of the 
Company at the time of grant
NIL
Method and Assumptions used to estimate the fair value of options granted during the year:
The fair value has been calculated using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing model
The Assumptions used in the model are as follows:
Particulars
ESOP-2016
PSP-1 2016
PSP-2 2016
ESOP-2019
1.	 Risk-Free Interest Rate
No grants during the year
6.93%
2.	 Expected Life
5.56
3.	 Expected Volatility
33.06%
4.	 Dividend Yield
0.95%
5.	 Price of the underlying share in 
market at the time of the option grant 
(I)
 I 261.84
Details of ESOP
ESOP-2016
PSP-1 2016
PSP-2 2016
ESOP-2019
Weighted Average share price of options exercised during the year: I 276.20
	
* The Exercise price for the options granted to Mr. Promeet Ghosh, MD & CEO was revised from I 259.80 to I 294.65 with the approval of 
member of the Company sought at the AGM held on July 22, 2023.
192
193
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
Exercise price and weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options
Scheme Name
Number of options 
outstanding
Weighted average remaining 
contractual life (in years)
Exercise price (I)
ESOP 2016
6,06,233
2.25
288.01
PSP 1
Nil
Nil
Nil
PSP 2
Nil
Nil
Nil
ESOP 2019
78,83,560
5.81
231.60
Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) pursuant to issue of 
shares on exercise of option calculated in accordance 
with Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 33; “Earning 
Per Share”
I 7.29
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 16, 2024
D Sundaram
Chairman
DIN:00016304
194
195
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
CROMPTON’S 
PHILOSOPHY 
ON 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Your Company’s commitment towards the adoption of best 
corporate governance practices goes beyond compliance with 
the law and endeavours to embrace responsibility for corporate 
actions and the impact of its initiatives on all its stakeholders. 
Your Company continuously strives for the betterment of its 
corporate governance mechanisms to improve efficiency, 
transparency, accountability and achieve business excellence 
in its day-to-day operations within which all stakeholders of 
the Company viz., its Members, Directors, management, 
society and environment at large have aligned objectives. 
Your Company’s Governance framework enshrines ethical and 
responsible conduct of business to create lasting stakeholder 
value and ensuring that the Company’s businesses are being 
conducted in an accountable and fair manner.
Crompton is a Board led and professionally managed Company, 
which is run by highly qualified and expert professionals. The 
Board is responsible and committed to sound principles of 
Corporate Governance & Sustainability. The Board plays 
a crucial role in overseeing how the management serves 
the short and long-term interests of the Members and other 
stakeholders, this belief is also reflected in our governance 
practices, under which we strive to maintain an effective, 
informed and independent Board. The Board strongly agrees 
that good governance is not merely an objective, but only 
the means to achieve the objective of operating as a global 
citizen. We keep our governance practices under continuous 
review and benchmark ourselves to the best practices. The 
Board and its Committees guide, support and complement 
the management team’s ideas and initiatives, which in turn 
assumes accountability, strives to achieve the set objectives, 
and enhance value creation for all. The responsibilities of your 
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Board thus includes implementing the principles of Corporate 
Governance in the Company, setting the Company’s strategic 
aims, guiding the management with their leadership, and 
reporting to Members on their stewardship.
Your Company believes that Corporate Governance involves 
a set of rules and controls that promote transparency, 
integrity and accountability within which all stakeholders of 
the Company viz., its Members, Directors and management, 
society and environment at large have aligned objectives. It 
provides the framework for balancing the interests of all its 
stakeholders and ensuring that the Company’s businesses are 
being conducted in an accountable and fair manner. While the 
philosophy of your Company on governance has been set out 
since early days, the framework is broad-based to enable the 
Company to cater to the dynamic needs of the society.
Your Company recognises that corporate governance is not 
just a principle to be followed but a way of life embedded in its 
behaviour and culture. It endeavours to adopt the industry’s best 
practices, focusing on transparency in its affairs, the functioning 
of the management and the Board, and accountability towards 
stakeholders. Your Company’s philosophy ensures that it 
creates sustainable value for Members while fulfilling social 
obligations and complying with regulatory requirements. The 
Company’s policies prioritise the augmentation of long-term 
Members value while maintaining integrity.
Additionally, your Company has achieved an outstanding 
AA rating by MSCI for exemplary practices in Environmental, 
Social, and Governance. 
Furthermore, SES proxy advisory has bestowed a commendable 
score of 84 out of 100 for our best governance practices and 
solidifying our commitment to excellence in corporate governance.
Core  
Principles of  
Corporate  
Governance
Integrity
Accountability
Fairness
Transparency
Adherence  
to Law
Fairness
Your Company practices fair play and integrity in transactions 
with all stakeholders, both within and outside the organisation. 
We conduct ourselves in the most equitable manner.
Adherence to law
Full adherence to all regulatory and statutory requirements 
in letter and spirit is a key guiding principle. Your Company 
believes that effective compliance and risk management 
activities will drive the corporate performance.
Integrity
Your Company is committed to achieve highest standards of 
integrity, transparency, and business ethics. Your Company 
follows high ethical standards in its dealings with all its 
stakeholders, including Members, employees, customers, 
value chain partners, regulators, investors, and the community.
 1
13
2
 3
Framework of Corporate 
Governance at Crompton
Established clear principles 
and guidelines
Board Responsibilities and Committees
Continuous improvement 
and evaluation
Promoting sustainability and 
responsible corporate citizenship
Board composition  
and structure
Ensuring facilitation of Members rights 
and stakeholder engagement
Established mechanisms for 
compliance and legal oversight
Aligning management structures and 
processes with best practices
Ensuring accuracy in timely disclosure
Maintenance of ethical standards and 
corporate culture
Transparency and Accountability
Robust Risk Management 
Processes & Internal 
Controls Systems
Aligning executive compensation 
and incentives
 4
 5
 6
 8
 7
 9
10
11
12
Your Company was also recognised 
amongst top 5 (Five) companies for 
excellence in Corporate Governance in 
Listed Segment: Medium Category at the 
23rd ICSI National Awards for Excellence in 
Corporate Governance, 2023.
Your Company is amongst the only 10 (Ten) 
companies to be recognised under the 
“Next Leaders” category by the Institutional 
Investor Advisory Services (IiAS)
•	 As on March 31, 2024, the Company has a distinct 
Non-Executive Chairman and a Managing Director & CEO 
(“MD & CEO”), who were not related to one another;
•	 The Audit Report of the Company’s Financial Statements 
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024, is unmodified;
•	 The Internal Auditors of the Company directly reports to the 
Audit Committee of the Board; and
•	 The Company follows a robust process of communicating 
with the members which have been elaborated in this Report 
under the heading “Means of Communication”.
DJSI score of your Company significantly improved from 34 to 48 
and your Company secured 7th Rank globally among the peers 
(DHP Household Durables).
Your Company has complied with the following discretionary 
requirements as listed out in Part E of Schedule II of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, (“the SEBI Listing Regulations”) which are elaborated 
as under:
•	 The office of the Chairman is occupied by a Non-Executive 
Independent Director of the Company;
196
197
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
The Company’s Board is an ideal mix of knowledge, perspective, 
professionalism, divergent thinking and experience. The Board’s 
uniqueness lies in the fact that the Board balances several 
deliverables, achieves sound corporate governance objectives 
and acts as a catalyst in creation of stakeholder value.
Availability of information to Board Members
The Board has unrestricted access to all Company related 
information, including that of our employees. At Board Meetings, 
leadership team who provides additional insights on their areas 
are invited. Information is provided to the Board Members on a 
continuous basis for their review, inputs and approval. Strategic 
and operating plans along with the Annual Budgets are also 
presented to the Board in addition to the quarterly and annual 
financial statements. Specific cases of acquisitions, important 
managerial decisions, material positive/ negative developments 
and statutory matters are presented to the Committees of the 
Board and later, with the recommendation of the Committees, to 
the Board for its consideration/ review/ approval. As a process, 
information to Directors is submitted along with the agenda well 
in advance of Board/ Committee Meeting(s). Inputs and feedback 
of Board/ Committee Member(s) are taken and considered while 
preparing the agenda and documents for the Board/ Committee 
Meeting(s). At these meeting(s), Directors provide their inputs 
and suggestions on various strategic and operational matters. 
The Board also invites experts from the industry and seeks their 
valuable opinions on various strategic/ operational/ governance 
matters to ensure a comprehensive review on the subject and to 
arrive at suitable decisions.
As a system, in most cases, information is submitted to the 
Directors along with the agenda papers well in advance of the 
Board meeting. Inputs and feedback from Board Members are 
taken into consideration while preparing agenda and documents 
for the Board meeting. Sufficient time is allocated for discussions 
and deliberations at the meeting. The documents containing 
Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (“UPSI”) are submitted 
to the Board and Committee Member(s), at a shorter notice, as 
per the general consent taken from the Board, from time to time.
The Chairman of the Board and the Company Secretary 
determine the agenda for every meeting in consultation with 
the MD & CEO. While preparing the agenda, explanatory notes, 
minutes of the meeting(s), adherence to the Act and the Rules 
made thereunder, Listing Regulations, Secretarial Standards 
(“SS”) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
(“ICSI”) and other applicable laws are ensured.
With a view to ensure high standards of confidentiality of the 
agenda and other Board papers and to leverage technology 
and eliminate paper consumption, the Company circulates the 
agenda and explanatory notes to the Directors/ Committee 
member(s), through a web-based application which can be 
securely accessed by the Directors/ Committee member(s) 
through their hand-held devices, laptop, iPads and browsers. 
This application meets high standards of security that are 
required for storage and transmission of documents for Board/ 
Committee meeting(s).
All material information is circulated to the Directors before the 
meeting, including minimum information required to be made 
available to the Board as prescribed under Part A of Schedule 
II of the SEBI Listing Regulations. With the unanimous consent 
of the Board, all information which is in the nature of UPSI, 
is circulated to the Board and its Committee(s) at a shorter 
notice before the commencement of the meetings. The 
management makes concerted efforts to continuously upgrade 
the information available to the Board for decision making and 
the Board Member(s) are updated on all key developments 
relating to the Company.
The Company Secretary attends all the meetings of the 
Board and its Committees and is, inter alia, responsible for 
recording the minutes of such meetings. The Company 
Executives are also invited to join the meetings with permission 
of the Chairperson(s) of the Board/ Committee meeting(s). 
The Company Executives joining the said meetings of 
Board/ Committee is also an opportunity for the Board/ 
Committee Members to interact with the Member(s) of 
the management.
The draft minutes of the meeting(s) of the Board and its 
Committee(s) are sent to the Members for their comments 
in accordance with the Secretarial Standard-1 (“SS-1”) on 
Meetings of the Board of Directors issued by ICSI. Further, the 
certified true copy of the minutes is also circulated to the Board 
and Committee(s) in accordance with SS-1.
The Company adheres to the provisions of the Act and the Rules 
made thereunder, SS and the SEBI Listing Regulations with 
respect to convening and holding the meetings of the Board, 
its Committees and the General Meetings of the Members of 
the Company.
Committees of Directors
The Independent Board Committees engage throughout 
the year to deliver best-in-class governance practices and 
periodically review the policy framework to maintain its 
robustness. Having regard to the significant contributions that 
Transparency
For us, transparency is key to healthy, self-sustaining growth 
and promotes self-enforcing checks and balances. It also 
fosters deep and long-standing trust among our stakeholders. 
We strive to demonstrate the highest levels of transparency, 
over and above statutory requirements, through accurate and 
prompt disclosures.
Accountability
For us, accountability is about holding ourselves firmly 
responsible for what we believe in and for delivering what 
we have promised. We ensure this by promoting a mindset of 
end -to-end ownership throughout the organisation. By means of 
openness and transparency, we consider ourselves accountable 
to every stakeholder including our employees, Members, vendors, 
government agencies, society, customers, business partners and 
supply chain partners.
A Report on compliance with the Corporate Governance provisions 
as prescribed under the SEBI Listing Regulations is given below:
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The Board of Directors (“Board”) is responsible for the strategic 
supervision and overseeing the management performance and 
governance of the Company on behalf of the Members and other 
stakeholders. Crompton is a professionally managed Company 
functioning under the overall supervision of the Board. The Board 
has ultimate responsibility of reviewing and guiding corporate 
strategy, major plans of action, risk policy, annual budgets and 
business plans, setting performance objectives, monitoring and 
implementation, of corporate performance, overseeing major 
capital expenditures, acquisitions, mergers, general affairs, 
direction, performance and long-term success of the business 
as a whole.
The Directors take active part in the deliberations at the Board 
and Committee meetings and provide guidance and advice to 
the management on various aspects of business, governance, 
compliance, etc.
We believe that an active, well-informed, diversified and 
independent Board is necessary to ensure the highest standards 
of corporate governance. At Crompton, the Board is at the core 
of our corporate governance practices. The Board oversees the 
management’s functions and protects the long-term interests of 
Company’s stakeholders.
The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for its overall 
effectiveness. The Chairman sets the Board agenda, ensures the 
Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, promotes 
and facilitates constructive relationships and effective contribution 
of all Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and promotes 
a culture of openness and debate. The Independent Directors 
provide constructive challenge, strategic guidance, specialist 
advice and hold management to account.
The Board sets out the overall corporate objectives and provides 
direction and independence to the management to achieve these 
objectives for value creation through sustained growth. The Board 
seeks accountability of the management in creating long-term 
sustainable growth to ensure that the aspirations of stakeholders 
are fulfilled. It also sets out standards of corporate behaviour and 
ensures compliance with laws and regulations impacting the 
Company’s business.
Primary role of  
the Board
Implementing effective controls to 
uphold operational efficiency and 
meet stakeholder aspirations and 
societal expectations.
Overseeing significant 
investments, acquisitions, and 
divestments to ensure alignment 
with Company goals.
Safeguarding and optimising 
shareholder value through diligent 
oversight as trustees of the Board.
Reviewing and guiding corporate 
strategy, risk management, 
and financial plans for 
optimal performance.
Regularly evaluating governance 
practices to adapt and improve as 
needed while engaging with Members, 
and considering their perspectives in 
decision-making  
processes.
Employing independent  
judgment in the Company’s  
decision-making.
Overseeing management’s 
execution and appointing the 
executive management team, 
including the MD & CEO and other 
key executives, while providing 
strategic direction.
198
199
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
•	 The Committee of Debentures is constituted for issue and 
allotment of Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”) and for 
approval of matters connected thereto.
•	 The Allotment Committee is constituted for allotment of 
shares arising out of the exercise of stock options by Eligible 
Employees under various ESOP Schemes of the Company.
COMPOSITION OF BOARD
The Company recognises and embraces the importance of a 
diverse Board in its success. We believe that a truly diverse 
Board will leverage differences in thought, perspective, 
regional and industry experience, cultural and geographical 
background, age, ethnicity, race, gender, knowledge and skills, 
including expertise in financial, global business, leadership, 
information technology, Mergers & Acquisitions (“M&A”), 
Board Service and Governance, Sales and Marketing, ESG, 
Risk Management and Cybersecurity and other domains, to 
ensure that Company retains its competitive advantage.
w.e.f. April 30, 2023, and was elevated to the position of 
Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023 till April 30, 2024, 
and thereafter he assumed the position as an Non-Executive 
Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2024, till December 31, 2025.
Mr. Promeet Ghosh was appointed as an Executive Director 
on the Board w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as the MD & CEO for a 
period of 5 (Five) years w.e.f. May 1, 2023, till April 30, 2028, 
which was subsequently approved by the Members of the 
Company at the 9th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the 
Company held on July 22, 2023.
Ms. Smita Anand was re-appointed as an Independent Director 
for second term of 5 (Five) years w.e.f. December 10, 2023, 
which was subsequently approved by the Members of the 
Company at the 9th AGM of the Company held on July 22, 2023.
Mr. Hemant Nerurkar, Chairman of the Board, retired w.e.f. 
October 20, 2023, pursuant to completion of second term 
upon attaining the age of 75 (Seventy Five) years, as 
mandated by the Act, the SEBI Listing Regulations, and the 
Company’s Nomination & Remuneration Policy. Consequently, 
Mr. D Sundaram, Non-Executive Independent Director of the 
Company, assumed the position of Chairman of the Board w.e.f. 
October 21, 2023.
Mr. Anil Chaudhry and Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar were appointed as 
Non-Executive Independent Director(s) w.e.f. October 17, 
2023, basis recommendation of N&RC, their appointment was 
subsequently approved by the Members on December 19, 
2023, through postal ballot.
The Board comprises of highly qualified and experienced 
persons of repute and eminence, who ensure that the 
time-honoured culture of maintaining sound standards of 
corporate governance is further nurtured. The Board sets 
out the overall corporate objectives and provides direction 
and independence to the management to achieve these 
objectives for value creation through sustained growth. The 
Board seeks accountability of the management in creating 
long-term sustainable growth to ensure that the aspirations of 
stakeholders are fulfilled. It also sets out standards of corporate 
behaviour and ensures compliance with laws and regulations 
impacting the Company’s business.
The Composition of the Board represents an optimal mix of 
professionalism, knowledge and experience and enables the 
Board to discharge its responsibilities and provide effective 
leadership to the Company’s business.
The profiles of Board Members encompassing details of age, 
date of initial appointment, tenure on Board, term ending date, 
shareholding, Board memberships in Indian listed companies, 
committee details as per Regulation 26 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and areas of expertise are given in the forth 
coming sections.
There are no inter-se relationships between our Board 
Member(s). 
Your Company’s Board comprises the requisite combination 
of Independent and Non-Independent Directors, including 
Independent Women Directors in line with the Regulation 17 
and 17A of the SEBI Listing Regulations read with Section 149 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”).
As on March 31, 2024, Mr. Promeet Ghosh was the MD & 
CEO, Mr. Shantanu Khosla is the Executive Vice Chairman. 
Mr. D Sundaram, Mr. P M Murty, Ms. Smita Anand, Mr. P R 
Ramesh, Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani, Mr. Anil Chaudhry and Mr. Sanjiv 
Kakkar are the Non-Executive Independent Directors in terms of 
Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and the Act.
Mr. Mathew Job had resigned from the position of Executive 
Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as the CEO w.e.f. April 30, 2023, 
to pursue other career interests outside organisation. Mr. Job 
had confirmed that there were no other material reason(s) other 
than those provided herein above. The Board places on record 
its appreciation for the leadership provided by Mr. Job during 
his tenure as Executive Director & CEO of the Company.
During the year under review, Mr. Shantanu Khosla, had 
relinquished his position as the Company’s Managing Director 
Committees make in assisting the Board in discharging its 
duties and responsibilities, the Board through its Committees 
closely monitor various areas of business.
The Committees of the Board functions as an extended arm of 
the Board and play a pivotal role in ensuring good governance 
while also periodically monitors the affairs of the Company.
The Board Committees have been constituted to deal with 
specific areas/ activities as mandated by applicable rules 
and regulations or as delegated by the Board, which need a 
closer review.
The terms of reference of the Committees define the scope, 
powers, responsibilities, and composition of the Committees. 
The Chairperson of the respective Committee(s) briefs the 
Board about the summary of the discussions held at the 
Committee meetings. The minutes of the meetings of all 
Committee(s) are placed before the Board for their perusal. 
Further, there is effective cross committee discussion, wherever 
required, to ensure proper inter-committee co-ordination and 
to bring uniformity.
During the year, all recommendations of the Committees of the 
Board which were mandatorily required have been accepted 
by the Board.
The Committees of the Board are:
(i)	
Audit Committee
(ii)	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee (“N&RC”)
(iii)	 Stakeholders’ Relationship & Share Transfer Committee 
(“SRC”)
(iv)	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (“CSR”)
(v)	
Risk Management Committee (“RMC”)
(vi)	 Strategic Investment Committee (“SIC”)
(vii)	 Environmental, Social & Governance Committee (“ESG”)
(viii)	 Committee of Debentures
(ix)	 Allotment Committee
The matters of the Board are segregated and delegated to the 
Committees as under:
•	 Audit Committee is responsible for, inter alia, review of 
internal controls and audit systems, oversight on risk 
management systems, financial reporting, compliance 
issues and vigil mechanism, appointment and remuneration 
of various auditors of the Company and their scope of work 
and approval of Related Party Transactions (“RPTs”) etc. The 
Audit Committee additionally also meets, to have detailed 
deliberations inter alia, on matters relating to Governance, 
Risk Management, Statutory Compliances, Internal Controls, 
Internal Audit, and other matters. The Audit Committee also 
discusses the summary of cases (if any) and the status 
of compliance under Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
Policy, Company’s Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor 
and Report Trading by Designated Person(s), the Code of 
Conduct and Whistle Blower Policy.
•	 N&RC is responsible for, inter alia, recommendation and 
approval of remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel(s) (“KMPs”) and Senior Management Personnel 
(“SMPs”). The Committee also acts as the Compensation 
Committee for the purpose of administration of the several 
Employee Stock Option Plans (“ESOPs”), as amended from 
time to time. N&RC is also entrusted with the responsibility of 
framing the criteria for evaluation of the individual Directors, 
Chairperson of the Board, the Board as a whole and its 
Committee(s). It also frequently evaluates the working and 
effectiveness of the Board and manages the succession 
planning for Board Member(s) and KMPs.
•	 SRC is responsible for inter alia various aspects of 
interest of the stakeholders, monitoring the performance 
of the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”) and 
recommends measures for overall improvement of the quality 
of investor services as and when the need arises, resolve 
the grievances of the Members of the Company including 
complaints related to transfer/ transmission of shares, non-
receipt of Annual Report, non-receipt of declared dividends 
and issue of duplicate share certificates, etc.
•	 CSR Committee recommends, reviews and monitors the 
impact of CSR initiatives taken by the Company. The role of 
CSR Committee includes formulating and recommending to 
the Board the CSR Policy and CSR activities to be undertaken 
by the Company, recommending the amount of expenditure 
to be incurred and reviewing the performance of the Company 
in the areas of CSR and to strive for overall sustainable 
development in the conduct of Company’s business.
•	 RMC assists the Board in monitoring and reviewing the risk 
management plan, implementation of the risk management 
and mitigation framework of the Company. The main 
objective of the RMC is to assist the Board in fulfilling its 
corporate governance oversight responsibilities with regard 
to the identification, evaluation and mitigation of risks 
including risks related to cyber security.
•	 The SIC assists in evaluation and assessment of Strategic 
Investment opportunities feasible for the Company and to 
make recommendations to the Board of Directors on such 
strategic investment/ disinvestment opportunities.
•	 The ESG Committee is responsible to support the Company’s 
on-going commitment to Environmental, Health and Safety 
(“EHS”), sustainability, and other public policy matters 
relevant to the Company (collectively referred as “ESG 
Matters”). The Committee is also responsible for reporting 
progress of various initiatives and in making appropriate 
disclosures on a periodic basis.
200
201
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Duties and Functions of the Board
The Board’s primary responsibility is to foster the Company’s 
short and long-term success through sustainable continuance 
and progress of its business and thereby create value for its 
stakeholders. To this end, the Board sets out the corporate 
culture, lays down high ethical standards of corporate behaviour 
and ensures transparency in their dealings.
The Board has the responsibility to oversee the conduct 
of the Company’s business and to supervise and support 
the management, who is responsible for the day-to-day 
operations. It does this by providing strategic guidance, 
monitoring operational performance and ensuring that robust 
policies and procedures are in place. The Board through its 
various Committees also reviews the identified risks and the 
mitigation measures undertaken/ to be undertaken in respect 
thereof, ensures integrity in the Company’s accounting and 
financial reporting systems, adequacy of internal controls 
and compliance with all relevant laws and discharges its 
functions towards CSR. In particular, the Board basis the 
recommendation of the Audit Committee reviews and approves 
quarterly/ half-yearly unaudited financial results and the audited 
annual financial statements (both consolidated and standalone), 
corporate strategies, business plans, annual budgets, sets 
corporate objectives and monitors their implementation and 
oversees major capital expenditure. It monitors overall operating 
performance, Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) performance 
and reviews such other items which require the Board’s attention. 
It directs and guides the activities of the management towards 
achieving set goals and seeks accountability. The agenda for 
the Board Meeting(s) covers items as set out in the SEBI Listing 
Regulations to the extent that they are relevant and applicable. All 
agenda items are supported by relevant information, documents 
and presentations to enable the Board to take informed decisions. 
The agenda is sent to the Directors within the period stipulated 
in the SS. The Board processes are also in consonance with the 
requirements of the SS-1 relating to the meetings of the Board 
and its Committee(s). All the recommendations of the various 
Committee(s) of the Board have been accepted by the Board 
and none of the Directors are influenced by the management.
Post-meeting follow-up system
The important decisions taken at the meetings of Board and its 
Committees are tracked till their closure and the status of Action 
Taken Report (“ATR”) is placed before Board and respective 
Committee meeting(s) for their noting.
During the year under review, the Board met 7 (Seven) times and 
the gap between the 2 (Two) consecutive Board Meeting(s) did 
not exceed the period of 120 (One Hundred and Twenty) days in 
line with requirements of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer 
(“MD & CEO”)
The MD & CEO is at the helm of operations and is responsible for 
the Company’s day-to-day operations, which inter alia includes 
implementation of strategy, monitoring of the external and 
internal competitive landscape, new industry developments, 
standards, identifying opportunities for expansion, acquisition, 
building relationships with customers, markets with an eye to 
enhance Members value, implementation of the organisation’s 
vision, mission & overall direction, provides strategic directions, 
lays down policy guidelines and ensures the implementation 
of the decisions of the Board through its various Committees. 
MD & CEO acts under the guidance of the Board and is a link 
between the Board and the management. Through diligent 
leadership and strategic foresight, the MD & CEO plays a pivotal 
role in guiding the Company towards excellence, while upholding 
the values and principles that define its identity. Tasked with 
overseeing the Company’s operations, the MD & CEO holds the 
responsibility of steering the organisation towards its objectives. 
This pivotal role involves close collaboration with the Board to 
devise and implement business strategies that align with the 
Company’s vision and mission.
LEADERSHIP TEAM (“LT”)
At the helm of the Company stands the MD & CEO, who 
presides over a LT consisting of functional heads and 
business unit leaders. This hierarchical structure is designed 
to ensure effective management and strategic execution within 
the organisation.
Present Tenure of Directors in years
 >5 years
 2 to 5 years
 <2 years 
5
2
2
Size and Composition of the Board as on 
March 31, 2024
As on March 31, 2024, the Board of your Company comprised 
of 9 (Nine) Directors, out of which 7 (Seven) Directors were 
Non-Executive Independent Directors (“NED’s & ID’s”) (77.78% 
NED’s & ID’s representation on the Board). The Chairperson 
of the Board is Non-Executive Independent Director. Out of 
7 (Seven) Independent Directors (“ID’s”), which comprises 
more than half of the Board, 2 (Two) are Women Directors 
(22.22% women representation on the Board). The composition 
of the Board of your Company is in conformity with the SEBI 
Listing Regulations as well as provisions of the Act.
Your Company has formulated and adopted the Nomination 
and Remuneration Policy to ensure that the composition of the 
Board is optimum, balanced and diverse to benefit from fresh 
perspectives, new ideas and broad experience.
In terms of the provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Directors of the Company submit necessary 
disclosures regarding the positions held by them on the Board 
and/ or the Committees of other companies bodies corporates 
with changes therein, if any, on periodical basis. On the basis 
of such disclosures, it is confirmed that as on March 31, 2024, 
none of the Directors of the Company:
•	 Holds Directorship positions in more than 20 (Twenty) 
companies including 10 (Ten) public limited companies and 
7 (Seven) listed companies;
•	 Holds Executive Director position and serves as an 
Independent Director in more than 3 (Three) listed companies;
•	 Is a Member of more than 10 (Ten) Committees and/ or 
Chairperson of more than 5 (Five) Committees, across 
all the Indian public limited companies in which they are 
Directors; and
•	 None of the Directors have attained the age of 75 
(Seventy-Five years);
For the purpose of calculating the limit of the Board Committees, 
Chairpersonships and Memberships, Audit Committee and 
SRC has been considered as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
Board Diversity as on March 31, 2024
 Female 22.22%
 Male 77.78%
 Executive Director 22.22%
  Non-Executive Independent Directors 77.78%
Composition of Directors
Average Tenure in year (category-wise)
 The Board
 Non-Executive Independent 
Director
 Executive Director
4.93
4.71
4.04
202
203
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Below summarises the key skills, expertise and competence required for the Company and is taken into consideration while 
nominating candidates to serve on the Board:
Industry Acumen
Industry experience through detailed 
knowledge of the Company or the sector 
in which it operates, as well as those who 
understand the broader industry environment.
Mentoring Ability
Demonstrated strengths in developing talent, 
succession planning, and driving change and 
long-term growth.
Compliance and Risk
Experience and background in regulatory 
affairs and regulatory policies, procedures, 
and risk management.
Financial
Ability to analyse and understand the key 
financial statements, assess financial viability 
of the projects & efficient use of resources, 
experience in the fields of taxation, audit, 
financial management, banking insurance 
and investments, treasury, fund raising, private 
equity, venture capital investments and internal 
controls. Leadership experience in handling 
financial management of a large organisation.
Gender, Nationality, or other Diversity
Representation of gender, geographic, 
cultural, or other perspectives that expand 
the Board’s understanding of the needs and 
viewpoints of customers, partners, employees, 
governments, and other stakeholders.
Leadership
Extended leadership experience resulting 
in a practical understanding of organisation, 
processes, strategic planning, and risk 
management.
Talent Development
Experience in Leadership Development and 
ensuring an ongoing process exists which 
continuously enhances the knowledge 
and capability of key talent to enable these 
managers to effectively lead the organisation 
in achieving key strategic initiatives.
Innovation & Technology
Understanding the use of digital/ information 
technology across the business, ability to 
anticipate technological driven changes 
& disruption impacting business and 
appreciation of the need of cyber security 
and controls across the organisation and 
a significant background in technology, 
resulting in knowledge as to how to anticipate 
technological trends, generate disruptive 
innovation and extend or create new 
business models.
Mergers and Acquisitions
A history of leading growth through 
acquisitions and other business combinations, 
with the ability to assess “make or buy” 
decisions, analyze the fit of a target with the 
Company’s strategy and culture, accurately 
value transactions, and evaluate operational 
integration plans.
Board Service and Governance
Service on a public listed company Board 
to develop insights about maintaining Board 
and management accountability, protecting 
Members interests, and observing appropriate 
governance practices.
Sales and Marketing
Experience in developing strategies to 
grow sales and market share, build brand 
competitiveness, awareness and equity, and 
build a strong corporate reputation.
Sustainability and ESG
Experience in leading the sustainability 
and ESG visions of organisations, to be 
able to integrate these into the strategy of 
the Company.
General Management
Experience in leading well-governed large 
organisations, possessing intrinsic leadership 
skills including the ability to appropriately 
represent the Company, set appropriate Board 
and organisation culture.
Strategy & Operations
Ability to think strategically, identify and assess 
strategic opportunities & threats and contribute 
towards developing effective strategies in 
the context of the strategic objectives of 
the Company’s policies & priorities and 
demonstrated strengths in developing talent, 
succession planning, driving change and long 
term growth.
Cybersecurity
Experience in assessing and managing 
cybersecurity-related risks and in implementing 
the cybersecurity policies, procedures, and 
strategies.
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS (“IDs”)
IDs play an eminent role in the governance processes of the 
Board, by virtue of their varied expertise and experience, they 
enrich the Board’s decision-making and prevent possible 
conflicts of interest that may emerge in such decision-making 
and safeguards the interests of all stakeholders.
The appointment of IDs is carried out in a structured manner 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. The N&RC identifies candidates based 
on certain laid down criteria and takes into consideration the 
need for diversity on the Board and accordingly makes its 
recommendations to the Board.
The Board confirms that based on the written affirmations 
received from each IDs, all the IDs fulfils the conditions 
as stipulated in the Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, as amended, read with Section 149(6) of the Act 
along with rules framed thereunder and are independent of the 
management. Further, the IDs have also registered their names 
in the Databank maintained by the Indian Institute of Corporate 
Affairs (“IICA”) as mandated in the Companies (Appointment 
and Qualifications of Directors), Rules, 2014, as amended. 
Further, since all the IDs have served on the Board of listed 
companies for a period of not less than 3 (Three) years at the time 
of inclusion of their names in the database, they are exempted 
from undertaking the online proficiency self-assessment test 
conducted by the IICA. None of the IDs have any other material 
pecuniary relationship or transaction with the Company, or 
Directors, or Senior Management which, in their judgement, 
would affect their independence. In terms of Regulation 25(8) 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, they have confirmed that they 
are not aware of any circumstance or situation which exists or 
may be reasonably anticipated that could impair or impact their 
ability to discharge their duties.
Except for the sitting fees and commission payable to the 
Non-Executive Independent Directors annually in accordance 
with the applicable laws and with the approval of the Board upon 
recommendation of N&RC and Members, there is no pecuniary 
or business relationship between the IDs and the Company.
Based on the disclosures received from all IDs and in the 
opinion of the Board, all the IDs fulfils the criteria relating to 
their independence as specified in the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and the Act.
Key Skills, Expertise, Competence of the Board of Directors
The Board comprises of professionals, distinguished, qualified and experienced members who bring in the requisite skills, 
expertise and competence that allows them to make a valuable contribution to the Board and its Committees. The Board 
Members take an active part at the Board and Committee(s) and provide valuable guidance to the management on various 
aspects of business, governance, and compliance, amongst others. The Board’s guidance provides foresight, enhances 
transparency and adds value in decision-making.
204
205
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
MD & CEO$
(DIN:00059877)
Age: 55 years
Date of Initial Appointment:  
August 16, 2016$
Term ending date:  
April 30, 2028
Shareholding: 35,000
Tenure on Board: 7.6 years
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
Non-Executive Independent Director
(DIN:06992518)
Age: 62 years
Date of Initial Appointment:  
January 28, 2022
Term ending date:  
January 27, 2027
Shareholding: Nil
Tenure on Board: 2.2 years
Ms. Smita Anand
Non-Executive Independent Director 
(DIN:00059228)#
Age: 64 years
Date of Initial Appointment:  
December 10, 2018
Term ending date:  
December 09, 2028
Shareholding: NIL
Tenure on Board: 5.3 years
Mr. Anil Chaudhry
Non-Executive Independent Director@
(DIN:06992518)
Age: 63 years
Date of Initial Appointment:  
October 17, 2023
Term ending date:  
October 16, 2028
Shareholding: Nil
Tenure on Board: 0.5 years
Brief details of Directors as on March 31, 2024, are mentioned as under:
Mr. D Sundaram
Non-Executive Independent Director
(DIN:00016304)
Age: 70 years
Date of Initial Appointment:  
August 26, 2015
Term ending date:  
September 17, 2025
Shareholding: NIL
Tenure on Board: 8.6 years
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Executive Vice Chairman*
(DIN:00059877)
Age: 64 years 
Date of Initial Appointment:  
September 21, 2015
Term ending date:  
December 31, 2025
Shareholding: 15,88,017
Tenure on Board: 8.5 years
Mr. P M Murty
Non-Executive Independent Director
(DIN:00011179)
Age: 73 years 
Date of Initial Appointment:  
August 26, 2015
Term ending date:  
July 25, 2025
Shareholding: 13
Tenure on Board: 8.6 years
Mr. P R Ramesh
Non-Executive Independent Director
(DIN:01915274)
Age: 69 years 
Date of Initial Appointment:  
May 21, 2021
Term ending date:  
May 21, 2026
Shareholding: NIL
Tenure on Board: 2.8 years
206
207
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Gist of skills, expertise and competence of Directors
Cybersecurity
Strategy & Operations
General Management
Sustainability and Environmental, 
Social and Governance (ESG)
Compliance and Risk
Sale and Marketing
Board Service and Governance
Mergers and Acquisitions
Innovation & Technology
Mentoring Ability
Talent Development
Leadership
Gender, Nationality  
or other Diversity
Financial
Industry Acumen
(in %)
33.33
3
66.67
6
88.89
8
33.33
3
100.00
9
55.56
5
100.00
9
55.56
5
55.56
5
100.00
9
44.44
4
88.89
8
22.22
2
77.78
7
88.89
8
% of Directors possessing the relevant expertise
No. of Directors possessing the relevant expertise
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar
Non-Executive Independent Director@
(DIN:00591027)
Age: 61 years
Date of Initial Appointment:  
October 17, 2023
Term ending date:  
October 16, 2028
Shareholding: Nil
Tenure on Board: 0.5 years
*	 Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and elevated as Executive Vice 
Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, till April 30, 2024, and then assumed 
the position of Non-Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2024, till 
December 31, 2025.
$	 Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director till April 23 2023, 
appointed as an Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as 
MD & CEO w.e.f. May 1, 2023, till April 30, 2028, his appointment 
was subsequently approved by the Members at the 9th AGM of the 
Company held on July 22, 2023.
@	Appointed as Non-Executive Independent Directors w.e.f. October 17, 
2023, their appointment was subsequently approved by the Members 
on December 19, 2023, through postal ballot.
# Re-appointed as Non-Executive Independent Director for a second 
term of 5 (Five) years w.e.f. December 10, 2023, till December 9, 2028, 
her appointment was subsequently approved by the Members at the 
9th AGM of the Company held on July 22, 2023.
Notes:
1.	
Nationality of all Directors is Indian.
2.	
The detailed profile of Directors is available on the 
Company’s website and can be accessed on web link at 
https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/about-us
3.	
The absence of a mark against a Board Member’s name 
does not necessarily indicate that the Director does not 
possess the corresponding skill, expertise or competence.
208
209
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Board Meetings
The dates for the Board Meetings for the next year are fixed 
well in advance. The Company conducts thematic Board 
Meetings to deep dive in the areas like Compliance, Enterprise 
Risk Management, Supply Chain, Manufacturing Excellence, 
Innovation, Digitisation, Succession Planning etc.
A detailed Agenda, setting out the business to be transacted at 
the Meeting(s), supported by detailed notes and presentations, 
if any, is sent to the Directors in advance before the date of 
the Board and Committee Meeting(s) through a web-based 
solution. A soft copy of the said agenda(s) is uploaded on the 
Board portal at least 7 (Seven) days before the Meeting. The 
Directors are also provided the facility of video-conferencing 
to enable them to participate effectively in the Meeting(s). The 
Chairman or the Company Secretary proposes the Agenda for 
each Meeting, along with the explanatory notes, in consultation 
with the MD & CEO. In urgent situations, resolutions may be 
passed via circulation in accordance with applicable laws, and 
these are then confirmed during the subsequent Board and 
Committee Meeting(s).
Input and feedback from the Board Members are taken and 
considered while preparing the agenda and documents for the 
Board and Committee Meeting(s).
To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities effectively 
and take informed decisions, the MD & CEO apprise the Board 
at every Meeting of the overall performance of your Company, 
followed by presentation(s) by others. A detailed functional 
report is also presented at the Board Meeting(s).
The Board sets annual performance objectives, oversees the 
actions and results of the management, evaluates its own 
performance, the performance of its Committees and individual 
Directors on an annual basis and monitors the effectiveness 
of the Company’s governance practices for enhancing the 
stakeholders’ value.
 Average Attendance in the Board Meeting(s)
 Minimum Attendance in Board Meeting(s) as mandated by law
95.24
33.33
Attendance at the Board Meeting	
(%)
The Company has established a framework for the Meetings 
of the Board and its Committees which seeks to systematise 
the decision-making process at the Meeting(s) in an informed 
and efficient manner.
Apart from the Board Member(s) and the Company Secretary, 
the Board and Committee Meetings are also attended by Chief 
Financial Officer (“CFO”) and other departmental/ functional 
heads wherever required.
The Meeting(s) are generally held at the Company’s Registered 
& Corporate Office located at Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing, 
Equinox Business Park, LBS Marg, Kurla (West), Mumbai - 
400 070.
The Board has complete access to all Company-related 
information, including that of employees. Information is 
provided to the Board Member(s) on a continuous basis for 
their review, inputs and approval.
77.78%
Independence
7
Meeting(s)
95.24%
Attendance
9
Member(s)
Details of Directorship and Membership(s)/ Chairpersonship(s) of Committees and 
Shareholding of the Director(s)
Name
Category
No. of 
Directorship(s) 
held in other Public 
Companie(s)*
Directorship held in listed 
Companie(s) (Including Crompton)
Committee(s) position  
(Including Crompton) **
Member
Chairperson
Mr. D Sundaram 
(DIN:00016304)
Chairman##, 
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
3
Infosys Limited#
5
2
Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals 
Limited#
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited#%
Mr. Promeet Ghosh 
(DIN:05307658)
MD & CEO$$
1
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited^
2
1
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances 
Limited@
Mr. Shantanu Khosla 
(DIN:00059877)
Executive Vice 
Chairman&&
1
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited^
2
0
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances 
Limited@
Mr. P M Murty  
(DIN:00059877)
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
2
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances 
Limited#%
4
0
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited#
Ms. Smita Anand 
(DIN:00059228)
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
2
Lemon Tree Hotels Limited#
2
0
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited#
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances 
Limited#
Mr. P R Ramesh  
(DIN:01915274)
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
9
Larsen and Toubro Limited#
7
5
Nestle India Limited#
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited#
Tejas Networks Limited#
Cipla Limited#
Ms. Hiroo 
Mirchandani  
(DIN:06992518)
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
4
Medplus Health Services Limited#
5
1
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited#
Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) 
Limited#
Mr. Anil Chaudhry 
(DIN:03213517)
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
2
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited#
0
0
Schneider Electric Infrastructure 
Limited@
Titan Company Limited#
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar 
(DIN:00591027)
Non-Executive 
Independent Director
0
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited#
0
0
*excludes Directorships held in Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Section 8 Companie(s).
**Committee(s) considered are Audit Committee and SRC.
##Appointed as Chairman w.e.f. October 21, 2023.
Category of Directorship held
@ Non-Executive & Non-Independent
# Non-Executive Independent
^ Executive
% Chairman
&&Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and elevated as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, till April 30, 2024, and assumed the position 
of Non-Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2024, till December 31, 2025.
$$ Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director till April 23, 2023. Appointed as Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as MD & CEO w.e.f. May 
1, 2023, till April 30, 2028, his appointment was subsequently approved by the Members at the 9th AGM of the Company held on July 22, 2023.
Note: Based on the intimations/ disclosures received from the Directors, none of the Directors of the Company hold Memberships/ Chairpersonships 
of Board/ Committees, more than the limits prescribed under the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
210
211
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
The constitution, terms of reference and the functioning of the Committees of the 
Board as on March 31, 2024, is elaborated hereunder
^appointed as a member of SRC w.e.f. May 1, 2023.
# appointed as a member w.e.f. May 1, 2023.
* appointed as the Chairperson of the Audit Committee and Risk Management Committee w.e.f. October 21, 2023.
@ ceased to be the Chairperson of the Audit Committee and Risk Management Committee but continues as a Member of both Committees.
@@appointed as the Chairperson of the SRC and as a Member of the Allotment Committee.
% appointed as a member of SRC w.e.f. October 21, 2023.
Note: Consequent to retirement upon attainment of age of 75 (Seventy-Five) years, Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be a Chairman and Member of 
the SRC as well as the Member of the Audit Committee, N&RC, RMC, Allotment Committee, and SIC, w.e.f. October 20, 2023.
Member
Chairperson
Mandatory 
Committees
Audit Committee
Nomination & 
Remuneration 
Committee
Stakeholders 
Relationship and Share 
Transfer Committee
Risk Management 
Committee
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
Committee
P R Ramesh*
P M Murty
D Sundaram@
P M Murty
D Sundaram
Smita Anand
P R Ramesh*
P M Murty
D Sundaram@ 
D Sundaram@@
Shantanu Khosla
Promeet Ghosh^
P M Murty%
Shantanu Khosla
D Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Smita Anand
Promeet Ghosh
P M Murty
Hiroo Mirchandani#
D Sundaram
P M Murty
Smita Anand
Shantanu Khosla
D Sundaram@@
P M. Murty
D Sundaram
Shantanu Khosla
Promeet Ghosh
Non-mandatory 
Committees
Environment, Social 
and Governance 
Committee
Strategic Investment 
Committee
Allotment  
Committee
Committee of 
Debentures
There were 7 (Seven) Board Meetings held during Financial Year 2023-24.
The Composition of Board as on March 31, 2024, and details of the Members participation at the Board Meeting are as under:
Attendance of Directors at Board meetings and Annual General Meeting
Board of Directors
April 06, 
2023
April 24, 
2023
May 19, 
2023
August 
12, 2023
October 
17, 
2023%
November 
03, 2023
February 
14, 2024
AGM - 
July 22, 
2023
Held 
during 
tenure
Attended
% of 
attendance
Mr. H M Nerurkar*
NA
NA
5
5
100.00
Mr. D Sundaram*
7
7
100.00
Mr. Promeet Ghosh$
7
7
100.00
Mr. Shantanu Khosla@
7
6
85.71
Mr. Mathew Job#
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
2
2
100.00
Mr. P R Ramesh
7
6
85.71
Mr. P M Murty
7
7
100.00
Ms. Smita Anand
7
6
85.71
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
7
7
100.00
Mr. Anil Chaudhry**
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
3
3
100.00
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar**
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
3
3
100.00
% of attendance
100
87.50
100
100
100
88.89
100
100
 
 Attended,		
 Leave of Absence,	
 Attended through Video Conferencing
%Board Meeting held on October 17, 2023, was adjourned to October 18, 2023.
*Mr. H M Nerurkar, Chairman of the Board, retired w.e.f. October 20, 2023, pursuant to completion of his second term upon reaching the age of 
75 (Seventy-Five) years. 
*Mr. D Sundaram was appointed as the Chairperson of the Board w.e.f. October 21, 2023.
$Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director till April 23, 2023, appointed as an Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as MD & CEO w.e.f. 
May 1, 2023, till April 30, 2028, his appointment was subsequently approved by the Members at the 9th AGM of the Company held on July 22, 2023.
@Served as the Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and was subsequently elevated as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, to April 30, 
2024, and then assumed the position of Non-Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2024 till December 31, 2025.
#Resigned from the position of Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as the CEO w.e.f. of April 30, 2023.
**Appointed as Non-Executive Independent Director w.e.f. October 17, 2023.
Non-attendance of Directors was on account of their pre-occupations.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
The Board Committees plays a crucial role in the governance 
structure of the Company and have been constituted to deal 
with specific areas/ activities as mandated by applicable 
regulations/ laws. The Board Committees are set up under 
the formal approval of the Board to carry out clearly defined 
roles. Each Committee demonstrates the highest levels of 
governance standards and has the requisite expertise to 
handle issues relevant to their fields. These Committees spend 
considerable time and provide focused attention to various 
issues placed before them and the guidance provided by these 
Committees lend immense value and support in enhancing the 
qualitativeness of the decisions making process of the Board. 
In order to strengthen governance, the Board has adopted 
terms of reference for majority of Committees of the Company. 
The Board reviews the functioning of these Committees from 
time to time.
The Meetings of each of these Committees are convened by the 
respective Chairman. The minutes of the Committee Meeting(s) 
are sent to all Members of respective Committees individually 
for their comments and approval as prescribed in SS-1 and 
after the minutes are duly approved, the same is being placed 
before the Board for its review in immediate next meeting.
212
213
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
	
(v)	
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, 
wherever it is necessary.
	
(vi)	 Monitoring the end use of funds raised through 
public offers/ private placements/ debt issues and 
related matters.
	
(vii)	 Review with the management the quarterly financial 
statements before submission to the Board 
for approval.
	
(viii)	 Review of the management Discussion & Analysis of 
financial condition and result of operations.
	
(ix)	 Consider and discuss with the statutory auditors its 
judgments about the quality and appropriateness 
of the Company’s accounting principles as applied 
in its financial reporting with reference to Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles in India.
	
(x)	
Review details of significant transactions/ 
investments by the subsidiaries.
C.	
Risk management, Internal Control and Governance 
Processes
	
(i)	
Review and discuss with management the 
adequacy of the Company’s system of business risk 
assessment including the risk of fraud. Discuss the 
Company’s major financial risk exposures and the 
steps management has taken to monitor and control 
such exposures.
	
(ii)	
Review and discuss with the statutory auditors, the 
internal auditors and management the adequacy 
and effectiveness of the Company’s system of 
internal controls.
	
(iii)	 Review any material defalcations or acts of fraud/ 
misconduct as reported by the RMC.
D.	
Statutory Audit
	
(i)	
Recommend to the Board the appointment, 
re-appointment, terms of reference and, if required 
the replacement or removal of the Statutory Auditors, 
Cost Auditors and Secretarial Auditors considering 
their independence and effectiveness and also 
recommend the audit fees.
	
(ii)	
Give approval of all auditing and permissible non- 
auditing services (services other than those services 
which cannot be rendered by the Statutory Auditors 
as per Section 144 of the Act) to be rendered by the 
Statutory Auditors and determining the remuneration 
for all such services.
	
(iii)	 Annual review and discuss with the Statutory 
Auditors all significant relationships that they have 
with the Company or any of its related parties to 
determine the auditors’ independence.
	
(iv)	 Review the performance of the Statutory Auditors.
	
(v)	
Review and discuss the nature and scope of the 
Statutory Auditors before audit commence, annual 
audit as well as post-audit discussion with the 
Auditors to ascertain any area of concern.
	
(vi)	 Mandatory review of management Letters/ letters 
of internal control weaknesses and any significant 
findings and recommendations issued by the 
Statutory Auditors together with management’s 
response thereto.
	
(vii)	 Following completion of the annual audit, review and 
discuss with the Statutory Auditors any significant 
difficulties encountered during the course of the 
audit, including any restrictions on the scope of work 
or access to required information.
	
(viii)	 Meet separately with the external auditors to discuss 
any matters that the Committee or the external 
auditors believe should be discussed separately.
	
(ix)	 Review the annual Cost Audit report submitted by 
the Cost Auditors.
E.	
Internal Audit
	
(i)	
Review the Internal Audit scope and recommend 
changes, if any.
	
(ii)	
To approve appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of Chief Internal Auditor.
	
(iii)	 Review with the management the performance 
of the internal auditors and adequacy of the 
internal controls.
	
(iv)	 Consider and approve, in consultation with the 
Statutory Auditors and the Head of Internal Audit, 
the annual scope and plan of the Company’s Internal 
Audit and any significant changes thereto.
	
(v)	
Review the adequacy of the Internal Audit function, 
if any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official 
heading the department, reporting structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit.
	
(vi)	 Review with the Internal Auditor and the Statutory 
Auditors the co-ordination of audit efforts to assure 
adequacy of coverage, reduction of redundant 
efforts and the effective use of audit resources.
	
(vii)	 Review Internal Audit reports relating to internal 
control weaknesses.
	
(viii)	 Review any significant findings and recommendations 
of Internal Audit, together with management’s 
responses thereto.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee of the Board is constituted in compliance 
with the provisions of Section 177 of the Act and Regulation 
18 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. All the Members of the 
Committee including the Chairman are Independent Directors. 
The Committee is governed by a Charter, which is in line with 
the regulatory requirements mandated by the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. All the members of the Audit Committee 
are financially literate and possess sound knowledge in finance 
and accounting practices. As on March 31, 2024, the total 
strength of the Audit Committee is 3 (Three) Member(s), all of 
whom are Independent Directors.
Consequant to retirement upon attainment of age of 75 
(Seventy-Five) years, Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be the 
Member of the Committee w.e.f. October 20, 2023. 
Mr. D Sundaram ceased to be the Chairman of the Committee 
and Mr. P R Ramesh was appointed as the Chairman of the 
Committee w.e.f. October 21, 2023.
The Audit Committee acts as a link between the statutory and 
internal auditors and the Board. It assists the Board in fulfilling 
its oversight responsibilities of monitoring financial reporting 
processes, reviewing the Company’s established systems 
and processes for internal financial controls, governance and 
reviewing the Company’s statutory and internal audit activities.
The Board has appointed M/s. Grant Thornton Bharat LLP as 
Internal Auditors to conduct the internal audit of the various 
areas of operations and records of the Company.
The periodical reports of the said Internal Auditors are regularly 
placed before the Audit Committee along with the comments of 
the management on the action taken to correct any observed 
deficiencies on the working of the various departments.
The Audit Committee also receives the report on compliance 
under the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI PIT Regulations”). Further, Compliance Reports under 
the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and Whistle Blower Policy 
are also placed before the Audit Committee periodically.
Meetings of the Audit Committee are also attended by the 
other Directors, CFO, Vice President - Finance, Head Audit - 
Risk & Control. The representatives of the Statutory Auditors 
have attended all the meeting(s) held during the year at which 
Financial Statements have been placed for review and approval. 
The representatives of Internal Auditors and Cost Auditors are 
invited to attend the meetings at which their respective reports 
are presented for discussion. The Company Secretary acts as 
the Secretary to the Audit Committee.
The minutes of the meetings of the Committee are placed before 
and noted by the Board. During the year, all recommendations 
of the Committee, as mandatorily required, were accepted by 
the Board.
The Audit Committee also meets the Internal Auditors, Statutory 
Auditors and Secretarial Auditors without the presence of 
the management.
Terms of reference of Audit Committee are
A.	
General
	
(i)	
Develop, with the appropriate assistance from 
the statutory auditors, the internal auditors and 
management, an annual audit plan, internal audit 
plan and other plans/ matters to be reviewed as part 
of the responsibilities of the Committee.
	
(ii)	
Perform such other role as mandated to the 
Committee by the Board of Directors and under the 
applicable rules/ regulations/ laws.
B.	
Financial Reporting and Financial Reporting Processes
	
(i)	
Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting 
process and the disclosure of financial statements/ 
results and information submitted to the stock 
exchanges, regulatory authorities or the Members 
to ensure that the financial statement reflect a true 
and fair view correct and the same time sufficient 
and credible.
	
(ii)	
Review with management the annual financial 
statements and auditors report thereon before 
submission to the Board for approval, with particular 
reference to:
	
	
a)	
Matters required to be included in the Director’s 
Responsibility Statement to be included in the 
Board’s Report in terms of Clause(c) of sub- 
Section 3 of Section 134 of the Act.
	
	
b)	
Changes, if any, in the accounting policies and 
reasons for the same.
	
	
c)	
Major accounting entries involving estimates 
based on the exercise of the judgment by 
the management.
	
	
d)	
Significant adjustments, if any, made in the 
financial statements arising out of audit findings.
	
	
e)	
Compliance with listing and other legal 
requirements concerning financial statement.
	
	
f)	
Disclosure of any RPTs.
	
	
g)	
Qualification/ modified opinion, if any, in draft 
audit report.
	
(iii)	 Review accounting adjustments, if any, that are 
noted or proposed by the statutory auditors but were 
‘passed’ (as immaterial or otherwise).
	
(iv)	 Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments.
214
215
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Activities of the Committee during the year
Frequency
Overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process and disclosure of financial information to ensure that 
the financial statements are correct, sufficient and credible
Quarterly
Reviewing and examining with management, the quarterly and annual financial results and the auditors’ report 
thereon before submission to the Board for approval
Quarterly
Reviewing management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations
Annually
Recommending the remuneration of Statutory Auditors of the Company and approval for payment of any 
other services
Annually
Reviewing and monitoring the Statutory Auditor’s independence and performance and effectiveness of audit 
process
Annually
Reviewing, approving or subsequently modifying any RPTs in accordance with the Related Party Transaction 
Policy of the Company
Quarterly
Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function and discussing with Internal Auditor any significant finding 
and reviewing the progress of corrective actions on such issues
Quarterly
Reviewing management letters/ letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the Statutory Auditors 
Quarterly
Evaluating internal financial controls and risk management systems
Quarterly
Verifying that the systems for internal controls in relation to SEBI PIT Regulations are adequate and are 
operating effectively
Quarterly & Annually
Reviewing the functioning of the Code of Business Principles and Vigil Mechanism
Annually
Recommending the appointment and the remuneration to be paid to the Cost Auditor 
Annually
Undertake an annual performance evaluation of its own effectiveness
Annually
The annual assessment of statutory and internal auditors conducted by the management
Annually
There were 5 (Five) Audit Committee Meetings held during Financial Year 2023-24.
The Composition of Audit Committee as on March 31, 2024, and details of the Members participation at the Meeting are as under:
100%
Independence
5
Meetings
100%
Attendance
3
Members
	
(ix)	 Review the findings of any internal investigations 
by the Internal Auditors into matters where there 
is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of an 
internal control system of a material nature and 
reporting the matters to the Board. Review with 
the Internal Auditors any significant difficulties 
encountered during the course of the audit, including 
any restrictions on the scope of work or access to 
required information.
	
(x)	
Meet separately with the Chief Internal Auditor 
to discuss any matters that the Committee or 
the Chief Internal Auditor believes should be 
discussed separately.
F.	
Other Responsibilities
	
(i)	
(a)	
Approval of RPTs or subsequent modifications 
thereto. Such approval can be in the form of 
omnibus approval of RPTs subject to conditions 
specified in Regulation 23 of Listing Regulations.
	
	
(b)	
Review of RPTs on a quarterly basis.
	
(ii)	
Review of internal control systems, policies and 
procedures under SEBI PIT Regulations as amended 
from time to time.
	
(iii)	 Review of key new developments in Tax, Incentive 
and Legal matters.
	
(iv)	 Perform other activities as required by law or 
determined by the Board.
	
(v)	
Approval of appointment of CFO after assessing his 
qualification, experience & background etc.
	
(vi)	 Reviewing, with the management, the statement of 
uses/ application of funds raised through an issue 
(public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), 
the statement of funds utilised for purposes other 
than those stated in the offer document/ prospectus/ 
notice and the report submitted by the monitoring 
agency monitoring the utilisation of proceeds of 
a public or rights issue and making appropriate 
recommendations to the board to take up steps in 
this matter.
	
(vii)	 To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in 
the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, 
shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared 
dividends) and creditors.
	
(viii) Institute and oversee special investigations as needed.
	
(ix)	 Periodically report to the Board or Committee of the 
Board inter alia all significant matters that have come 
to the knowledge of the Committee, covering internal 
controls, financial statements, policies and statutory/ 
regulatory compliances.
	
(x)	
Consider and comment on rational, cost benefits 
and impact of schemes involving merger, demerger, 
amalgamation etc., in the listed entity and its Members.
	
(xi)	 Confirm annually that all responsibilities outlined in this 
Charter have been carried out by the Committee.
	
(xii)	 Self-evaluation of the Committee’s performance once 
every year.
G.	
Vigil Mechanism
	
To oversee and review the Vigil Mechanism/ Whistle 
Blower function established by the Company to report 
the genuine concerns against the suspected or confirmed 
fraudulent activities, allegations of corruption, violation of the 
Company’s Code of Conduct.
	
The Company will provide adequate safeguards against 
victimisation of persons who use this mechanism. Such 
persons shall have direct access to the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee when appropriate.
216
217
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Selection and appointment of new Directors
The Board delegates the 
screening and selection 
process to the N&RC, 
which consists exclusively 
of Independent Directors.
The Committee, based 
on defined criteria, as 
laid out in the Nomination 
and Remuneration Policy, 
presents a diverse slate 
of recommendations of 
eligible candidates to 
the Board.
The proposal is submitted 
to Members for approval, 
which must be obtained 
either at the next general 
meeting or within three 
months of appointment, 
whichever is earlier.
The Board recommends 
the appointment of the 
Director to the Members.
Succession Planning
The Company believes that succession planning is imperative 
for a Company’s continuity and sustainability. Succession 
Planning is a critical element of the human resources strategy 
at the Company. It strives to maintain an appropriate balance of 
skills and experience within the organisation and the Board in 
an endeavour to introduce new perspectives while maintaining 
experience and continuity. As part of the Company’s talent 
review process, individual development plans are discussed on 
an annual basis, and key talent are identified for potential higher 
roles in the future. Further, annual feedback process enables 
employees identify strengths and areas of development to scale 
up their leadership capacity. As nurturing talent is integral to the 
Company’s culture, SMPs is also involved in mentoring to build 
a stronger succession pipeline. Potential successors for each 
of the key roles is identified through personal development 
planning process and a robust development plan is defined by 
CHRO. The Company has established a well-defined process 
for the same which includes data-driven tools such as Leading 
Edge Potential Assessment Processes, 360-degree feedback 
process, Leadership Development programs in collaboration 
with reputed Business Schools. N&RC plays a pivotal role in 
identifying successors to the members of the Board and invests 
substantial time with the MD & CEO on succession planning of 
KMPs and SMPs. The succession planning is closely aligned 
with the strategy and long-term needs of the Company. The 
succession planning and depth of talent for KMPs and SMPs 
is also reviewed by N&RC.
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION 
POLICY
The Company has in place a Nomination and Remuneration 
Policy formulated as per the provisions of the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. The Policy outlines the role of N&RC and the 
Board, inter alia, determining the criteria for Board membership, 
approving, and recommending compensation packages and 
policies for Directors and SMPs and lay down the effective 
manner of performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees, 
and the Directors.
Terms of reference of N&RC are
a)	
Review the Succession Policy of the Company under the 
overall guidance of the Board of Directors and succession 
policy of the Company.
b)	
Devise a policy on Board Diversity, if required.
c)	
Formulate criteria for determining qualifications, attributes 
and Independence of a Director.
d)	
Identify persons who are qualified to become Directors in 
accordance with the criteria laid down, recommend to the 
Board their appointment and removal.
e)	
Formulate the criteria for evaluating the performance of 
the Independent Directors/ Board.
f)	
Formulate a policy relating to the remuneration for the 
Directors, KMPs and SMPs.
Name
Designation
Meeting Date
May 18, 
2023
May 19, 
20231
Aug 11, 
2023
Aug 12, 
20232
Nov 02, 
2023
Nov 03, 
20233
Feb 13, 
2024
Feb 14, 
20244
Mar 18, 
2024
Held 
during 
tenure
Attended
% of 
attendance
Mr. P R Ramesh#
Chairperson
5
5
100
Mr. D Sundaram$
Member
5
5
100
Mr. P M Murty
Member
5
5
100
Mr. H M Nerurkar*
Member
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
2
2
100
 Attended, 	
	
 Attended through Video Conferencing
The intervening period between 2 (Two) consecutive Audit Committee meetings was well within the maximum allowed gap of 120 (One Hundred and 
Twenty Days) days.
#Appointed as the Chairman w.e.f. October 21, 2023.
*Ceased to be a Member of Audit Committee w.e.f. October 20, 2023.
$Ceased to the Chairman and continues as a Member of the Audit Committee w.e.f. October 21, 2023.
These meetings were adjourned to the next day for consideration of financial results, as applicable
1Audit Committee Meeting held on May 18, 2023, was adjourned to May 19, 2023.
2Audit Committee Meeting held on August 11, 2023, was adjourned to August 12, 2023.
3Audit Committee Meeting held on November 02, 2023, was adjourned to November 03, 2023.
4Audit Committee Meeting held on February 13, 2024, was adjourned to February 14, 2024.
NOMINATION 
AND 
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE (“N&RC”)
The N&RC of the Board is constituted in compliance with the 
requirements of Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 18 of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations. The N&RC is governed by a 
Charter in line with the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
As on March 31, 2024, the total strength of the N&RC was 3 
(Three) Members, all of whom were Non-Executive Independent 
Directors of the Company. The Chairman of the Committee is an 
Independent Director and all the Members of the Committee are 
Independent Directors. The Chairman of the Board is a Member 
of the Committee but does nor chair the Committee. N&RC also 
transacted some of the business under its terms of reference by 
passing resolution(s) by circulation during the year under review.
Pursuant to the appointment of Mr. Promeet Ghosh as Executive 
Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as MD & CEO w.e.f. May 1, 
2023, he ceased to be the member of N&RC w.e.f. May 1, 2023.
Consequant to retirement upon attainment of age of 75 (Seventy-
Five) years, Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be the Member of the 
Committee w.e.f. October 20, 2023.
The minutes of the meetings of the Committee are placed before 
and noted by the Board. During the year, all recommendations 
of the Committee, as mandatorily required, were accepted by 
the Board.
The Chief Human Resources Officer (“CHRO”), MD & CEO, and 
CFO also attends the meetings wherever required for discussion 
of certain items.
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Secretary 
to the Committee.
The N&RC is responsible for formulating evaluation policies 
and reviewing all major aspects of Company’s HR processes 
relating to hiring, training, talent management, succession 
planning and compensation structure of the Directors, KMPs 
and Senior management. The N&RC is also responsible for 
evaluating the balance of skills, experience, independence, 
diversity and knowledge on the Board and for drawing 
up selection criteria, ongoing succession planning and 
appointment procedures for both internal and external 
appointments. The Committee also anchored the performance 
evaluation of the Individual Directors.
218
219
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Name
Designation
Meeting Date
Apr 24, 
2023
May 18, 
2023
Oct 17, 
2023
Nov 03, 
2023
Feb 13, 
2024
Held 
during 
tenure
Attended
% of 
attendance
Mr. P M Murty
Chairman
5
5
100
Mr. D Sundaram
Member
5
5
100
Mr. H M Nerurkar@
Member
NA
NA
3
3
100
Mr. Promeet Ghosh$
Member
NA
NA
NA
NA
1
1
100
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
5
4
80
 
 Attended,		
 Leave of Absence,	
 Attended through Video Conferencing
$Ceased to be a member w.e.f. May 1, 2023.
@Ceased to be a member w.e.f. October 20, 2023.
Non-attendance of Directors was on account of their pre-occupations.
STAKEHOLDERS’ RELATIONSHIP AND 
SHARE TRANSFER COMMITTEE
The SRC oversees the various aspects of interests of security 
holders of the Company, resolving the grievances of Members, 
ensuring expeditious share transfer process in line with the 
proceedings of the SRC, evaluating performance and service 
standards of the RTA of the Company and recommends 
measures for overall improvement of the quality of investor 
services as and when the need arises. As on March 31, 2024, 
the total strength of the SRC is 4 (Four) Members, which 
consists of Executive Director and Independent Directors and 
fulfills the criteria of composition as per Section 178 of the Act 
and Regulation 20 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The SRC is 
governed by a Charter which in line with the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. Mr. Promeet Ghosh was appointed as a 
Member of SRC w.e.f. May 1, 2023.
Consequant to retirement upon attainment of age of 75 (Seventy-
Five) years, Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be the Chairman and 
Member of the Committee w.e.f. October 20, 2023.
The Executive Director, MD & CEO, and CFO also attended the 
Meeting during the previous Financial Year.
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Secretary 
to the Committee.
SEBI had issued guidelines and undertook a number of 
measures for raising industry standards for RTA to facilitate 
effective Members service. In order to ensure compliance with 
various guidelines and measures issued by SEBI to improve 
investor services, the Company has amended the existing 
agreement with RTA and made the timelines more stringent as 
compared to the statutory timelines.
The minutes of the meetings of the Committee are placed before 
and noted by the Board. During the year, all recommendations 
of the Committee, as mandatorily required, were accepted by 
the Board.
Terms of reference for SRC are
a)	
To review the steps taken to resolve the grievances of the 
security holders of the Company including complaints 
related to transfer/ transmission of shares, non-receipt of 
annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of 
new/ duplicate certificates, general meetings, etc.
b)	
To review the measures taken for effective exercise of 
voting rights by Members.
c)	
To review the adherence to the service standards adopted 
by the Company in respect of various services being 
rendered by the RTA.
d)	
To review the measures and initiatives taken by the 
Company for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends 
and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/ annual 
reports/ statutory notices by the Members of the Company.
e)	
To approve issue of duplicate share certificates for 
shares reported lost, defaced or destroyed as per the laid 
down procedure.
g)	
Identify individuals for appointment as KMP and who may 
be appointed in senior management, recommend to the 
Board their appointment and removal. The Committee 
may consider any recommendations made by the Board 
and/ or parent company in this regard.
h)	
Specify the manner for effective evaluation of performance 
of Board, its committees, individual Directors and review 
its implementation and compliance.
i)	
Review the performance evaluation of the Directors 
and KMP.
j)	
Administration of the Employee Stock Option Schemes 
(ESOS).
k)	
Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever 
form, payable to SMPs.
l)	
For every appointment of an Independent Director, the 
Committee shall evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board and on the basis of 
such evaluation, prepare a description of the role and 
capabilities required of an Independent Director. The 
person recommended to the Board for appointment as an 
independent director shall have the capabilities identified 
in such description. For the purpose of identifying suitable 
candidates, the Committee may:
	
i.	
use the services of an external agencies, if required;
	
ii.	
consider candidates from a wide range of 
backgrounds, having due regard to diversity; and
	
iii.	
consider the time commitments of the candidates.
Activities of the Committee during the year
Frequency
The Committee made regular reports to the Board regarding its actions and made recommendations to the 
Board, as appropriate
Periodically
Determine/ recommend the criteria for appointment of Directors, Members of KMPs and SMPs
Periodically
Identify candidates who are qualified to become Directors and who may be appointed on the management 
Committee, or as a KMPs
Periodically
Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and prepare a description of the role 
and capabilities required for Independent Director(s)
Annually
Review and determine all elements of remuneration package of all the Executive Directors, i.e. salary, benefits, 
bonuses, stock options, pension etc.
Annually & Event  
based for ESOPs
Specifying methodology for effective evaluation of performance of Board/ Committees of the Board and review 
the terms of appointment of Independent Director(s) on the basis of the report of performance evaluation of the 
Independent Director(s)
Annually
Review of the succession plans for key leadership positions, and helped to shape and monitor the development 
plans of the key leadership
Annually
Recommend to the Board, all remunerations, in whatever form, payable to SMPs
Annually
Review and recommend to the Board candidates for election as members to the Board Committees and for the 
election as chairman for each Board Committee from the appointed members of the Board Committee
Periodically
Approval and grant of stock incentives to eligible employees of the Company during the year under the various 
ESOP scheme of the Company
Periodically
Undertake an annual performance evaluation of its own effectiveness
Annually
Review, approve and recommend amendments to the N&RC Charter and policy
Periodically
There were 5 (Five) N&RC Meetings held during Financial Year 2023-24.
The Composition of N&RC as on March 31, 2024, and details of the Members participation at the meeting(s) of the Committee 
are as under:
100%
Independence
5
Meetings
96%
Attendance
3
Members
220
221
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
During the year, 4 (Four) complaints were received from the Members, which have been attended/ resolved to the satisfaction of 
the Members.
The details of the request/ complaints are as under:
Quarter ended
Requests received
 Complaints Received
June 2023
1579
Nil
September 2023
1225
2 
December 2023
1060
2 
March 2024
1007
Nil
Communications sent to Members
Your Company has sent following communication to its Members
Month
Purpose
No of Members 
May 2023
Furnishing of KYC details & nomination by physical Members as per the SEBI circular dated 
March 16, 2023 vide circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/37
5,556
October 2023
Online Dispute Resolution (“ODR”) mechanism to facilitate online resolution all kinds of disputes 
arising in the Indian securities market
2,51,364
Further, the Company has as a measure of good corporate governance, initiated dissemination of the quarterly results and 
details of earning call/ investor analyst meet through an e-mail to all the Members of the Company from the quarter ended 
June 30, 2023, and onwards. 
Additionally, the Company also disseminates the details earning calls to stock exchanges along with audio recording and transcript 
of such calls as per the statutory timelines. The same is also uploaded on the website of the Company at https://www.crompton.
co.in/pages/financial-reports	
Quarterly and annual financial statements, standalone and consolidated, along with segmental information, are also posted on 
the website of the Company at https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/financial-reports 
SRC report for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024
Activities of the Committee during the year
Frequency
Monitoring & Reviewing the Company’s performance in dealing with stakeholder grievances
Periodically
Reviewing various measures and initiatives taken for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring 
timely receipt of dividend warrants/ annual reports/ notices by the Members of the Company
Periodically
Reviewing the annual audit report submitted by the independent auditors on the annual internal audit conducted on 
the RTA operations as mandated by SEBI including the mechanism of investor grievance redressal, compliances 
stipulated by SEBI and other matters concerning the functioning of the RTA
Annually
Periodically providing updates to the Board
Periodically
Reviewing the measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by Members
Periodically
Reviewing the adherence to the service standards and security assessment adopted in respect of various services 
being rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent
Periodically
Undertaking an annual performance evaluation of its own effectiveness
Annually
Reviewing the unclaimed dividend
Periodically
f)	
To issue new certificates against subdivision of shares, 
renewal, split or consolidation of share certificates.
g)	
To issue and allot right shares/ bonus shares pursuant 
to Rights Issue/ Bonus Issue subject to such approval as 
may be required.
h)	
To monitor dematerialisation of shares and all matters 
incidental or related thereto.
i)	
To authorise the Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer/ other officers of the Share Department to attend 
to take such actions as necessary or deemed fit by the 
Committee for any matter and to monitor action taken.
j)	
To monitor Investor Relation activities of the Company 
and give guidance on the flow of information from the 
Company to the Investors.
k)	
Review of transfer of unpaid/ unclaimed dividend/ 
shares to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
of the Government of India in line with the relevant 
applicable laws.
l)	
All other matters incidental or related to shares of 
the Company.
m)	
Perform such other functions as may be required by 
law, the Company’s Articles of Association or as may be 
assigned by the Board of Directors.
There was 1 (One) SRC Meeting held during the Financial Year 
2023-24.
The Composition of SRC Committee as on March 31, 2024, and details of the Members participation at the Meeting are as under:
50%
Independence
1
Meeting
75%
Attendance
4
Members
Name
Designation
Meeting Date
Nov 02, 2023
Held during tenure
Attended
% of attendance
Mr. D Sundaram*
Chairman#
1
1
100
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Member
1
0
0
Mr. Promeet Ghosh$
Member
1
1
100
Mr. P M Murty@
Member
1
1
100
 Attended,	
	
 Leave of Absence,
*Appointed as the Chairman w.e.f. October 21, 2023
@Appointed as a Member w.e.f. October 21, 2023
$Appointed as a Member w.e.f. May 1, 2023
#Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be Chairman and Member w.e.f. October 20, 2023
Non-attendance of Directors was on account of their pre-occupations
222
223
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
The Executive Director, MD & CEO,  and CFO also attended the meeting(s) during the previous Financial Year.
The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
50%
Independence
2
Meetings
100%
Attendance
4
Members
Name
Designation
Meeting Date
May 18, 2023
Feb 13, 2024
Held during 
tenure
Attended
% of 
attendance
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Chairman
2
2
100
Mr. H M Nerurkar*
Member
NA
1
1
100
Mr. D Sundaram
Member
2
2
100
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Member
2
2
100
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
2
2
100
 
 Attended	  
*Ceased to be a Member w.e.f. October 20, 2023.
Rajasthan
Himachal Pradesh
Gujarat
Maharashtra
Goa
The geographic bifurcation of CSR projects as approved by the Committee is as below:
Water Conservation
Skill And Entrepreneurship 
Development
Community Care
Crompton Care
Members Satisfaction Survey:
The Company had in November 2023, conducted a Members 
Satisfaction Survey with the participation of 249 (Two Hundred 
and Forty Nine) Members using a feedback questionnaire 
that focused on areas enumerated below as a measure of 
implementation of good corporate governance practices and 
in order to identify the areas for enhancement.
1.	
Level of satisfaction while interacting with the KFin 
Technologies Limited, RTA;
2.	
Level of satisfaction while interacting with the Secretarial 
Team of the Company;
3.	
Response time taken in addressing Investor’s Queries;
4.	
Receipt of various documents by the Company 
i.e., Integrated Annual Report, ECS Intimation, 
Share Certificates;
5.	
Processing time being taken for transfer/ transmission 
of shares;
6.	
Quality, content, and presentation of Integrated Annual 
Report for the Financial Year 2022-23;
7.	
Completeness, quality, and relevance of information on 
company’s website and its ‘Investors’ section;
8.	
Dissemination of information about the company by way 
of press release, Members communication, newspaper 
advertisement and website etc.;
9.	
Overall assessment of Members service standards of 
the Company.
The Company attained an overall satisfaction score which is 
further demonstrated in a chart below:
 Exceptionally Good
 Good 	
	
 Satisfactory	
	
26.07
50.79
Members Satisfaction Survey (%) 
23.14
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
COMMITTEE
The role of CSR Committee includes formulating and 
recommending to the Board the CSR Policy and CSR activities 
to be undertaken by the Company, recommending the amount of 
expenditure to be incurred and reviewing the performance of the 
Company in the areas of CSR and to strive for overall sustainable 
development in the conduct of Company’s business. The total 
strength of the CSR Committee is 4 (Four) Members. The Act 
requires at least one of the Member to be an Independent 
Director and the Company has complied with the same.
Consequant to retirement upon attainment of age of 75 
(Seventy  Five) years, Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be the Member 
of the Committee w.e.f. October 20, 2023.
The minutes of the meetings of the Committee are placed before 
and noted by the Board. During the year, all recommendations 
of the Committee, as mandatorily required, were accepted by 
the Board.
Terms of reference of CSR Committee are
a)	
To review from time to time the CSR policy of the Company 
and to ensure that the CSR policy is in line with Schedule 
VII of the Act as amended from time to time.
b)	
To review CSR projects with a view to ensure that they are 
in line with CSR objectives and CSR Policy of the Company.
c)	
To ensure that the Company’s overall business strategy 
reflects its long-term objectives on CSR.
d)	
To consider and recommend the Board and the 
management on various CSR projects to be implemented 
by the Company either directly or through the Crompton 
CSR Foundation (“CCF”), established for this purpose in 
furtherance of its social obligations.
e)	
The Committee shall formulate and monitor the 
implementation of the CSR annual action plan, in 
accordance with the Company’s CSR policy and provisions 
of applicable laws from time to time. The Committee 
shall recommend the CSR annual action plan and any 
modification(s) thereto during the Financial Year, for the 
approval of the Board from time to time.
f)	
To prepare budget and recommend to the Board the 
amount of expenditure to be incurred on various CSR 
programmes/ activities either directly or through the CCF 
or any other trusts/ Company registered under Section 8 
of the Act (considering criteria given)/ registered society.
g)	
Modalities of utilisation of CSR funds.
h)	
Monitor and report to the Board of the projects/ programmes 
undertaken by the Company.
i)	
To oversee impact assessment of CSR projects of the 
Company and place before the Board.
j)	
To advise the Board on significant stakeholder concerns 
relating to CSR.
k)	
To review and recommend to the Board for its approval any 
other reporting on CSR.
l)	
Such other related matters which the CSR Committee 
may deem appropriate, required by law or assigned to the 
Committee by the Board from time to time.
224
225
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Furthermore, the Company has constituted RMC, in line with the 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
As on March 31, 2024, the Committee comprise of 3 (Three) 
Members, all are Members of the Board and Independent 
Directors, which is in compliance with Regulation 20 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Consequant to retirement upon attainment of age of 75 (Seventy-
Five) years, Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be the Member of the 
Committee w.e.f. October 20, 2023. 
Mr. D Sundaram ceased to be the Chairman of the Committee 
and Mr. P R Ramesh was appointed as the Chairman of the 
Committee w.e.f. October 21, 2023.
The responsibility of the RMC is to monitor and review risk 
management plans of the Company and to assist the Board in 
fulfilling its corporate governance oversight responsibilities with 
regard to the identification, evaluation and mitigation of risks 
including risks related to cyber security.
The role of RMC includes the implementation of Risk Management 
Systems and Framework, review of the Company’s financial and 
risk management policies, assess risk and formulate procedures 
to minimise the same.
The RMC has the overall responsibility for monitoring and 
approving the risk management framework and associated 
practices of the Company.
The Risk Management Policy of the Company has been uploaded 
on the Company’s website at https://reports.crompton.co.in/
shopify/public/files/SqLFuZNXly_Risk-Management-Policy-1.pdf
Terms of reference for RMC are
i)	
To periodically assess risks to the effective execution of 
business strategy and review key leading indicators in 
this regard.
ii)	
To formulate a detailed Risk Management Policy which 
shall also include:
•	 A framework for identification of internal and external risks 
specifically faced by the Company, in particular including 
financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability (particularly, 
ESG related risks), information, cyber security risks or 
any other risk as may be determined by the Committee;
•	 The measures for risk mitigation including systems and 
processes for internal control of identified risks; and
•	 Business continuity plan.
iii)	
To review the Risk management Policy periodically, 
considering the changing industry dynamics and 
evolving complexity.
iv)	
To monitor and oversee the implementation of the Risk 
Management Policy, including evaluating the adequacy of 
risk management systems.
v)	
To formulate and ensure that appropriate methods, 
processes and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate 
the risks associated with the business of the Company.
vi)	
To periodically review the risk management processes and 
practices of the Company and ensure that the Company 
is taking the appropriate measures to achieve prudent 
balance between risk and reward in both ongoing and new 
business activities.
vii)	 To evaluate significant risk exposures of the Company and 
assess management’s actions to mitigate the exposures 
in a timely manner (including one-off initiatives, and 
ongoing activities such as business continuity planning 
and disaster recovery planning & testing).
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (“RMC”)
The Company has implemented a Comprehensive Risk 
Management Policy and a robust Internal Control framework 
to identify and monitor any risks or instances of fraud in the 
Company, both the Internal Risk and Control matrix defined 
across the key process areas, are updated periodically, and tested 
for effectiveness to monitor risks, ensure fraud prevention and 
avoid resulting material misstatement to ensure it achieves its 
strategic objectives and sustainable goals. The Company adopts 
both bottom-up and top-down approaches, covering the entire 
organisation to enable informed decision-making through risk 
assessment and management at all levels of the organisation. 
The Company’s Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) framework 
helps it attain its targets and goals sustainably and profitably.
The Company’s RMC Committee, chaired by an Independent 
Director, reviews identified risks bi-annually and guides the ERM 
head, who collaborates closely with business and functional teams 
to identify, monitor, and execute agreed-upon risk responses. 
Meanwhile, the Risk Council, comprising senior functional 
leadership, reviews the major risks identified by the business 
and the status of mitigation actions, systematically. Moreover, 
the Board’s RMC oversees Company’s Risk management Policy, 
framework, and process, as well as the risk management structure 
and risk mitigation system. The Audit Committee ensures 
additional oversight on financial risks and the effectiveness of 
process controls.
The minutes of the meetings of the Committee are placed before 
and noted by the Board. During the year, all recommendations 
of the Committee, as mandatorily required, were accepted by 
the Board.
The Company has a robust Risk Management Policy and Internal 
Control framework and process to identify and monitor any risks or 
instances of fraud in the Company. The Risk Management Policy 
of the Company articulates the Company’s approach to address 
uncertainties in its endeavours to achieve its stated and implicit 
objectives. It prescribes the roles and responsibilities of various 
stakeholders within the Company, the structure for managing risks 
and framework with respect to Risk management.
Internal Risk and Control matrix defined across key process 
areas, are periodically updated and tested for effectiveness to 
monitor risks, ensure fraud prevention and avoid resulting material 
misstatement. Below is the process:
•	 Monthly reviews are conducted at both - location and function 
levels, and includes trend monitoring, exceptions, root causing 
and tracking of actions taken/ underway. There is also an 
involvement of senior leadership as well, in key areas of 
Revenue, Margins, Working capital, Quality, Service etc.
•	 The organisational hierarchy and operational ways of working 
followed at each team level ensures the supervision and 
monitoring process. In addition, the data protection tools 
implemented by the Company help in data integrity.
Integrated Risk Management Framework
Control  
Assessment
Risk  
Mitigation
Monitoring & 
Reporting
Risk Identification
Risk  
Assessment
ERM  
Process
Governance
Board of Directors
Functional Leadership Members
Risk Management Committee
226
227
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
STRATEGIC INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
The Board of Directors of the Company constituted the 
SIC for evaluation and assessment of Strategic Investment 
opportunities feasible for the Company and to make 
recommendations to the Board on such strategic investment/ 
disinvestment opportunities. 
The minutes of the meetings of the Committee are placed 
before and noted by the Board. 
The Composition of SIC as on March 31, 2024, is as under:
Name
Designation
Mr. D Sundaram
Member
Mr. P M Murty
Member
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Member
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
Mr. Mathew Job and Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be member of the SIC 
Committee w.e.f April 24, 2023, and October 20, 2023, respectively.
ENVIRONMENT, SOCIAL AND 
GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE
The Board of the Company constituted the ESG Committee 
with an objective of supporting its ongoing commitment 
to environment, health and safety, social responsibility, 
governance and sustainability matters. 
The minutes of the meetings of the Committee are placed 
before and noted by the Board. 
The Composition of ESG Committee as on March 31, 2024, is 
as under:
Name
Designation
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Chairman
Mr. P M Murty
Member
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani*
Member
*Appointed as a member w.e.f. May 1, 2023.
Mr. Mathew Job ceased to be a member of ESG Committee w.e.f. April 
24, 2023.
Terms of reference for ESG Committee are
A)	
Oversight of ESG Matters
	
The Committee will have, without limitation, the following 
duties and responsibilities:
•	 Recommend to the Board the Company’s overall 
general strategy with respect to ESG Matters.
•	 Oversee the Company’s policies, practices and 
performance with respect to ESG Matters.
•	 Oversee the Company’s reporting standards in relation 
to ESG Matters.
•	 To set the tone and reinforce the culture within the 
Company regarding sustainability, promote open 
discussion and integrate ESG management into the 
Company’s processes and goals.
•	 To assist in overseeing internal and external 
communications with employees, investors, customers, 
suppliers and other stakeholders regarding the 
Company’s position on or approach to ESG matters, 
including by coordinating and reviewing, as appropriate, 
draft responses, reports or other disclosures 
to stakeholders.
•	 To consider the current and emerging ESG matters that 
may affect the business, operations, performance or 
public image of the Company.
•	 To maintain metrics, systems and procedures, as 
deemed necessary and appropriate, to monitor and 
track ESG matters.
•	 Report to the Board current and emerging topics 
relating to ESG Matters that may affect the business, 
operations, performance, or public image of the 
Company or are otherwise pertinent to the Company 
and its stakeholders and, if appropriate, detail actions 
taken in relation to the same.
viii)	 To coordinate its activities with the other Committee(s) 
formed by the Board, in instances where there is any 
overlap with any of the activities (e.g., internal or external 
audit issue relating to risk management policy or practice).
ix)	
To keep the Board of Directors informed about the nature 
and content of its discussions, recommendations and 
actions to be taken.
x)	
The RMC may form and delegate authority to sub- 
committees when appropriate.
xi)	
To make regular reports to the Board, including with 
respect to risk management and minimisation procedures 
along with its recommendations.
xii)	 To approve the appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any) which shall 
be subject to review by the Risk Management Committee.
xiii)	 The RMC shall evaluate risks related to cyber security 
and ensure appropriate procedures are placed to mitigate 
these risks in a timely manner.
xiv)	 To approve the Risk Management Framework of the 
Company periodically.
xv)	 Nurture a healthy and independent risk management 
function in the Company.
xvi)	 Help to set the tone and develop a culture of the enterprise 
vis-à-vis risk, promote open discussion regarding risk, 
integrate risk management into the organisation’s goals 
and compensation structure, and create a corporate 
culture such that people at all levels manage risks rather 
than reflexively avoid or heedlessly take them.
xvii)	 Monitor the organisation’s risk profile - its on-going and 
potential exposure to risks of various types.
xviii)	Review and confirm that all responsibilities outlined in the 
charter have been carried out.
xix)	 The role and responsibilities of the RMC shall include such 
other items as may be prescribed by applicable law or 
the Board in compliance with applicable law, from time 
to time.
There were 3 (Three) RMC Meetings held during Financial 
Year 2023-24. The CFO, Vice President - Finance and Head 
Audit - Risk & Control also attended the meetings. The 
Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Secretary to 
the Committee.
100%
Independence
3
Meetings
100%
Attendance
3
Members
Name
Designation
Meeting Dates
Jul 24, 2023
Jan 19, 2024
Mar 18, 2024
Held during 
tenure
Attended
% of 
attendance
Mr. D Sundaram#
Chairman
3
3
100
Mr. H M Nerurkar*
Member
NA
NA
1
1
100
Mr. P M Murty
Member
3
3
100
Mr. P R Ramesh@
Member
3
3
100
 Attended	
 Attended through Video Conferencing
#Ceased to the Chairman and continued as a Member of the Audit Committee w.e.f. October 21, 2023.
*Ceased to be a Member of Audit Committee w.e.f. October 20, 2023.
@Appointed as the Chairman w.e.f. October 21, 2023.
The intervening period between 2 (Two) consecutive RMC meetings was within the maximum allowed gap of 180 (One Hundred 
and Eighty) days.
228
229
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
The Committee of IDs constitutes 7 (Seven) Directors as on March 31, 2024, which are as follows:
Name
Designation
Meeting Date
Aug 11, 2023
Nov 03, 2023
Mr. H M Nerurkar#
Member
NA
Mr. D Sundaram
Member
Mr. P M Murty 
Member
Mr. P R Ramesh
Member
Ms. Smita Anand
Member
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
Member
Mr. Anil Chaudhry*
Member
NA
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar*
Member
NA
 
 Attended	
 Leave of Absence	
 Attended through Video Conferencing
#Ceased to be a member w.e.f. October 20, 2023.
*Appointed as members w.e.f. October 17, 2023.
Non-attendance of Directors was on account of their pre-occupations.
CONFIRMATION 
BY 
THE 
BOARD 
OF DIRECTORS - ACCEPTANCE OF 
RECOMMENDATION OF MANDATORY/ 
NON-MANDATORY COMMITTEES
In terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board confirm 
that during the year under review, it has accepted all 
recommendations received from its mandatory/ non-mandatory 
committees.
FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMME
Familiarisation Programme undertaken by the Company is 
detailed out under Board’s Effectiveness section of the Board’s 
Report which forms part of this Integrated Annual Report.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION CRITERIA 
FOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
Performance Evaluation Criteria for Directors including 
Independent Directors is detailed out under Board’s 
Effectiveness section of the Board’s Report which forms part 
of this Integrated Annual Report.
•	 Advise the Board on stockholder proposals and other 
significant stakeholder concerns relating to ESG Matters.
•	 Perform any other activities consistent with this 
Charter, the Company’s Articles of Association and 
Memorandum of Association as this Committee or the 
Board may deem necessary, advisable or appropriate 
for the Committee to perform.
B)	
Report to the Board of Directors
	
The Committee must report regularly to the Board 
regarding the activities of the Committee.
ALLOTMENT COMMITTEE
The Board of the Company constituted the Allotment 
Committee for allotment of shares arising out of the exercise 
of stock options by Eligible Employees under various ESOP 
Scheme(s) of the Company.
The Composition of Allotment Committee as on March 31, 
2024, is as under:
Name
Designation
Mr. D Sundaram*
Member 
Mr. P M Murty
Member
Consequent to retirement upon attainment of age of 75 
(Seventy- Five) years, Mr. H M Nerurkar ceased to be the 
Member of the Committee w.e.f. October 20, 2023.
During the year, the Allotment Committee has approved the 
allotment of 69,97,260 (Sixty Nine Lakh Ninety Seven Thousand 
Two Hundred and Sixty) shares arising out of the exercise of 
stock options by Eligible Employees.
COMMITTEE OF DEBENTURES
The Board of Directors of the Company constituted the 
Committee of Debentures for issue and allotment of NCDs and 
for approval of matters connected thereto.
The Composition of Committee of Debentures as on March 31, 
2024, is as under:
Name
Designation
Mr. D Sundaram
Member
Mr. Shantanu Khosla
Member
Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Member
During the year, your Company had paid a total interest of 
D 69.20 Crore (Rupees Sixty-Nine Crore and Twenty Lakhs 
Only), towards NCDs as per the stipulated payment schedule, 
in the month of July, 2023 and January, 2024.
During the year, your Company has redeemed 3,250 Secured, 
Rated, Redeemable, Non-Convertible Debentures (“NCDs”) 
of a face value of D 10,00,000 (Rupees Ten Lakhs Only) each 
aggregating to ` 325 Crore (Rupees Three Hundred and Twenty 
Five Crore Only) pursuant to its maturity.
Your Company has outstanding NCDs amounting to D 600 
Crore (Rupees Six Hundred Crore Only) as on March 31, 
2024, which are listed on the National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited (“NSE”). The details of the NCDs are as follows:
Particulars
ISIN: 
INE299U07072 
Series A
ISIN: 
INE299U07080 
Series B
Particulars
ISIN: INE299U07072 
Series A
ISIN: INE299U07080 
Series B
Date of Allotment
July 22, 2022
July 22, 2022
Tenure
24 months
36 months
Amount
D 300 Crore
D 300 Crore
Month & Year of 
Repayment
July, 2024
July, 2025
Embedded option if any
January 22, 2024
July 22, 2024
Coupon Rate
7.40% p.a.
7.65% p.a.
Face Value
D 10,00,000
D 10,00,000
Rating at the time of issue CRISIL AA+/ Stable CRISIL AA+/ Stable
Rating at the end of March 
31, 2024
CRISIL AA+/ Stable CRISIL AA+/ Stable
COMMITTEE OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
For the Board to exercise free and fair judgment in all matters 
related to the functioning of the Company as well as the Board, 
it is important for the Independent Directors to have meetings 
without the presence of the management. Schedule IV of the 
Act and the Rules thereunder mandates that the Independent 
Directors of the Company shall hold at least 1 (One) meeting 
in a Financial Year, without the attendance of Non-Independent 
Directors and Members of the management.
During the Financial Year 2023-24, the Independent Directors 
met twice. At such meetings, the Independent Directors, inter 
alia, discussed and reviewed the following:
•	 evaluation of the performance of Non-Independent Directors 
and the Board as a whole;
•	 evaluation of the performance of the Chairman of the 
Company, taking into account the views of the Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors; and
•	 evaluation of the quality, quantity and timelines of flow of 
information between the management and the Board that is 
necessary for the Board to perform their duties effectively 
and reasonably;
•	 performance of the Company and risks faced by it;
•	 leadership strengths and weaknesses;
•	 governance, compliance, Board movements, succession  
planning;
•	 human resources matters and the performance of the 
executive members of the Board, and the Chairman.
During the year under review, Board Evaluation process was 
carried out digitally to maintain confidentiality and anonymity 
of the responses.
As an outcome of the above process, individual feedback was 
shared with each Director.
230
231
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
The MD & CEO Officer meets the leadership team individually to determine the goals and priorities as set by the 
MD & CEO Officer of the Company. The LT deliberates on the previous year setbacks, identifies the root causes and 
highlight corrective action to ensure better outcome moving forward.
Defining Goals
The monthly reviews with the functional heads on one-to-one basis and with departmental heads collectively aims 
to highlight:
1.	
Key achieverments by the respective teams;
2.	
Challenges faced and support required by the cross-functional departments;
3.	
Operational and Financial Highlights;
4.	
Market Trends;
5.	
Consumer insights;
6.	
Peer Performance;
7.	
Future Plans.
Monthly Business Review
The Board is presented on the quarterly performance covering below:
1.	
Achievements of the quarter;
2.	
Setbacks of the quarter;
3.	
Action plan for the forthcoming quarter
The Board reviews same and provide their valuable imputs wherever required.
Quarterly Board Meeting Update
The rating of all the KMPs and Senior Management is determined by N&RC after due deliberations and considering 
performance of Company for the entire year thereby inter alia including revision(s) in the remuneration, if any, for the 
forthcoming Financial Year without the presence of management. The variable pay is divided as follows:
1.	
Company’s Performance;
2.	
Function performance;
3.	
Individual Performance.
The methodology for determination of Company performance factor covers the achievement targets, revenue growth, 
operating margin, cash flow from operations, performance vs peers, and/ or such other parameters as decided by 
the N&RC.
Reviewing the goals at the year end
Furthermore, the performance pay to the Executive Directors of the Company is paid in accordance with the Variable Pay (Bonus) 
Policy of the Company, for the respective Financial Year and the same commensurates with the performance of the Company. A 
snapshot of the process of remuneration paid to the KMPs and SMPs is provided hereunder:
SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL(S) (“SMPs”)
The Company identified following under category of SMPs, pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 16(1)(d) and Schedule V of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations. Details of SMPs as on March 31, 2024, and the changes thereunder during the year under review 
are as follows:
Sl. 
No.
Name of SMP(s)
Designation
Changes if any  
(Yes/ No)
Nature of change and effective date
1.
Mr. Amol Pitale 
Chief Digital Officer
Yes
Resigned w.e.f. May 31, 2023
2.
Mr. Anand Kumar 
Group Sales & Service Head (GSSH)
Yes
Appointed as Group Sales & Service 
Head w.e.f. April 30, 2023 (Earlier 
Business Unit Head Appliances)
3.
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam Group Chief Financial Officer (Group 
CFO) & Head of Strategy
No
NA
4.
Mr. Manoj Kumar
Chief Supply Chain Officer
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. June 01, 2023
5.
Mr. Mathew Job 
Executive Director and Chief Executive 
Officer 
Yes
Resigned as CEO w.e.f. April 30, 2023
6.
Mr. Nitesh Mathur 
Business Head – Built-in Kitchen 
Appliances
No
NA
7.
Ms. Pragya Bijalwan
Head – Marketing
No
NA
8.
Mr. Prasanth Nair
Chief Human Resources Officer 
(CHRO)
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. May 8, 2023
9.
Mr. Pravin Saraf
Head – Manufacturing, Planning, & 
Logistics
No
NA
10.
Mr. Rajat Chopra 
Business Head – Home Electricals & 
Pumps
Yes
Appointed as Business Unit Head – 
Home Electricals w.e.f. April 10, 2024, in 
addition to his existing role as Business 
Unit Head - Pumps
11.
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal
Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer
No
NA
12.
Mr. Sachin Phartiyal
Business Unit Head – Home Electricals 
Yes
Resigned w.e.f. April 09, 2024
13.
Mr. Sanjeev Agarwal
Chief Technology Officer (CTO) & 
Head – Innovation and ESG
Yes
Appointed as Head ESG w.e.f.  
May 29, 2023 (Earlier Chief Technology 
Officer (CTO) & Head –Innovation)
14.
Mr. Satyajit Mohanty
Chief Human Resources Officer 
(CHRO)
Yes
Resigned w.e.f. May 15, 2023
15.
Mr. Shaleen Nayak
Business Head – Lighting
No
NA
16.
Mr. Sunil Tolani
Group Sales & Service Head (GSSH)
Yes
Resigned w.e.f. April 30, 2023
17.
Mr. Vikram Sridharan
Chief Digital Officer
Yes
Appointed w.e.f. June 16, 2023 
18
Mr. Vishal Kaul
Business Head – Lighting
Yes
Resigned w.e.f. April 30, 2023
Remuneration Framework for KMPs and SMPs
Remuneration Policy
In terms of Section 178 of the Act and corresponding provisions contained in the SEBI Listing Regulations, your Company has a 
well-defined Policy for Remuneration of the Directors, KMPs and other Employees.
The salient feature of the policy as follows:
•	 Matters to be dealt with, perused and recommended to the Board by the N&RC, which inter alia includes size and composition 
of Board, positive attributes of Directors, succession plans, evaluation of performance of every Director, Board diversity etc;
•	 Appointment and Removal of Directors, KMPs and SMPs;
•	 Remuneration for Directors, KMPs and SMPs;
•	 Formulation of criteria for evaluation of Independent Directors and the Board; and
•	 Devising a policy on Board diversity.
232
233
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
The details of the remuneration of Director(s) during Financial Year 2023-24 is given below:
(` In Crore)
Name of Director(s)
Salary and 
allowances
Variable
Pay@
Perquisites
ESOP
Sitting Fees
Commission@
Total
Executive Directors
Mr. Promeet Ghosh%
3.72
-
0.10
-
0.01
0.20
4.03
Mr. Shantanu Khosla*
4.53 
4.57
0.03
44.56
-
-
53.69
Mr. Mathew Job#
1.09
3.39
0.00
57.04
-
-
61.52
Non-Executive Directors
Mr. H M Nerurkar^
-
-
-
-
0.05
0.30
0.35
Mr. D Sundaram
-
-
-
-
0.09
0.25
0.34
Mr. P M Murty
-
-
-
-
0.08
0.25
0.33
Ms. Smita Anand
-
-
-
-
0.05
0.20
0.25
Mr. P R Ramesh
-
-
-
-
0.05
0.20
0.25
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
-
-
-
-
0.04
0.20
0.24
Mr. Anil Chaudhry$
-
-
-
-
0.02
NA
0.02
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar$
-
-
-
-
0.02
NA
0.02
%Mr. Promeet Ghosh was Non-Executive & Non-Independent Director till April 23, 2023. He was appointed as an Executive Director w.e.f. April 
24, 2023, and as MD & CEO w.e.f. May 1, 2023, till April 30, 2028.
* Mr. Shantanu Khosla severed as the Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and was elevated as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, to 
April 30, 2024, and thereafter he assumed the position as a Non-Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2024, till December 31, 2025.
# Mr. Mathew Job resigned as an Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as the Chief Executive Officer w.e.f. April 30, 2023.
^Ceased to be the Chairman and Non-Executive Independent Director w.e.f. October 20, 2023.
$Mr. Anil Chaudhry and Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar were appointed as Non-Executive Independent Director(s) w.e.f. October 17, 2023. 
@Variable Pay and Commission is for the Financial Year 2022-23 paid in Financial Year 2023-24. 
Notes:
a)	
Notice period is 3 (Three) months;
b)	
Variable Pay is performance-linked and gets paid on the basis of actual performance parameters (including sales growth, 
profit before tax (growth and as % to sales), cash from operations etc. and as may be fixed by the N&RC and Board from 
time to time. All other components are fixed; and
c)	
Executive Directors are not entitled to severance pay, commission or sitting fees for attending Board and Committee 
Meeting(s).
The Nomination & Remuneration Policy is uploaded on the 
website of the Company and can be accessed at https://
reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/Fj46RqOSbO_
Nomination%20and%20Remuneration%20Policy.pdf
N&RC while deciding the basis for determining the 
compensation, both fixed and variable to the Non-Executive 
Directors, takes into consideration various factors such as 
Directors’ participation in Board and Committee Meeting(s) 
during the year, other responsibilities undertaken, such as 
Membership or Chairmanship of Committee(s), time spent in 
carrying out other duties, roles and functions as envisaged in 
Schedule IV of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations and 
such other factors as the N&RC may deem fit.
Following is the abridged summary of the criterion 
determining remuneration of the Executive and Non-
Executive Directors:
1.	
The remuneration/ compensation/ commission etc. to 
Directors is determined by the N&RC and recommended 
to the Board for approval.
2.	
The remuneration to be paid to the MD & CEO is in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act, and the rules 
made thereunder.
4.	
Increments to the existing remuneration/ compensation 
structure is recommended by the N&RC to the Board 
which should be within the limits approved by the 
Members in the case of MD & CEO.
5.	
If, in any Financial Year, the Company has no profits 
or its profits are inadequate, the Company shall pay 
remuneration to its Managing Director in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule V of the Act and if it is not 
able to comply with such provisions, then with the prior 
approval of the Central Government.
6.	
The remuneration is paid to the Executive Directors. Only 
sitting fees and commission is paid to Non-Executive 
Independent Directors.
7.	
The remuneration to the Non-Executive Directors 
(including Independent Directors) may be paid within the 
monetary limit approved by Members, subject to the limit 
not exceeding 1% of the profits of the Company, computed 
as per the applicable provisions of the Act.
8.	
The Independent Directors are not entitled to any stock 
options of the Company.
Non-Executive Director’s Remuneration
The Board has approved payment of sitting fees to the Non-
Executive Directors, i.e. D 50,000 (Rupees Fifty Thousand Only) 
for Board Meeting(s) and D 30,000 (Rupees Thirty Thousand 
Only) for the Committee Meeting(s). Apart from payment of 
sitting fees, the Members at the 2nd AGM of the Company held on 
August 11, 2016, have also approved payment of commission to 
the Company’s Non-Executive Directors, collectively, up to 1% 
of net profits, as permitted by the Act. Additional commission 
is paid to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee and the Chairman of the N&RC for their enhanced 
roles and responsibilities as a Chairman. Further, the Members 
of the Company at the 8th AGM held on July 22, 2022, have 
approved the payment of Commission to the Non-Executive 
including Independent Directors, collectively upto 1% of the 
net profits, as permitted by the Act.
Executive Directors’ Remuneration
As on March 31, 2024, Mr. Promeet Ghosh, MD & CEO and 
Mr. Shantanu Khosla, Executive Vice Chairman were the 
only Executive Directors on the Board of the Company. The 
annual remuneration package of Mr. Ghosh and Mr. Khosla 
(hereinafter collectively referred as “Executive Directors”) 
constitutes a fixed salary component including a basket of 
allowances/ reimbursements; a variable pay component and 
stock options as approved by the N&RC and the Board of 
Directors, from time to time. The variable pay of the Executive 
Directors is paid annually which is determined by N&RC after 
factoring in the individual performance, i.e. KPIs achieved and 
the Company’s performance. There is no claw back provision 
in the remuneration paid to the Executive Directors of the 
Company. In terms of applicable laws, there is no mandatory 
stock ownerships requirements for the Executive Directors in 
terms of laws applicable in India. Additionally, the Executive 
Directors are entitled to employee stock options under various 
ESOP Scheme(s) Schemes of the Company.
The remuneration paid to the Directors of the Company is in 
accordance with the provisions of the Act and does not exceed 
the thresholds specified in the Act and in Regulation 17(6)(ca) 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
None of the Directors of the Company have any 
pecuniary relationship with the Company apart from 
receiving remuneration.
In accordance with the SEBI Listing Regulations, no employee 
including KMPs or Director or Promoter of a listed entity, shall 
enter into any agreements for himself or on behalf of any other 
person, with any Members or any other third party with regard to 
compensation or profit-sharing in connection with dealings in the 
securities of the Company, without prior approval from the Board 
as well as from Members by way of an ordinary resolution. No 
such instances were reported during the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2024.
234
235
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Disclosures in relation to Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH”)
Your Company has constituted Internal Complaints Committee (“ICC”) to consider and resolve all sexual harassment complaints. 
The constitution of ICC is as per the POSH and ICC includes an external member who is an independent POSH consultant with 
relevant experience. The detailed process for resolution of complaints received is as follows:
Within 7 days of 
receiving complaint
Receipt of Complaint on sexual harassment
ICC to take cognisance of complaints being  
received in writing
ICC to acknowledge the complaint and revert to the 
Complainant along with informing the Respondent 
within 7 days of receiving the complaint
ICC conduct preliminary assessment to decide if the 
complaint needs further inquiry
Decision to not pursue the case with 
reasons to be sent to the Complainant 
in writing
First meeting of ICC to be held to schedule meetings 
with the Complainant, Respondent and other persons, if 
required, and must be diligently communicated
Preparation of statement of allegation for the Respondent 
who must respond with a written explanation/ supporting 
documents in 10 (Ten) days
Complainant and Respondent can inform ICC if they wish to 
call upon witness (es) or tender any documents as evidence
Conduct the scheduled meetings along with other 
appropriate steps as part of the inquiry process
ICC to provide a report with its findings within 10 (Ten) days 
from the date of completion of the inquiry
Management to take action towards the Respondent based 
on findings in the report within 60 (Sixty) days of receipt of 
the report as provided by ICC
Ensure an annual report is submitted to the  
District Officer every year
Ensure the report with its findings and outcome is 
communicated to the Complainant and Respondent
Ensure annual report is also submitted to MD & CEO and 
Audit Committee. This will form part of Company’s Annual 
Report for that financial year
Within 45 days of 
receiving complaint
Within 90 days of receiving complaint
DETAILS OF EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS (“ESOP”) GRANTED, VESTING CRITERIA 
ETC. ARE GIVEN IN TABLE BELOW
Particulars
Mr. Shantanu Khosla*
Mr. Mathew Job#
Mr. Promeet 
Ghosh%
Schemes
PSP-1-2016
PSP-2-2016
ESOP 2019
PSP-1-2016
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2019
No. of options 
granted
47,00,596
31,33,731
20,13,875
47,00,596
15,10,406
20,00,000
Effective date of grant October 25, 2016
October 25, 2016
January 21, 2021
October 25, 2016
January 21, 2021
April 28, 2023
Options Vested
46,19,088
30,79,392
8,05,550
46,19,088
3,77,602
3,00,000
Options Unvested
-
-
4,02,775
-
-
20,00,000
Options Cancelled
81,508
54,339
12,08,325
81,508
11,32,804
1,00,000
Vesting period
Not earlier than 1 
(One) year and not 
later than 10 (Ten) 
years from the date 
of grant of Options
Not earlier than 1 
(One) year and not 
later than 10 (Ten) 
years from the date 
of grant of Options
Not earlier than 1 
(One) year and not 
later than 5 (Five) 
years from the date of 
grant of Options
Not earlier than 1 
(One) year and not 
later than 10 (Ten) 
years from the date 
of grant of Options
Not earlier than 1 
(One) year and not 
later than 5 (Five) 
years from the date 
of grant of Options
Not earlier than 1 
(One) year and not 
later than 5 (Five) 
years from the date 
of grant of Options
Vesting Conditions
Time based and 
performance based
Time based and 
performance based
Time based and 
performance based	
20% each year
over a 5-year
period based on
performance
Time based and
performance
based
20% each year
over a 5-year
period based on
performance 
20% each year
over a 5-year
period based on
performance
Exercise Period
October 2017, to
October 2027
October 2017, to
October 2027
January 2022, to
January 2031
October 2017, to
October 2027
January 2022, to
January 2031
April 2024, to April 
2028
Exercise Price
D 92.83
D 185.66
 D 405.95
D 92.83
D 405.95
D 294.65@ 
*Managing Director till April 30, 2023, and elevated as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2023, till April 30, 2024, and thereafter he assumed 
the position as a Non-Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 2024, till December 31, 2025.
#Executive Director till April 24, 2023, and CEO till April 30, 2023.
%Non-Executive Non-Independent Director till April 23, 2023. Appointed as Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as MD & CEO w.e.f. May 
1, 2023, till April 30, 2028, his appointment was subsequently approved by the Members at the 9th AGM of the Company held on July 22, 2023. 
@The options were granted at D 259.80 whereas pursuant to approval of Members at the 9th AGM of the Company held on July 22, 2023 the said 
grant price was re-priced to D 294.65. 
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
The Company does not have any “Material Unlisted 
Subsidiary” as defined in the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
Accordingly, the requirement of appointing an Independent 
Director of the Company on the Board of the Material Unlisted 
Subsidiary company given under Regulation 24 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations does not apply. Details of all significant 
transactions and arrangements entered into by the unlisted 
subsidiary companies, if any are placed before the Board 
for review. Copies of Minutes of the Board Meeting(s) of the 
unlisted Subsidiary Companie(s) are placed at the Board 
Meeting of the Company. The unaudited quarterly financial 
results and audited annual financial statements, along with the 
auditors limited review and audit report respectively, thereon of 
Subsidiary Companie(s) are presented at the meetings of the 
Audit Committee and Board of the Company for an overview 
prior to their consolidation any with the Parent Company. The 
Company’s policy on material subsidiary is available on the 
Company’s website and can be assessed at https://reports.
crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/WbqwQYWqS4_Policy%20
on%20Material%20Subsidiary.pdf
DISCLOSURES
D&O Insurance for Directors
In line with the requirements of Regulation 25(10) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, the Company has taken Directors and 
Officers Insurance (“D&O”) for all its Directors and SMPs for 
quantum and risks as determined by the Board of the Company.
Disclosure of Non-Compliance of any 
Requirement of Corporate Governance 
Report with Reasons
The Company has complied with and disclosed all the 
mandatory corporate governance requirements as mentioned 
under sub-para (2) to (10) of part C of Schedule V of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
Indian Accounting Standards (“IndAS”)
The Company has prepared its Standalone and Consolidated 
Financial Statements in accordance with IndAS as notified 
under Section 133 of the Act read with Rule 3 of the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended from 
time to time and other relevant provisions of the Act.
236
237
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
when required. The policy on Materiality of and Dealing with 
Related Party Transactions (“RPT Policy”) has been placed on 
the Company’s website and can be accessed at https://reports.
crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/UA9MvX4Yb5_Policy-on-
Materiality-of-and-dealing-with-Related-Party-Transactions.
pdf In line with the amended the SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
policy has been amended suitably. There are no materially 
significant transactions with the related parties that had 
potential conflict with the interest of the Company at large. 
During the year under review, no material RPT were proposed, 
in which approval of the Members was required. No related 
party whether or not it is a party to the particular transaction or 
not is allowed to vote to approve the transaction in line with the 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Audit Committee of the Company comprises of 100% Non-
Executive Independent Directors and hence all the transactions 
of the Company with its related parties are approved by 100% 
Independent Directors of the Audit Committee. It is pertinent 
to note that all RPTs are being carried out in compliance with 
the applicable laws and regulations where only Independent 
Directors participate in the discussions and voting on 
such transactions.
All RPTs are approved by both the Audit Committee and Board 
of the Company despite the fact that all RPTs are in “Ordinary 
course of Business” and “at Arms’ Length Pricing” except 
secondment of employees. This practice aligns with good 
corporate governance principles, ensuring transparency and 
minimising potential conflicts of interest. It demonstrates the 
company’s commitment to ethical business practices and 
responsible decision-making.
The Company did not enter into any material RPTs nor did it 
enter into any significant transaction with its related parties that 
may have a potential conflict with the interests of the Company. 
The business rationale for the transactions with related parties 
and details of the same forms part of the Board’s Report and 
Notes to financial statements of this Integrated Annual Report. 
The Company obtains a report from an independent Chartered 
Accountants firm in relation to certain RPTs that the Company’s 
process of determination of the transactions are at arm’s length 
and in the ordinary course of business, is appropriate.
Finance team is actively monitoring transactions involving 
related parties using PAN information, determining if they 
qualify as Related Party, and a consolidated list is shared with 
the Audit committee on a quarterly basis. This helps ensure 
transparency and compliance with regulations.
Further the Company follows below to identify and monitor 
the RPTs:
1.	
Determination of Related Parties: Determine related 
parties based on the criteria defined in the Act.
2.	
Transaction Details: Gather comprehensive details about 
the transactions, including nature, terms, amounts, and 
any other relevant information.
3.	
Materiality Threshold: The transaction(s) are subjected 
to review in accordance with Policy on Materiality of RPTs 
as duly approved and adopted by the Board in line with 
the SEBI Listing Regulations.
4.	
Disclosure: Disclose RPTs in the Company’s financial 
statements, indicating the nature and terms of the 
transactions, amounts involved, and any other required 
information Additionally, the details pertaining to 
transactions with RPs are given in Form No. AOC-2, 
forming part of Board’s Report as a good corporate 
governance practice.
5.	
Approval by Audit Committee: Obtain approval from the 
audit committee for RPTs. The Committee reviews and 
assesses the transactions for fairness and compliance 
with regulations.
6.	
Annual Review: Conduct an annual review of all related 
party transactions undertaken during the Financial Year, 
ensuring they are properly recorded and disclosed and is 
then placed before the Audit Committee for their perusal.
7.	
Internal Controls: Implement internal controls to prevent 
unauthorised RPTs and ensure proper documentation.
During the year under review, RPT Policy was amended on 
August 12, 2023.
VIGIL MECHANISM/ WHISTLE BLOWER 
POLICY (“WB Policy”)
Your Company is committed to highest standards of ethical, 
moral and legal business conduct. The Company has adopted 
a WB Policy and an effective Vigil Mechanism system to 
provide a formal mechanism to its Directors, employees and 
business associates to voice concerns in a responsible and 
effective manner regarding suspected unethical matters 
involving serious malpractice, abuse or wrongdoing within 
the organisation and also safeguards against victimisation of 
Directors/ employees and business associates who avail of 
this mechanism. The policy ensures that strict confidentiality 
is maintained whilst dealing with concerns and ensures that 
no discrimination is made towards any person for a genuinely 
raised concern. The individuals may raise concern through 
varied channels, i.e. toll free number; e-mails; physical letters; 
or they can write/ or reach out directly to the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. The Company has separately prescribed WB 
Policy for Vendors. No personnel have been denied access to 
the Audit Committee. The scope of Vigil Mechanism has been 
extended during the year to enable reporting if any, on leakage 
of UPSI relating to the Company. The WB Policy is available 
on the Company’s website and can be accessed at https://
reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/hxamy77St7_Vigil-
Mechanism-and-WB-Policy_19-May_updated.pdf
The details of sexual harassment complaints for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2024, are furnished as under:
Particulars
No. of 
Complaints
Number of complaints filed during the 
Financial Year
3
Number of complaints disposed of during the 
Financial Year
3
Number of complaints pending as on the end 
of the Financial Year
0
Loans and Advances in the nature of Loans 
to firms/ companies in which Directors are 
interested
No Loans and Advances in the nature of loans to firms/ 
companies in which Directors are interested were given during 
the Financial Year under review.
MD & CEO and CFO Certification
The MD & CEO and CFO’s annual certificate on financial reports 
and internal controls to the Board in terms of Regulation 17(8) 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
The MD & CEO and CFO also jointly issues a quarterly 
compliance certificate on financial results and the same is 
placed before the Board in terms of Regulation 33(2) of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
Other Disclosures
•	 The Company has complied with the requirements of the 
stock exchanges, SEBI and other statutory authorities 
on all matters related to capital markets during the last 3 
(Three) years and accordingly no penalties or strictures were 
imposed on the Company by the stock exchanges, SEBI or 
any other statutory authority.
•	 The securities of the Company were not suspended from 
trading at any time during the year.
•	 The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct to regulate, 
monitor and report trading by designated persons and their 
immediate relatives as per the requirements under the SEBI 
PIT Regulations and has also adopted code for practices 
and procedures for fair disclosure of UPSI as required under 
the said regulations. Further, the Company has adopted 
various corporate governance policies as required under the 
SEBI Listing Regulations and the same are available on the 
website at https://www.crompton.co.in/investors/corporate-
governance/
•	 The auditors have issued an unmodified opinion on the 
financial statements of the Company.
•	 M/s. Grant Thornton Bharat LLP (Internal Auditors), 
M/s. M S K A & Associates (Statutory Auditors) and Parikh 
& Associates (Secretarial Auditors) met the Audit Committee 
without the presence of the management.
•	 The Company is a professionally managed Board led 
company and the Company is 100% publicly owned.
•	 None of the officials one level below MD & CEO of the 
Company are in any way related to each other or to the Board 
of Directors.
•	 The Company has complied with the requirements specified 
in Regulations 17 to 27 and Clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 
46(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
•	 In accordance with the provisions of Regulation 26(6) of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the KMPs, Director(s), Promoter(s) 
and SMP have affirmed that they have not entered into any 
agreement for themselves or on behalf of any other person, 
with any Member or any other third party with regard to 
compensation or profit sharing in connection with dealings 
in the securities of the Company.
•	 In accordance with provisions of Regulation 26(5) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, SMPs have affirmed that they do not 
have any personal interest relating to material, financial and 
commercial transactions which may have a potential conflict 
with the interest of the Company at large.
•	 The Company has complied with all the requirements of 
the Stock Exchange(s) and SEBI on matters relating to 
Capital Markets and has complied with all the mandatory 
requirements of the SEBI Listing Regulations relating to 
Corporate Governance.
STATUTORY AUDITOR AND AUDIT FEES
M/s. M S K A & Associates, Chartered Accountants, were 
appointed as the Statutory Auditors of your Company at the 
Extra-Ordinary General Meeting held on August 27, 2021, 
for conducting audit for a period of 5 (Five) years i.e., till the 
conclusion of the 12th AGM.
The details of the total fees for all services paid by the Company 
to the Statutory Auditors are as follows:
(` In Crore)
Type of Service
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23
Audit Fees
0.59
0.56
Others
0.57
 0.60
Total
1.16
 1.16
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
All transactions entered into by the Company during the 
year with related parties were on arm’s length basis, except 
transaction pertaining to secondment of employees and were 
approved by the Audit Committee as well as by Board as and 
238
239
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
the labour of persons in violation of the minimum working 
age law in India or in violation of any other law of India 
pertaining to EHS.
7.	
In addition, if any separate instructions are communicated 
by e-mail or circulars by the procurement/ quality leads 
of the Company to the vendor in relation to quality, 
safety, and compliance at the manufacturing site and/ or 
pertaining to the product, such instructions shall be read 
as an extension of the aforesaid Agreement.
COMPLIANCE WITH MANDATORY/ NON- 
MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS
Your Company has complied with all the mandatory 
requirements of the SEBI Listing Regulations relating to 
Corporate Governance as specified in Regulation 17 to 27 
and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and obtained a certificate from Parikh & Associates, 
Secretarial Auditors regarding compliance of conditions of 
Corporate Governance, which is annexed to this Integrated 
Annual Report.
COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT TOOLS
The Company has in place an online legal compliance 
management tool, which has been devised to ensure 
compliance with all applicable laws that impact the Company’s 
business. The tool is intended to provide an assurance to the 
Board on legal compliances as ensured by the Company. The 
application of the tool has been extended to cover all plant 
locations, sales and corporate offices.
The Company also has in place the tool for managing all 
its ESOP’s, maintenance of database of all the designated 
employees and tracking of trades by them or their relatives 
and Company has also adopted a digital platform for creation, 
maintenance and circulation of notices, agenda papers for all 
the Board & Committee meeting(s).
The Company utilises a web-based tool, which is ISO 9001 and 
ISMS 27001 certified, to track statutory compliances closely 
to their due dates. Any deviations are promptly highlighted 
for corrective action, with functional owners responsible for 
ensuring compliance fulfillment.
This web-based compliance management system not only 
helps adhering to the regulatory requirements but also develops 
a culture of self-regulation and accountability within the 
organisation. In the present times when governance is looked 
upon as a critical aspect of sustainability, our compliance 
management system plays a significant role in ensuring good 
corporate governance.
Corporate Legal Department issues compliance report 
on monthly as well as on quarterly basis to adhere to the 
compliances and enhance the culture with the organisation. 
They also regularly publish daily dashboard to the Function 
Heads informing them to comply on time. They provide training 
to the new performers/ reviewers from time to time.
The Company is conducting system as well as physical audit 
regularly to check various parameters including but not limited 
to checking the correctness of uploaded documents and 
providing inputs/ suggestions wherever required.
The Company has initiated a compliance system for its 
Contract Manufacturers, focusing on key compliances related 
to outsourcing that may impact the Principal Owner.
The Corporate Legal Department conducts regular corroborative 
research and studies based on various parameters, including 
monitoring updates in legislations and legal provisions. This 
information is then promptly updated in the web-based tool to 
mitigate any potential non-compliance resulting from changes 
in legal provisions.
The Company also conducts annual audit of its compliances by 
external agencies to ensure all necessary statutory compliances.
The SEBI introduced several amendments in the SEBI Listing 
Regulations wherein the reporting requirements for the listed 
entities was enhanced. The Company in order to familiarise 
the Directors and LT on the reporting requirements conducted 
the seminar wherein the Company Secretary updated them on 
the amendments and the impact of the said amendments on 
the Company.
The Company updated the materiality policy in line with the 
amendments and also adopted the internal SOP which was 
duly approved by the Board.
PREVENTION OF INSIDER TRADING
Pursuant to the SEBI PIT Regulations, the Company has 
formulated the “Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor 
and Report Trading by Designated Persons” and the 
“Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure 
of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information” (hereinafter 
collectively referred to as “Code”) which allows the formulation 
of a trading plan subject to certain conditions and requires pre-
clearance for dealing in Company’s shares, it also prohibits 
dealings in the Company’s shares by Directors, Designated 
Persons, Connected Persons and their immediate relatives, 
while in possession of unpublished price sensitive information 
in relation to the Company and during the period(s) when the 
Trading Window to deal in the Company’s share is closed. The 
Code has been revised in line with the amendments to the SEBI 
PIT Regulations from time to time.
The Company has put in place adequate and effective system 
of internal controls to ensure compliance with the requirements 
of the SEBI PIT Regulations.
A structured digital database of all the Designated Persons 
is being digitally maintained by the Company on its internal 
server. These contains the names and other particulars as 
During the year under review, WB policy was amended on 
May 19, 2023.
Over the years, the Company has established a reputation for 
doing business with integrity and maintained zero tolerance 
towards any form of unethical behaviour. It also assures them 
of the process that will be observed to address the reported 
violation. The Policy also lays down the procedures to be 
followed for tracking complaints, giving feedback, conducting 
investigations and taking disciplinary actions. It also provides 
assurances and guidelines on confidentiality of the reporting 
process and protection from reprisal to complainants. The Audit 
Committee oversees the functioning of this policy. Protected 
disclosures can be made by a Whistle Blower through several 
channels to report actual or suspected frauds and violation of 
the Company’s Code of Conduct. The Policy also provides a 
mechanism to encourage and protect genuine Whistleblowing 
amongst the Vendors. 
The Company has launched different modules for prevention 
of sexual harassment at workplace, WB mechanism and Code 
of Conduct, on its internal online portal which is available to 
its employees.
This module is included in the Crompton Induction Program 
for its new employees for making them aware of the various 
codes and regulations applicable to them including the WB 
Policy. A certificate is issued upon successful completion of 
questionnaire provided in the module. Further, this awareness 
training is to be attended by all the employees on annual basis.
The Vigil Mechanism as envisaged in the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations is implemented through the Code of 
Conduct and WB Policy.
Any incidents that are reported are investigated and suitable 
action is taken in line with the WB Policy. The details of the 
number of incidents reported forms the part of the Board Report.
CODE OF CONDUCT
Your Company has a Code of Conduct for Board and SMPs that 
reflects its high standards of integrity and ethics. The Directors 
and SMPs of the Company have affirmed their adherence to this 
Code of Conduct for Financial Year 2023-24. As required under 
Regulation 34 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, Mr. Promeet 
Ghosh, MD & CEO has signed a declaration stating that the 
Board and SMPs of the Company have affirmed compliance 
with this Code of Conduct, which is annexed to this Report. The 
Code of Conduct also includes Code for Independent Directors 
which is a guide to professional conduct for Independent 
Directors pursuant to Section 149(8) and Schedule IV of the Act. 
This Code is available on the Company’s website and can be 
accessed at https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/
JQyKgNOWmA_Code-of-Conduct_19May2023_updated.pdf
Further the vendors of the Company are governed by 
the following:
1.	
The Code of Conduct of the Company;
2.	
Vigil Mechanism and Whistle Blower Policy;
3.	
As per the standard terms of the contract entered into 
between them, the vendors have to abide by the quality 
and compliance standards of the Company and the 
Purchase Order terms were amended to include the 
WB Policy.
Company has deployed e-learning module for vendor and 
strategic supplier. This is deployed over a virtual training 
program with a link for the below module(s):
•	 Crompton Code of Conduct;
•	 Employee Awareness on Prevention of Sexual 
Harassment; and
•	 Understanding Whistleblowing.
The following affirmations are obtained from the vendors by the 
Company at the time of signing agreement(s):
1.	
The vendors shall ensure full compliance of all the statutory 
requirements of its manufacturing premises under the 
provisions of all the statutes including those relating to 
GST, ESI, PF, Minimum-Wages etc. The Company shall 
not be responsible for the violation of any of the above 
provisions due to any negligence on the part of the vendor 
and/ or its sub-vendors.
2.	
The vendor shall ensure full compliance with the 
provisions of Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and 
Rules made thereunder including but not limited to 
E-Waste (Management) Rules, 2022 and Plastic Waste 
Management Rules 2016.
3.	
In the event of non-compliance of any of the 
aforementioned statutory provisions by the vendor, the 
vendor shall take prompt corrective measures to ensure 
compliance and shall indemnify and keep the Company 
indemnified against any loss that may arise against the 
Company in this regard.
4.	
The vendor shall comply with and shall ensure that all its 
sub-vendors also comply with all applicable laws and all 
orders, rules, and regulations issued by the respective 
state from time-to-time.
5.	
Acceptance of Agreement by the vendor shall be a deemed 
certification that the vendor is in agreement with and shall 
always comply with all the requirements imposed by law, 
from time-to-time.
6.	
The vendor to further represent, warrant, certify and 
covenant that the products will be produced and provided 
in compliance with the requirements of the applicable 
labour and employment regulations and that none of the 
products shall be produced or supplied (by the vendor or 
its sub-vendors) utilising forced or child labour or utilising 
240
241
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
3.	
At the Perimeter, we have firewall and VPN Implemented. 
Firewall rules are reviewed and approved periodically 
before implementation. VPN access is now controlled 
via MFA and is only provided to the authorised users with 
business justification.
For Data Privacy, we have concluded the DPA (Data Privacy 
Assessment) of the organisation. We are now initiating the GAP 
Assessment/ Alignment with the DPDP Bill of 2024.
For Data Security, DFA (Data Flow Analysis) and Data Classification 
is completed using AIP (azure Information Protection) across the 
Organisation for the Information Classification and Data Leakage 
prevention solutioning. additionally, we send periodic mailers to 
our employees from an Information Security and Data Privacy 
awareness perspective. We also perform quarterly Phishing 
exercises for all employees across the Organisation.
The Company has adopted and implemented digitalisation and 
newer technologies in its various sections of business to be 
competitive and agile which also aids ease of doing business. 
The Company focuses on aggressively improving its data privacy 
and security layer in response to rising cyber security via Yearly 
Security Assessments.
The responsibility of the RMC is to assist the Board to monitor 
and review risk management plans of the Company and to 
assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance oversight 
responsibilities regarding the identification, evaluation and 
mitigation of risks including cyber security risk.
Your Company is focused on maintaining a positive cybersecurity 
culture within the organisation, thus making cybersecurity a 
sustainable and repeatable process throughout the organisation, 
and subsisting of Cyber Risk, being one of the key risks.
To continue to have robust cybersecurity processes, the IT team 
has remained abreast of emerging cybersecurity events so as to 
achieve higher and continued sustenance.
The Company takes requisite measures for identifying 
and mitigating Data and Information Security Risk as 
enumerated below:
•	 The Company’s policies are regularly updated to cover all 
Data Security and privacy requirements.
•	 Data Centre and Disaster Recovery (DR) are maintained at 
different locations.
•	 Disaster Recovery drill for SAP HANA is conducted annually.
•	 SAP HANA and the entire IT Infrastructure is hosted on our 
co-located Data centre. 
•	 For Cloud/ SaaS based applications, DR preparedness is 
complete for all 26 applications.
•	 Data Protection Assessment is complete.
•	 Mobile Device Management.
•	 Zero Trust is implemented for Critical Apps via AZURE AD.
•	 A robust system is maintained towards access management 
of our critical IT systems.
•	 User Access Review has been completed in the Company.
•	 Dedicated Security Operations Centre (SOC) – All our 
Security perimeters are monitored and reviewed in SIEM.
•	 CASB – Cloud Security for Cloud Application is 
under implementation.
During the year under review, no incident or breach and loss of 
data/ documents have occurred.
prescribed of the persons covered under the Code drawn up 
pursuant to the SEBI PIT Regulations.
The Company Secretary has been appointed as the 
Compliance Officer to ensure the implementation of the Code 
for fair disclosure and conduct.
E-learning modules that forms part of induction have been 
developed to keep employees informed on the Code of 
Conduct on Prevention of Insider Trading.
All the new joiners and other employees are compulsorily 
required to complete training on SEBI PIT Regulations within 
30 (Thirty) days of their becoming Designated Person(s). 
This training helps to ensure that all the employees of the 
Company are aware of as to what constitutes Insider Trading, 
UPSI or trading in securities and are well-versed with the SEBI 
PIT Regulations.
Further, the queries of employees are also timely addressed, 
in order to avoid unintentional violations and to uphold the 
integrity of the securities market.
The Company has mapped Frequently Asked Questions 
(“FAQs”) to ensure that employees are aware of their legal 
obligations, reducing the risk of inadvertent non-compliance. 
The Company also applied the screensaver of Do’s and Don’ts 
for trading/ dealing in securities of the Company on the laptops 
of the employees, to sensitise and create awareness among 
employees of the Company.
The Board of Directors, Designated Persons, and other 
Connected Persons have affirmed compliance with the Code. 
The Code is available on the website of the Company and can 
be accessed at https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/
files/QVY7HjIK7R_Code-of-Conduct-to-Regulate-Monitor-and-
Report-Trading-by-Designated-Persons-1.pdf
SECRETARIAL COMPLIANCE REPORT
SEBI vide its Circular No. CIR/CFD/CMD1/27/2019 dated 8th 
February, 2019 read with Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, directed listed entities to conduct Annual 
Secretarial Compliance Audit from a Practicing Company 
Secretary of all applicable SEBI Regulations and circulars/ 
guidelines issued thereunder.
The said Secretarial Compliance Report is in addition to the 
Secretarial Audit Report by Practicing Company Secretary 
under Form No. MR-3 and is required to be submitted to the 
Stock Exchanges within 60 (Sixty) days from the end of the 
financial year.
The Company has engaged the services of Parikh & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretary and Secretarial Auditor of the 
Company, for providing this certification.
CERTIFICATE 
FROM 
PRACTICING 
COMPANY SECRETARY
Certificate, as required under Part C of Schedule V of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, received from Parikh & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries, confirming that none of the 
Directors on the Board of the Company have been debarred 
or disqualified for the Financial Year ended at March 31, 
2024, from being appointed or continuing as Directors of the 
Company by the SEBI/ Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) 
or any such statutory authority was placed before the Board at 
their meeting held on May 16, 2024, and is enclosed with this 
Integrated Annual Report.
CYBER 
SECURITY 
INCIDENTS 
OR 
BREACHES 
AND 
LOSS 
OF 
DATA/ 
DOCUMENTS
In the world of rapidly changing environment of technologies, it 
has become the need of every organisation to adopt digitalisation 
and newer technologies into its business to compete and being 
agile, which also helps in ease of doing business. In view of 
the same, your Company has adopted and implemented 
digitalisation and newer technologies in its various sections 
of business.
In line with adoption of technology, there is always subsist a risk, 
which is called a Cyber Risk, being one of the key risks, your 
Company is focused on maintaining a positive cybersecurity 
culture within the organisation, thus making cybersecurity a 
sustainable and repeatable process throughout the organisation.
In the past year(s), while our employees operated efficiently as 
a remote and hybrid workforce, we continued to remain vigilant 
about the evolving cybersecurity threat landscape. To continue 
to have robust Information & cybersecurity tools and processes, 
the team has remained abreast of emerging cybersecurity events 
to achieve higher and continued sustenance.
Your Company has an IT Security Policy, and the same is 
reviewed and updated every year. To ensure accuracy and 
integrity, there are various access control mechanisms and 
security controls in place as enumerated hereunder:
1.	
At the Endpoint security layer, we have Antivirus with Device 
Control implemented to block the access for External Data. 
The data is encrypted at the endpoints. All User are Active 
directory based and the users do not have access to install 
any software or utility. In case of such requirements, the 
user raises a ticket in the IT Service Management tool.
2.	
At the e-mail security layer, we have e-mail Security 
Gateway implemented to filter phishing, spam and 
unwanted e-mails. We also have implemented DMARC to 
ensure that the email from our domain is sent only from 
authorised email service providers.
242
243
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Company and Member can seek and provide clarifications 
online through SEBI.
	
Further, the Company has pursuant to SEBI Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/131 dated July 31, 
2023, registered itself on the ODR platform, which gives an 
ease to investors on escalation of the complaints.
v)	
Social Media
	
The Company utilises social media platforms to engage 
with its stakeholders and provide updates on its activities.
GOVERNANCE OF SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
The minutes of the Board Meeting(s) of the subsidiary companies 
along with the details of significant transactions and arrangements 
entered into by the subsidiary companies are shared with the 
Board on a quarterly basis.
The Company as a good governance practice has initiated 
sharing of the Board minutes of the listed subsidiary i.e. Butterfly 
Gandhimathi Appliances Limited with the Directors along with the 
agenda of the Board Meeting.
Schedule of events at 10th Annual General Meeting
Date and time
July 26, 2024, Friday, 
11:00 A.M. IST
Mode
Video conference 
and other audio-
visual means
Participation through 
video-conferencing 
FINANCIAL YEAR
The Financial Year of the Company is from April 1 to March 31 of every year.
E-voting dates
E-voting dates July 22, 
2024, 
from 9:00 A.M to  
July 25, 2024 till 5:00 
P.M.
First Quarter Results: 
End July/ First fortnight 
of August
Second Quarter Results: 
End October/ First 
fortnight of November
Third Quarter Results: 
End January/ First 
fortnight of February
Last Quarter Results 
and Annual Audited 
Results: May
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
10th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Date & Day: Friday, July 26, 2024, Time: 11:00 A.M.
Mode: Through Video-Conferencing (“VC”)/ Other Audio-Visual Means (“OAVM”) 
(Deemed venue for meeting: Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing, Equinox Business Park, LBS Marg, Kurla (West), Mumbai – 400 070 
Registered Office of the Company.) 
MANAGEMENT 
DISCUSSION 
AND 
ANALYSIS REPORT (“MDA”)
This is given as a separate Chapter which forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report.
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
WEBSITE, NEWS & EVENTS
i)	
Publication of financial results
	
Your Company announces its financial results in a timely 
manner and sends it to the Stock Exchanges. The Company 
also hosts the results on its website together with a detailed 
information update and media release discussing the 
results. The results are normally published in “Financial 
Express” (English Daily) and “Loksatta” (Marathi Daily) 
within 48 (Forty Eight) hours of the conclusion of the 
meeting of the Board in which they are approved. The 
results are displayed on the Company’s website and can 
be accessed at https://www.crompton.co.in/investors/
newspaper-publications/
	
Once quarterly results are announced, the Company 
organises post-earning calls with the analyst community 
explaining to them the results and performance of the 
Company, while also responding to their queries every 
quarter. The transcripts along with Audio recordings of 
these calls are intimated to stock exchanges and also 
posted on the Company’s website and can be accessed 
at https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/financial-reports 
Your Company is a regular participant and organiser 
of analyst and investor conference calls, one-on-one 
meetings and investor conferences where analysts and 
fund managers get regular opportunities to understand 
medium and long term strategy. A detailed investor 
presentation is additionally sent to stock exchanges and 
also uploaded on the Company’s website every quarter and 
can be accessed at https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/
financial-reports Through these meetings, presentations 
and information updates, the Company shares its broad 
strategy and business outlook with the investor community. 
The Company promptly discloses details of the conference 
calls, investor meetings and event based road shows to 
the Stock Exchanges and also updates the same on the 
website simultaneously.
	
Furthermore, the Company had during the year under 
review initiated dissemination of the quarterly results and 
details of earning call(s)/ investor analyst meet(s) through 
an e-mail to all the Members of the Company from the 
quarter ended June 30, 2023, and onwards.
	
Additionally, the Company also disseminates the details 
of joining the earning calls to stock exchanges along 
with audio recording and transcript of such calls as per 
the statutory timelines. The same is also uploaded on the 
website of the Company at https://www.crompton.co.in/
pages/financial-reports
ii)	
Website
	
The Company’s corporate website http://www.crompton.
co.in provides comprehensive information on Crompton’s 
portfolio of businesses, CSR & sustainability initiatives, 
shareholding pattern, key Company policies, and contact 
details of the Company’s employees responsible for 
assisting investors and handling investor grievances. 
The website has entire sections dedicated to Company’s 
profile, history and evolution, its core values, corporate 
governance and leadership. An exclusive section on 
‘Investor Relations’ serves to inform and service Members, 
enabling them to access information at their convenience. 
The entire report and accounts as well as the quarterly, 
half-yearly and annual financial results, along with the 
media statements, presentations and FAQs on such 
results, are available in downloadable formats under 
the said section as a measure of added convenience for 
the Investors.
iii)	
Press Release
	
The Company issues news releases to communicate 
important updates, such as significant business 
developments and corporate governance changes. The 
Company disseminates information regarding its financial 
results and significant events through press releases. Such 
information is also submitted to the Stock Exchanges 
and are hosted on the Company’s website https://www.
crompton.co.in/pages/overview
iv)	
Communication related to unclaimed Dividends and 
updating of records
	
In cases where dividends remain unclaimed by Members, 
the Company sends out reminder letters to Members 
to encourage them to claim their dividends. This is a 
proactive measure taken by the Company to ensure that 
its Members receive the benefits of their investments and 
do not miss out on any financial gains. Additionally, the 
Company also send reminders to its Members on updates 
on their critical information required by law, such as their 
Permanent Account Number (PAN), bank account details, 
signature, or other important details that may affect their 
shareholdings. These updates are sent out periodically to 
ensure that Members records are accurate and up-to-date, 
and that their investments are secure.
	
SEBI processes investor complaints in a centralised 
web-based complaints redressal system, i.e. SCORES. 
Through this system a Member can lodge a complaint 
against the Company for redressal of his/ her grievance. 
The Company uploads the action taken report on the 
complaint which can be viewed by the Member. The 
244
245
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENT AND 
ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE
For any queries relating to the securities of the Company, 
correspondence may please be addressed to its RTA at KFin 
Technologies Limited at Selenium Tower B, Plot No. 31 & 32, 
Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally, 
Hyderabad - 500032
Telephone	
	
:	
1800 309 4001
Email	
	
	
:	
einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website	 	
	
:	
www.kfintech.com
Contact Person	
:	
Ms. Krishna Priya
Designation	
	
:	
Senior Manager, Corporate Registry
SEBI Registration	
:	
INR000000221
For the benefit of members, documents will continue to 
be accepted at the Registered and Corporate Office of the 
Company at Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited.
Address	 	
	
:	
Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing, Equinox 
Business Park, LBS Marg, Kurla (West), 
Mumbai - 400070
Telephone	
	
:	
+91 22-61678499
Fax	 	
	
	
:	
+91 22-61678383
Email	
	
	
:	
crompton.investorrelations@
crompton.co.in
Website	 	
	
:	
www.crompton.co.in
Members are requested to quote their Folio No./ DP ID & Client 
ID, e-mail address, if any, telephone number and full address 
while corresponding with the Company and its RTA.
The Company on a yearly basis file with the Stock Exchanges:
a.	
a compliance certificate duly signed by both, the 
Compliance Officer of the Company and the authorised 
representative of the RTA certifying that all activities in 
relation to share transfer facility is maintained by KFin 
Technologies Limited, RTA registered with the SEBI.
b. 	
a certificate of compliance from a Company Secretary 
in practice confirming issue of share certificates within 
a period of 30 days of lodgement of the investor service 
request as prescribed under Regulation 40(9) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
INVESTOR SERVICING AND GRIEVANCE 
REDRESSAL
Your Company has adopted Investor FAQs Handbook to 
effectively redress the investor grievances and improve the 
services provided to the investors. The investor FAQs Handbook 
serves as ready reference material to Members holding/ dealing 
in shares. It is designed to assist Members on matters such as 
transmission of shares, dematerialisation of shares, dividend, 
IEPF, etc. The FAQs are uploaded on the Company’s website at 
https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/investors-relations#FAQs 
under Investors section at share related information.
SHARE TRANSFER SYSTEM
In terms of Regulation 40(1) of SEBI Listing Regulations, as 
amended, securities can be transferred only in dematerialised 
form w.e.f. April 01, 2019, including in case of transmission or 
transposition of securities w.e.f. January 25, 2022. All share 
transfers and other share-related issues are approved by SRC 
duly constituted for this purpose and processed by the RTA of 
the Company.
DEMATERIALISATION OF SHARES
As on March 31, 2024, 99.57% of the total shares of your 
Company representing 64,03,46,812 were in dematerialised 
form, compared with 99.49% representing 63,28,37,575, as on 
March 31, 2023.
MARKET INFORMATION
Stock Code
: BSE Ltd. - 539876
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal 
Street, Fort, Mumbai – 400 001.
National Stock Exchange of India 
Ltd. – CROMPTON
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, 
Bandra-Kurla Complex,
Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051.
ISIN - NSDL & CDSL
: INE299U01018
Corporate Identification 
Number (CIN)
: L31900MH2015PLC262254
LISTING FEES
Your Company has paid the Listing fees for both the Stock 
Exchanges for Financial Year 2023-24 and Financial Year 2024-25 
for equity shares and to the NSE for NCDs within the 
statutory timeline.
Jun 30, 2023
Sep 30, 2023
Dec 31, 2023
Mar 31, 2024
August 12, 2023
November 3, 2023
February 14, 2024
May 16, 2024
July 1, 2023 to 
August 16, 2023 
October 1, 2023 to 
November 7, 2023
January 1, 2024 to 
February 16, 2024
April 01, 2024 to 
May 21, 2024
Quarter ending
Board meeting and 
earnings release date
Trading window closure
DATES OF BOOK CLOSURE AND DIVIDEND PAYMENT DATE
Record date shall be Wednesday, July 10, 2024, and Book Closure for Dividend will be from Thursday, July 11, 2024, to Friday, 
July 26, 2024 (both days inclusive) and the Dividend would be paid/ dispatched within a period of 30 (Thirty) days from the 
date of the declaration.
INVESTOR CONFERENCES/ EVENTS HELD IN FINANCIAL YEAR 2023-24
Your Company holds press meet and investor/ analyst calls after every quarterly results announcement, which is accessible to 
all the Members and general public. The Company also holds its AGM, which is accessible to all the Members. The details of 
these are sent to the stock exchanges and updated on the website. The Company also participates in various sell-side/ broker 
arranged investor conferences where the management interacts with investors in one-on-one or group meetings. The details of 
such participation are sent to the exchanges and updated on the website.
 Investor Conferences	
 NDR & Top Member connects (Domestic & 
International)
 Sell-side Analyst Meet	
 Earnings Call
 AGM
3
1
2
1
1
1
1
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
1
1
1
3
1
1
1
Total  
8
Total  
3
Total  
6
Total  
2
Notes:
Following events are included in NDRs:
Asia roadshow in November 2023, in Hong Kong and Singapore;
Merger with Butterfly - Domestic roadshow in September 2023; and
Engagement with Top 25-30 Members twice comprising 65% of Crompton’s total Members base in July 2023, and March 2024.
246
247
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
STATEMENT SHOWING SHAREHOLDING OF MORE THAN 1% OF THE CAPITAL AS ON 
MARCH 31, 2024
Crompton Share Price on BSE vis-à-vis BSE Sensex April, 2023 to March, 2024
Months
BSE Sensex 
Close
Crompton Share Price
No. of shares 
traded 
during the 
month
Total Turnover 
(D in Crore)
High (D)
Low (D)
Crompton on 
BSE
Apr 2023
61,112.44
302.15
251.25
255.05
 61,26,146 
161.01
May 2023
62,622.24
279.00
252.10
274.50
 62,88,902 
166.80
Jun 23
64,718.56
297.30
272.00
289.30
 44,41,920 
128.98
Jul 23
66,527.67
301.45
281.50
293.75
 15,16,750 
44.16
Aug 23
64,831.41
316.30
281.30
299.95
 32,82,917 
98.42
Sep 23
65,828.41
319.85
292.00
309.95
 17,25,180 
52.89
Oct 23
63,874.93
311.90
278.05
281.95
 18,63,074 
54.62
Nov 23
66,988.44
293.50
275.50
285.05
 7,69,779 
21.89
Dec 23
72,240.26
314.40
285.00
310.85
 22,93,852 
68.55
Jan 24
71,752.11
327.80
293.80
302.90
 36,32,909 
113.06
Feb 24
72,500.30
309.80
280.50
291.05
 87,22,303 
254.52
Mar 24
73,651.35
302.75
262.10
267.20
 54,55,586 
147.31
The performance of your Company’s shares relative to the BSE Sensex is given in the 
chart below:
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
80,000.00
70,000.00
60,000.00
50,000.00
40,000.00
30,000.00
20,000.00
10,000.00
0.00
400.00
300.00
200.00
100.00
0.00
S&P BSE Sensex
Crompton on BSE
(In Unit)
PAYMENT OF DEPOSITORY FEES:
Annual Custody/ Issuer fees for the financial year 2023-24 has been paid by the Company to National Securities Depository Limited 
(“NSDL”) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”).
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS ON MARCH 31, 2024
Sr. 
No.
Number of Shares held
No.of Members
% to Members
No.of Shares
% To Equity
1
1 - 5000
2,46,271
98.75
4,95,10,742
7.70
2
5001 - 10000
1,639
0.66
1,14,85,843
1.79
3
10001 - 20000
799
0.32
1,09,86,594
1.71
4
20001 - 30000
203
0.08
49,03,127
0.76
5
30001 - 40000
88
0.04
30,30,034
0.47
6
40001 - 50000
52
0.02
23,56,086
0.37
7
50001 - 100000
110
0.04
75,99,147
1.18
8
100001 and above
229
0.09
55,32,35,406
86.03
TOTAL 
2,49,391
100.00
64,31,06,979
100.00
CATEGORIES OF SHAREHOLDERS AS ON MARCH 31, 2024
32.18%
Foreign Holdings
40.21%
Mutual Funds
13.14%
Resident Individuals 
& HUF
9.79%
Qualified  
Institutional Buyer
1.73%
Bodies Corporates
1.15%
Alternative  
Investment Fund
0.79%
Non Resident Indian 
Non Repatriable
0.38%
Others
0.05%
Trust
0.25%
Directors &  
KMP
0.31%
Banks
0.03%
Employees
248
249
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
OUTSTANDING GDRs/ ADRs/ WARRANTS/CONVERTIBLE INSTRUMENTS AS ON 
MARCH 31, 2024
Nil
COMMODITY PRICE RISK OR FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
Your Company actively monitors the foreign exchange movements and takes forward/ options covers as appropriate to reduce 
the risks associated with transactions in foreign currencies.
UTILIZATION OF FUNDS RAISED THROUGH PREFERENTIAL ALLOTMENT OR 
QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS PLACEMENT
During the Financial Year, the Company did not raise any funds through preferential allotment or qualified institutions placement.
INFORMATION ON GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
The details of the AGMs and Extra Ordinary General Meeting(s) (“EGM”) held during the last 3 (Three) years are as follows:
Information on General Body Meetings
Event
Financial 
year
Venue
Mode
Day, Date, Time 
(IST)
Special Resolution(s) passed
9th AGM
2023-24
Tower 3, 1st Floor, 
East Wing, Equinox 
Business Park, LBS 
Marg, Kurla (West), 
Mumbai 
– 
400070 
(“Registered Office”)
Through VC/ OAVM Saturday, July 22, 
2023, at 11:00 A.M.
1)	 Re-appointment of Ms. Smita Anand 
(DIN:00059228) as an Independent 
Director for a Second Term
2)	 Approval for amendment in Crompton 
Employee Stock Option Plan, 2019 
(“ESOP 2019”)
8th AGM
2022-23
Registered Office
Through VC/ OAVM Friday, July 22, 2022, 
at 03:00 P.M.
No Special Resolution was passed
7th AGM
2021-22
Registered Office
Through VC/ OAVM Friday, July 23, 2021, 
at 03:00 P.M.
1)	 Managerial remuneration of Mr. 
Shantanu Khosla (DIN:00059877), 
Managing Director, in the event of 
exercise of ESOPs; and
2)	 Managerial remuneration of Mr. 
Mathew Job (DIN:02922413), 
Executive Director and Chief 
Executive Officer, in the event of 
exercise of ESOPs.
EGM
2021-22
Registered Office
Through VC/ OAVM August 27, 2021 at 
11.00 A.M.
No Special Resolution was passed
POSTAL BALLOT
During the Financial Year under review, the Company has passed 3 (Three) special resolutions through postal ballot 
through e-Voting:
Date of postal ballot 
notice
Resolution(s) passed
Date of Approval
Scrutinizer
Link for postal ballot 
notice and results
August 12, 2023
Alteration in the Articles 
of Association of the 
Company
September 28, 2023
Ms. Alifya Sapatwala  
(ACS 24091), Partner,  
M/s. Mehta & Mehta,  
Practicing Company Secretaries
https://www.crompton.
co.in/investors/e-voting-
postal-ballot/ 
November 3, 2023
Appointment of Mr. Anil 
Chaudhry (DIN:03213517) 
as an Independent Director
December 19, 2023
Ms. Alifya Sapatwala  
(ACS 24091), Partner,  
M/s. Mehta & Mehta,  
Practicing Company Secretaries
https://www.crompton.
co.in/investors/e-voting-
postal-ballot/
November 3, 2023
Appointment of Mr. Sanjiv 
Kakkar (DIN:00591027) as 
an Independent Director
December 19, 2023
Ms. Alifya Sapatwala  
(ACS 24091), Partner,  
M/s. Mehta & Mehta,  
Practicing Company Secretaries
https://www.crompton.
co.in/investors/e-voting-
postal-ballot/
Crompton Share Price on NSE vis-à-vis NSE Nifty 500 April, 2023 to March, 2024
Crompton Share Price
Date
NSE Nifty 500
High (`)
Low (`)
Crompton 
on NSE
No. of shares 
traded during 
the month
Total Turnover 
(D in Crore)
Apr 2023
15219.55
302.85
251.00
254.90
 8,66,39,105 
 2,321.21
May 23
15766.40
278.70
252.10
274.80
 9,77,76,186 
 2,580.21 
Jun 23
16430.00
297.75
272.00
289.55
 4,76,78,029 
 1,362.55
Jul 23
17059.00
301.40
281.55
293.90
 4,76,97,105 
 1,388.87
Aug 23
16924.30
316.35
281.15
300.05
 7,91,13,492 
 2,364.65
Sep 23
17292.60
319.50
291.85
309.85
 4,76,44,480 
 1,458.93
Oct 23
16801.10
311.15
277.90
282.00
 3,90,04,338 
 1,140.47
Nov 23
17987.95
293.55
275.30
284.95
 3,24,80,787 
 922.52
Dec 23
19429.15
314.50
285.00
310.90
 5,28,19,969 
 1,576.13
Jan 24
19802.10
327.95
293.60
302.95
 5,27,76,984 
 1,654.35
Feb 24
20090.05
309.90
277.10
291.00
 5,88,36,467 
 1,713.15
Mar 24
20255.15
302.85
261.25
267.50
 6,43,92,553 
 1,774.46
The performance of your Company’s shares relative to the NSE Nifty 500 Index is given 
in the chart below
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
25,000.00
20,000.00
15,000.00
150.00
50.00
5,000.00
0.00
300.00
350.00
200.00
250.00
100.00
0.00
Nifty 500
Crompton on NSE
(In Unit)
BREAK-UP OF SHARES IN PHYSICAL AND DEMAT FORM AS ON MARCH 31, 2024
 NSDL 
 CDSL 
 Physical
87.81%
0.43%
11.76%
250
251
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
PLANT LOCATIONS
Himachal Pradesh
Baddi
(Unit I) Plot No. 81, HPSIDC, Industrial Area 
Baddi, District Solan, Himachal Pradesh - 
173 205, India
(Unit II) Plot No. 148,149,150,157, 158 
and 159, HPSIDC, Industrial Area, Baddi, 
District Solan, Himachal Pradesh- 173 
205, India
(Unit III) Village Thana, Tehsil Baddi, District 
Solan, Himachal Pradesh - 173 205, India
Maharashtra
Ahmednagar
C-19, MIDC, Ahmednagar,  
Maharashtra-414 111. India
A-28, MIDC, Ahmednagar,  
Maharashtra-414 111, India
Goa
Kundaim
Plot No. 214-A, Kundaim Industrial 
Estate, Kundaim, Goa-403 115, India
Bethora
Plot No. 1, Goa IDC Industrial Estate, 
Bethora, Panda, Goa - 403 409, India
Gujarat
Vadodara
Padra Jambusar Highway. 
Village Kural, Taluka Padra, 
District Vadodara, Gujarat - 
391430, India
State
City
Procedure for postal ballot
In compliance with Regulation 44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
Sections 108, 110 and other applicable provisions of the Act 
read with the Rules issued thereunder and the General Circulars 
issued in this regard by the MCA, the Company provided 
e-Voting facility to all its members.
The Company engaged the services of NSDL for the purpose of 
providing e-Voting facility to all its Members. The Postal Ballot 
Notice was sent to the Members in electronic form at their email 
addresses registered with the depositories/ Company’s RTA.
The Company also published notice in the newspapers 
declaring the details of completion of dispatch, e-Voting details 
and other requirements in terms of the Act read with the Rules 
issued thereunder and the SS issued by the ICSI. Voting rights 
were reckoned on the paid-up value of shares of the Company 
registered in the names of the Members as on the cut-off date.
The Scrutinizer submitted his report to the Company Secretary 
of the Company, after the completion of scrutiny and the 
consolidated results of the voting by postal ballot were then 
announced by the Company Secretary as authorised by the 
Board of the Company.
The results were displayed at the registered office of the 
Company and on the Company’s website at https://www.
crompton.co.in/investors/e-voting-postal-ballot/ and were 
available on the website of the Stock Exchanges and NSDL. 
No Special Resolution is proposed to be passed through Postal 
Ballot as on the date of this Integrated Annual Report.
Details of special resolution(s) proposed to be transacted 
through postal ballot
None of the businesses proposed to be transacted at the 
ensuing AGM requires passing of a special resolution through 
postal ballot.
Extraordinary General Meeting
No extraordinary general meeting of the Members was held 
during the Financial Year 2023-24.
DETAILS OF CAPITAL MARKET NON-
COMPLIANCE, IF ANY
Legal compliance
In everything we do, we comply with the law of the land. All 
disclosures and policies to this effect, including details of non- 
compliance, regulatory orders, certifications and complaints, 
are made available in this corporate governance report.
No penalties/ strictures were imposed on your Company by 
the stock exchanges or SEBI or any statutory authority in any 
matters related to the capital markets since incorporation.
252
253
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Further in accordance with the provisions contained in Rule 
7(2A) of the IEPF Rules, the Company Secretary has been 
appointed as the Nodal Officer. Contact information of the 
Nodal Officer for the purpose of co-ordination with the IEPF 
Authority are available on the website of the Company and can 
be accessed at https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/investors-
relations#ConInvestors
Furthermore, shares in respect of which dividend will remain 
unclaimed progressively for 7 (Seven) consecutive years, 
will be reviewed for transfer to the IEPF as required by law. 
The Company will transfer the said shares, after sending an 
intimation of the proposed transfer in advance to the concerned 
Members,, as well as publish a public notice in this regard. 
Names of such transferees will be available on the Company’s 
website at https://www.crompton.co.in/investors/share-related-
info/
Unclaimed Shares
There were 9,55,925 (Nine Lakh Fifty Five Thousand Nine 
Hundred and Twenty Five Only) equity shares lying in the 
unclaimed suspense account of CG Power and Industrial 
Solutions Limited (erstwhile Crompton Greaves Limited) at 
the time of demerger. Pursuant to the Scheme of demerger, 
equivalent number of equity shares were allotted on March 
22, 2016. 
There were 9,07,294 (Nine Lakh Seven Thousand Two Hundred 
and Ninety Four) number of equity shares lying in Unclaimed 
Suspense Account as unclaimed shares as on March 31, 2024.
Disclosure in Respect of equity shares Transferred in the 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited – Unclaimed 
Suspense Account’ is as under:
Particulars
Number of 
Members
Number of 
equity shares
Aggregate number 
of Members and the 
outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying as 
on April 01, 2023
3,998
9,11,422
Number of Members who 
approached the Company 
for transfer of shares from 
suspense account during 
the year
24
4,128
Number of Members 
to whom shares were 
transferred from suspense 
account during the year
24
4,128
Aggregate number 
of Members and the 
outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying as 
on March 31, 2024
3,975
9,07,294
The voting rights on these shares in the suspense account 
shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares claims 
the shares.
DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN TYPES OF 
AGREEMENTS BINDING LISTED ENTITIES
There are no agreements that require disclosure under 
clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
SPECIAL CONTINGENCY INSURANCE 
POLICY
The Company had during the year under review obtained 
Special Contingency Insurance Policy from National Insurance 
Company Limited as required under SEBI circular SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/70 dated May 25, 2022.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
This Chapter read together with the “Annexure to Corporate 
Governance” constitutes the Compliance Report on Corporate 
Governance for the Financial Year 2023-24.
	
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
D Sundaram
Place: Mumbai 	
Chairman
Date: May 16, 2024 	
DIN:00016304
CREDIT RATING
The Company’s borrowing programmes have received the 
credit ratings from CRISIL Ratings Limited, (“CRISIL”), and 
India Ratings and Research Private Limited during Financial 
Year 2023-24. There has been no revision in credit ratings 
during Financial Year 2023-24. The ratings given by these 
agencies are as follows:
Type of Credit Rating
Rating Agency
Rating 
Outlook
Non-convertible 
Debentures
CRISIL 
AA+
Stable
Working Capital Limits
India Ratings & 
Research Private 
Limited
AA+
Stable
DIVIDEND
Payment of dividend through Automated 
Clearing House (“ACH”)
The Company provides the facility for direct credit of the 
dividend to the Members’ Bank Account. The SEBI Listing 
Regulations also mandate companies to credit the dividend to 
the members electronically. Members are therefore urged to 
avail themselves of this facility to ensure safe and speedy credit 
of their dividend into their bank account through the banks’ 
ACH mode.
Members who hold shares in demat mode should inform their 
Depository Participant, whereas Members holding shares in 
physical form should inform the Company of the core banking 
account details allotted to them by their bankers. In cases 
where the core banking account details are not available, the 
Company will issue the demand drafts mentioning the existing 
bank details available with the Company.
Unclaimed Dividends
In accordance with the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 
of the Act and Investor Education and Protection Fund 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 
(“IEPF Rules”), dividends not encashed/ claimed within 
7 (Seven) years from the date of declaration are to be transferred 
to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”).
The IEPF Rules mandate companies to transfer shares of 
Members whose dividends remain unpaid/ unclaimed for a 
period of 7 (Seven) consecutive years or more to the demat 
account of IEPF established by the Central Government. The 
Members, whose dividends/ shares are transferred to the IEPF, 
can claim their shares/ dividends from the IEPF Authority. 
In accordance with the said IEPF Rules, as amended, the 
Company shall send notices to all the Members whose shares 
are due to be transferred to IEPF requesting them to comply 
with the requirements to claim back the Dividends and avoid 
transfer of shares and shall simultaneously publish newspaper 
advertisement for the same.
The Company is required to transfer dividends, which have 
remained unpaid/ unclaimed for a period of 7 (Seven) years from 
the date the dividend is due for payment to IEPF established 
by the Government. The Company had in the Financial Year 
2016-17, announced its inaugural dividend of D 1.50 (One 
Rupee and Fifty Paise Only) per Equity Share. Consequently, 
the unclaimed or unpaid dividends and corresponding shares 
in respect of which dividend has not been claimed for 7 (Seven) 
consecutive years aggregating to D 42,71,541 as on March 
31, 2024, shall be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund (“IEPF”), in accordance with Section 124 and 
Section 125 of the Act, read with the rules made thereunder.
The statutory timelines for claiming unclaimed and unpaid 
dividends declared by the Company for the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2017, and thereafter is provided as under, 
details of these shares are also available on the Company’s 
website at the following link https://www.crompton.co.in/
investors/share-related-info/
Financial Year
Date of declaration 
of dividend
Statutory timelines 
for claiming unpaid/
unclaimed dividend
2016-17
July 27, 2017
September 01, 2024
2017-18
July 25, 2018
August 30, 2025
2018-19
July 24, 2019
August 29, 2026
2019-20 (Interim) October 22, 2020
November 27, 2027
2020-21
July 23, 2021
August 28, 2028
2021-22
July 22, 2022
August 27, 2029
2022-23
July 22, 2023
August 27, 2030
254
255
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ CERTIFICATE ON 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To
The Members of
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
We have examined the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance by Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited (‘the Company’) for the year ended on March 31, 2024, as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) and 
(t) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and para C, D & E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
The compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. Our examination was limited 
to the review of procedures and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance with conditions of 
Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and the representations made by 
the Directors and the management and considering the relaxations granted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Securities 
and Exchange Board of India warranted due to the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, we certify that the Company has complied 
with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the SEBI Listing Regulations for the year ended on March 31, 2024.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Practising Company Secretaries
MITESH DHABLIWALA
Place: Mumbai 	
FCS: 8331 CP: 9511
Date: May 16, 2024 	
UDIN:F008331F000380802 
PR No.: 1129/2021
CERTIFICATE - FOR NON DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34 (3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited 
Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing, Equinox Business Park, 
LBS Marg, Kurla (West), Mumbai – 400070
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited having CIN L24240MH1952PLC008951 and having registered office at 
Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400001 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us 
by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C 
Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number 
(DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its 
officers and considering the relaxations granted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Securities and Exchange Board of India 
warranted due to the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, We hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company 
as stated below for the Financial Year ending on March 31, 2024, have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or 
continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such 
other Statutory Authority.
S. 
No.
Particulars
DIN
Date of Appointment in Company
1)
Mr. Sundaram Damodarannair
00016304
26/08/2015
2)
Mr. Pangulury Mohan Murty
00011179
26/08/2015
3)
Mr. Shantanu Maharaj Khosla
00059877
21/09/2015
4)
Mr. Promeet Promode Ghosh
05307658
16/08/2016
5)
Ms. Smita Anand
00059228
10/12/2018
6)
Mr. Prathivadibhayankara Rajagopalan Ramesh
01915274
21/05/2021
7)
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani
06992518
28/01/2022
8)
Mr. Anil Chaudhry
03213517
17/10/2023
9)
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar
00591027
17/10/2023
*the date of appointment is as per the MCA Portal
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/ continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the 
affairs of the Company.
For Parikh & Associates
Practising Company Secretaries
MITESH DHABLIWALA
Place: Mumbai 	
FCS: 8331 CP: 9511
Date: May 16, 2024 	
UDIN:F008331F000380758
256
257
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
DECLARATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH CODE OF CONDUCT UNDER 
SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) 
REGULATIONS, 2015
In accordance with the provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, I hereby confirm 
that all the Directors and Senior Management Personnel of the Company have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct, 
as applicable to them, for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024.
Promeet Ghosh
Place: Mumbai 	
MD & CEO
Date: May 16, 2024 	
DIN:05307658
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE BY THE MANAGING DIRECTOR & 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
To
The Members,
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Dear Sir/ Madam,
Sub: Compliance Certificate for the year ended March 31, 2024 – Regulation 17(8) & Part B of Schedule II of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as amended)
In compliance with Regulation 17(8) & Part B of Schedule II of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, (as amended), it is certified that –
A.	
We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year and that to the best of our knowledge 
and belief:
	
1.	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that 
might be misleading;
	
2.	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and comply with existing accounting 
standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which is 
fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
C.	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have evaluated 
the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and we have disclosed to the 
Auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if any, of which we are 
aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
D.	
We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee:
	
1.	
that there were no significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
	
2.	
that there were no significant changes in accounting policies during the year; and
	
3.	
that there were no instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the 
management or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting.
Thanking you,
Promeet Ghosh 	
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
MD & CEO 	
Chief Financial Officer
DIN:05307658	
Place: Mumbai 
Date: May 16, 2024
258
259
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L31900MH2015PLC262254
2.
Name of the Listed Entity
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
3.
Year of incorporation
2015
4.
Registered office address
Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing, Equinox Business Park, 
LBS Marg, Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070
5.
Corporate address
Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing, Equinox Business Park, 
LBS Marg, Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070
6.
E-mail
crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in 
7.
Telephone
+91 2261678499
8.
Website
www.crompton.co.in 
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2023-24
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
1.	 National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
2.	 BSE Ltd.
11.
Paid-up Capital
D128.62 Crore
12.
Name and contact details (telephone, e-mail address) of the person 
who may be contacted in case of any queries on the BRSR report
Name: Mr. Promeet Ghosh#
Designation: MD & CEO
E-mail Id: secretarial@crompton.co.in
13.
Reporting boundary* – Are the disclosures under this report made 
on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on a consolidated 
basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its 
consolidated financial statements, taken together)
Standalone
14.
Name of assurance provider
BDO India LLP
15.
Type of assurance obtained
1.	 For Core Indicators - Reasonable 
2.	 For Non-Core Indicators - Limited 
# Non-Executive Non-Independent Director till April 23, 2023, and appointed as Executive Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023, and as MD & CEO 
w.e.f May 1, 2023, till April 30, 2028
* For environmental KPIs, we have included only manufacturing facilities.
II.	 Products/ services
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover)
S. 
No.
Description of main activity
Description of business activity
% of turnover of the entity
1.
Electrical 
Consumer 
Durables 
and 
Lighting Products
Manufacturing/ Trading
100
17.	 Products/ services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover)
S. 
No.
Product/ service
NIC code
% of total turnover contributed
1.
Electrical Consumer Durables
27501, 27502, 27503, 28132
84.41%
2.
Lighting Products
27400
15.59%
III.	 Operations
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/ or operations/ offices of the entity are situated
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
8
21
29
International
0
0
0
19.	 Markets served by the entity
	
a)	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
PAN India
International (No. of Countries)
38
	
b)	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 1.60%
	
c)	
A brief on types of customers –
	
	
The Company caters to a wide range of consumers, including homeowners, other businesses, corporates, architects, 
interior designers, real-estate developers, government, wholesalers and distributors. The Company has National & 
International customer basis.
	
	
A mix of Distributors, Retailers, Institutional Buyers and Large Format Stores.
IV.	 Employees
20.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year
	
a)	
Employees and workers (including differently abled)
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
Employees
1.
Permanent (D)
1,779
1,654
92.97
125
7.03
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
1,235
1,068
86.48
167
13.52
3.
Total employees (D + E)
3,014
2,722
90.31
292
9.69
Workers
4.
Permanent (F)
459
401
87.36
58
12.64
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
2,489
1,846
74.17
643
25.83
6.
Total workers (F + G)
2,948
2,247
76.22
701
23.78
	
b)	
Differently abled employees and workers
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total
Male
Female
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
No. (C)
% (C/ A)
Differently abled employees
1.
Permanent (D)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
3.
Total differently abled 
employees (D + E)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Differently abled workers
4.
Permanent (F)
2
2
100
NIL
NIL
5.
Other than permanent (G)
2
2
100
NIL
NIL
6.
Total differently abled 
workers (F + G)
4
4
100
NIL
NIL
21.	 Participation/ inclusion/ representation of women
Particulars
Total
(A)
No. and % of Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
9
2
22.22
Key Management Personnel
3
1
33.33
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
260
261
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
(In %)
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23
F.Y. 2021-22
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
24.40
22.90
24.30
36.13
33.17
35.94
29.68
22.11
29.19
Permanent Workers
7.20
13.01
7.95
2.75
3.08
2.79
3.13
4.51
3.31
V.	 Holding, subsidiary and associate companies (including joint ventures)
23.	 (a)	 Names of holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ joint ventures
S. 
No.
Name of the holding/ subsidiary/ 
associate companies/  
joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether holding/ 
subsidiary/ associate/joint venture % of shares held by listed entity
Does the entity indicated at 
column A, participate in the 
business responsibility initiatives 
of the listed entity? (Yes/ No)
1.
Nexustar Lighting Project 
Private Limited
Wholly-owned subsidiary
100
No
2.
Pinnacles Lighting Project 
Private Limited
Wholly-owned subsidiary
100
No
3.
Crompton CSR Foundation
Wholly-owned subsidiary
The Company is limited by 
guarantee and does not have 
share capital.
No
4.
Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited (“Butterfly”)
Subsidiary
75
No
VI.	 Corporate Social Responsibity (“CSR”) details
24.	 (i) 	
Whether CSR is applicable as per Section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/ No) - Yes
	
(ii)	
Turnover (in D) 6,388.38 Crore
	
(iii)	 Net worth (in D) 3,205.48 Crore
VII.	Transparency and disclosures compliances
25.	 Complaints/ grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines 
on Responsible Business Conduct
Stakeholder group  
from whom complaint  
is received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in Place 
(Yes/ No) (If Yes, 
then provide web-
link for grievance 
redress policy)
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23 
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities1
YES
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Investors (other than 
shareholders)2
YES
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Shareholders2
YES
4
NIL
NA
11
NA
NA
Employees and 
workers3
YES
NIL
NIL
Minor complaints 
are resolved by the 
respective SPOC, 
location-wise
NIL
NIL
Minor complaints 
are resolved by the 
respective SPOC, 
location-wise
Customers4
YES
27,74,927
3,322
NA
25,80,752
3,072
NA
Value Chain Partners5
YES
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Other (please specify)
NIL
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
	
The Company is committed to encourage openness, promote transparency and reporting improvements without fear of rebuttal. The 
organisation is committed to creating a culture that encourages high standards of ethics and upholds decent and safe working conditions 
for the entire workforces. 
	
1Communities while interacting during the community engagement programmes, can report their grievances
	
2Investors and stakeholders can correspond with the Company by sending an e-mail to crompton.investorrelations@crompton.co.in or by 
calling on 022 61678499
	
3Employees and workers can report any grievance by sending an e-mail to wbcrompton@crompton.co.in or a letter in a physical form in a 
sealed envelope
	
4Consumers can report grievances through the CRM system, the WhatsApp (+91 74287 13838) and the toll-free number (1800 419 0505)
	
5Value chain partners can reach us through the Partner Connect tab on the website
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate 
the risk along with its financial implications, as per the following format:
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether  
risk or  
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying  
the risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
1.
Product 
R
Products in 
compliance 
with regulatory 
requirements, 
meet highest 
quality parameters, 
environmentally 
sustainable and 
features innovative 
designs
Revamping all models by optimising processes to 
create energy-efficient designs that align with BEE 
regulations. Transitioning form driver to driver on 
board technology in LED bulb to reduce failure and 
waste. Enhancing product performance scores by 
leveraging various technological advancements and 
implementing rigorous quality checks. Strategising 
to embed sustainability into product development 
and maintaining a relentless focus on commercially 
viable innovations.
Negative
2.
Brand
R
Brand disruption due 
to negative feedback 
on social media, 
substandard service 
quality & prevalence 
of counterfeit product
Implemented 
system 
of 
social 
listening 
& 
sentiments analysis to handle feedback; Establish 
on-line response mechanism; PAN India network 
of authorised service centres to address customer 
complaints; Requisite training given to service 
teams to cater to consumer complaints;
Information about counterfeit is obtained by way 
of monitoring through market intelligence and 
statutory methods such as publication of trademark 
journals; and All actions initiated basis methods 
defined in the IP policy of Company and legal action 
initiated as appropriate.
Negative
3.
EHS
R
Safety & Compliance 
issues
Ensuring adherence to statutory and regulatory 
compliances, encompassing E-waste management 
and Extended Producer Responsibility (“EPR”) 
policies, remains a priority. This involves meticulous 
monitoring and enforcement of Environmental, 
Health, and Safety (“EHS”) policies, both within 
our facilities and across vendor locations, through 
comprehensive 
audit 
mechanisms. 
These 
audits serve as crucial checkpoints to guarantee 
compliance with established guidelines, fostering 
a culture of responsibility and sustainability 
throughout our operations and supply chain.
Negative
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
262
263
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether  
risk or  
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying  
the risk/ opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications of the 
risk or opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
4.
Supply
R
Disruption in 
production due to 
dependency on 
single source, volatile 
commodity cost
The establishment of a phased strategy to develop 
local suppliers aims to reduce import dependency, 
while also expanding the supplier footprint for 
essential raw materials. This includes the identification 
and development of secondary vendors for critical 
SKUs, or in-house design development, thereby 
reducing reliance on single sources. Additionally, 
cost-saving initiatives are being implemented to 
counter the impact of commodity price fluctuations.
Negative
5.
IT Security 
& Data 
Protection
R
Cyber threats, Data 
breach, use of 
Company information
Active Directory (AD) and SAP HANA are hosted 
internally in the company’s datacenters and are 
disaster recovery (DR) enabled. Strengthen the 
existing processes for data identification, retention, 
and disposal. Implement Data Leakage Prevention 
(DLP) and Cloud Access Security Broker (CASB), 
which are currently in progress. Conduct a Data 
Privacy GAP Assessment and ensure alignment with 
the DPDP Act.
Negative
6.
People
R
Attrition & Succession 
Planning
Various initiatives are underway to tackle attrition and 
bolster retention of key talents, encompassing efforts 
to promote work-life balance, organise bonding 
sessions, infuse fun into the workplace, and elevate 
festival celebrations. These endeavours are coupled 
with increased investment in training, rewards, and 
recognition programmes. Additionally, a structured 
approach to job rotation, succession planning, and 
talent calibration ensures seamless transitions in 
key positions. Furthermore, the implementation of a 
structured leadership programme aims to cultivate 
and empower future leaders, fostering organisational 
resilience and growth.
Negative
7.
Energy 
Efficient 
Products
O
Focus on producing 
energy efficient 
products, reducing 
emissions and 
optimising natural 
resources
Invested in green, sustainable & energy efficient 
technologies which will spur demand for energy 
efficient products; conservation of limited resources 
and minimising harmful emissions – energy reduction 
across product lines; eliminated plastic & thermocol 
during packaging as they are great danger to 
landfills; and all across manufacturing plants, we 
have increased % of renewable & clean energy in our 
energy mix, it allows us to decrease carbon footprint 
and helps in reducing our power costs.
Positive
8.
Government 
Initiatives
O
Government continues 
to drive initiatives like 
Har Ghar Nal Yojana, 
Pradhan Mantri Awas 
Yojana, PM KUSUM 
scheme etc. to address 
basic needs of the 
citizens. This creates 
growth opportunities for 
business
Government initiatives such as the Har Ghar Nal 
Yojana, which aims to provide piped water supply 
to households, are driving growth in the household 
pump sector. Similarly, the Pradhan Mantri Awas 
Yojana has created new opportunities to meet 
housing demand at competitive prices. Additionally, 
the PM KUSUM scheme, which focuses on installing 
solar pumps in rural India, is further boosting the 
solar pump business.
Positive
9.
New 
Technologies
O
Consumers looking 
for smart, easy-to‑use, 
energy efficient, 
technologically 
advanced products
The Crompton brand has long been associated with 
well-engineered products featuring cutting‑edge 
technology and smart solutions by prioritising deep 
understanding of consumer needs; 50,000 sq ft 
state-of-the-art research & development centre helps 
enhance our capabilities in enhancing world-class 
innovation and optimise product efficiencies; and 
the Company hasimplemented automation across its 
production lines, data analytics is deployed to gain 
critical insights manufacturing processes to identify 
areas for optimisation & improvement.
Positive
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting 
the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
Policy and management processes
1.	 a)	 Whether your entity’s policy/ policies cover each 
principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. 
(Yes/ No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
b)	 Has the policy been approved by the Board? 
(Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
	
c)	 Web-link of the Policies, if available
https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/corporate-governance#CodesPolicies
2.	 Whether the entity has translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes/ No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3.	 Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain 
partners? (Yes/ No)
To emphasise the values of transparency and ethical behaviour, empowerment, 
and accountability, the Company has formalised the ‘Code of Conduct’ for the 
Directors and employees of the Company. The Code lays down principles 
and standards that govern the actions of the employees during the conduct 
of the Company’s business. It covers all dealings with vendors, consumers, 
and other business partners.
4.	 Name of the national and international codes/ 
certifications/ 
labels/ 
standards 
(e.g. 
Forest 
Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, 
Trustee) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) 
adopted by your entity and mapped to each principle.
All the Company’s manufacturing units are certified for ISO 14001, ISO 45001 
& ISO 9001.
5.	 Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the 
entity with defined timelines, if any.
Please refer to the Chairman’s Message, Management Discussion and 
Analysis Report (“MDA”) and Integrated Annual Report (“IAR”) for our 
management approach and commitments.
6.	 Performance of the entity against the specific 
commitments, goals and targets along with reasons 
in case the same are not met.
Please refer to the Chairman’s Message, MDA and the IAR for our management 
approach and commitments.
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7.	 Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report.
	
Highlighting Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) related challenges, targets and achievements (listed entity has flexibility 
regarding the placement of this disclosure), The Company integrates ESG principles into its business strategy which is central to 
improving the quality of life of the communities it serves. As sustainable management is a crucial component of the Company’s strategy 
across its entire value chain, it is constantly making adequate efforts to protect the environment. Throughout the course of the year, the 
Company remained committed to making its business operations more eco-friendly. Please refer to the Chairman’s Message, MDA and 
the IAR for our management approach and commitments.
8.	 Details of the highest authority responsible for 
implementation and oversight of the Business 
Responsibility policy(ies).
Name: Mr. Promeet Ghosh
Designation: MD & CEO
E-mail Id: secretarial@crompton.co.in
9.	 Does the entity have a specified Committee of the 
Board/ Director responsible for decision-making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes/ No). If yes, provide 
details.
Yes, the Company’s ESG Committee monitors the Company’s ongoing 
commitment to environment, health and safety, social responsibility, 
governance, sustainability concerns, and other public policy matters. It has 
3 (Three) Members.
10.	Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director/ Committee of the Board/ Any other 
Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any other – please 
specify)
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
Performance against above 
policies and follow up action
The policies of the Company are reviewed 
periodically or on a need-based basis by the 
Board of Directors, department heads, and 
business heads. During this assessment, 
the efficacy of the policies is reviewed, 
and necessary changes to the policies and 
procedures are implemented.
Annually
Compliance with statutory 
requirements of relevance 
to 
the 
principles, 
and, 
rectification 
of 
any 
non-
compliances
A Compliance report across all statutory 
requirements is submitted to the Audit 
Committee on a quarterly basis. In addition to 
this, the Control Manager tool (Beacon) is also 
used to track and ensure timely compliance.
Quarterly
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
264
265
Principles
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
11.	Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ 
evaluation of the working of its policies by an external 
agency? (Yes/ No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
Internal and external auditors, where needed, assess these policies during 
their audits and reviews. However, no formal evaluation by any internal or 
external agency has been conducted
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its 
business (Yes/ No)
NA as all principles are covered.
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to 
formulate and implement the policies on specified 
principles (Yes/ No)
The entity does not have the financial or/ human and 
technical resources available for the task (Yes/ No)
It is planned to be done in the next Financial Year (Yes/ 
No)
Any other reason (please specify)
List of Policies
Policies 
Links
Code of Conduct
https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/JQyKgNOWmA_Code-of-
Conduct_19May2023_updated.pdf
Vigil Mechanism and Whistle Blower
Policy
https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/hxamy77St7_Vigil-Mechanism-and-WB-
Policy_19-May_updated.pdf
Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor 
and Report trading by Insiders
https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/QVY7HjIK7R_Code-of-Conduct-to-Regulate-
Monitor-and-Report-Trading-by-Designated-Persons-1.pdf
Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
Policy
https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/UxKXXDfbtE_PoSH-at-Workplace-19May2023_
updated.pdf
Environment, Health and Safety Policy https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/hPXJY7RU1i_Crompton-EHS-Policy-1.pdf
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/U6kk0A8Uoy_Corporate-Social-Responsibility-
Policy-1.pdf
Sustainability Policy
https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/public/files/yrBuqXsSV4_Sustainability%20Policy.pdf
Maternity Leave Policy
The policy is available on the Company’s employee’s portal
Product Service Policy
The policy is available internally in the Company and has been made available to the product 
service centres
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with 
key processes and decisions. The information sought is categorised as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential 
indicators are expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be 
voluntarily disclosed by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally, and 
ethically responsible.
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner 
that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable
Essential indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the 
Financial Year
Segment
Total 
number of 
training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics/ principles covered under the  
training and its impact
%age of 
persons in 
respective 
category 
covered by 
the awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors
34
Familiarisation programmes are carried out by way of exhaustive presentations on 
various topics and areas like:
1.	 Strategy and Annual Budget of the Company;
2.	 Internal Financial Control Systems;
3.	 CSR Strategy Framework;
4.	 Environment;
5.	 Health and Safety;
6.	 ESG framework; and
7.	 Risk Management, and so on
100
Key Managerial 
Personnel
Employees other 
than BoD and 
KMPs
36
Edge - A&B, Product Trainings, SDA, Lighting, Fans, LDA, Pumps, Rural, Code of 
Conduct (“COC”), Prevention of Sexual Harassment (“POSH”) & Compliance, 
Personal Nutrition, Road Safety, Defensive Awareness, Excel, SAP, Financial 
Planning, ELDP, Outbound, Induction, FLDP, BEI, MEP, Udaan, Conversation Forum, 
Power of One, I am CEO, 3 laws of Performance, Grooming Session, Sales Pich 
& Negotiation Skills, Mediclaim Awareness, Yatra Portal Training, New Dealer & 
Channel Appointment, High-Mast, Pole & Deco Pole - B2B, Application Design - 
Lighting B2B, Freepay Training Session, Servicettude (Service Training), Vendor 
Code Creation, Business Presentation Skills, Evolve KT B2B, CIB workshop, Sales 
Pich & Negotiation Skills
68
Workers
9
POSH, COC, Safety, Awareness, Compliance, Quality, Maintenance, Operations, 
EHS
51
2.	
Details of fines/ penalties/ punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings 
(by the entity or by directors/ KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the 
Financial Year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as 
specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as 
disclosed on the entity’s website)
	
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Amount (In D)
Brief of the Case
Has an 
appeal been 
preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/ Fine
NIL
Assessment 
Unit, Income Tax 
Department
68,66,59,820 Disallowance of ESOP expenses, claim of provisions 
against warranty and after sale service and of 
depreciation on goodwill
Yes
Excise & Taxation 
Officer, Ambala 
Ward, Haryana
40,03,10,199 Disallowance of input tax credit, imposition of tax on 
other income, sale of fixed assets and legal professional 
charges disclosed in financials and others
Yes
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
266
267
	
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Penalty/Fine
NIL
Settlement
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions
Disallowance of ESOP expenses, claim of provisions against 
warranty and after sale service and of depreciation on 
goodwill
Joint Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner of Income-tax 
(Appeals)
Disallowance of input tax credit, imposition of tax on other 
income, sale of fixed assets and legal professional charges 
disclosed in financials and others
Joint Commissioner of State Tax (Appeals), Ambala
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy
The anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies are included in the Company’s COC Policy. All new hires are required to undergo 
training on the COC. The Company believes in maintaining high ethical and legal standards. It is committed to imbibing the 
appropriate regulatory framework to govern its business performance. The link to access policy is https://reports.crompton.
co.in/shopify/public/files/JQyKgNOWmA_Code-of-Conduct_19May2023_updated.pdf 
5.	
Number of Directors/ KMPs/ employees/ workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption 
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Employees
Workers
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the Directors
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of 
Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/ penalties/ action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest. NA
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables [Accounts payable *365]/ Cost of goods/ services procured) in the 
following format
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23
Number of days of accounts payables
98
83
9.	
Openness of business 
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties 
along with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format
Parameter
Metrics
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
Concentration of 
Purchases
a)
Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
0.01%
0.01%
b)
Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
9
13
c)
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases 
from trading houses
100%
99.43%
Concentration of  
Sales
a)
Sales to dealers/ distributors as % of total sales
84.88%
89.08%
b)
Number of dealers/ distributors to whom sales are made
6,044
5,760
c)
Sales to top 10 dealers/ distributors as % of total sales to dealers/
distributors
6.29%
6.78%
Share of Related 
Party Transactions 
(“RPTs”) in
a)
Purchases (Purchases with related parties/ Total Purchases)
0.22%
NIL
b)
Sales (Sales to related parties/ Total Sales)
0.00%
NIL
c)
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related parties/
total loans & advances)
NIL
NIL
d)
Investments (Investments in related parties/ total Investments 
made)
NIL
NIL
Leadership indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year
	
The Company has built a sustainable supply chain throughout its operations. It aims to improve suppliers’ understanding 
of their legal obligations, sustainable business practices and the importance of employee health and safety through 
several programmes.
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the 
Board? (Yes/ No) If Yes, provide details of the same
 	
Yes, the COC encourages all its Board Members to refrain from participating in activities that could result in a conflict 
of interest
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively
	
a)	
Enhancing capabilities by hiring futuristic talent.
	
b)	
Trained R&D manpower for an average of 20 manhours in the Financial Year 2023-24 in the identified competencies.
	
c)	
Setting up lab infrastructure with added research and testing equipments.
	
d)	
Digitalised R&D documentation processes and NPD innovation processes.
	
e)	
Digital change management system Implemented which replaces manual change notification with a digital workflow, 
facilitating faster approvals and execution.
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
268
269
	
The Company collaborated with various validation and testing agencies to enhance its R&D capabilities. Some of them are 
mentioned below:
	
a)	
Collaborated with ARAI Pune on project basis.
	
b)	
Organised the Startup India Design Challenge in partnership with Start-Up India. This helped to focus on critical areas 
of technology through project based engagements.
	
c)	
Two startups have submitted their prototypes enabling us to directly leapfrog to testing stage saving significant time 
and investment.
	
d)	
Access to 2 (Two) startups who are working on prototypes.
	
e)	
It has helped the company gain critical insights into new technology development and provided access to ready-to-
test prototypes.
	
f)	
70% of the R&D expenditure is directed towards sustainable technologies, specifically the energy efficiency of fans, 
lighting and appliances.
D in Crore
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23
Details of 
improvements in 
environmental and 
social impacts
R&D
38.14
29.20
-
Capex
33.23
48.52
-
2.	
a)	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
	
Yes
	
b)	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? 
	
	
22.05%
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling, and disposing at the 
end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste
	
The Company has authorisation for EPR E-Waste and plastic waste management and through Pollution Control Board 
(“PCB”) authorised recyclers are engaged in channelisation of such waste. For hazardous and non hazardous waste disposal 
the Company’s  units are engaged as well with PCB approved agencies and compling terms & conditions.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted 
to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same?
	
Yes, the Company’s  has systematically made progress to comply with EPR obligations.
Leadership indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/ Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
NIC Code
Name of Product/ 
Service
% of total Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the 
Life Cycle Perspective/
Assessment was 
conducted
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated 
in public domain (Yes/
No) If yes, provide the 
web-link.
Not applicable, as we have not conducted LCA for any of our products.
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/ or risks arising from production or disposal 
of your products/ services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/ Assessments (LCA) or through any 
other means, briefly describe the same along with action taken to mitigate the same
Name of Product/Service
Description of the risk/concern
Action Taken
Nil
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry)
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to 
total material
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23
NA
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, 
and safely disposed, as per the following format
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23 
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely Disposed
Plastics 
including 
packaging)
NA
2,015.64
0
NA
1,234.82
1,234.82
E-waste
NA
15,816.60
0
NA
NA
90.2
Hazardous 
waste
NA
260
260
NA
NA
104.17
Other waste
NA
NA
NA
NA
0.00
NA
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products 
sold in respective category
Damaged material comes to the depots and is disposed of as-is through the contracting process.  
The quantum of such material is almost negligible.
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including 
those in their value chains
Essential indicators
1.	
a)	
Details of measures for the well-being of employees
Category
% of employees covered by
Total (A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities**
Number (B) % (B/A)
Number (C) % (C/A)
Number (D) % (D/A)
Number (E) % (E/A)
Number (F) % (F /A)
Permanent employees
Male
1,654
1,654
100
1,654
100
NA
NA
1,654*
100
Yes
Yes
Female
125
125
100
125
100
125
100
NA
NA
Yes
Yes
Total
1,779
1,779
100
1,779
100
125
7.03
1,654
92.97
-
-
Other than Permanent employees
Male
1,068
1,068
100
1,068
100
NA
NA
NA
NA
Yes
Yes
Female
167
167
100
167
100
167
100
NA
NA
Yes
Yes
Total
1,235
1,235
100
1,235
100
167
13.52
NA
NA
-
-
*Employees can avail leave from their leave pool
**Available at applicable locations
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
270
271
	
b)	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers
Category
% of workers covered by
Total (A)
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities**
Number (B) % (B/A)
Number (C) % (C/A)
Number (D) % (D/A)
Number (E) % (E/A)
Number (F) % (F /A)
Permanent workers
Male
401
401
100
401
100
NA
NA
401*
100
Yes
Yes
Female
58
58
100
58
100
58
100
NA
NA
Yes
Yes
Total
459
459
100
459
100
58
12.64
401
87.36
-
-
Other than Permanent workers
Male
1,846
1,846
100
1,846
100
NA
NA
NA
NA
Yes
Yes
Female
643
643
100
643
100
643
100
NA
NA
Yes
Yes
Total
2,489
2,489
100
2,489
100
643
25.83
NA
NA
-
-
*Employees can avail leave from their leave pool
**Available at applicable locations
	
c)	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23
Cost incurred on well- being measures as a % of total revenue of the Company
0.47%
0.42%
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year
Benefits
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23 
No. of employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % of 
total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with the 
authority (Y/ N/ NA)
No. of employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % of 
total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with the 
authority (Y/ N/ NA)
PF
100
100
Yes
100
100
Yes
Gratuity
100
100
Yes
100
100
Yes
ESI
Eligibility as per ESIC Act
Eligibility as per ESIC Act
Others – 
please specify 
- Employee 
compensation
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises/ offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by 
the entity in this regard
	
The Company is implementing appropriate measures to provide its employees with a better, more accessible work Environment.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy
	
The Company is committed to ensuring that existing employees, job applicants and workers are treated fairly in an environment 
free from discrimination based on race, gender, religion or beliefs, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender 
expression, and so on. The Company promotes equal treatment and opportunities for all employees. The employee COC 
specifically prohibits discrimination in all its manifestations. The link to the policy is https://reports.crompton.co.in/shopify/
public/files/JQyKgNOWmA_Code-of-Conduct_19May2023_updated.pdf
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Gender
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100
100
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief
Yes/ No 
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
The Company encourages transparency at all levels. Employees are urged to 
discuss their concerns with their managers, and employees who are engaged on 
a contractual basis are urged to discuss their issues with their managers. Workers 
are encouraged to share their issues with the worker representative, the respective 
primary manager, or the HR SPOC available in different locations. Workers who 
are engaged on a contractual basis can share their concerns with the contractor 
representative or the Company HR SPOC, such as supervisors and contractors. 
Appropriate actions are taken against any employee or workers whose actions are 
proved to be violating the COC. 
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity
Category
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23 
Total employees/
workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees/
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees/
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (D)
% (D/C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
1,779
0
0
1,693
0
0
- Male
1,654
0
0
1,582
0
- Female
125
0
0
111
0
0
Total Permanent 
Workers
459
410
89.32
497
447
89.94
- Male
401
352
87.78
432
382
88.43
- Female
58
58
100
65
65
100
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers*
Category
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23 
Total (A)
On Health and safety 
measures
On Skill upgradation
Total (D)
On Health and safety 
measures
On Skill upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Male
1,654
1,440
87.06
1,226
74.12
1,582
1,313
82.99
1,286
81.29
Female
125
51
40.80
38
30.40
111
99
89.19
84
75.68
Total
1,779
1,491
83.81
1,264
71.05
1,693
1,412
83.40
1,370
80.92
Workers
Male
401
401
100
401
100
432
432
100
355
82.18
Female
58
58
100
58
100
65
65
100
48
73.85
Total
459
459
100
459
100
497
497
100
403
81.09
	
*The above data pertains to Blue Collar and White Collar on roll employees
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
272
273
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker
Category
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23 
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Male
1,654
1,654
100
1,582
1,582
100
Female
125
125
100
111
111
100
Total
1,779
1,779
100
1,693
1,693
100
Workers
Male
Salary revision happens as per the LTS terms
Salary revision happens as per the LTS terms
Female
Total
10.	 Health and safety management system
	
(a)	 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ 
No). If yes, the coverage such system?
	
	
The Company acknowledges the fact that the identification of work-related hazards is crucial for ensuring the safety 
of its people. Each plant implements Aspect Impact and HIRA, i.e. identifying hazards, assessing risks and defining 
controls, to ensure that EHS operations are conducted with care.
	
	
Every manufacturing location has an occupational health and safety management system that is compliant with ISO 
45001, and all locations are ISO 45001 certified.
	
(b)	 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity?
	
	
Process – Hazard Identification & Risk Assessment (“HIRA”) and Environmental Impact Assessment (“EIA”)
	
	
The organisation’s EHS Manual (KAVACH) covers all EHS processes. Under KAVACH, the risk assessment process 
is elaborated with departmental and individual roles and responsibilities, monitoring control measures, competency 
training and awareness of individuals associated with such activities, all in support of our goal of preventing incidents, 
injuries, occupational disease, emergency control and prevention, and business continuity. For all activities, whether 
routine or irregular (permit and project activities), a trained cross-functional team identifies hazards, and risk assessment 
and management are carried out using HIRA, Job Safety Analysis (JSA), Physical hazard analysis through check sheet 
(PHA), HAZOP for high risk and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), which are referred to before beginning any 
activity. Apart from this organisation, the Company has undertaken its own self-assessments in areas such as electrical 
safety, fire safety, machine safety, and so on.
	
(c)	 Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves from 
such risks ? (Y/ N)
	
	
Yes, the Company urges its employees/ workers to record near-miss situations discovered during various operations, 
which are then classified, and an action plan is developed and implemented to prevent a recurrence. Each manufacturing 
facility has a specific protocol in place for reporting work-related hazards, injuries, hazardous conditions, and 
unsafe activities.
	
(d)	 Do the employees/ workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/ No)
	
	
Yes, all employees are covered under health insurance and ESI scheme.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format
Safety Incident/Number
Category*
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)  
(per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
1
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health 
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
	
*Including the contract workforce
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace
	
The Board-approved EHS Policy outlines the Company’s philosophy and commitment to important EHS standards. It assists the 
Company in strengthening EHS performance by creating objectives and targets and monitoring key performance indicators, 
resulting in the organisation-wide promotion of a safety culture. A thorough EHS scorecard has been implemented across 
all units, and its performance is evaluated each month, following which preventive and Corrective actions are implemented 
as necessary. The Company adheres to the Work Permit System (WPS) and conducts daily toolbox discussions to promote 
a risk free work environment and culture. Safety-related performance is evaluated using a standard, data-driven method 
and lessons based on the current situation are delivered to employees in an effort to prevent similar incidents at work. Also, 
the Company is ISO 45001:2018 certified and other this facility conducts regular safety training programs for employees at 
all levels, Routine inspections of the workplace are carried out to identify and address potential hazards, Safety Equipment 
Provision etc.
13.	 Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers
Benefits
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23 
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Working 
Conditions
No complaints have been received
No complaints have been received
Health Safety
14.	 Assessments for the year
Particulars
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100
Working Conditions
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks/ concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions
The objective is to create an EHS-oriented mindset focused on engineering control, zero accidents, and behavior control, 
supported by people. The Company has a safety manual called Kavach covering all aspects of safety. Daily incident reporting, 
safety, behavior observations, and theme-based awareness campaigns are conducted. Safety compliance is ensured through 
gap analysis, warehouse safety evaluation, and OH&S management system compliance with ISO 45001:2018. Regular audits 
and legal compliance checks are conducted. The safety culture is promoted through zero-tolerance policies, leading and 
lagging indicators, and empowerment of safety officers.
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
274
275
Leadership indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees 
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N) 
	
A - Employees - Yes
	
B- Workers - Yes
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited 
by the value chain partners 
	
Yes, the Company has a compliance tool to track all the legal compliances with proper dates. Stakeholders are trained to 
ensure compliance.
3.	
Provide the number of employees/ workers having suffered high consequence work related injury/ ill-health/ 
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in 
suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment
Particulars
Total no. of affected  
employees/workers
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members 
have been placed in suitable employment
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23
Employees
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the 
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment (Yes/ No)
	
The entity provides transition assistance programmes only in cases of retirement, and that too is need-based.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners
Particulars
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or 
statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100
Working Conditions
100
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners
	
The details of the corrective actions undertaken are as follows:
	
i)	
A vendor handbook encompassing EHS and sustainability check points has been issued as a pre-qualification procedure 
addressing required law compliance.
	
ii)	
The gap after assessment is communicated and an action plan for compliance is prepared and acted on.
	
iii)	
The Company also carries out assessment as per the internal EHS audit procedures and all the observations and non 
conformances are properly recorded and notified.
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity
	
The Company adopts a systematic approach to identify key stakeholder groups vital for its operations. Initially, the Company 
consults extensively with its management team, following these steps:
	
i)	
Compiling a comprehensive list of stakeholders.
	
ii)	
Categorising stakeholders into internal and external groups.
	
iii)	
Prioritising stakeholder groups based on their significance to the Company’s operations and objectives.
	
These primary stakeholders encompass consumers (both B2B and B2C), employees, shareholders/ investors, suppliers, 
the community, governments/ regulators.
	
Moreover, the Company extends its stakeholder identification beyond primary groups through an in-depth analysis of its 
business environment, considering factors such as industry dynamics, market trends, and regulatory requirements. Through 
this process, the Company identifies other stakeholders closely linked to its operations, such as industry analysts, equity 
analysts, and the news media, serving as proxies for customers, shareholders, and society at large.
	
Additionally, the Company has established organisation-wide processes to facilitate open and constructive dialogue with 
stakeholders regularly. Engaging in such communication channels enhances the Company’s understanding of relevant 
issues and helps recognise the unique attributes of stakeholders contributing value. The Company consistently aims to 
understand their needs, expectations, and interests to improve business outcomes.
	
Furthermore, the Company’s stakeholder engagement strategy prioritises two-way communication, enabling the integration 
of diverse perspectives into business practices effectively. This approach ensures that stakeholders feel valued and heard, 
fostering mutual benefits and sustainable relationships.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder 
group
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether identified 
as vulnerable 
& marginalised 
group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication
(E-mail, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement
(Annually/ half yearly/ 
quarterly/ others – 
please specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement including 
key topics and concerns raised during such 
engagement
Employees
No
•	  Meetings/ Town 
hall briefings
•	  Employee engagement 
activities· and surveys
•	  Team building, workshops,
•	  capability building 
and training
•	  Performance 
management system
•	  Employee newsletters
•	  Rewards and recognitions
•	  CSR through 
employee engagement
Continuous
Employees are the most important assets 
of the Company and are essential to its 
long-term success. They are critical to 
increasing the Company’s competitiveness 
and confirming its market leadership.
Community
Yes
•	  CSR initiatives
•	  Volunteering
Continuous
Empowering the community is critical 
to the Company’s long-term business 
sustainability. 
Through 
numerous 
upliftment projects and activities, the 
Company continues to develop enduring 
relationships with the communities and 
transform their lives.
Suppliers
No
•	 One to-one meetings
•	 Regular operational reviews
Continuous
The Company collaborates with the 
suppliers to maintain seamless business 
operations by ensuring effective and 
efficient procurement practices.
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
276
277
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether identified 
as vulnerable 
& marginalised 
group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication
(E-mail, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement
(Annually/ half yearly/ 
quarterly/ others – 
please specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement including 
key topics and concerns raised during such 
engagement
Consumers 
(B2B), (B2C)
No
•	 Customer engagement  
surveys
Continuous
Consumers’ purchasing habits have an 
influence on the Company, so it is critical 
to have continual contact with them to 
understand their needs and desires.
Investors/ 
Shareholders
No
•	 Annual general meeting
•	 Financial result declarations
•	 Media releases
•	 Investor calls and meets
•	 One-on-one interactions 
& calls
•	 Group meetings
•	 Investor Conferences
Ongoing
Investors are critical to our success and 
growth. The purpose of these engagements 
is to build mutual relationship with domestic 
& foreign investors, thereby enhancing 
their understanding of the business model 
as well as to provide updates on new 
business developments.
The management spends significant time 
with Members, analysts and investors to 
communicate the strategic direction of the 
business, capital allocation priorities and 
address any other queries that they might 
have regarding operations or financial 
performance. 
During the year, the Company has 
substantially 
increased 
their 
investor 
engagement and have interacted with 
450+ institutional investors in India & 
abroad (excluding quarterly earnings calls 
and specific event related calls) and 40+ 
sell-side research analysts from various 
broker houses.
Strategic priorities include: 
-	
High Return on investment
-	
Capital allocation
-	
Higher investments towards Brand 
building, R&D and People capabilities 
under Crompton 2.0 strategy
-	
ESG impact
-	
Transparent disclosure for investors to 
take informed investment decisions
Leadership indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board
	
The contributions of stakeholders were utilised to determine the Company’s material subjects. The outcome of this exercise 
in materiality was transformed into policies by utilising several other worldwide standards and needs. These help form a 
framework that is specific to the Company. Also, these frameworks are presented to the Board for discussion and approval.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and 
social topics (Yes/ No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on 
these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity
	
After stakeholder consultation, the Company has identified significant environmental and social concerns. Material topics 
were shortlisted and prioritised according to their influence on stakeholders and businesses.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalised stakeholder groups
	
There are no reportable concerns of vulnerable marginalised groups. However, the Company undertakes various CSR 
activities in local areas that serve the vulnerable/ marginalised stakeholder group.
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, 
in the following format
	
The Company operates in an open, fair, and transparent manner and is dedicated to upholding the highest ethical standards 
and practices. To expose unethical conduct and encourage professionalism and ethical behaviour among its staff, the 
whistle-blower and code of conduct policies are in place. Trainings conducted on COC policy.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format
Category
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23 
Total (A)
Equal to Minimum Wage
More than  
Minimum Wage
Total (D)
Equal to Minimum Wage
More than  
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Permanent
1,779
NA
NA
1,779
100
1,693
NA
NA
1,693
100
Male
1,654
NA
NA
1,654
100
1,582
NA
NA
1,582
100
Female
125
NA
NA
125
100
111
NA
NA
111
100
Other than 
Permanent
1,235
NA
NA
1,235
100
783
NA
NA
783
100
Male
1,068
NA
NA
1,068
100
660
NA
NA
660
100
Female
167
NA
NA
167
100
123
NA
NA
123
100
Workers
Permanent
459
NA
NA
459
100
497
NA
NA
497
100
Male
401
NA
NA
401
100
432
NA
NA
432
100
Female
58
NA
NA
58
100
65
NA
NA
65
100
Other than 
Permanent
2,489
NA
NA
2,489
100
2,849
2,849
100
NA
NA
Male
1,846
NA
NA
1,846
100
2,104
2,104
100
NA
NA
Female
643
NA
NA
643
100
745
745
100
NA
NA
3.	
Details of remuneration/ salary/ wages 
	
a)	
Median remuneration/ wages
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)*
9
29,08,142
2
24,75,000
Key Managerial Personnel*
4
3,85,99,998
1
72,64,956
Employees other than BoD and KMP
1,651
11,22,000
124
15,75,006
Workers
401
4,04,968
58
5,87,876
	
	
* 1.	
Remuneration paid to Mr. Mathew Job is considered only for his tenure as Executive Director and as Chief Executive Officer 
(CEO). Mr. Mathew Job, resigned from the position of Executive Director w.e.f.  April 24, 2023 and from the position of CEO w.e.f. 
April 30, 2023
	
	
  2.	
As on March 31, 2024, there were 9 (Nine) Directors 
	
	
  3.	
Mr. Shantanu Khosla was acting as Managing Director till April 30, 2023 and elevated as Executive Vice Chairman w.e.f. May 1, 
2023 to April 30, 2024 and then assumed the position of Non-Executive Vice Chairman till December 31, 2025
	
	
  4.	
Mr. Hemant Nerurkar ceased to be Director w.e.f. October 20, 2023 pursuant to completion of his second term as a Director upon 
attaining the age of 75 (Seventy Five) years 
	
	
  5.	
Mr. Anil Chaudhry and Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar were appointed as the Non-Executive Independent Directors w.e.f. October 17, 2023
	
	
  6. 	 Mr. Promeet Ghosh was acting as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director till April 23, 2023 and was appointed as Executive 
Director w.e.f. April 24, 2023 and as MD & CEO w.e.f May 1, 2023 till April 30, 2028
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
278
279
	
b)	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
8.53
6.66
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/ No)
	
No, the Company does not have a focal point responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues whereas the 
Company is aware of how severe violations of human rights are. To maintain a safe and productive workplace, the Company 
has adopted a COC, POSH policy and a whistle-blower policy. To familiarise the employees with POSH and whistle‑blower 
policies as well as the implications of human rights issues, the Company also offers training on these topics. Human rights are 
a sensitive topic, and the Company has zero tolerance for human rights violations. Human rights are one of the Company’s 
key focus areas. Any human rights violation, wherever reported, shal be investigated by the Management following the COC 
policy of the Company.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues
	
The Company is committed to supporting internationally accepted human rights principles and standards. It has also 
established procedures and processes to ensure that no human rights violations occur throughout the Company’s operations. 
The Company’s POSH and whistle-blower policies aid employees in reporting complaints. All grievances are addressed as 
and when received by the respective manufacturing unit heads, project managers, and business unit heads through admin/ 
IR in coordination with HR. All the grievances received are duly investigated, and appropriate actions are taken to resolve 
the issue or complaint. Whenever required, disciplinary actions are initiated as deemed fit, and assistance from regulatory 
authorities is sought.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers
Category
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23 
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at the
end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at the
end of year
Remarks
Sexual 
Harassment
3
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Discrimination at 
workplace
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Child Labour
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Forced Labour/ 
Involuntary 
Labour
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Wages
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Other human 
rights related 
issues
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013, in the following format
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH”)
3
NIL
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees/ workers
66.67 %*
NA
Complaints on POSH upheld
3
NIL
	
* Note: POSH policy of the Company is gender neutral
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases
The Company’s whistle-blower policy has clearly laid down the guidelines to prevent retaliation against a complainant. A 
complainant has the right to complete anonymity unless required by law enforcement agencies. The organisation prohibits 
retaliation against a complainant, such as threats of physical harm, loss of job, punitive work assignments, or impact on 
salary or wages.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/ No)
No. However, the Company strongly believes that suppliers and vendors are an integral part of its business and contribute 
to its growth and viability. Regular engagement activities are organised with suppliers and vendors.
10.	 Assessments for the year
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
Government officers from the respective locations come for inspection
Forced/ involuntary labour
Government officers from the respective locations come for inspection
Sexual harassment
Government officers from the respective locations come for inspection.
Discrimination at workplace
Government officers from the respective locations come for inspection
Wages
Government officers from the respective locations come for inspection
Others – please specify
NA
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 10 above
	
No complaints related to child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, or discriminatory employment were received during 
the reporting year, and none are pending at the end of the reporting year.
Leadership indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified/ introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints
	
The Company regularly updates its employees about the COC through various training programmes.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted
	
None.
3.	
Is the premise/ office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes, the premises and offices are accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016.
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
The Company expects its value chain partners to adhere to the same values, 
principles and business ethics upheld by the Company in all their dealings. No specific 
assessment with respect to value chain partners has been carried out.
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour/ Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others – please specify
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from 
the assessments at Question 4 above
No corrective action pertaining to Question 4 was necessitated by the Company during the year under review.
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
280
281
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment*
Essential indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format 
Parameter
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
33.16 GJ
70.74 GJ
Total fuel consumption (B)
NA
NA
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
NA
NA
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
33.16 GJ
70.74 GJ
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
32,144.89 GJ
35,003.30 GJ
Total fuel consumption (E)
7,007.7 GJ
23,290.86 GJ
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
NA
NA
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
39,152.59 GJ
58,294.16 GJ
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
39,185.75 GJ
58,364.90 GJ
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumed/ Revenue from operations)
6.13
10.15
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total energy consumed/ Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
NA
NA
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
0.00
NA
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, name of 
the external agency - Yes, BDO India LLP
2.	
Does the entity have any sites/ facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/ N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under 
the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action 
taken, if any
	
This is not applicable to the Company as it does not fall under the PAT scheme of the Government of India.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format
Parameter
F.Y. 2023-24
F.Y. 2022-23 
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Surface water
NA
NA
(ii)	 Groundwater
39,169
44,025
(iii)	 Third party water
28,561
24,742
(iv)	Seawater/ desalinated water
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
0
NA
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
(i+ii+iii+iv+v)
67,730
68,767
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
64,264
68,767
Water intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total water consumption/ Revenue from operations)
10.06
11.84
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total water consumption/ Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
NA
NA
Water intensity in terms of physical output
0.00
NA
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, name of 
the external agency - Yes, BDO India LLP
	
* The data reported under Principle 6 only includes numbers of manufacturing facilities.
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged
Parameter
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	 To Surface water
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(ii)	 To Groundwater
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iii)	 To Seawater
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
3466 KL to CETP
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
NA
NA
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
30484 KL to 
Gardening & 
Toilet Flush
NA
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, name of 
the external agency - Yes, BDO India LLP
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation
At present, the Company does not have a zero-liquid discharge mechanism. However, all its facilities use 100% of the treated 
water from STP and ETP within the premises for horticulture and toilet use. The Company follows all the necessary applicable 
guidelines and directions on maintaining the standards of STP and ETP, as required by CPCB and SPCBs. Company is also 
working on reduction of water consumption at the facility by using the waterless urinal, identification of water leakage etc.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format: (Unit 
for last year: KG)
Parameter
Please specify unit
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
NOx
NA
NA
NA
SOx
KG
22
28.89
Particulate matter (PM)
NA
NA
NA
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
NA
NA
NA
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
NA
NA
NA
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
NA
NA
NA
Others – please specify
NA
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, name of 
the external agency - Yes, BDO India LLP
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
282
283
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following 
format
Parameter
Please specify unit
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
Total Scope 1 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2
equivalent
3,660.00
4,752.00
(Unit specified: 
tCO2e)
Total Scope 2 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2
equivalent
3,927.02
4,053.50
(Unit specified: 
tCO2e)
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/
Revenue from operations)
Metric tonnes of CO2
equivalent/ Crore INR
1.14
0.82
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted
for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/
Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
NA
NA
NA
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity in terms of physical output
Metric tonnes of CO2
equivalent/ product
0.00
NA
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity (optional)
– the relevant metric may be selected by  
the entity
NA
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, name of the 
external agency - Yes, BDO India LLP
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details
The Company’s innovative products (fans, lighting, pumps and appliances) help to avoid nearly 6% of its GHG emissions as 
compared to last year. At Baroda and the Kundiam Plant, the Company is using natural gas to reduce the GHG emissions, 
whereas in Ahmednagar and Goa we are using solar.
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format*
Parameter
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
249.92
895.98
E-waste (B)
295.13
453.55
Bio-medical waste (C)
0.01
0.00277
Construction and demolition waste (D)
31
0.00
Battery waste (E)
4.74
0.00
Radioactive waste (F)
0
0.00
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
1
104.17
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
2,052.75
1,682.67
Total (A+B+C+D+E+F+G+H)
2,634.55
3,136.37
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total waste generated/Revenue from operations)
0.41
0.54
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total waste generated/Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
NA
NA
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
6.32
NA
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling,  
re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
NA
NA
Category of waste
Parameter
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
(i)	 Recycled
1,700.5
2,652.37
(ii)	 Re-used
NA
NA
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
NA
NA
Total
1,700.5
2,652.37
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal 
method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
NA
NA
(i)	 Incineration
NA
NA
(ii)	 Landfilling
NA
NA
(iii)	 Other disposal operations
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, name of 
the external agency - Yes, BDO India LLP
	
* Numbers are based on the assumption that waste disposal is waste generated.
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your Company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes 
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes
Company is consistently making sincere efforts to improve its resource efficiency, eco-friendly packaging and trash recycling. 
It is implementing numerous well-thought-out measures to enhance its waste management initiatives. The Company has 
improved its material efficiency, which has resulted in a decrease in industrial waste and raw material consumption, helped in 
waste segregation and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. The Company makes consistent efforts to track and regulate the 
use of hazardous substances and considers it essential to manage its resources responsibly since it benefits the environment, 
reduces the price of its products and ensures consumer acceptance.
The Company’s operational units are responsible for ensuring that all hazardous materials are delivered to a State Pollution 
Control Board-approved authorised disposal operator. The Company ensures responsible waste management practices 
involving 100% recycling of plastic waste as per EPR PWM. The disposal of e-waste is overseen by a licensed recycler who 
has been approved by the CPCB and awarded green certificates for the same. Moreover, the waste generated within the 
plant gets segregated at the source through colour-coded waste collection bins, awareness on waste management, disposal 
according to the law of the land, etc.
11.	 If the entity has operations/ offices in/ around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where 
environmental approvals/ clearances are required, please specify details in the following format
S. 
No.
Location of operations/offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval/clearance are being 
complied with? (Y/N)
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
No, the Company does not have any offices or plants located around ecologically sensitive areas.
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current Financial Year
Name and brief 
details of project
EIA
Notification No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated in 
public domain
(Yes/No)
Relevant Web-link
NA
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
284
285
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection 
act and rules thereunder (Y/ N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format
S. 
No.
Specify the law/ regulation/ guidelines 
which was not complied with
Provide details of  
the non-compliance
Any fines/ penalties/ action taken by regulatory 
agencies such as pollution control boards or 
by courts
Corrective action 
taken, if any
Yes, the Company complies with all the applicable environmental laws. No material fines were paid in F.Y. 2023-24.
Leadership indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres)
	
For each facility/ plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
	
(i)	
Name of the area - NA
	
(ii)	
Nature of operations - NA
	
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in the following format: - NA
Parameter
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Surface water
NA
NA
(ii)	 Groundwater
NA
44,626
(iii)	 Third party water
NA
25,250
(iv)	Seawater/ desalinated water
NA
Nil
(v)	 Others
NA
Nil
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
NA
69,876
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
Water intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Water consumed/ turnover)
NA
NA
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Into Surface water
	
-	
No treatment
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(ii)	 Into Groundwater
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iii)	Into Seawater
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(iv)	Sent to third-parties
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
(v)	 Others
	
-	
No treatment
NA
NA
	
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
NA
NA
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, name of 
the external agency - Yes, BDO India LLP
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format
Parameter
Unit
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
NA
NA
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
NA
NA
NA
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
NA
NA
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N) If yes, name of 
the external agency - Yes, BDO India LLP
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide 
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along with prevention 
and remediation activities
NA
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions/ effluent discharge/ waste generated, please provide 
details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format
S. 
No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may 
be provided along with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
NA
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web‑link
The Disaster Management Plan includes description of the institutional arrangements and discussions on various aspects of 
disaster management such as prevention, mitigation, preparedness, mainstreaming, capacity development and response. 
The Company, all manufacturing units has set of actions and recommendations for disaster risk reduction and effective 
response. Onsite & offsite emergency plan discloses any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the 
entity and mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken into consideration. 
The Company, all manufacturing sites are well equipped with on-site emergency plan which deals with measures to 
prevent and control emergencies within the factory and not affecting outside public or environment. As per applicability 
of manufacturing site the off-site emergency plan is made available which deal with measures to prevent and control 
emergencies affecting public and the environment outside the premises. Disaster recovery mechanisms are in place for 
critical business systems and periodic Evacuation and Fire Drills are carried out to simulate such events and ensure that 
processes and systems work as desired.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard
The Company has started EHS assessments for value chain partners under QA VPQ audits.
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts
The Company has started EHS assessments for value chain partners under QA VPQ audits.
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
286
287
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so 
in a manner that is responsible and transparent
Essential indicators
1.	
a)	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations
	
	
The Company is well represented in several business and industry chambers and associations. The Company is affiliated 
with 16 (Sixteen) trade and industry chambers and associations.
	
b)	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such 
body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to
S. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/associations  
(State/National)
1. 
Consumer Electronics and Appliances Manufacturers Association
National
2.
Indian Pumps Manufacturers’ Association
National
3.
The Southern India Engineering manufacturers association (SIEMA) State
4.
Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS)
National
5.
Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE)
National
6.
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
7.
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI)
National
8.
Bombay Chamber of Commerce & Industry
State
9.
The Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI)
National
10.
Indian Society of Advertisers
National
11.
Indian Society of Lighting Engineers
National
12.
Electric Lamps and Components Manufacturers of India
National
13.
National Lighting Code
National
14.
Goa Chamber of Commerce & Industry (GCCI)
National
15.
Indian Fan Manufacturers Association (IFMA)
National
16.
IMA IP Ltd.
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anticompetitive conduct by the 
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
For the Financial Year under review, the Company has not received any adverse order from regulatory bodies;  
hence, no corrective actions were required.
Leadership indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity
S. 
No.
Public policy advocated
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
Whether information available 
in public domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review by Board 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Others – please specify)
Web-link, if available
The Company proactively engages with various stakeholders including industry chambers, associations, government and 
regulatory bodies like BIS, BEE etc. and provides its inputs on various areas such as IS standards for Pumps. 
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in 
the current Financial Year
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA notification no.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes/No)
Relevant web-link
NA
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken 
by your entity, in the following format
S.
No.
Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing State
District
No. of Project Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs covered by R&R
Amounts paid to PAFs 
in the F.Y. (In K)
NA
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community
The Company executes several community programmes to develop healthy relationships with the community. It regularly 
interacts with people and communities and tries to address their concerns. The Company ensures timely actions are taken 
to address the concerns raised by communities
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
27
62
Directly from within India
97
55
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent/ on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage 
cost*
Location
F.Y. 2023-24 
F.Y. 2022-23 
Rural
NA
NA
Semi-urban
37.43
39.93
Urban
NA
NA
Metropolitan
62.57
60.07
	
*Only permenant employees are considered
	
(Place to be categorised as per RBI Classification System – rural/ semi-urban/ urban/ metropolitan)
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
288
289
	
Leadership indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact 
Assessments (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above)
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
NA
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational 
districts as identified by government bodies
S. 
No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In K)
1
Rajasthan
Serohi
1.04 Crore
3.	
(a)	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalised/ vulnerable groups? (Yes/ No) 
	
	
No
	
(b)	 From which marginalised/ vulnerable groups do you procure? 
	
NA
	
(c)	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? 
	
NA
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in 
the current Financial Year), based on traditional knowledge
S. 
No.
Intellectual Property based on 
traditional knowledge
Owned/ Acquired (Yes/No)
Benefit shared (Yes/No)
Basis of calculating benefit share
NA
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
NA
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects
S. 
No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted from CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable and 
marginalised groups
1
Water Conservation
40,000
100
2
Skill & Entrepreneurship Development
7,260
100
3
Community Care
5,922
100
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible 
manner
Essential indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback
	
Consumers are of utmost importance to the Company. It has established multiple channels for receiving and responding 
to customer complaints. The Company is using a customer relationship management system to ensure that all feedback is 
captured and assigned to the appropriate service associates for resolution. Also, WhatsApp bots streamline the process of 
registering service requests, and the Technician Mobile Application helps streamline the Company’s complaint resolution 
process. Additionally, a toll-free number is provided on the website and also on the product labels. 
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/ service that carry information 
about
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters 
relevant to the product
NA
Safe and responsible usage
NA
Recycling and/or safe disposal
Plastic waste is 100% collected against CPCB targets.
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following
F.Y. 2023-24
Remarks
F.Y. 2022-23 
Remarks
Received during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at end of year
Received during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at end of year
Data privacy
NIL
NIL
NA 
NIL
NIL
NA
Advertising
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Cyber-security
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Delivery of essential 
services
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Restrictive Trade 
Practices
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Unfair Trade Practices
NIL
NIL
NA
NIL
NIL
NA
Other
27,74,927
3,322
NA
25,80,752
3,702
NA
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
NA
NA
Forced recalls
NA
NA
There were no product recalls because of safety issues. The Company has a well-defined system of registering the complaints 
through toll-free number & online portal for logging complaints for all the Company’s products. The Complaints are escalated 
to Authorised service centres and resolved within the time bound period depending on nature of complaint.
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
290
291
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/ No) If 
available, provide a web-link of the policy
The Company has a privacy policy in place that offers various security strategies to ensure the data security of users 
and devices.
The policy is present on the Company’s website and can be accessed using this link https://www.crompton.co.in/pages/
privacy-policy
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery 
of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product 
recalls; penalty/ action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/ services
Not applicable
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches
a)	
Number of instances of data breaches: NIL
b)	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: NIL
c)	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches: NIL
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels/ platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web 
link, if available)
Company website
https://www.crompton.co.in/
YouTube
https://youtube.com/c/CromptonGreavesConsumerElectricalsLimited
	
Social media handles
Instagram
https://www.instagram.com/crompton_india/
Facebook
https://www.facebook.com/Crompton.India/
LinkedIn
https://www.linkedin.com/company/cromptongreavesconsumerelectricalslimited/
X (Twitter)
https://twitter.com/Crompton_India
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/ or services
This information is provided in the Instructions/ Installation Manual which is supplied with all products. Installation manual 
given along with the product covers SOP to install & safely operate the product. Updating the information on the Product 
Communication in the form of User Manual, Catalogue etc., Official website, Marketing Communication, Sales Training, 
Customer Education through Installation services personnel etc.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/ discontinuation of essential services
There is a mechanism in place to release market circular to inform channel partners about Launch of New Products, 
Discontinuation of old Stock Keeping Units, Change in Authorised Listing Price etc.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? 
(Yes/ No/ Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to 
consumer satisfaction relating to the major products/ services of the entity, significant locations of operation 
of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/ No)
Yes, the Company ensures that the information required to be displayed in the product is mentioned on its labels or manuals.
All the Company’s products that need installation are sold with instruction manuals that contain detailed explanations on the 
safe installation and use of the products. It contains dos and don’ts to ensure the best usage. The Company also suggests 
optimum product ratings to be used in the case of fixtures that are sold without light sources. Also, mandatory information 
and information related to product usage are provided on the Company’s website and through various documents (like 
catalogues, brochures, etc.). In B2B, due to the nature of working, which depends on the projects, the products display 
information required as per BIS and the Legal Metrology Act.
The mandated product information is displayed on rating plate fixed on product. The instructions about how to operate the 
product safely are mentioned on the product.
The additional information/ safety instructions mentioned on the product is as below:
1.	
Direction of rotation of motor.
2.	
Do not run the pump unless filled with water.
3.	
Pour clean & dust free water through water filling plug.
4.	
Check for 1mm lift after coupling the pump set.
5.	
Fitted with Thermal overload protector.
6.	
Run the pump for 30sec minimum daily.
7.	
Do not install the pump without strainer.
8.	
Do not use float ball cock valve in delivery pipe.
The Company carries out the consumer immersion programs to understand the pain points of consumer & what improvement 
needs to be made in product which will add value to consumer.
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
292
293
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Standalone Financial 
Statements of Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited 
(“the Company”), which comprise the Balance Sheet as at 
March 31, 2024, and the Statement of Profit and Loss, including 
Other Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity 
and Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and 
notes to the Standalone Financial Statements, including 
material accounting policy information and other explanatory 
information (hereinafter referred to as the “Standalone Financial 
Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone 
Financial Statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act’) in the manner so required and 
give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian Accounting 
Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as 
amended (“Ind AS”) and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at 
March 31, 2024, and total comprehensive income (comprising 
of profit and other comprehensive income), changes in equity 
and its cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified 
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under 
those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the 
Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) together 
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of 
the Standalone Financial Statements under the provisions of 
the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence 
obtained by us is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in
our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements for the year 
ended March 31, 2024. These matters were addressed in the 
context of our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not 
provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matter
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our audit
1
Assessment of recoverability of the carrying value of 
investments in subsidiary and other intangible assets
(Refer Notes 2D and 3A to the Standalone Financial Statements)
As at March 31, 2024, the Company has I 1,914.01 Crores of 
investments in its subsidiary company, Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited ("Butterfly") and carries Trademarks 
of I  32.91 Crores with indefinite useful live purchased on 
acquisition of the said subsidiary.
The Company’s evaluation of impairment of its investments in 
Butterfly and recoverability of Trademarks involves a comparison 
of its expected recoverable values against its carrying values. 
The recoverable amount of the investment is based on Value 
in Use (ViU) calculations determined based on a Discounted 
Cash Flow with Exit Multiple Method. Determination of ViU 
involves significant estimates, assumptions and judgements as 
regards reasonableness of assumptions involved in developing 
projections of entity’s financial performance, exit multiples, and 
discount rates to be considered.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included, but were 
not limited to, the following:
a)	 Obtained an understanding of the process and assessed the 
design, implementation and tested the operating effectiveness 
of internal controls over the Company's review of impairment 
analysis.
b)	 Assessed reasonableness of the estimated revenue and margin 
projections, the historical accuracy of the estimates and its 
ability to produce accurate long-term forecasts.
c)	 Involved our valuation experts (“auditor’s expert”) to assist 
in examining and challenging the reasonableness of the 
Company’s valuation model and reviewing the underlying 
basis for key assumptions, including terminal growth rates, exit 
multiplier and discount rates.
d)	 Reviewed sensitivity in the valuation, resulting from changes 
to key assumptions applied and compared the assumptions 
to corroborating information including industry reports and 
data from competitors, historic performance, local economic 
developments and industry outlook.
Considering the uncertainty involved in forecasting of 
cash flows and the judgement involved with respect to key 
assumptions used in computing the recoverable amount, this 
audit area is considered a key audit matter.
e)	 Compared the reasonableness of future operating cash flow 
forecasts with the business plan and budgets approved by 
the Board and tested the mathematical accuracy of 
management’s calculations.
f)	
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the disclosures 
made in the Standalone Financial Statements.
2
Goodwill
(Refer Notes 2C and 34 to the Standalone Financial 
Statements)
The goodwill balance as of March 31, 2024 of I  779.41 
Crores pertains to demerger of the Consumer Business from 
Crompton Greaves Limited (now CG Power and Industrial 
Solutions Limited) and Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited in 2015.
Carrying value of goodwill is material as at March 31, 2024 and 
inherent uncertainty is involved in forecasting and discounting 
future cash flows, determination of discount and terminal 
growth rates for computing the value and the assessment of 
its recoverability.
The Company has carried out an impairment assessment 
using the value-in-use (ViU) calculations which is based 
on Discounted Cash Flow with Exit Multiple Method. 
Determination 
of 
ViU 
involves 
significant 
estimates, 
assumptions and judgements as regards reasonableness 
of assumptions involved in developing projections of entity’s 
financial performance, exit multiples, and discount rates to be 
considered.
Considering the uncertainty involved in forecasting of 
cash flows and the judgement involved with respect to key 
assumptions used in computing the recoverable amount, this 
audit area is considered a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included, but were 
not limited to, the following:
a)	 Obtained an understanding of the process and assessed the 
design, implementation and tested the operating effectiveness 
of internal controls over the accounting for goodwill arising out 
of business reconstruction transaction.
b)	 Assessed reasonableness of the future revenue and margin 
projections, the historical accuracy of the estimates and its 
ability to produce accurate long-term forecasts.
c)	 Involved our valuation experts (“auditor’s expert”) to assist 
in examining and challenging the reasonableness of the 
Company’s valuation model and reviewing the underlying 
basis for key assumptions, including terminal growth rates 
and discount rates.
d)	 Reviewed sensitivity in the valuation, resulting from changes 
to key assumptions applied and compared the assumptions 
to corroborating information including industry reports and 
data from competitors, historic performance, local economic 
developments and industry outlook.
e)	 Compared the reasonableness of future operating cash flow 
forecasts with the business plan and budgets approved by 
the Board and tested the mathematical accuracy of 
management’s calculations.
f)	
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the disclosures 
made in the Standalone Financial Statements.
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
294
295
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matter
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our audit
3
Estimates – Provision for Warranties
(Refer Note 13 to Standalone Financial Statements)
The Company’s business involves the sale of products under 
warranty. The Company also has back-to-back contractual 
arrangements with its vendors for reimbursement of cost 
relating to products supplied by the vendors.
Warranty provisions, which are inherently judgmental in 
nature, are provided by the Company to record an appropriate 
estimate of the costs of repairing and replacing products and 
spares within the warranty period. The Company estimates 
and provides for liability for product warranties in the year in 
which the products are sold. Further, the timing of outflows 
will vary based on the actual warranty claims made during the 
warranty period in the future.
The above estimations of warranty provision require significant 
judgement considering the nature and timing of the cash 
outflows. Also, there is estimation uncertainty as regards to 
the timing and the amount of the actual warranty claims that 
may devolve over the warranty period. Accordingly, provision 
for warranties has been determined by us to be a key audit 
matter.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included, but were 
not limited to, the following:
a)	 Obtained an understanding of the warranty claims process 
and assessed the design and implementation and tested the 
operating effectiveness of internal controls over the provision 
for warranties.
b)	 Reviewed the historical data of warranty costs incurred in regard 
to the product sales, the trend of claims over the warranty 
period and the comparison between provisions previously 
recognised and actual expenses. Also reviewed the historical 
data of recoveries from vendors against warranty claims and 
defective returns.
c)	 Reviewed reconciliations of sales made during the year with 
sales register to determine completeness on which warranty 
obligation is determined.
d)	 Performed 
enquiry 
procedures 
and 
reviewed 
relevant 
documents in evaluating the accuracy of historical information 
prepared by the management (including cost of repairs and 
returns).
e)	 Reviewed the recognition and appropriateness of provisions 
by verifying the computation of defect rates, vendors recovery 
and mathematical accuracy of management calculations 
and obtaining management statements, evidence and 
supporting documents.
f)	
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the relevant 
disclosures made in the Standalone Financial Statements.
Information Other than the Standalone 
Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report 
Thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other 
information. The other information comprises the information 
included in the Management Discussion and Analysis, Chairman’s 
statement, Director’s report but does not include the Standalone 
Financial Statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does not 
cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is 
materially inconsistent with the Standalone Financial Statements 
or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears 
to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have 
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement 
of this other information, we are required to report that fact. 
We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those 
Charged with Governance for the Standalone 
Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters 
stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation 
of these Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and 
fair view of the financial position, financial performance, changes 
in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with 
the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including 
the Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the 
Act. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for 
preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection 
and application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to 
the preparation and presentation of the Standalone Financial 
Statement that give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, the 
management is responsible for assessing the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, 
matters related to going concern and using the going concern 
basis of accounting unless the management either intends to 
liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic 
alternative but to do so. The Board of Directors is also responsible 
for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these Standalone 
Financial Statements.
We give in “Annexure A” a detailed description of Auditor’s 
responsibilities for Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the 
Act, we give in “Annexure B” a statement on the matters 
specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the 
extent applicable.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
	
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
	
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books.
	
(c)	
The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and 
Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, the 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the Statement 
of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account.
	
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial 
Statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act.
	
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors as on March 31, 2024 
taken on record by the Board of Directors, none 
of the directors is disqualified as on March 31, 
2024 from being appointed as a director in terms 
of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
	
(f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements of the Company and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
Report in “Annexure C”.
	
(g)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
	
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending 
litigations on its financial position in its Standalone 
Financial Statements – Refer Note 27 to the 
Standalone Financial Statements;
	
ii.	
The Company did not have any long-term contracts 
for which there were any material foreseeable losses.
	
iii.	
There has been no delay in transferring amounts, 
required to be transferred, to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund by the Company.
	
iv.	
(1)	
The Management has represented that, to the 
best of its knowledge and belief, no funds have 
been advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium or any 
other sources or kind of funds) by the Company 
to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), 
with the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, whether directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
(2)	
The Management has represented, that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief, no 
funds have been received by the Company 
from any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (Funding Parties), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
296
297
or otherwise, as on the date of this audit 
report, that the Company shall, whether 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding 
Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
(3)	
Based on the audit procedures performed 
that have been considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances, and 
according to the information and explanations 
provided to us by the Management in this 
regard, nothing has come to our notice that has 
caused us to believe that the representations 
under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e) as 
provided under (1) and (2) above, contain any 
material mis-statement.
	
v.	
The final dividend paid by the Company during 
the year in respect of the same declared for the 
previous year is in accordance with section 123 of 
the Companies Act 2013 to the extent it applies to 
payment of dividend.
	
	
The Board of Directors of the Company have 
proposed final dividend for the year which is subject 
to the approval of the members at the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting. The dividend declared is in 
accordance with section 123 of the Act to the extent 
it applies to declaration of dividend. (Refer Note 10(h) 
to the Standalone Financial Statements)
	
vi.	
Based on our examination which included test 
checks, the Company has used an accounting 
software for maintaining its books of account which 
has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility 
and the same has operated throughout the year for 
all relevant transactions recorded in the software. 
Further, during the course of our audit we did not 
come across any instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with.
	
	
As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014 is applicable from April 01, 2023, 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014 on preservation of audit 
trail as per the statutory requirements for record 
retention is not applicable for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2024.
3.	
In our opinion, according to information, explanations 
given to us, the remuneration paid by the Company to 
its directors is within the limits laid prescribed under 
Section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act and the 
rules thereunder.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 118247
Date: May 16, 2024
UDIN: 24118247BKFOJD9871
ANNEXURE A 
To The Independent Auditor’s Report on even date on the Standalone Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
•	 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the 
Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to 
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of 
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control.
•	 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the 
audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we 
are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether 
the company has adequate internal financial controls with 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements in place and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management.
•	 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of 
the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant 
doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, 
we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the 
related disclosures in the Standalone Financial Statements 
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue 
as a going concern.
•	 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the 
Standalone Financial Statements, including the disclosures, 
and whether the Standalone Financial Statements represent 
the underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned
scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, 
including any significant deficiencies in
internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement 
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them 
all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be 
thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024 and are therefore, the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated in our 
report because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 118247
Date: May 16, 2024
UDIN: 24118247BKFOJD9871
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
298
299
ANNEXURE B 
To Independent Auditors’ Report of even date on the Standalone Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals 
Limited for the year ended March 31, 2024
[Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent Auditors’ Report]
i.	
(a)	
A.	
The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars including quantitative 
details and situation of property, plant and 
equipment and relevant details of right-of-
use assets.
	
	
B.	
The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of intangible assets.
	
(b)	
Property, plant and equipment and right of use 
assets were physically verified by the management 
according to a phased programme designed to 
cover all items over a period of three years which, 
in our opinion, is reasonable having regard to the 
size of the Company and the nature of its assets. 
Pursuant to the programme, a portion of Property, 
plant and equipment have been physically verified 
by Management during the year. No material 
discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
	
(c)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination 
of the records of the Company, the title deeds of 
immovable properties (other than properties where 
the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements 
are duly executed in favour of the lessee) as disclosed 
in the Standalone Financial Statements, are held in 
the name of the Company.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us, the Company has not revalued its property, 
plant and equipment (including right of use assets) 
or intangible assets during the year. Accordingly, the 
provisions stated under clause 3(i)(d) of the Order 
are not applicable to the Company.
	
(e)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us, no proceeding has been initiated or pending 
against the Company for holding benami property 
under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 
1988, as amended and rules made thereunder. 
Accordingly, the provisions stated under clause 3(i)
(e) of the Order are not applicable to the Company.
ii.	
(a)	
The inventory (excluding stocks with third parties) has 
been physically verified by the management during 
the year. In respect of inventory lying with third parties, 
these have substantially been confirmed by them. In 
our opinion, the frequency, coverage and procedure 
of such verification is reasonable. The discrepancies 
noticed on physical verification of inventory as 
compared to book records were not 10% or more in 
aggregate for each class of inventory.
	
(b)	
During the year the Company has been sanctioned 
working capital limits in excess of I 5 Crores in 
aggregate from Banks and/ financial institutions on 
the basis of security of current assets. Based on 
the records examined by us in the normal course 
of audit of the Standalone Financial Statements, 
quarterly returns / statements filed with such Banks/ 
financial institutions are in agreement with the books 
of accounts of the Company.
iii.	
(a)    According to the information and explanations given 
to us, the Company has not provided any loans 
or advances in the nature of loans or guarantee, 
or provided security to any entity during the year. 
Hence, the requirements under paragraph 3(iii)(a) of 
the Order are not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on the audit procedures performed 
by us, we are of the opinion that the terms and 
conditions in relation to investments made during the 
year, prima facie, are not prejudicial to the interest of 
the Company.
	
(c)	
According to the information explanation provided 
to us, the Company has not granted any loans 
or advances in the nature of loans, secured or 
unsecured, to companies, firms, Limited Liability 
Partnerships or any other parties during the year. 
Hence, the requirements under paragraph 3(iii) (c), 
(d), (e) and (f) of the Order are not applicable to 
the Company.
iv.	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us, there are no loans, guarantees, and security in respect 
of which provisions of sections 185 and 186 of the Act, is 
applicable and accordingly, the provisions stated under 
clause 3(iv) of the Order to that extent are not applicable 
to the Company. In respect of the investments made by 
the Company, in our opinion the provisions of Section 185 
and 186 of the Act have been complied with.
v.	
According to the information and explanations given to us, 
the Company has neither accepted any deposits from the 
public nor any amounts which are deemed to be deposits, 
within the meaning of Sections 73, 74, 75 and 76 of the 
Act and the rules framed there under. Accordingly, the 
provisions stated under clause 3(iv) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company. Also, there are no amounts 
outstanding as on March 31, 2024, which are in the nature 
of deposits.
vi.	
Pursuant to the rules made by the Central Government of 
India, the Company is required to maintain cost records 
as specified under Section 148(1) of the Act in respect 
of its products. We have broadly reviewed the same, 
and are of the opinion that, prima facie, the prescribed 
accounts and records have been made and maintained. 
We have not, however, made a detailed examination of 
the records with a view to determine whether they are 
accurate or complete.
vii.	
(a)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and the records of the Company examined 
by us, in our opinion, undisputed statutory dues 
including goods and services tax, provident fund, 
employees’ state insurance, income-tax, duty of 
customs, cess, and other material statutory dues 
have generally been regularly deposited with the 
appropriate authorities during the year, though there 
has been a slight delay in a few cases.
	
	
There are no undisputed amounts payable in 
respect of Goods and Services tax, provident fund, 
employees’ state insurance, income-tax, duty of 
customs, cess, and other material statutory dues 
in arrears as at March 31, 2024, outstanding for a 
period of more than six months from the date they 
became payable.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanation given 
to us and examination of records of the Company, the 
outstanding dues of income tax, goods and service 
tax, customs duty, excise duty, sales tax, value 
added tax, cess and any other material statutory 
dues, on account of any dispute, are as follows:
Name of the statute
Nature of 
dues
Amount 
Demanded
K in Crores
Amount Paid 
K in Crores
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where dispute is 
pending
The Income Tax Act, 1961
Tax
89.33
23.28 FY 2010-11, 11-12, 13-14, 
14-15, 15-16, 16-17, 17-
18, 19-20, 20-21 21-22
Income Tax Appellate 
Tribunal (ITAT), 
Commissioner (Appeals)
The Central Excise Act, 1944
Tax, Penalty
1.37
- FY 2000-01
Dy. Commissioner, 
Central Excise
The Central Excise Act, 1944
Tax
5.23
- FY 2016-17 and 17-18
Commissioner of Central 
GST
Goods and Service Tax
Tax, Interest 
and penalty
51.02
0.38 FY 2017-18, FY 2018-19, 
FY 2019-20, FY 2020-21
Commissioner Appeals
The Customs Act, 1962
Duty and 
Surcharge
10.05
4.02 FY 2017-18 to 22-23
Commissioner Appeals
The Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, 
Local Sales Tax Act and works 
Contract Tax and Value added 
tax Acts, Local Body Tax
Tax and 
Penalty
138.33
14.96 FY 1998-99 to 1999-00, 
2001-02, 2003-04 to 
2017-18
Commissionerate 
(Appeals)
Tax
2.47
FY 1996-97, 2000-01, 
2002-03 to 05, 2008-09, 
2011-12, 2013-14
Tribunal
Tax
2.97
FY 1999-00
High Court
viii.	 According to the information and explanations given to 
us, there are no transactions which are not accounted 
in the books of account which have been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during the year in Income-tax 
Assessment of the Company. Accordingly, the provision 
stated under clause 3(viii) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
ix.	
(a)	
In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us and the records of the 
Company examined by us, the Company has not 
defaulted in repayment of loans or borrowings or in 
payment of interest thereon to any lender.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our audit procedures, we 
report that the Company has not been declared 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
300
301
wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or 
government or any government authority.
	
(c)	
In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations provided to us, no money was raised by 
way of term loans. Accordingly, the provision stated 
under clause 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanation 
provided to us, there are no funds raised during the 
year. Accordingly, the provision stated under clause 
3(ix)(d) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(e)	
According to the information explanation given to 
us and on an overall examination of the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company, we report 
that the Company has not taken any funds from an 
any entity or person on account of or to meet the 
obligations of its subsidiaries.
	
(f)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and procedures performed by us, we report that 
the Company has not raised loans during the year 
on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries. 
Accordingly, reporting under Clause 3(ix)(f) of the 
order is not applicable to the Company.
x.	
(a)	
In our opinion and according to the information 
explanation given to us, the Company did not raise 
any money by way of initial public offer or further 
public offer (including debt instruments) during 
the year. Accordingly, the provisions stated under 
clause 3(x)(a) of the Order are not applicable to 
the Company.
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on our examination of the records 
of the Company, the Company has not made any 
preferential allotment or private placement of shares 
or fully, partly, or optionally convertible debentures 
during the year. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under clause 3(x)(b) of the Order are not applicable 
to the Company.
xi.	
(a)	
Based on our examination of the books and records 
of the Company, carried out in accordance with 
the generally accepted auditing practices in India, 
and according to the information and explanations 
given to us, we report that no material fraud by the 
Company or on the Company has been noticed or 
reported during the year in the course of our audit.
	
(b)	
Based on our examination of the books and records 
of the Company, carried out in accordance with 
the generally accepted auditing practices in India, 
and according to the information and explanations 
given to us, a report under Section 143(12) of the 
Act, in Form ADT-4, as prescribed under rule 13 of 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 was not 
required to be filed with the Central Government. 
Accordingly, the provisions stated under clause 3(xi)
(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(c)	
We have taken into consideration the whistle blower 
complaints received by the Company during the year 
while determining the nature, timing, and extent of 
audit procedures.
xii.	
The Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, the 
provisions stated under clause 3(xii)(a) to (c) of the Order 
are not applicable to the Company.
xiii.	 According to the information and explanations given to 
us and based on our examination of the records of the 
Company, transactions with the related parties are in 
compliance with Sections 177 and 188 of the Act, where 
applicable and details of such transactions have been 
disclosed in the Standalone Financial Statements as 
required by the applicable accounting standards.
xiv.	 (a)	
In our opinion and based on our examination, the 
Company has an internal audit system commensurate 
with the size and nature of its business.
	
(b)	
We have considered the internal audit reports of the 
Company issued till the date of our audit report, for 
the period under audit.
xv.	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us, in our opinion, during the year, the Company has not 
entered into any non-cash transactions with directors or 
persons connected with its directors and accordingly, the 
reporting on compliance with the provisions of Section 
192 of the Act in clause 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
xvi.	 (a)	
The Company is not required to be registered under 
Section 45 IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
1934 and accordingly, the provisions stated under 
clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order are not applicable to 
the Company.
	
(b)	
The Company is not engaged in any Non-Banking 
Financial or Housing Finance activities during the 
year and accordingly, the provisions stated under 
clause 3 (xvi)(b) of the Order are not applicable to 
the Company.
	
(c)	
The Company is not a Core investment Company 
(CIC) as defined in the regulations made by Reserve 
Bank of India. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under clause 3 (xvi)(c) of the Order are not applicable 
to the Company.
	
(d)	
According to the information and explanations 
provided to us, the Group (as defined in the Core 
Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 
2016) does not have any Core Investment Company 
(as part of its group. Accordingly, the provisions 
stated under clause 3(xvi)(d) of the order are not 
applicable to the Company.
xvii.	 Based on the overall review of Standalone Financial 
Statements, the Company has not incurred cash losses 
in the current financial year and in the immediately 
preceding financial year. Accordingly, the provisions 
stated under clause 3(xvii) of the Order are not applicable 
to the Company.
xviii.	There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
during the year. Accordingly, the provisions stated 
under clause 3(xviii) of the Order are not applicable to 
the Company.
xix.	 According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of the financial ratios (as disclosed in 
note 38 to the Standalone Financial Statements), ageing 
and expected dates of realization of financial assets 
and payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying the Standalone Financial Statements, our 
knowledge of the Board of Directors and management 
plans and based on our examination of the evidence 
supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our 
attention, which causes us to believe that any material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that 
Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing 
at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due 
within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. 
We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to 
the future viability of the Company. We further state that 
our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the 
audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any 
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of 
one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged 
by the Company as and when they fall due.
xx.	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on our verification, the provisions of 
Section 135 of the Act, are applicable to the Company. 
The Company has made the required contributions during 
the year and there are no unspent amounts which are 
required to be transferred either to a Fund specified in 
schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 the Act or to a 
Special Account as per the provisions of Section 135 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 the Act read with schedule VII to 
the Act. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xx)(a) and 
3(xx)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
xxi.	 The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not 
applicable in respect of audit of Standalone Financial 
Statements. Accordingly, no comment in respect of the 
said clause has been included in the report.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 118247
Date: May 16, 2024
UDIN: 24118247BKFOJD9871
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
302
303
[Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent Auditors’ Report 
of even date to the Members of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited on the Standalone Financial Statements for 
the year ended March 31, 2024]
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under 
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to Standalone Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves 
Consumer Electricals Limited (“the Company”) as of March 31, 
2024 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, an 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements and such internal financial controls with 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements were operating 
effectively as at March 31, 2024, based on the internal control 
with reference to Standalone Financial Statements criteria 
established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) 
(the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s Responsibility for Internal 
Financial Controls
The Company’s management are responsible for establishing 
and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal 
control with reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
criteria established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that 
were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient 
conduct of its business, including adherence to Company’s 
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls with reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements based on our audit. We conducted our 
audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards 
on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under 
section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of 
internal financial controls. Those Standards and the Guidance 
Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan 
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to Standalone Financial Statements was established and 
maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all 
material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to Standalone Financial Statements and their 
operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to Standalone Financial Statements included 
obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating 
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based 
on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the 
auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements, 
whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls With 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial control with reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of Standalone Financial 
Statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial 
control with reference to Standalone Financial Statements 
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of Standalone Financial Statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
ANNEXURE C 
To The Independent Auditor’s Report of even date on the Standalone Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited
and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of 
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, 
use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a 
material effect on the Standalone Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial 
Controls With reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
with reference to Standalone Financial Statements, including 
the possibility of collusion or improper management override 
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may 
occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk 
that the internal financial control with reference to Standalone 
Financial Statements may become inadequate because of 
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 118247
Date: May 16, 2024
UDIN: 24118247BKFOJD9871
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
304
305
Standalone Balance Sheet
as at 31st March, 2024
H Crore
Particulars
Notes
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
I.	
ASSETS
	
(1)	 Non-current assets
	
	
(a)	 Property, plant and equipment
2 A
217.92
223.49
	
	
(b)	 Capital work-in-progress
2 E
5.90
2.64
	
	
(c)	 Right-of-use assets
2 B
70.46
68.85
	
	
(d)	 Goodwill
2 C
779.41
779.41
	
	
(e)	 Other intangible assets
2 D
52.47
50.26
	
	
(f)	 Intangible assets under development
2 F
45.09
21.05
	
	
(g)	 Financial assets
	
	
	
(i)	 Investments
3 A
1,928.21
1,928.21
	
	
	
(ii)	 Trade receivables
7 A
12.65
15.49
	
	
	
(iii)	 Other financial assets
4 A
12.56
12.07
	
	
(h)	 Deferred tax assets (net)
17
54.56
69.66
	
	
(i)	 Non-current tax assets (net)
17 
8.62
8.62
	
	
(j)	 Other non-current assets
5 A
80.73
73.64
	
Total non-current assets
3,268.58
3,253.39
	
(2)	 Current assets
	
	
(a)	 Inventories
6
698.00
618.75
	
	
(b)	 Financial assets
	
	
	
(i)	 Investments
3 B
628.14
530.77
	
	
	
(ii)	 Trade receivables
7 B
580.12
529.80
	
	
	
(iii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
8
130.79
44.06
	
	
	
(iv)	Bank balances other than (iii)above
9
84.48
3.74
	
	
	
(v)	 Other financial assets
4 B
19.86
21.63
	
	
(c)	 Current tax assets (net)
17 
2.48
19.81
	
	
(d)	 Other current assets
5 B
162.03
123.73
	
Total current assets
2,305.90
1,892.29
	
TOTAL ASSETS
5,574.48
5,145.68
Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.)
as at 31st March, 2024
H Crore
Particulars
Notes
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
II.	 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
	
Equity
	
(a)	 Equity share capital
10
128.62
127.22
	
(b)	 Other equity
11
3,076.86
2,711.75
	
Total equity
3,205.48
2,838.97
	
Liabilities
	
(1)	 Non-current liabilities
	
	
(a)	 Financial liabilities
	
	
	
(i)	 Borrowings
12 A
298.97
597.18
	
	
	
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
30
50.08
52.20
	
	
	
(iii)	 Trade payables
14 A
	
	
	
	
(a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
-
-
	
	
	
	
(b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
14.03
13.19
	
	
(b)	 Provisions
13 A
191.05
131.23
	
Total non-current liabilities
 554.13 
 793.80 
	
(2)	 Current liabilities
	
	
(a)	 Financial liabilities
	
	
	
(i)	 Borrowings
12 B
300.00
325.00
	
	
	
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
30
30.40
25.80
	
	
	
(iii)	 Trade payables
14 B
	
	
	
	
(a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
220.02
217.61
	
	
	
	
(b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
952.43
676.64
	
	
	
(iv)	Other financial liabilities
15
67.10
68.30
	
	
(b)	 Other current liabilities
16
105.01
79.78
	
	
(c)	 Provisions
13 B
111.50
111.85
	
	
(d)	 Current tax liabilities (net)
17
28.41
7.93
	
Total current liabilities
1,814.87
1,512.91
	
Total liabilities
2,369.00
2,306.71
	
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
5,574.48
5,145.68
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and  
Chief Executive Officer
Firm's Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
P. R. Ramesh
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 01915274
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
16th May 2024
16th May 2024
306
307
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
H Crore
Particulars
Notes
2023-24
2022-23
Income
I.	
Revenue from operations
18
 6,388.38 
 5,809.31 
II.	 Other income
19
 60.34 
 74.41 
III.	 Total Income (I+II)
 6,448.72 
 5,883.72 
IV.	 Expenses
	
Cost of materials consumed
20
 1,378.33 
 1,308.04 
	
Purchase of stock-in-trade
21
 3,135.17 
 2,815.34 
	
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
22
(100.59)
(113.93)
	
Employee benefits expense
23
474.21
439.63
	
Finance costs
24
72.77
102.69
	
Depreciation and amortisation expense
2
65.23
54.23
	
Other expenses
25
812.56
688.95
	
Total Expenses (IV)
5,837.68
5,294.95
V.	 Profit before exceptional items and tax (III-IV)
611.04
588.77
	
Exceptional items
26
-
(5.54)
VI.	 Profit before tax
611.04
594.31
VII.	Tax expenses:
17
	
Current tax
130.46
156.54
	
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
(0.78)
(16.71)
	
Deferred tax charge / (credit)
17
14.91
(21.08)
	
Total Tax expenses (VII)
144.59
118.75
VIII.Profit for the year (VI-VII)
466.45
475.56
IX.	 Other comprehensive income
	
(i)	 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
	
	
Remeasurements gain / (loss) on defined benefit plans
0.73
(1.75)
	
(ii)	 Income tax related to items that will not be
	
	
reclassified to profit or loss
17
(0.18)
0.44
	
	
Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax) (IX)
0.55
(1.31)
X.	 Total comprehensive income for the year (VIII + IX)
467.00
474.25
XI.	 Earnings per equity share (in K) of face value of K2 each
33
	
1.	 Basic
7.29
7.49
	
2.	 Diluted
7.29
7.46
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and  
Chief Executive Officer
Firm's Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
P. R. Ramesh
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 01915274
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
16th May 2024
16th May 2024
Standalone Statement of Changes In Equity 
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
(A)	 EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
No. of Shares
Amount
K Crore
No. of Shares
Amount
K Crore
Balance as at the beginning of the reporting year
63,61,09,719
127.22
63,34,05,959
126.68
Changes in equity share capital during the year
69,97,260
1.40
27,03,760
0.54
Balance as at the end of the reporting year
64,31,06,979
128.62
63,61,09,719
127.22
(B)	 OTHER EQUITY 
I Crore
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Other 
comprehensive 
income
Total Other 
Equity
Capital 
Reserve
Securities 
premium
Employee 
stock 
options 
outstanding 
account
Debenture 
redemption 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Remeasurement 
gain/(loss) on 
defined benefit 
plans
Balance as at 1st April, 2022
0.05
144.87
138.63
75.00
1,967.19
3.23
2,328.97
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
475.56
-
475.56
Dividends paid
-
-
-
-
(158.41)
-
(158.41)
Securities premium received
-
41.06
-
-
-
-
41.06
Amount transferred to / (from) Securities 
premium
-
23.58
(23.58)
-
-
-
-
Amount transferred to / (from) Retained 
earnings
-
-
(1.81)
(75.00)
76.81
-
-
Movement in Other comprehensive income for 
the year
-
-
-
-
-
(1.31)
(1.31)
Employee compensation expense for the year 
(Refer Note 23)
-
-
25.88
-
-
-
25.88
Balance as at 31st March, 2023
0.05
209.51
139.12
-
2361.15
1.92
2711.75
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
466.45
-
466.45
Dividends paid
-
-
-
-
(191.90)
-
(191.90)
Securities premium received
-
87.94
-
-
-
-
87.94
Amount transferred to / (from) Securities 
premium
-
64.03
(64.03)
-
-
-
-
Amount transferred to / (from) Retained 
earnings
-
-
(2.92)
-
2.92
-
-
Movement in Other comprehensive income for 
the year
-
-
-
-
-
0.55
0.55
Employee compensation expense for the year 
(Refer Note 23)
-
-
2.07
-
-
-
2.07
Balance as at 31st March, 2024
0.05
361.48
74.24
-
2,638.62
2.47
3,076.86
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and  
Chief Executive Officer
Firm's Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
P. R. Ramesh
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 01915274
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
16th May 2024
16th May 2024
308
309
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
[A] CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax
611.04
594.31
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
65.23
54.23
Finance cost
72.77
102.69
Loss / (Gain) on sale of property, plant and equipment (net)
0.72
(3.66)
Share-based Payments to employees
2.07
25.88
Net gain on sale of or fair valuation of investments (net)
(24.33)
(15.26)
Interest income
(35.28)
(42.53)
Dividend received from subsidiaries
-
(9.21)
Unrealised exchange loss / (gain) (net)
0.58
(0.63)
Exceptional items
-
(5.54)
81.76
105.97
Cash generated from operations before working capital changes
692.80
700.28
Adjustments for:
Increase in trade receivables
(47.48)
(32.76)
Increase in inventories
(79.25)
(107.40)
Increase in other financial and non financial assets
(49.75)
(41.23)
Increase in trade payables
278.46
42.83
Increase / (Decrease) in other financial and non financial liabilities
29.20
(33.36)
Increase in provisions
60.20
18.06
191.38
(153.86)
Cash generated from operations
884.18
546.42
Income tax paid (net of refunds)
(88.21)
(121.62)
Net cash generated from operating activities [A]
795.97
424.80
[B] CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Add:	
Inflows from investing activities
	
Interest received
39.20
40.67
	
Dividend received from subsidiaries
-
9.21
	
Proceeds from sale of investment in subsidiary (net)
-
161.08
	
Proceeds from current investments (net)
-
95.14
	
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
2.73
4.60
41.93
310.70
Less:	 Outflows from investing activities
	
Investment in subsidiaries
-
672.96
	
Purchase of current investments (net)
73.04
-
	
Decrease / (Increase) in other bank balances and term deposits 
80.00
(730.58)
	
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
	
(including assets under development & capital advances)
64.48
69.17
217.52
11.55
Net cash (used in) / generated from investing activities [B]
(175.59)
299.15
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
[C] CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Add:	
Inflows from financing activities
	
Proceeds from issue of equity shares
89.34
41.60
	
Proceeds from issue of debentures
-
925.00
89.34
966.60
Less:	 Outflows from financing activities
	
Payment of dividend including dividend distribution tax
191.16
157.78
	
Redemption of non-convertible debentures
325.00
150.00
	
Repayment of short-term borrowings
-
1,406.89
	
Repayment of lease liability
37.32
31.49
	
Interest paid
69.51
70.42
622.99
1,816.58
Net cash used in financing activities (C)
(533.65)
(849.98)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
86.73
(126.03)
(a)	 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
44.06
170.09
(b)	 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
130.79
44.06
(c)	 Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (c = b-a)
86.73
(126.03)
Components of cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year are:
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Balance with banks:
	
In current accounts
 57.79 
 36.04 
	
In deposit accounts with original maturity of 3 months or less
 73.00 
 8.00 
Cash on hand (including cash in transit)
 -   
 0.02 
Total cash and cash equivalents
 130.79 
 44.06 
Notes:
(i)	
The above Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared under the ‘Indirect Method’ as set out in the Indian Accounting 
Standard (Ind AS) 7, Statement of Cash Flows as specified in the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards), Rules, 2015 
(as amended).
(ii)	
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities:
Particulars
As at  
1st April, 
2023
Cash flow changes
Non-cash flow changes
As at  
31st March, 
2024
Receipts
Payments
Unamortised
expenses
Others
Non-current borrowings (Refer Note 12A)
597.18
-
-
1.79
(300.00)
298.97
Current borrowings (Refer Note 12B)
325.00
-
(325.00)
300.00
300.00
922.18
-
(325.00)
1.79
-
598.97
310
311
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Particulars
As at
1st April, 
2022
Cash flow changes
Non-cash flow changes
As at  
31st March, 
2023
Receipts
Payments
Unamortised
expenses
Others
Non-current borrowings (Refer Note 12A)
-
925.00
-
(2.82)
(325.00)
597.18
Current borrowings (Refer Note 12B)
1,555.25
-
(1,556.89)
1.64
325.00
325.00
1,555.25
925.00
(1,556.89)
(1.18)
-
922.18
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the standalone financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and  
Chief Executive Officer
Firm's Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
P. R. Ramesh
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 01915274
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
16th May 2024
16th May 2024
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited (the ‘Company’ 
or ‘Crompton’) is a public limited company domiciled in India 
and incorporated on 25th February, 2015 under the provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and is limited by shares, having 
its registered office at Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing, Equinox 
Business Park, LBS Marg, Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070. 
The Company is a leading brand dealing in consumer electrical 
goods, home appliances, electronic equipment, and instruments 
including fans, water heaters, kitchen appliances, lighting 
luminaires and pumps (domestic/ agriculture/ industrial).Its 
broad product range caters to residential, commercial, and 
industrial sectors, highlighting its versatility. With a focus on 
quality, innovation, and customer satisfaction, the Company 
maintains a strong reputation as a trusted industry leader.
The Company’s operations are spread across strategic locations 
in India, encompassing Bethora and Kundaim in Goa, Baddi in 
Himachal Pradesh, Ahmednagar in Maharashtra, and Vadodara 
in Gujarat. Complementing these manufacturing endeavors 
is the Company’s cutting-edge research and development 
facility, known as the ‘Innovation Centre,’ situated in Mumbai, 
Maharashtra. This integrated network of manufacturing and 
research facilities underscores the Company’s commitment to 
excellence and its relentless pursuit of advancement and growth.
The shares of the Company are listed on National Stock 
Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited. Further, debt 
securities (non-convertible debentures) of the Company are also 
listed on National Stock Exchange of India Limited. The CIN of 
the Company is L31900MH2015PLC262254. 
The standalone financial statements of the Company for the year 
ended 31st March, 2024 were approved for issue in accordance 
with the resolution of the Board of Directors on 16th May, 2024.
1.	 Material Accounting policies
1.1	 Basis of preparation
a)	
Basis of preparation
	
i)	
Statement of compliance
	
	
The Company’s standalone financial statements 
have been prepared on accrual and going concern 
basis, in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind-AS) notified under Section 133 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) read with the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015, as amended and other relevant provisions of 
the Act.
	
	
The Company’s standalone financial statements 
consistently apply uniform accounting policies 
across all periods.
	
ii)	
Basis of measurement
	
	
The standalone financial statements have been 
prepared on an accrual basis and a historical cost 
convention, except for the following assets and 
liabilities which have been measured at fair value:
•	 Financial instruments measured at fair value 
through profit or loss;
•	 Net defined benefit(asset)/ liability - Fair value 
of plan assets less present value of defined 
benefit obligation; and
•	 Share based payment transactions
	
iii)	
Current and non-current classification
	
	
All assets and liabilities have been classified as 
current or non-current as per the Company’s normal 
operating cycle, paragraph 66 and 69 of Ind-AS 1 
and other criteria as set out in Division II of Schedule 
III to the Companies Act, 2013.
	
	
An asset is treated as current when it is:
•	 Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or 
consumed in normal operating cycle:
•	 Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
•	 Expected to be realised within twelve months after 
the reporting period; or
•	 Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for 
at least twelve months after the reporting period.
	
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
	
A liability is treated as current when:
•	 It is expected to be settled in normal 
operating cycle;
•	 It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
•	 It is due to be settled within twelve months after 
the reporting period; or
313
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
312
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
•	 There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve months 
after the reporting period.
	
	
All other liabilities are classified as non-current.
	
	
Based on the nature of products and the time between 
acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation 
in cash and cash equivalents, the Company has 
ascertained its operating cycle as 12 months for the 
purpose of current or non-current classification of assets 
and liabilities.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as 
non-current assets and liabilities.
	
iv)	
Presentation currency and rounding-off
	
	
All amounts disclosed in these standalone financial 
statements and notes are presented in I (in Crore), 
the functional currency of the Company. Items 
included in the standalone financial statements of 
the Company are recorded using the currency of 
the primary economic environment in which the 
Company operates (the ‘functional currency’).
	
	
All values are rounded off to two decimals as per the 
requirement of Division II of Schedule III to the Act, 
unless otherwise indicated.
b)	
Basis of presentation
	
	
The Balance sheet and the Statement of profit and 
loss are prepared and presented in the format 
prescribed in Division II of Schedule III to the Act. 
The Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared 
and presented as per the requirements of Ind-
AS 7, Statement of Cash Flows. The disclosure 
requirements with respect to items in the Balance 
sheet and Statement of profit and loss, as prescribed 
in the Schedule III to the Act, are presented by way 
of notes forming part of the standalone financial 
statements along with the other notes required to be 
disclosed under the notified Accounting Standards 
and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended.
1.2	 Summary of material accounting estimates, 
assumptions and accounting policies
a)	
Material estimates and assumptions
	
The preparation of standalone financial statements requires 
the management to make judgments, use estimates and 
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, 
expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying 
disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. 
Uncertainty about these judgements, assumptions and 
estimates could result in outcomes that require a material 
adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or liability 
affected in future periods. Continuous evaluation is done 
on the estimation and judgments based on historical 
experience and other factors, including expectations of 
future events that are believed to be reasonable. Revisions 
to accounting estimates are recognized prospectively.
	
In particulars, information about material areas of estimates 
and judgments in applying accounting policies that have 
the most material effect on the amounts recognized in the 
standalone financial statements are described below:
	
i)	
Goodwill impairment
	
	
For testing of impairment of goodwill, if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate a potential 
impairment, as part of the review process, the carrying 
amount of the Cash Generating Units (‘CGUs’) 
(including allocated goodwill) is compared with its 
recoverable amount by the Company.
	
	
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value 
less costs to sell and value in use, both of which are 
calculated by the Company using a discounted cash 
flow analysis. Calculating the future net cash flows 
expected to be generated to determine if impairment 
exists and to calculate the impairment involves 
material assumptions, estimation and judgment. The 
estimation and judgments involve, but are not limited 
to, industry trends including pricing, estimating long-
term revenues growth rates and operating results. The 
estimated cash flows are developed using internal 
forecasts. The cash flows are discounted using a 
discount rate in order to compute present values. 
An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not 
reversed in subsequent periods as per Ind-AS 36 – 
‘Impairment of assets’.
	
ii)	
Provision for warranty
	
	
Warranty provision is determined based on the 
historical percentage of warranty expense to sales 
for the same types of goods depending upon the 
warranty period offered. The percentage to the 
sales is applied to derive the warranty expense to be 
accrued. Actual warranty claims are settled against 
warranty provision. The warranty claims may not 
exactly match the historical warranty percentage, 
so such estimates are reviewed annually for any 
material changes in assumptions and likelihood 
of occurrence.
	
	
The closing warranty provision is bifurcated into 
current and non-current based on the past settlement 
trend with the non-current portion being discounted 
to derive the present value. The assumptions are 
consistent with prior years. (Refer Note 13)
	
	
Estimates are made of the expected reimbursement 
claim based upon historical levels of recoveries 
from supplier, applied to the volume of product 
under warranty as on Reporting date. Supplier 
reimbursements are recognized as separate asset 
as expected recoverable from vendors against 
warranty as recovery from the vendors is considered 
to be virtually certain.
	
	
Expected recoverable from vendors against warranty 
is bifurcated into current and non-current based on 
the past recovery trend with the non-current portion 
being discounted to derive the present value. The 
assumptions are consistent with prior years. (Refer 
Note 5)
	
iii)	
Estimates related to Share-based payments
	
	
Estimating fair value for share-based payment 
transactions requires determination of the most 
appropriate valuation model, which is dependent 
on the terms and conditions of the grant. This 
estimate also requires determination of the most 
appropriate inputs to the valuation model including 
the expected life of the share option, volatility and 
dividend yield and making assumptions about them. 
(Refer Note 35)
	
iv)	
Taxes
	
	
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of 
tax regulations, changes in tax laws, and the amount 
and timing of future taxable income. Given the wide 
range of business relationships, differences arising 
between the actual results and the assumptions 
made, or future changes to such assumptions, could 
necessitate future adjustments to tax income and 
expense already recorded. The Company establishes 
provisions based on reasonable estimates. The 
amount of such provisions is based on various factors, 
such as experience of previous tax audits and differing 
interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity 
and the responsible tax authority. (Refer Note 17)
	
	
Recognition of deferred tax assets/ liability – The 
extent to which deferred tax assets can be recognised 
is based on an assessment of the probability of the 
future taxable income against which the deferred tax 
assets can be utilized.
	
v)	
Measurement of Defined Benefit Obligations, 
key actuarial assumptions
	
	
The cost of the defined benefit plans such as 
gratuity and leave encashment are determined using 
actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves 
making various assumptions that may differ from 
actual developments in the future. These include 
the determination of the discount rate, future salary 
increases and mortality rates. Due to the complexities 
involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, 
a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to 
changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are 
reviewed at each year end.
	
	
The principal assumptions are the discount and 
salary growth rate. The discount rate is based upon 
the market yields available on government bonds at 
the accounting date with a term that matches that of 
liabilities. The salary increase rate takes into account 
of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant 
factors on long term basis. (Refer Note 31)
	
	
Detailed information about each of these estimates 
and judgements is included in relevant notes together 
with information about the basis of calculation 
for each affected line item in the standalone 
financial statements.
	
vi)	
Expected Credit Loss (‘ECL’)
	
	
The Company recognises loss allowance using 
expected credit loss model for financial assets which 
are not measured at Fair Value Through Profit or 
Loss. Expected credit losses are weighted average 
of credit losses with the respective risks of default 
occurring as the weights. Credit loss is the difference 
between all contractual cash flows that are due to 
the Company in accordance with the contract and all 
the cash flows that the Company expects to receive, 
discounted at original effective rate of interest.
314
315
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
	
For Trade receivables, the Company measures loss 
allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected 
credit losses. The Company computes expected 
credit loss allowance based on a provision matrix 
which takes into account historical credit loss 
experience and is adjusted for forward-looking 
information. The expected credit loss allowance is 
based on ageing of receivables and the rates used in 
provision matrix. The assessment of the correlation 
between historical observed default rates, forecast 
economic conditions and ECLs is a significant 
estimate. The amount of ECLs is sensitive to 
changes in circumstances and of forecast economic 
conditions. The Company’s historical credit loss 
experience and forecast of economic conditions 
may also not be representative of customer’s actual 
default in the future.
	
vii)	 Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
	
	
The Company reviews the useful life of property, 
plant and equipment at the end of each reporting 
period. This reassessment may result in change in 
depreciation expense in current and future periods.
	
viii)	  Impairment of investments
	
	
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost, less 
accumulated impairment losses, if any. Where an 
indication of impairment exists the carrying amount 
of the investment is assessed and written down 
immediately to its recoverable amount. 
	
	
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value 
less costs to sell and value in use, both of which 
are calculated by the Company using a discounted 
cash flow analysis. Calculating the future net cash 
flows expected to be generated to determine if 
impairment exists and to calculate the impairment 
involves material assumptions, estimation and 
judgment. The estimation and judgments involve, 
but are not limited to, industry trends including 
pricing, estimating long-term revenues growth rates, 
exit multiple and operating results. The estimated 
cash flows are developed using internal forecasts. 
The cash flows are discounted using a discount rate 
in order to compute present values.
	
ix)	
Contingent Liabilities
	
	
It is not practicable for the Company to estimate the 
timings of cash outflows, if any, in respect of the 
pending resolution of the respective proceedings 
as it is determinable only on receipt of judgements/
decisions pending with various forums/authorities.
	
	
The Company does not expect any reimbursements 
in respect of the contingent liabilities. The Company’s 
pending litigations comprise of proceedings 
pending with various direct tax, indirect tax and 
other authorities. The Company has reviewed all 
its pending litigations and proceedings and has 
adequately provided for where provisions are 
required and disclosed as contingent liabilities where 
applicable, in its standalone financial statements. 
The Company does not expect the outcome of these 
proceedings to have a materially adverse effect on 
its standalone financial statements.
b)	
Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’) and Capital 
Work-in-Progress
	
i)	
Recognition and initial measurement
	
	
Land
	
	
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. For freehold 
land, as no finite useful life can be determined, 
related carrying amounts are not amortised.
	
	
Leasehold land is carried at historical cost. For 
leasehold land, cost of land amortised over lease 
term as per lease agreement.
	
	
Other Tangible assets
	
	
PPE other than land, is initially recognised at 
acquisition cost or construction cost.
	
	
The cost of an item of PPE comprises:
•	 its purchase price, including import duties and 
non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting 
trade discounts and rebates.
•	 any costs directly attributable to bringing the 
asset to the location and condition necessary for it 
to be capable of operating in the manner intended 
by management.
	
	
Property, plant and equipment acquired in a 
business combination are recognised at fair value 
at the acquisition date.
	
	
Where cost of a part of an asset (asset component) 
is Material to total cost of the asset and useful life 
of that part is different from the useful life of the 
remaining asset, useful life of that Material part is 
determined separately, and such asset component 
is depreciated over its separate useful life.
	
	
Income and expenses related to the incidental 
operations, not necessary to bring the item to the 
location and condition necessary for it to be capable 
of operating in the manner intended by management, 
are recognised in the Statement of profit and loss.
	
ii)	
Subsequent expenditure
	
	
Subsequent costs are included in the carrying 
amount of asset or recognised as a separate asset, 
as appropriate, only when it is probable that future 
economic benefits associated with the item will 
flow to the Company and the cost of the item can 
be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any 
component accounted for as a separate asset is 
derecognised when replaced. All other repairs and 
maintenance are charged to Statement of Profit and 
Loss during the year in which they are incurred.
	
iii)	
Subsequent 
measurement 
(depreciation 
method, useful lives, residual value, and 
impairment)
	
	
PPE are subsequently measured at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, 
if any.
	
	
A depreciable amount for assets is the cost of an 
asset or other amount substituted for cost less its 
estimated residual value. Depreciation on PPE (other 
than leasehold land) is provided based on useful 
life of the assets as estimated by the management 
on Straight Line Method. The useful lives used 
are in agreement with those specified in Part ‘C’ 
of Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 except 
in respect of following category of property, plant 
and equipment where the useful life is considered 
differently based on technical evaluation, taking into 
account the nature of the asset and the estimated 
usage basis management’s best judgement of 
economic benefits from those classes of assets.
	
	
Management believes that such estimated useful 
lives are realistic and reflect a fair approximation of 
the period over which the assets are likely to be used.
	
−Plant and equipment - maximum 21 years
	
−Furniture and fixtures - maximum 15 years
	
−Office Equipment – maximum 10 years
	
	
Premium paid on leasehold lands are amortised 
over the period of lease. Buildings constructed 
on leasehold land are depreciated based on the 
management estimate of useful life, where the 
lease period is beyond the life of the building. In 
other cases, buildings constructed on leasehold 
land are amortised over the primary lease period 
of the land.
	
	
Depreciation on addition to/deductions from, 
owned assets is calculated pro rata to the period 
of use. The residual values, useful lives, and 
method of depreciation are reviewed at the end of 
each financial year, and the effect of any change 
in the estimates of useful life/ residual value is 
adjusted prospectively. PPE other than land is 
tested for impairment whenever events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable.
	
iv)	
De-recognition
	
	
An item of PPE and any significant part initially 
recognised is derecognised upon disposal or when 
no future economic benefits are expected from its 
use. Any gain or loss arising from de-recognition 
of an item of PPE is determined as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset and is accordingly recognised 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
v)	
Capital Work-in-Progress
	
	
PPE which are not ready for intended use as on the 
date of Balance sheet are disclosed as Capital work-
in-progress.
	
	
Advances paid towards the acquisition of property, 
plant and equipment outstanding at each reporting 
date is classified as capital advances under ‘other 
non-current assets’ and the cost of assets not put to 
use before such date are disclosed under ‘Capital 
work-in-progress’.
316
317
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
c)	
Goodwill, other intangible assets and intangible 
assets under development
	
i)	
Recognition and initial measurement
	
	
Goodwill
	
	
Goodwill represents the future economic benefits 
arising from a business combination that are not 
individually identified and separately recognised. 
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses. (Refer Note 37 for a description 
of impairment testing procedures)
	
	
Other Intangible assets
	
	
Other intangible assets are initially measured at cost. 
Such assets are recognized where it is probable 
that the future economic benefits attributable to the 
assets will flow to the Company and the cost of the 
asset can be measured reliably.
	
	
The cost of an intangible asset comprises:
•	 its purchase price, including any import duties 
and other taxes (other than those subsequently 
recoverable from the taxing authorities)
•	 any directly attributable expenditure on making 
the asset ready for its intended use.
	
	
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
	
	
Income and expenses related to the incidental 
operations, not necessary to bring the item to be 
capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management, are recognised in the Statement of 
profit and loss.
	
ii)	
Subsequent expenditure
	
	
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it 
increases the future economic benefits embodied 
in the specific asset to which it relates. All other 
expenditures are recognised in the statement of 
profit or loss as incurred.
	
iii)	
Subsequent 
measurement 
(amortisation 
method, useful lives and residual value)
	
	
Intangible assets are subsequently measured at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment 
losses, if any.
Other intangible assets
Useful life 
(in years)
Product Development
Up to 5
Computer Software
5-10
Trademarks
Indefinite
Technical knowhow
Indefinite
	
	
All intangible assets with finite useful life are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated 
useful lives, and a possible impairment is assessed if 
there is an indication that the intangible asset may be 
impaired. The amortisation period and amortisation 
method for all intangible assets are reviewed at each 
reporting date. Changes, if any, are accounted for as 
changes in accounting estimates.
	
	
Intangible assets for which there is no foreseeable 
limit to the period over which they are expected 
to generate net cash inflows are considered to 
have an indefinite life. The assessment of which is 
reviewed annually to determine whether it continues, 
if not, it is impaired or changed prospectively basis 
revised estimates.
	
iv)	
De-recognition
	
	
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, 
or when no future economic benefits are expected 
from use. Gains or losses arising from derecognition 
of an intangible asset, measured as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount of the asset, are recognised in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss.
	
v)	
Research and development cost
•	 	 Research cost
	
	
	
Revenue expenditure on research is charged 
to Statement of profit and loss under the 
respective heads of accounts in the period in 
which it is incurred.
•	 Development cost
	
	
	
Development expenditure on new product is 
capitalised as intangible asset, if the Company 
can demonstrate all of the following:
•	 the technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for 
use or sale;
•	 its intention to complete the development of 
intangible asset and use or sell it;
•	 its ability to use or sell the intangible asset;
•	 How the asset will generate future economic 
benefits including the existence of a market for 
output of the intangible asset or the intangible 
asset itself or if it is to be used internally, the 
usefulness of the intangible asset;
•	 the availability of adequate technical, 
financial and other resources to complete the 
development and to use or sell the intangible 
asset; and
•	 its ability to measure the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during the 
development reliably.
	
	
	
Development costs on the intangible assets, 
fulfilling the criteria are amortised over its useful 
life, otherwise are expensed in the period in 
which they are incurred.
	
vi)	
Intangible assets under development
	
	
Intangibles which are not ready for intended use 
as on the date of Balance sheet are disclosed as 
Intangible assets under development.
	
	
Advances paid for the acquisition/ development 
of intangible assets which are outstanding at 
the reporting date are classified under ‘Capital 
Advances’ under ‘other non-current assets’.
d)	
Leases
	
The Company as a lessee:
	
The Company’s lease asset classes primarily consist of 
leases for land and buildings. The Company assesses 
whether a contract contains a lease, at inception of a 
contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract 
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for 
a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess 
whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of 
an identified asset, the Company assesses whether:
•	 the contract contains an identified asset, which is either 
explicitly identified in the contract or implicitly specified 
by being identified at the time the asset is made available 
to the Company;
•	 the Company has the right to obtain substantially all of 
the economic benefits from use of the identified asset 
throughout the period of use, considering its rights within 
the defined scope of the contract; and
•	 the Company has the right to direct the use of the identified 
asset throughout the period of use. The Company 
assesses whether it has the right to direct ‘how and for 
what purpose’ the asset is used throughout the period 
of use.
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Company recognises a Right-of-Use asset (‘ROU’) and a 
corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements in 
which it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve 
months or less (short-term leases) and low value leases. 
For these short-term and low value leases, the Company 
recognises the lease payments as an operating expense 
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
	
Certain lease arrangements include the option to extend 
or terminate the lease before the end of the lease term. 
ROU assets and lease liabilities include these options 
when it is reasonably certain that they will be exercised.
	
The Company makes an assessment of the expected lease 
term on a lease-by-lease basis and thereby assesses 
whether it is reasonably certain that any options to extend 
or terminate the contract will be exercised. The lease term 
in future periods is reassessed to ensure that the lease 
term reflects the current economic circumstances.
	
The ROU assets are initially recognised at cost, which 
comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the 
commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct 
costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses.
	
The ROU assets are depreciated from the commencement 
date on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease 
term and useful life of the underlying asset. ROU assets are 
evaluated for recoverability whenever events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may 
not be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
the recoverable amount (i.e., the higher of the fair value 
less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an 
individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate 
cash flows that are largely independent of those from 
other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the Cash Generating Unit (‘CGU’) to which 
the asset belongs.
	
The lease liability is initially measured at amortised 
cost at the present value of the future lease payments. 
The lease payments are discounted using the interest 
rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, 
318
319
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
using the incremental borrowing rates in the country 
of domicile of these leases. Lease liabilities are 
remeasured with a corresponding adjustment to 
the related ROU asset if the Company changes its 
assessment whether it will exercise an extension or 
a termination option.
	
Lease payments included in the measurement of the 
lease liability are made up of fixed payments (including 
in-substance fixed), variable payments based on an index 
or rate, amounts expected to be payable under a residual 
value guarantee and payments arising from options 
reasonably certain to be exercised.
	
Subsequent to initial measurement, the liability will be 
reduced for payments made and increased for interest. It 
is remeasured to reflect any reassessment or modification, 
or if there are changes in in-substance fixed payments. 
When the lease liability is remeasured, the corresponding 
adjustment is reflected in the right-of-use asset, or profit 
and loss if the right-of-use asset is already reduced 
to zero.
	
Lease liability and ROU assets have been separately 
presented in the Balance sheet and lease payments have 
been classified as financing cash flows.
e)	
Financial instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to 
a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or 
equity instrument of another entity. Financial instruments 
also include derivative contracts such as foreign currency 
forward contracts, interest rate swaps and currency 
options; and embedded derivatives in the host contract.
	
Financial assets
	
i)	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value 
plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at 
fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs 
that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial 
asset are expensed off in Statement of Profit and 
Loss. However, Company’s trade receivables that 
do not contain a significant financial component 
are measured at transaction price under Ind-AS 
115 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”. 
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require 
delivery of assets within a time frame established by 
regulation or convention in the marketplace (regular 
way trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the 
date that the Company commits to purchase or sell 
the asset.
	
ii)	
Classification
	
	
The Company classifies its financial assets in the 
following measurement categories:
•	 those measured at amortised cost, and
•	 those to be measured at fair value either through 
other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’) or fair 
value through profit or loss (‘FVTPL’) on the 
basis of its business model for managing the 
financial assets and the contractual cash flow 
characteristics of the financial asset.
	
iii)	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
After initial recognition, financial assets are measured 
at Fair value through Other Comprehensive Income 
(‘FVOCI’) or through profit or loss (‘FVPL’) or 
amortised cost.
	
	
All financial assets except for those at FVTPL or at 
FVOCI are subject to review for impairment at least 
at each reporting date to identify whether there is any 
objective evidence that a financial asset or a group 
of financial assets is impaired.
•	 	 Equity instruments
	
	
	
All equity investments in scope of Ind-AS 109 
are measured at fair value. Equity instruments 
which are held for trading are classified 
as FVTPL.
	
	
	
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost, 
less accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
Where an indication of impairment exists the 
carrying amount of the investment is assessed 
and written down immediately to its recoverable 
amount. On disposal of investments in 
subsidiaries, the- difference between net 
disposal proceeds and the carrying amounts 
are recognised in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
•	 	 Debt instruments
	
	
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised 
cost if both the following conditions are met:
	
−The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for 
collecting contractual cash flows, and
	
−Contractual terms of the asset give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI’) on 
the principal amount outstanding.
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments 
depends on the Company’s business model for 
managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics 
of the asset. There are three measurement 
categories into which the Company classifies its 
debt instruments:
•	 	 Amortised cost
	
	
	
Assets that are held for collection of contractual 
cash flows, where those cash flows represent 
solely payments of principal and interest, are 
measured at amortised cost.
	
	
	
These are measured by applying the effective 
interest rate (EIR) method. The EIR method 
allocates interest income over the relevant 
period by applying the EIR (that is the interest 
rate that exactly discounts expected future cash 
flows to the gross carrying amount of the asset).
	
	
	
A gain or loss on a debt investment (unhedged) 
that is subsequently measured at amortised cost 
is recognised in the Statement of profit and loss 
when the asset is derecognised or impaired. 
Interest income from these financial assets is 
included in finance income using the EIR method.
•	 	 Fair value through other comprehensive 
income (‘FVOCI’)
	
	
	
Financial assets that are held within a 
business model whose objective is achieved 
by both, selling financial assets and collecting 
contractual cash flows that are solely payments 
of principal and interest, are subsequently 
measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income. Fair value movements 
are recognised in the other comprehensive 
income (OCI).
	
	
	
Interest income is measured using the EIR 
method and impairment losses, if any are 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
On derecognition, cumulative gain or loss 
previously recognised in OCI is reclassified 
from the equity to ‘other income’ in the 
statement of profit and loss.
•	 	 Fair value through profit or loss (‘FVTPL’)
	
	
	
A financial asset not classified as either 
amortised cost or FVOCI, is classified as 
FVTPL. Such financial assets are measured at 
fair value with all changes in fair value, including 
interest income and dividend income if any, 
recognised in ‘other income’ in the statement 
of profit and loss.
	
iv)	
De-recognition
	
	
A financial asset (or where applicable, a part of a 
financial asset or part of similar assets) is primarily 
derecognised (i.e., removed from the Company’s 
balance sheet) when:
•	 The rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
have expired, or
•	 The Company has transferred its rights to receive 
cash flows from the asset or has assumed an 
obligation to pay the received cash flows in full 
without material delay to a third party under a 
‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the 
Company has transferred substantially all the 
risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company 
has neither transferred nor retained substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset.
	
	
When the Company has transferred its rights to 
receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into 
a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if and to 
what extent it has retained the risks and rewards 
of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor 
retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the 
Company continues to Recognise the transferred 
asset to the extent of the Company’s continuing 
involvement. In that case, the Company also 
recognises an associated liability. The transferred 
assets and the associated liability are measured on 
a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that 
the Company has retained.
320
321
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a 
guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at 
the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset 
and the maximum amount of consideration that the 
Company could be required to repay.
	
	
On derecognition of financial asset in its entirety, the 
difference between the carrying amount measured 
at the date of derecognition and the consideration 
received is recognised in profit or loss.
	
	
If the Company enters into transactions whereby 
it transfers assets recognised on its balance 
sheet but retains either all or substantially all of 
the risks and rewards of the transferred assets, 
the transferred assets are not derecognised, 
and the proceeds received are recognised as a 
collateralised borrowing.
	
v)	
Impairment of financial assets
	
	
The Company assesses on a forward-looking 
basis the expected credit losses associated with its 
assets carried at amortised cost. The impairment 
methodology applied depends on whether there has 
been a Material increase in credit risk.
	
	
The Company applies expected credit loss (‘ECL’) 
model for recognition and measurement of 
impairment loss on the following financial assets 
and credit risk exposure based on change in credit 
quality since initial recognition:
•	 Financial assets that are debt instruments, and 
are measured at amortised cost
•	 Trade receivables using the simplified approach 
within Ind-AS 109, using a provision matrix in 
the determination of the lifetime expected credit 
losses. During this process the probability of non-
payment of the trade receivables is assessed. 
This probability is then multiplied by the amount 
of the expected loss arising from default to 
determine the lifetime expected credit loss for 
the trade receivables. This does not require the 
Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, 
it recognises impairment loss allowance based on 
lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its 
initial recognition.
	
	
In case the Company identifies any trade receivables 
as doubtful/bad, then it supersedes the above modus 
operandi, and the doubtful/bad receivables are 
provided to the extent is doubtful/bad.
	
	
ECL allowance recognised (or reversed) during 
the period is recognised as expense (or income) 
in the statement of profit and loss under the head 
‘Other expenses’.
	
vi)	
Write-off
	
	
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is 
written off when the Company has no reasonable 
expectations of recovering the financial asset in its 
entirety or a portion thereof. A write-off constitutes a 
de-recognition event.
	
	
Financial liabilities
	
	
The Company’s financial liabilities comprise 
of borrowings including bank overdrafts and 
derivative financial instruments, trade payable and 
other liabilities.
	
	
i)	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
	
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair 
value. In the case of loans and borrowings and 
payables, financial liability is recognised net of 
directly attributable transaction costs.
	
	
ii)	
Classification
	
	
	
The Company classifies all financial liabilities 
as subsequently measured at amortised 
cost, except for financial liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss. Such liabilities, 
including derivatives that are liabilities, shall 
be subsequently measured at fair value.
	
	
iii)	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
	
Financial liabilities are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the EIR method. The 
EIR is a method of calculating the amortised 
cost of a financial liability and of allocating 
interest expense over the relevant period at an 
EIR. The EIR is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash payments through the 
expected life of the financial liability, or, where 
appropriate, a shorter period.
	
	
	
Financial liabilities carried at fair value through 
profit or loss are measured at fair value with 
all changes in fair value recognised in the 
Statement of profit and loss.
	
	
iv)	
De-recognition
	
	
	
Financial liability is derecognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the 
terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modified, such an exchange or modification 
is treated as the derecognition of the original 
liability and the recognition of a new liability. The 
difference in the respective carrying amounts is 
recognised in the Statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Other financial liabilities
	
	
Other financial liabilities are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method.
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
	
Financial assets and liabilities are offset, and the net 
amount is reported in the balance sheet where there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised 
amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net 
basis or realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must 
not be contingent on future events and must be 
enforceable in the normal course of business and in 
the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the 
Company or the counterparty.
	
	
Derivative financial instruments
	
	
The Company uses derivative financial instruments, 
such as foreign currency forward contracts and 
foreign currency option contracts to manage its 
exposure to foreign exchange risks. For these 
contracts, hedge accounting is not followed, and 
such designated derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value on the date on 
which a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently re-measured at fair value through 
profit or loss. Derivatives are carried as financial 
assets when the fair value is positive and as financial 
liabilities when the fair value is negative.
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as 
financial liability at the time of issuance of guarantee. 
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that 
requires the issuer to make specified payments to 
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a 
specified debtor fails to make payments when due 
in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the 
Company are initially measured at their fair values 
and, if not designated as at FVTPL, are subsequently 
measured at the higher of:
•	 The amount of loss allowance determined in 
accordance with impairment requirements of 
Ind-AS 109; and
•	 The amount initially recognised less, when 
appropriate, the cumulative amount of 
income recognised.
f)	
Fair Value Measurement:
	
The Company measures financial instruments such as 
derivatives at fair value at each reporting date.
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. 
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption 
that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability 
takes place either:
•	 In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
•	 In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability accessible 
to the Company.
	
The principal or the most advantageous market must be 
accessible by the Company.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using 
the assumptions that market participants would use 
when pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions 
about risk, assuming that market participants act in their 
economic best interest. A fair value measurement of a non-
financial asset takes into account a market participant’s 
ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its highest and 
best use.
	
The Company uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient 
data are available to measure fair value, maximizing the 
use of relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use 
of unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured 
or disclosed in the standalone financial statements are 
322
323
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
categorized within the fair value hierarchy, described as 
follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant 
to the fair value measurement as a whole:
	
Level 1: Financial instruments measured using quoted 
prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets 
or liabilities that the Company can access at measurement 
date are included in Level 1;
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not 
traded in an active market is determined using valuation 
techniques which maximize the use of observable market 
data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific 
estimates. If all significant inputs require to fair value an 
instrument are observable, the instrument is included in 
Level 2; and
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based 
on observable market data, the instrument is included in 
level 3.
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the 
standalone financial statements regularly, the Company 
determines whether transfers have occurred between 
levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorization 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each 
reporting period.
i)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The Company assesses at each reporting date whether 
there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
	
An asset is impaired when the carrying amount of the 
asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount is higher of the fair value of asset less costs of 
disposal and value in use, which means the present value 
of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing 
use of the asset and its eventual disposal discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the asset.
	
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are 
grouped at their lowest levels for which there are separately 
identifiable cash inflows which are largely independent of 
the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets 
(cash generating units).
	
Losses are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
and reflected in an allowance account. When the Company 
considers that there are no realistic prospects of recovery 
of the asset, the relevant amounts are written off.
	
An impairment loss for an asset is reversed if, and only 
if, the reversal can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment loss was recognised or 
relates to a change in the estimate of the recoverable 
amount in the previous periods.
	
The carrying amount of an asset is increased to its 
revised recoverable amount, provided that this amount 
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined (net of any accumulated amortisation or 
depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised for 
the asset in prior years.
j)	
Inventories
	
Inventories are initially recognised at cost, and 
subsequently at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost comprises all costs of purchase, costs of conversion 
and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories 
to their present location and condition. Weighted 
average cost is used to determine the cost of ordinarily 
interchangeable items.
	
Raw materials, packaging materials and stores and 
spare parts:
	
Cost includes purchase price, (excluding those 
subsequently recoverable by the enterprise from the 
concerned revenue authorities), freight inwards and other 
expenditure incurred in bringing such inventories to their 
present location and condition. In determining the cost, 
the weighted average cost method is used.
	
The aforesaid items are valued at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. However, these inventories are valued at 
net realisable value if the finished products in which they 
are to be incorporated are expected to be sold at a loss.
	
Work in progress, manufactured finished goods and 
traded goods:
	
The cost of work in progress and manufactured finished 
goods is determined on a weighted average basis and 
comprises direct material, cost of conversion and other 
costs incurred in bringing these inventories to their 
present location and condition. The cost of traded goods 
is determined on a weighted average basis.
	
The aforesaid items are valued at the lower of cost and 
net realisable value. Provision for obsolescence on 
inventories is considered on the basis of management’s 
estimate based on demand and market of the inventories.
	
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less the estimated cost of 
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make 
the sale.
	
The comparison of cost and net realisable value is made 
on an item-by-item basis.
k)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash 
at banks, call deposits and other short-term, highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or 
less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash 
and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 
value. Cash and cash equivalents consist of balances with 
banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and usage.
	
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and 
cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash in banks 
and short-term deposits net of bank overdraft.
l)	
Business Combination
	
The Company applies the acquisition method in 
accounting for business combinations. The consideration 
transferred by the Company to obtain control of a 
business is calculated as the sum of the fair values of 
assets transferred, liabilities incurred, and the equity 
interests issued by the Company as at the acquisition date 
i.e., date on which it obtains control of the acquiree which 
includes the fair value of any asset or liability arising from 
a contingent consideration arrangement.
	
Directly attributable transaction costs are included in 
the initial measurement of investments in subsidiaries 
accounted for at cost. Identifiable assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed in a business combination are 
measured initially at their fair values on the acquisition 
date. Intangible Assets acquired in a Business 
Combination and recognised separately from Goodwill 
are initially recognised at their fair value at the acquisition 
date (which is regarded as their cost).
	
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible Assets 
acquired in a Business Combination are reported at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets 
that are acquired separately.
	
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the 
consideration transferred and the amount recognised for 
non-controlling interests, and any previous interest held, 
over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed. Such goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
m)	 Equity Share Capital
	
Financial instruments issued by the Company are 
classified as equity only to the extent that they do not 
meet the definition of a financial liability or financial asset.
	
The Company’s ordinary shares are classified as 
equity instruments.
n)	
Borrowings and loans
	
Borrowings and loans are initially recognised at fair 
value, net of transaction costs incurred. It is subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the EIR method.
	
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any 
discount or premium on acquisition and fees or transaction 
costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.
	
Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction 
costs) and the redemption amount is recognised in the 
Statement of profit and loss over the period of borrowing 
using the EIR.
o)	
Employee benefit plans
i)	
Short-term employee benefits:
	
A Short-term employee benefits including salaries, wages, 
short term compensated absences (such as a paid 
annual leave) where the absences are expected to occur 
within twelve months after the end of the period in which 
the employees render the related service, performance 
incentives, bonuses payable and ex-gratia etc. are 
payable within twelve months after the end of the period 
in which the employees render the related services, and 
non-monetary benefits for current employees are estimated 
and measured on an undiscounted basis.
ii)	
Post-employment benefits:
•	 	 Defined contribution plans:
	
	
A defined contribution plan is a plan under which 
the Company pays fixed contributions in respect 
of the employees into a separate fund. The 
Company has no legal or constructive obligation 
to pay further contributions after its payment of 
the fixed contribution. The contributions made 
by the Company towards defined contribution 
plans, namely, State governed provident fund, 
superannuation fund, employee state insurance 
324
325
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
scheme, employee pension scheme and labour 
welfare fund, are charged to the profit or loss in the 
period to which the contributions relate.
•	 	 Defined benefit plans:
	
	
The Company has an obligation towards gratuity and 
Post Retirement Medical Benefits (PRMB) which are 
being considered as defined benefit plans covering 
eligible employees. Under the defined benefit 
plans, the amount that an employee will receive on 
retirement is defined by reference to the employee’s 
length of service, final salary, and other defined 
parameters. The legal obligation for any benefits 
remains with the Company, even if plan assets for 
funding the defined benefit plan have been set aside.
	
	
The Company’s obligation towards defined benefit 
plans is determined using the Projected Unit Credit 
Method, with actuarial valuations being carried 
out at each reporting date, which recognises each 
period of service as giving rise to additional unit of 
employee benefit entitlement and measures each 
unit separately to build up the final obligation.
	
	
The obligation is measured at the present value of 
the estimated future cash flows. The discounting 
rate used for determining the present value of the 
obligation under defined benefit plans, is based 
on the market yields on government securities 
as at the reporting date, having maturity periods 
approximately to the terms of related obligations.
	
	
Changes in the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation resulting from Investment plan 
amendments are recognised immediately in the 
Statement of profit or loss as past service cost.
	
	
The liability recognised in the statement of financial 
position for defined benefit plans is the present 
value of the Defined Benefit Obligation (DBO) at 
the reporting date less the fair value of plan assets. 
Management estimates the DBO annually with the 
assistance of independent actuaries.
	
	
Actuarial gains/losses resulting from re-
measurements of the liability/asset are included in 
Other Comprehensive Income.
	
	
In the case of funded plans, the fair value of the plan 
asset is reduced from the gross obligations under 
the defined benefit plans to Recognise the obligation 
on a net basis.
iii)	
Other long-term employee benefits:
	
Liability in respect of compensated absences becoming 
due or expected to be availed more than one-year after 
the reporting date is estimated on the basis of actuarial 
valuation performed by an independent actuary using the 
projected unit credit method.
	
Actuarial gains and losses arising from past experience 
and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged to 
statement of profit and loss in the period in which such 
gains or losses are determined.
iv)	
Termination benefits:
	
Termination benefits are recognised as an expense in the 
period in which they are incurred.
v)	
Share-based Payments:
	
Employees of the Company receive remuneration in the 
form of Share-based Payments in consideration of the 
services rendered.
	
Under the equity settled share-based payment, the fair 
value on the grant date of the award given to employees 
is recognised as ‘employee benefit expense’ with a 
corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period.
	
The fair value of the options at the grant date is calculated 
by an independent valuer basis ‘Black Scholes model’. 
At the end of each reporting period, apart from the 
non-market vesting condition, the expense is reviewed 
and adjusted to reflect changes to the level of options 
expected to vest. When the options are exercised, the 
Company issues fresh equity shares.
p)	
Provisions, contingent liabilities, contingent 
assets and commitments
	
A provision is recognised when the Company has a 
present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of 
past events and it is probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation, in respect of which 
a reliable estimate of the amount can be made, timing or 
amount of the outflow may still be uncertain. Provisions 
are recognised at the best estimate of the expenditure 
required to settle the present obligation at the reporting 
date. If the effect of time value of money is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected 
future cash flows using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, 
when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to 
the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
	
A contingent liability is disclosed when there is a possible 
but not probable obligation arising from past events, 
or a present obligation that may, but probably will not, 
require an outflow of resources, or a present obligation 
whose amount cannot be estimated reliably. Contingent 
liabilities do not warrant provisions but are disclosed. In 
those cases, where the outflow of economic resources as 
a result of present obligations is considered improbable or 
remote, no liability is recognised, or disclosure is made.
	
Contingent assets are disclosed in the standalone 
financial statements when an inflow of economic benefit 
is probable. However, when the realisation of income is 
virtually certain, then the related asset is not a contingent 
asset, and its recognition is appropriate.
	
Any reimbursement that the Company can be virtually 
certain to collect from a third party concerning 
the obligation is recognised as a separate asset. 
However, this asset may not exceed the amount 
of the related provision.
	
Commitments are future liabilities for contractual 
expenditure, classified and disclosed as estimated 
amount of contracts remaining to be extracted on capital 
account and not provided for.
q)	
Income taxes
	
Tax expense recognised in profit or loss comprises the 
sum of deferred tax and current tax. It is recognised in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss, except when it relates 
to an item that is recognised in OCI or directly in equity, in 
which case, the tax is also recognised in OCI or directly in 
equity. (Refer Note 17)
i)	
Current tax
	
Current tax is determined as the amount of tax payable 
in respect of taxable income for the year. The Company’s 
current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the 
reporting period, and any adjustments to tax payable in 
respect of previous years.
	
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if:
•	 there is a legally enforceable right to set off current 
tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority; and
•	 there is intention either to settle on a net basis, or to 
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
ii)	
Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of 
taxable income. However, deferred tax liabilities are not 
recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of 
goodwill. Deferred income tax is also not accounted for if 
it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction other than a business combination that at the 
time of the transaction affects neither accounting profit 
nor taxable profit (tax loss).
	
Deferred tax on temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiary is not provided if reversal of 
these temporary differences can be controlled by the 
Company and it is probable that reversal will not occur in 
the foreseeable future.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated, without 
discounting, at tax rates that are expected to apply to 
their respective period of realisation, provided those rates 
are enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the 
reporting period.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible 
temporary differences (if any) to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which they can be used. The existence of unused 
tax losses is strong evidence that future taxable profit may 
not be available. Therefore, in case of history of recent 
losses, the Company recognises a deferred tax asset 
only to the extent that it has sufficient taxable temporary 
difference or there is convincing other evidence that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available against which 
such deferred tax asset can be realised.
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are reviewed 
at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that 
it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will 
be realised.
	
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at 
each reporting date and recognised to the extent that it 
has become probable that future taxable profits will be 
available against which they can be used.
	
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected 
to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, 
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date and are expected to apply when the related 
deferred income tax asset is realised, or the deferred 
income tax liability is settled.
326
327
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised 
as a component of tax income or expense in profit or loss, 
except where they relate to items that are recognised in 
other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which 
case the related deferred tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or equity, respectively.
	
Current tax assets and current tax liabilities are offset 
when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the 
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle 
the asset and the liability on a net basis. Deferred tax 
assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset when there 
is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities; and the deferred tax assets 
and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied 
by the same taxation authority.
r)	
Revenue from contract with customers
	
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the 
revenue can be reliably measured.
	
The Company uses the principles laid down by the Ind-
AS 115 to determine that how much and when revenue 
is recognised, what is the nature, amount, timing and 
uncertainty of revenues etc. In accordance with the same, 
revenue is recognised through a five-step approach:
•	 Identify the contract(s) with customer;
•	 Identify separate performance obligations in 
the contract;
•	 Determine the transaction price;
•	 Allocate the transaction price to the performance 
obligations; and
•	 Recognise revenue when a performance obligation 
is satisfied.
	
The Company uses the principles laid down by Ind-AS as 
above to Recognise revenue from contracts with customers 
when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring 
promised goods or services to a customer. Revenue is 
recognised to the extent of transaction price allocated 
to the performance obligation satisfied. Performance 
obligation is satisfied over time when the transfer of control 
of assets (goods or services) to a customer is done over 
time and in other cases, performance obligations are 
satisfied at a point in time. For performance obligation 
satisfied over time, the revenue recognition is done by 
measuring the progress towards complete satisfaction of 
performance obligation and the progress is measured in 
terms of a proportion of actual cost incurred to date, to 
the total estimated cost attributable to the performance 
obligation. Revenue excludes goods and services tax 
which is recorded separately.
	
The Company uses the principles laid down by Ind-AS as 
above to recognize revenue from contracts with customers 
when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring 
promised goods or services to a customer. Revenue is 
recognized to the extent of transaction price allocated 
to the performance obligation satisfied. Performance 
obligation is satisfied over time when the transfer of control 
of assets (goods or services) to a customer is done over 
time and in other cases, performance obligations are 
satisfied at a point in time. For performance obligation 
satisfied over time, the revenue recognition is done by 
measuring the progress towards complete satisfaction of 
performance obligation and the progress is measured in 
terms of a proportion of actual cost incurred to date, to 
the total estimated cost attributable to the performance 
obligation. Revenue excludes goods and services tax 
which is recorded separately.
	
Revenues are measured at the fair value of the 
consideration received or receivable, net of discounts and 
other indirect taxes.	
	
In Cost Plus Contracts - Revenue is recognized by 
including eligible contractual items of expenditures plus 
proportionate margin as per contract.
	
Estimates of revenues, costs or extent of progress toward 
completion are revised if circumstances change. Any 
resulting increases or decreases in estimated revenues 
or costs are reflected in profit or loss in the period in which 
the circumstances that give rise to the revision become 
known by management.
	
i)	
Sale of Goods
	
	
The Company recognises revenue from the sale of 
goods measured upon satisfaction of performance 
obligation which is at a point in time when control of 
the goods is transferred to the customer, generally on 
delivery of the goods. Revenue is measured based 
on the transaction price, which is the consideration, 
adjusted for volume discounts, rebates, scheme 
allowances, price concessions, incentives, returns, if 
any, as specified in the contracts with the customers 
and any taxes or duties collected on behalf of the 
Government such as Goods and Services Tax. 
Due to the short nature of the credit period given 
to customers, there is no financing component in 
the contract.
	
	
Revenue is only recognised to the extent that it is 
highly probable a significant reversal will not occur. 
Appropriate provisions are recorded for returns and 
discounts/incentives which are estimated on the 
basis of historical experience, market assessment 
and various discount programmes launched by 
the Company.
	
ii)	
Rendering of services
	
	
The Company primarily earns revenue from 
installation, operations and maintenance services 
which is recognised over the period when services 
are rendered.
	
	
Revenue from services is recognised as and when 
services are rendered and there are no unfulfilled 
obligations. Revenue from services is measured at 
fair value of the consideration received or receivable, 
after deduction of any sort of discounts and any 
taxes or duties collected on behalf of the government 
such as goods and services tax.
s)	
Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that 
the Company incurred in connection with the borrowing 
of funds. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to 
the acquisition and/or construction of a qualifying asset, 
till the time such qualifying asset becomes ready for its 
intended use, are capitalised. A qualifying asset is one 
that necessarily takes a substantial period to get ready 
for its intended use.
	
All other borrowing costs are charged to the Statement of 
Profit and Loss on an accrual basis as per the EIR method.
t)	
Earnings per share (EPS)
	
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net 
profit for the period attributable to the equity shareholders 
of the Company (after deducting attributable taxes) by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the period. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year and for all the years 
presented, is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares, 
other than the conversion of potential equity shares, that 
have changed the number of equity shares outstanding, 
without a corresponding change in resources.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, 
the net profit or loss for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders and the weighted average number of shares 
outstanding during the year is adjusted for the effects of 
all dilutive potential equity shares.
u)	
Exceptional items
	
	
On certain occasions, the size, type or incidence of an 
item of income or expense, pertaining to the ordinary 
activities of the Company is such that its disclosure 
improves the understanding of the performance of 
the Company. Such income or expense is classified 
as an exceptional item and accordingly, disclosed in 
the notes to the standalone financial statements.
v)	
Segment accounting
	
The segment reporting of the Company has been prepared 
in accordance with Ind-AS-108, “Operating Segment” 
(specified under the section 133 of the Companies Act 
2013 (the Act) read with Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rule 2015 (as amended from time to time) and 
other relevant provision of the Act).
	
The Operating Segment is the level at which discrete 
financial information is available and for which the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) monitors the 
operating results of its business segments separately 
for the purpose of making decisions about resource 
allocation and performance assessment. Segment 
performance is evaluated based on profit or loss and is 
measured consistently with profit or loss in the standalone 
financial statements.
	
Revenue and expenses have been identified to a segment 
on the basis of relationship to operating activities of the 
segment. Revenue, expenses and exceptional items 
which relate to enterprise as a whole and are not allocable 
to a segment on reasonable basis have been disclosed as 
“unallocable”.
	
Segment assets and segment liabilities represent assets 
and liabilities in respective segments. Investments, tax 
related assets, borrowings and other assets and liabilities 
that cannot be allocated to a segment on reasonable 
basis have been disclosed as “unallocable”.
	
Segment revenue resulting from transactions with other 
business segments is accounted on the basis of transfer 
price agreed between the segments. Such transfer prices 
are either determined to yield a desired margin or agreed 
on a negotiated basis.
328
329
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
w)	 Statement of cash flows
	
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, 
whereby profit or loss before tax is adjusted for the effects 
of transactions of non-cash nature and any deferrals or 
accruals of past or future cash receipts or payments. 
The cash flows from operating, investing and financing 
activities of the Company are segregated based on the 
available information.
	
Cash and cash equivalents (including bank balances) 
shown in the Statement of cash flows exclude items 
which are not available for general use as at the date of 
balance sheet.
x)	
Recent accounting pronouncements
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has notified Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023 
dated 31st March 2023 to amend the following Ind-AS which 
are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1st 
April 2023. The Company has applied these amendments 
for the first time in the standalone financial statements.
	
i)	
Amendments to Ind-AS 1 - disclosure of 
accounting policies
	
	
The amendments aim to help entities provide 
accounting policy disclosures that are more 
useful by replacing the requirement for entities to 
disclose their ‘significant’ accounting policies with 
a requirement to disclose their ‘material’ accounting 
policies and adding guidance on how entities apply 
the concept of materiality in making decisions about 
accounting policy disclosures.
	
	
The amendments have had an impact on the 
disclosures of accounting policies, but not on the 
measurement, recognition or presentation of any 
items in the standalone financial statements.
	
ii)	
Amendments to Ind-AS 8 - definition of 
accounting estimates
	
	
The amendments clarify the distinction between 
changes in accounting estimates and changes 
in accounting policies and the correction of 
errors. It has also been clarified how entities use 
measurement techniques and inputs to develop 
accounting estimates.
	
	
The amendments had no impact on these standalone 
financial statements.
	
iii)	
Amendments to Ind-AS 12 - deferred tax 
related to assets and liabilities arising from  
a single transaction
	
	
The amendments narrow the scope of the initial 
recognition exception under Ind-AS 12, so that it no 
longer applies to transactions that give rise to equal 
taxable and deductible temporary differences such 
as leases.
	
	
The Company has previously recognised deferred 
tax on leases on a net basis. As a result of these 
amendments, the Company has Recognised a 
separate deferred tax asset in relation to its lease 
liabilities and a deferred tax liability in relation to its 
right-of-use assets. Since these balances qualify for 
offset as per the requirements of paragraph 74 of 
Ind-AS 12, there is no impact on the balance sheet. 
There was also no impact on the opening retained 
earnings as at 1st April 2022.
	
iv)	
New standards and amendments issued but 
not effective
	
	
There are no such standards which are notified but 
not yet effective.
	
v)	
The other amendments to Ind-AS notified by these 
rules are primarily in the nature of clarifications.
2	
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets
I Crore
ASSETS
Gross block (Cost)
Depreciation/ Amortisation
Net Block
As at  
1st April, 
2023
Additions
Deductions
As at 
March  
31, 2024
As at  
1st April, 
2023
For the 
year*
Deductions
As at 
March  
31, 2024
As at 
March  
31, 2024
As at 
March  
31, 2023
A.	 Property, plant and equipment
	
Freehold land (Refer Note ii)
99.52
-
-
99.52
-
-
-
-
99.52
99.52
	
Leasehold land
2.69
-
-
2.69
0.82
0.03
-
0.85
1.84
1.87
	
Buildings (Refer Note ii)
52.08
0.10
-
52.18
12.25
2.54
-
14.79
37.39
39.83
	
Leasehold Improvements
5.95
-
0.15
5.80
1.89
1.35
0.01
3.23
2.57
4.06
	
Plant and equipment
118.97
16.20
6.65
128.52
60.80
18.38
4.65
74.53
53.99
58.17
	
Furniture and fixtures
6.75
0.02
-
6.77
3.80
0.74
-
4.54
2.23
2.95
	
Office equipment
24.24
3.47
1.27
26.44
14.53
5.39
1.12
18.80
7.64
9.71
	
Vehicles
10.55
9.13
2.72
16.96
3.17
2.61
1.56
4.22
12.74
7.38
	
Sub-total A
320.75
28.92
10.79
338.88
97.26
31.04
7.34
120.96
217.92
223.49
B.	 Right-of-Use assets  
(Refer Note 30)
121.36
33.16
17.26
137.26
52.51
31.55
17.26
66.80
70.46
68.85
	
Sub-total B
121.36
33.16
17.26
137.26
52.51
31.55
17.26
66.80
70.46
68.85
C.	 Goodwill (Refer Note 34)
779.41
-
-
779.41
-
-
-
-
779.41
779.41
	
Sub-total C
779.41
-
-
779.41
-
-
-
-
779.41
779.41
D.	 Other intangible assets
	
Computer software
12.32
0.99
-
13.31
9.24
1.45
-
10.69
2.62
3.08
	
Technical knowhow
1.90
-
-
1.90
1.89
-
-
1.89
0.01
0.01
	
Trademark and Patents
32.91
-
-
32.91
-
-
-
-
32.91
32.91
	
Product Development
16.45
8.04
-
24.49
2.19
5.37
-
7.56
16.93
14.26
	
Sub-total D
 63.58 
 9.03 
 - 
 72.61 
 13.32 
 6.82 
 - 
 20.14 
 52.47 
 50.26 
Total A + B + C + D
 1,285.10 
 71.11 
 28.05  1,328.16 
 163.09 
 69.41 
 24.60 
 207.90  1,120.26  1,122.01 
*During the year, the Company has capitalised depreciation of I 4.18 Crore under Product Development & Intangible assets under development 
as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
2	
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets (Contd.)
I Crore
ASSETS
Gross block (Cost)
Depreciation /Amortisation
Net block
As at 
1st April, 
2022
Additions
Deductions
As at
March  
31, 2023
As at 
1st April, 
2022
For the 
year*
Deductions
As at 
March  
31, 2023
As at 
March  
31, 2023
As at 
March  
31, 2022
A.	 Property, plant and equipment
	
Freehold land (Refer Note ii)
99.52
-
-
99.52
-
-
-
-
99.52
99.52
	
Leasehold land
2.69
-
-
2.69
0.81
0.01
-
0.82
1.87
1.88
	
Buildings (Refer Note ii)
50.04
2.56
0.52
52.08
9.83
2.53
0.11
12.25
39.83
40.21
	
Leasehold Improvements
5.79
0.16
-
5.95
0.55
1.34
-
1.89
4.06
5.24
	
Plant and equipment
97.94
24.95
3.92
118.97
44.77
18.94
2.91
60.80
58.17
53.17
	
Furniture and fixtures
6.22
0.57
0.04
6.75
3.06
0.75
0.01
3.80
2.95
3.16
	
Office equipment
18.62
6.40
0.78
24.24
11.15
4.51
1.13
14.53
9.71
7.47
	
Vehicles
6.94
4.92
1.31
10.55
2.39
1.67
0.89
3.17
7.38
4.55
	
Sub-total A
287.76
39.56
6.57
320.75
72.56
29.75
5.05
97.26
223.49
215.20
330
331
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
I Crore
ASSETS
Gross block (Cost)
Depreciation /Amortisation
Net block
As at 
1st April, 
2022
Additions
Deductions
As at
March  
31, 2023
As at 
1st April, 
2022
For the 
year*
Deductions
As at 
March  
31, 2023
As at 
March  
31, 2023
As at 
March  
31, 2022
B.	 Right-of-Use assets  
(Refer Note 30)
101.66
30.99
11.29
121.36
32.31
27.02
6.82
52.51
68.85
69.35
	
Sub-total B
101.66
30.99
11.29
121.36
32.31
27.02
6.82
52.51
68.85
69.35
C.	 Goodwill (Refer Note 34)
779.41
-
-
779.41
-
-
-
-
779.41
779.41
	
Sub-total C
779.41
-
-
779.41
-
-
-
-
779.41
779.41
D.	 Other intangibles assets
	
Computer software
10.57
1.75
-
12.32
8.50
0.74
-
9.24
3.08
2.07
	
Technical knowhow
1.90
-
-
1.90
1.89
-
-
1.89
0.01
0.01
	
Trademark and Patents
32.91
-
-
32.91
-
-
-
-
32.91
32.91
	
Product Development
0.68
15.77
-
16.45
0.64
1.55
-
2.19
14.26
0.04
	
Sub-total D
46.06
17.52
-
63.58
11.03
2.29
-
13.32
50.26
35.03
Total A + B + C + D
1,214.89
88.07
17.86 1,285.10
115.90
59.06
11.87
163.09 1,122.01 1,098.99
*During the year, the Company has capitalised depreciation of I 4.83 Crore under Product Development & Intangible assets under development 
as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
E.	 Capital work-in-progress (‘CWIP’)
(i)	
CWIP movement
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
As at 1st April
2.64
7.50
Add: Additions during the year
5.10
15.68
Less: Capitalised during the year
1.84
20.54
As at 31st March
5.90
2.64
(ii)	 CWIP Ageing schedule
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than  
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
Projects in progress
5.12
0.78
-
-
5.90
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2023
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than  
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
Projects in progress
2.39
0.06
0.07
0.12
2.64
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
	
There are no projects which have exceeded their orignial timeline or budget (Previous year Nil)
F.	
Intangible assets under development (‘IAUD’)
(i)	
IAUD movement
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
As at 1st April
21.05
-
Add: Additions during the year
32.08
21.05
Less: Capitalised during the year
8.04
-
As at 31st March
45.09
21.05
(ii)	 IAUD Ageing schedule
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Amount in IAUD for a period of
Total
Less than  
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
Projects in progress
 26.74 
 18.35 
 -   
 -   
 45.09 
Projects temporarily suspended
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2023
Amount in IAUD for a period of
Total
Less than  
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
Projects in progress
 21.05 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 21.05 
Projects temporarily suspended
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
	
There are no projects which have exceeded their orignial timeline or budget (Previous year Nil)
	
Notes:
	
(i)	
Carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets given as collateral for borrowings is 
I 779.41 Crore; (Previous year I 779.41 Crore).
	
(ii)	
There are no such title deeds of immovable property which are not held in name of the Company.
	
(iii)	 There have been no proceedings initiated on or are pending against the Company for holding benami property under 
the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and Rules made thereunder.
	
(iv)	 The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) or intangible assets 
or both during the current or previous year.
	
(v)	
In the opinion of the management, there are no events or changes in circumstances that indicate the impairment of 
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible Assets in terms of Ind AS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’. Accordingly, no 
provision for impairment has been made.
332
333
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
3	
Investments
A	
Non-current investments
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Investments in equity instruments (fully paid-up)
In Subsidiary companies
At Cost
Quoted equity shares
	
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Ltd.*
1,914.01
1,914.01
	
{1,34,09,663 (31st March, 2023: 1,34,09,663) ordinary shares of I 10 each}
1,914.01
1,914.01
Unquoted equity shares
	
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited
6.70
6.70
	
{67,00,000 (31st March, 2023: 67,00,000) ordinary shares of I 10 each}
	
Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited
7.50
7.50
	
{75,00,000 (31st March, 2023: 75,00,000) ordinary shares of I 10 each}
14.20
14.20
1,928.21
1,928.21
Details of investments:
Aggregate book value of:
Quoted investments
1,914.01
1,914.01
Unquoted investments
14.20
14.20
1,928.21
1,928.21
Aggregate market value of:
Quoted investments
1,023.09
1,624.38
Unquoted investments
-
-
1,023.09
1,624.38
	
Notes:
	
1.	
The investments are is in compliance with Section 186(4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
2.	
The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
	
3.	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Company considered indicators of impairment such as decline in quoted 
value of Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited (“Butterfly”). 
	
	
The recoverable value of investments held in Butterfly, a subsidiary of the Company, is higher of the value in use (VIU) of 
the underlying businesses and the fair value less cost to sell. The VIU computation uses cash flow forecasts based on 
most recently approved financial budgets and strategic forecasts which cover a period of five years. Key assumptions 
for the value in use computations are those regarding the discount rates, market multiple, market demand, sales 
volume and sales prices, cost to produce, margins etc. The projections are based on both past performance and the 
expectations of future performance and assumptions therein. The Company estimates discount rates using post-tax 
rates that reflect the current market rate adjusted for specific company risk. The weighted average post-tax discount 
rates used for discounting the cash flows projections is 15.50% and average revenue growth considered is 14%, which 
is aligned to the average growth rate for the industry. 
	
	
The Company has conducted sensitivity analysis over key assumptions viz. revenue growth rates and discount rate 
used. While it is unlikely for assumptions to move adversely together, it would require over an 8% change in revenue 
growth or a 9% change in discount rate, for the recoverable amount of the investments to be equal to its carrying amount. 
These sensitivities are carried in isolation and also do not take account of potential mitigating actions.
	
*On 22nd February, 2022, a Share Purchase Agreement (‘SPA’) was entered amongst the Company, Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited (‘Butterfly’), its Promoters and certain members of the Promoter Company of Butterfly for the sale of 55% 
of the issued and paid-up equity share capital of Butterfly. Consequent to the acquisition of 55% of the issued and paid-up 
equity share capital of Butterfly, the Company has become the Promoter and Holding Company of Butterfly with effect from 
30th March, 2022.
	
In accordance with regulations 3(1) and 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares 
and Takeover) Regulations, 2011, after acquisition of 55% stake of Butterfly on 30th March, 2022, an open offer was made 
by the Company for acquisition of upto 26% of the issued and paid-up equity share capital of Butterfly from its public 
shareholders. The open offer was fully subscribed and therefore the Company’s holding was increased from 55% to 81% 
w.e.f. 4th June, 2022.
	
To comply with the minimum public shareholding (“MPS”) requirements mandated under Rule 19A of the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Rules, 1957, as amended, read with Regulation 38 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Company divested 6% of the issued and paid-up equity 
share capital of Butterfly on 20th September, 2022 & 21st September, 2022 through Offer for Sale (“OFS”) mechanism, which 
resulted into decrease in holding from 81% to 75%.
	
Information about subsidiaries
Name of the Company
Country of 
incorporation Principal activities
Proportion (%) of equity interest
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited
India
Lighting business
100%
100%
Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited
India
Lighting business
100%
100%
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
India
Kitchen appliances business
75%
75%
B	
Current investments
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Measured at Fair value through Profit and Loss
Investment in Bonds (Quoted)
220.18
265.20
Investment in Mutual funds (Unquoted)
407.96
265.57
628.14
530.77
Details of investments:
Aggregate book value of:
Quoted investments
220.18
265.20
Unquoted investments (accounted based on NAV)
407.96
265.57
628.14
530.77
Aggregate market value of:
Quoted investments
220.18
265.20
Unquoted investments
-
-
220.18
265.20
334
335
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Particulars
Face Value per 
Bond/ Unit
Number of 
Bonds/ Units as 
at 31st March, 
2024
Number of 
Bonds/ Units as 
at 31st March, 
2023
As at 31st 
March, 2024 
K Crore
As at 31st 
March, 2023
K Crore
Investment in Bonds (Quoted)
Bajaj Finance Limited
10,00,000
240
-
25.08
-
HDB Financial Services INE756I07EF0
10,00,000
100
-
11.31
-
HDB Financial Services
10,00,000
-
400
-
39.15
HDB Financial Services
10,00,000
-
300
-
29.36
HDFC Limited
10,00,000
-
250
-
24.78
HDFC Limited
10,00,000
-
400
-
40.27
Housing Development Finance Corporation 
Limited
10,00,000
250
-
24.90
-
ISIN INE062A08173 of Perpetual Bonds of  
State Bank of India
10,00,000
-
100
-
10.09
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited
10,00,000
-
250
-
24.57
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited INE916DA7RC4
10,00,000
250
-
25.80
-
Kotak Mahindra Prime Limited INE916DA7RD2
10,00,000
200
-
21.04
-
L&T Finance Limited
10,00,000
-
250
-
24.93
LIC ZCB
10,00,000
400
400
44.89
41.45
Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd 
INE774D07UL8
10,00,000
250
-
26.20
-
Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd 
INE774D07UW5
4,00,000
2,000
-
19.75
-
Series 02-2021 ISIN INE535H07BJ8 of Market 
Linked Debentures of Fullerton India Credit 
Company Limited
10,00,000
-
100
-
10.99
ZCB HDB Financial Services Apr 2024 
INE756I07DN6
10,00,000
180
180
21.21
19.61
Total (A)
220.18
265.20
Investment in Mutual funds (Unquoted)
Aditya Birla SL Overnight Fund - Direct - 
Growth
100
-
41,445
-
5.02
Aditya Birla SL Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
100
1,59,388
6,90,114
6.21
25.06
Aditya Birla SL Money Manager Fund -  
Direct - Growth
100
3,85,226
3,79,774
13.13
12.01
Axis Banking & PSU Debt Fund - Direct - 
Growth
1,000
-
53,976
-
12.35
Axis Overnight Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
-
84,361
-
10.00
Axis Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
30,200
20,004
8.11
5.00
Axis Money Market Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
3,15,365
-
41.38
-
Bajaj Finserv Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
1,66,482
-
17.54
-
Baroda BNP Paribas Liquid Fund -  
Direct - Growth
1,000
36,451
-
10.15
-
DSP Overnight Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
-
1,66,665
-
20.01
DSP Savings Fund - Direct - Growth
10
69,49,778
-
34.39
-
Franklin India Liquid Fund - Super IP -  
Direct - Growth
1,000
13,962
-
5.06
-
HDFC Money Market Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
72,387
20,317
38.37
10.00
HSBC Overnight Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
-
1,70,640
-
20.02
HSBC Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
34,063
-
8.20
-
Particulars
Face Value per 
Bond/ Unit
Number of 
Bonds/ Units as 
at 31st March, 
2024
Number of 
Bonds/ Units as 
at 31st March, 
2023
As at 31st 
March, 2024 
K Crore
As at 31st 
March, 2023
K Crore
ICICI Prudential Money Market -  
Direct - Growth
100
5,56,478
-
19.43
-
ICICI Pru Liquid Fund- Direct- Growth
100
3,10,705
1,98,288
11.10
6.61
IDFC Cash Fund- Growth-Direct Plan
1,000
-
14,732
-
4.01
Invesco India Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
-
3,240
-
1.00
Invesco India Money Market Fund -  
Direct - Growth
1,000
-
601
-
0.16
Invesco India Treasury Advantage Fund -  
Direct - Growth
1,000
-
74,414
-
24.80
Invesco India Low Duration Fund -  
Direct - Growth
1,000
28,995
-
10.38
-
Kotak Corporate Bond Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
42,015
98,825
14.85
32.38
Kotak Overnight Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
-
83,686
-
10.01
Kotak Money Market Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
1,01,549
-
41.87
-
L&T Banking & PSU Debt fund - Direct - 
Growth
10
-
-
-
-
Mirae Asset Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
51,508
-
13.14
-
Nippon India Liquid Fund- Direct- Growth
1,000
27,598
9,085
16.31
5.00
Nippon India Money Market - Direct - Growth
1,000
1,13,416
28,396
43.35
10.07
Sundaram Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
-
1,00,778
-
20.03
Tata Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
13,215
28,169
5.04
10.00
Tata Money Market - Direct - Growth
1,000
-
46,991
-
19.03
UTI Overnight Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
-
9,783
-
3.00
UTI Liquid Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
21,608
-
8.55
-
UTI Money Market Fund - Direct - Growth
1,000
1,45,922
-
41.40
-
Total (B)
407.96
265.57
Total (A+B)
628.14
530.77
	
(Refer Note 37 A for information about fair value measurement and Note 37 D (i) for credit risk of investments.)
4	
Other financial assets
A	
Other financial assets - Non-current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Security deposits (unsecured, considered good)
12.56
12.07
12.56
12.07
B	
Other financial assets - current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Security deposits (unsecured, considered good)
19.70
18.67
Fair value of derivative assets
0.16
0.23
Other receivables - from related parties (Refer Note 32)
-
2.73
19.86
21.63
336
337
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
5	
Other assets
A	
Other assets - Non-current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Capital advances (net) (Refer Note 27)
9.89
7.97
Expected recoverable from vendors against warranty
48.56
43.39
Amount paid under protest
22.28
22.28
80.73
73.64
B	
Other assets - Current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Advance to suppliers
23.62
27.03
Balances with Indirect tax authorities
4.43
4.43
Expected recoverable from vendors against warranty
45.93
27.03
Prepaid expenses
44.16
20.89
Others
43.89
44.35
162.03
123.73
6	
Inventories
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
(At lower of cost and net realisable value)
Raw materials
82.97
102.42
Add: Goods-in-transit
0.37
1.25
83.34
103.67
Work-in-progress
34.33
37.70
Finished goods
165.49
135.38
Add: Goods-in-transit
38.05
39.62
203.54
175.00
Stock-in-trade
309.52
232.39
Add: Goods-in-transit
62.01
63.72
371.53
296.11
Stores, spares and packing materials
5.26
6.27
698.00
618.75
	
Note:
	
Inventories are hypothecated with the bankers against working capital facilities (Refer Note 12)
7	
Trade receivables
A	
Trade receivables - Non current (valued at amortised cost)
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Unsecured
Considered good
12.65
15.49
12.65
15.49
B	
Trade receivables - Current (valued at amortised cost)
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Unsecured
Considered good
541.95
513.97
Haiving significant increase in credit risk
42.31
34.09
Credit impaired
52.79
26.64
637.04
574.70
Less: Allowance for credit losses
(56.92)
(44.90)
580.12
529.80
	
Trade Receivables Ageing (Non-current and Current)
As at 31st March, 2024
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2
Years
2-3
years
More 
than 3 
years
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables—considered good
400.60
112.40
40.59
-
-
-
553.59
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables—which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
41.08
-
-
41.08
(iii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables—credit impaired
-
0.10
-
-
30.20
20.14
50.45
(iv)	Disputed Trade receivables—considered good
0.45
0.26
0.30
-
-
-
1.01
(v)	 Disputed Trade receivables—which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
1.23
-
-
1.23
(vi)	Disputed Trade receivables—credit impaired
-
-
-
-
1.79
0.55
2.34
Allowance for credit losses
(56.92)
Total
401.05
112.76
40.89
42.31
31.99
20.69
592.77
As at 31st March, 2023
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2
Years
2-3
years
More 
than 3 
years
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables—considered good
436.22
63.34
29.57
-
-
-
529.13
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables—which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
33.39
-
-
33.39
(iii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables—credit impaired
-
-
-
-
18.89
7.62
26.51
(iv)	Disputed Trade receivables—considered good
0.02
0.30
0.01
-
-
-
0.33
338
339
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2
Years
2-3
years
More 
than 3 
years
(v)	 Disputed Trade receivables—which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
0.70
-
-
0.70
(vi)	Disputed Trade receivables—credit impaired
-
-
-
-
0.13
-
0.13
Allowance for credit losses
(44.90)
Total
436.24
63.64
29.58
34.09
19.02
7.62
545.29
	
Notes:
	
(a)	
The net carrying value of trade receivables is considered a reasonable approximation of fair value.
	
(b)	
Book debts are hypothecated with the bankers against Working capital demand loan (Refer Note 12).
	
(c)	
Refer Note 37 for information about the Company’s exposure to financial risks, and details of impairment losses for 
trade receivables and fair values.
	
(d)	
No trade receivables are due from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with any other 
person or firms or private companies in which any director is a partner, a director or a member. 
	
(e)	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 60 day terms.
8	
Cash and cash equivalents
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Balance with banks:
	
In current accounts
57.79
36.04
	
In deposit accounts with original maturity of 3 months or less
73.00
8.00
Cash on hand (including cash in transit)
-
0.02
130.79
44.06
9	
Bank balances (other than Cash and cash equivalents)
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March,  2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Deposits with original maturity more than 3 months but less than 12 months
 80.00 
-
Earmarked balances with banks
	
Unclaimed dividend account
 4.48 
 3.74 
 84.48 
 3.74 
10	 Equity share capital
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Number
Amount
K Crore
Number
Amount
K Crore
Authorised capital
Equity shares of I 2 each
65,50,00,000
131.00
65,50,00,000
131.00
Issued, subscribed and paid-up
Equity shares of I 2 each, fully paid-up
64,31,06,979
128.62
63,61,09,719
127.22
64,31,06,979
128.62
63,61,09,719
127.22
a.	 Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Number
Amount
K Crore
Number
Amount
K Crore
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
63,61,09,719
127.22
63,34,05,959
126.68
Shares issued on account of exercising Employee 
stock option schemes
69,97,260
1.40
27,03,760
0.54
Outstanding at the end of the year
64,31,06,979
128.62
63,61,09,719
127.22
b.	 Rights, preferences and restrictions on shares
	
The Company has one class of share capital, i.e., equity shares having face value of I 2 per share. Each holder of equity 
share is entitled to one vote per share. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining 
assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
c.	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Number
% holding 
Number
% holding 
Equity shares of I 2 each fully paid
HDFC Trustee Company Ltd- A/C HDFC MID - CAP 
Opportunities Fund
6,07,17,312
9.44%
3,55,50,615
5.59%
Mirae Asset Large Cap Fund
6,37,22,029
9.91%
3,19,62,928
5.02%
d.	 Shares reserved for issuance under Stock Option Plans of the Company at face value of K2  
(Also Refer Note 35)
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Number
Amount
K Crore
Number
Amount
K Crore
Crompton Stock Option Plan 2016 (ESOP 2016)
6,06,233
0.12
9,92,576
0.20
Crompton Performance Share Plan 1 2016 (PSP 1)
-
-
44,10,033
0.88
Crompton Performance Share Plan 2 2016 (PSP 2)
-
-
23,27,297
0.47
Crompton Stock Option Plan 2019 (ESOP 2019)
78,83,560
1.58
85,66,950
1.71
e.	
No class of shares have been issued as bonus shares or for consideration other than cash by the Company during the period 
of five years immediately preceding the current year end.
f.	
No class of shares have been bought back by the Company during the period of five years immediately preceding the current 
year end.
g.	
There are no shares reserved for issue under options and contracts/ commitments for the sale of shares/ disinvestment.
h.	
The Board of Directors have recommended payment of final dividend of I 3 (Rupees Three only) per equity share of the face 
value of I 2 each for the financial year ended 31st March, 2024.
i.	
Promoter Shareholding
	
Shares held by promoters at the end of the year 31st March, 2024
Promoter name 
No. of shares 
% of total shares
% change during the year
NIL
Total
 -   
 -   
340
341
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
Shares held by promoters at the end of the year 31st March, 2023
Promoter name 
No. of shares 
% of total shares
% change during 
the year
NIL
Total
-
-
	
Note:
	
As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members and other declarations received from 
shareholders regarding beneficial interest, the above shareholding represents both legal and beneficial ownerships of shares.
11	 Other equity
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Capital reserve
0.05
0.05
Securities premium
361.48
209.51
Employee stock option outstanding account
74.24
139.12
Retained earnings
2,638.62
2,361.15
Other comprehensive income
2.47
1.92
3,076.86
2,711.75
	
Note: For movements in reserves - refer Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity.
	
Nature and purpose of reserves
	
Capital reserve
	
Capital reserve was created on cancellation of shares as per statutory requirement.
	
Securities premium
	
Securities premium was created on issue of shares at premium in accordance with Employee Stock Option Plans (ESOP).
	
Employee stock option outstanding
	
The fair value of the equity-settled share based payment transactions with employees is recognised in Statement of profit 
and loss with corresponding credit to Employee Stock Options Outstanding Account.
	
Retained earnings
	
Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date, net-off less any transfers to general reserve, dividends 
or other distributions paid to shareholders.
12	 Borrowings
	
The Company has categorised all borrowings at Amortised Cost in accordance with the requirements of Ind AS 109.
A	
Borrowings - Non-current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Measured at amortised cost
Secured
7.40% Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures Tranche 1
-
325.00
7.40% Series A Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 2
300.00
300.00
7.65% Series B Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 2
300.00
300.00
Unamortised Non-Convertible Debentures Issue Expenses
(1.03)
(2.82)
598.97
922.18
Less: Current maturities of long-term borrowings
(300.00)
(325.00)
298.97
597.18
B	
Borrowings - current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Measured at amortised cost
Secured
Current maturities of non-convertible debentures (Refer Note 12 A)
300.00
325.00
300.00
325.00
	
Notes:
	
(a)	 Non-Convertible Debentures
	
	
(i)	
Terms of Debentures:
Particulars of Debentures
Tranche 1  
(2022 issue)
Series A Tranche 2  
(2022 issue)
Series B Tranche 2 (2022 
issue)
Face value per debenture (I)
10,00,000
10,00,000
10,00,000
Date of allotment
12th July, 2022
22nd July, 2022
22nd July, 2022
As at 31st March, 2024 (I Crore)
-
300.00
300.00
As at 31st March, 2023 (I Crore)
325.00
300.00
300.00
Interest
7.40% p.a. payable 
annually
7.40% p.a. payable 
annually
7.65% p.a. payable 
annually
Terms of repayment
Due for redemption  
on 12-01-2024
Due for redemption  
on 22-07-2024
Due for redemption  
on 22-07-2025,with call 
option on 22-07-2024
Secured by charge
on 'Crompton' and 'Crompton Greaves Brand' (including assignment of 
license, agreements, if any)
	
	
(ii)	
Funds raised from Non-Convertible Debentures were utilised for the purpose it were obtained.
	
	
(iii)	 During the year, the Company redeemed Secured Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to I 325 Crores, Tranche 
1 (2022 issue), along with interest thereon, on 12th January, 2024.
342
343
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
(b)	
Working capital loan facility is secured by way of charge on the Crompton’s inventories and trade receivables.
	
(c)	
The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any 
government authority.
13	 Provisions
A	
Provisions - Non-current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Provision for employee benefits
	
Provision for post medical retirement benefits (Refer Note 31)
8.21
7.24
	
Provision for compensated absences (Refer Note 31)
15.48
15.35
Other provisions
	
Provision for warranty
165.69
105.43
	
Provision for Statutory dues
1.67
3.21
191.05
131.23
B	
Provisions - current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Provision for employee benefits
	
Provision for post medical retirement benefits (Refer Note 31)
0.33
0.31
	
Provision for compensated absences (Refer Note 31)
3.12
2.04
Other provisions
	
Provision for warranty
95.22
96.77
	
Provision for Statutory dues
12.67
12.67
	
Provision for Other litigation Claims
0.16
0.06
111.50
111.85
	
Notes:
I Crore
(1) Movement in provisions
Warranty
Statutory Dues
Other litigation 
claims
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year
202.20
15.88
0.06
Provision made during the year (net)
151.52
1.54
1.29
Amounts used during the year
(82.37)
(3.08)
(1.19)
Unused amounts reversed during the year
(10.44)
-
-
Carrying amount at the end of the year
260.91
14.34
0.16
Current
95.22
12.67
0.16
Non-Current
165.69
1.67
-
	
(2) Nature of provisions:
	
(a) 	 Provision for employee benefits represents liability on account of post medical retirement benefits, compensated 
absences and gratuity as per statutory requirements.
	
(b)	 Product warranties: The Company gives warranties on certain products and services, undertaking to repair / replace 
products, which fail to perform satisfactorily during the warranty period. Provision made represents the amount of the 
expected cost of meeting such obligation on account of repair / replacement. The timing of outflows is expected to be 
within a period of two to five years.
	
(c)	 Provision for statutory dues represents liability on account of non-collection of declaration forms and other legal 
matters which are in appeal under the Acts / Rules.
	
(d)	 Provision for other litigation obligation claims represents liabilities that are expected to materialise in respect of 
matters in appeal.
14	 Trade payables
A	
Trade payables - Non current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (Refer Note below)
-
-
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
14.03
13.19
14.03
13.19
B	
Trade payables - Current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Acceptances
156.81
66.17
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (Refer Note below)
220.02
217.61
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
795.62
610.47
1,172.45
894.25
	
Notes:
	
(a)	
Micro, Small and Medium enterprises have been identified by the Company on the basis of the information available. 
Total outstanding dues to suppliers which are outstanding for more than the stipulated period and other disclosures 
as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, (MSMED Act) as at 31st March, 2024. The 
disclosure pursuant to the said Act is as under:
I Crore
Particulars
31st March, 2024 
/2023-24
31st March, 2023 
/2022-23
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier at  
the end of each accounting year
	
Principal
220.02
217.61
	
Interest
0.02
0.00
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act, 2006 
along with the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day  
during each accounting year
-
3.28
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
(which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without 
adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006
-
-
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting 
year
0.02
0.08
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise, 
for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under Section 23 of the 
MSMED Act, 2006
-
0.00
344
345
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
(b)	
 Identification of micro and small enterprises is basis intimation received from vendors.
	
(c)	
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 60 day terms.
	
Trade Payables Ageing (Non-current and Current)
As at 31st March, 2024
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due  
date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2
Years
2-3
years
More than 
3 years
(i)	 MSME
169.52
50.50
-
-
-
220.02
(ii)	 Others
623.31
283.77
41.47
5.98
11.93
966.46
(iii)	 Disputed dues – MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed dues – Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
792.83
334.27
41.47
5.98
11.93
1186.48
As at 31st March, 2023
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due  
date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2
Years
2-3
years
More than 
3 years
(i)	 MSME
167.70
49.91
-
-
-
217.61
(ii)	 Others
544.47
119.90
6.90
5.03
13.53
689.83
(iii)	 Disputed dues – MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed dues – Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
712.17
169.81
6.90
5.03
13.53
907.44
15	 Current Financial liabilities - Others
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
31.33
36.50
Security deposits
34.28
31.80
Other payables - to related parties (Refer Note 32)
1.49
-
67.10
68.30
16	 Other current liabilities
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Advances from customers
4.26
2.66
Statutory dues payables
46.62
30.62
Unclaimed dividend
4.48
3.74
Employee benefit payables
48.25
42.10
Others
1.40
0.66
105.01
79.78
17	 Income taxes
A.	 Tax expense recognised in Statement of profit and loss comprises:
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Current tax
130.46
156.54
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
(0.78)
(16.71)
Deferred tax charge / (credit)
14.91
(21.08)
Tax expense for the year
144.59
118.75
B.	 Amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Before 
tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Before 
tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements gains / (losses) on post employment defined 
benefit plans and tax thereon
0.73
(0.18)
0.55
(1.75)
0.44
(1.31)
0.73
(0.18)
0.55
(1.75)
0.44
(1.31)
C.	 Reconciliation of effective tax rate
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Profit before tax
611.04
594.31
Applicable tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
Computed tax expense
153.79
149.58
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods (Refer Note below)
(0.78)
(16.71)
Corporate social responsibility disallowance
3.47
3.40
Allowance of dividend received from subsidiaries
-
(2.32)
Impact of Share based payment expense
(10.04)
(9.39)
Others
(1.85)
(5.81)
Income tax expense for the current year
144.59
118.75
Effective tax rate
23.66%
19.98%
	
Notes:
	
a)	
Based on assessment order received during the year, the Company has written-back an amount of I 2.00 Crore in 
respect of AY 21-22. Further, additional provision for taxes of I 1.22 was made basis the return of income filed for 
AY 2023-24. Both the amounts are adjusted against tax expense for the year ended 31st March, 2024.
	
b)	
Based on assessment order received during the year, the Company has written-back an amount of I 16.71 Crore in 
respect of earlier years and the same is adjusted against tax expense for the year ended 31st March, 2023.
346
347
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
D.	 Components of deferred tax assets recognised in Balance sheet and Statement  
of profit and loss:
I Crore
Sr.
no.
Particulars
Balance sheet
Statement of profit and 
loss
As at 31st 
March, 
2024
As at 31st 
March, 
2023
2023-24
2022-23
(a)
Employee stock option outstanding 
 17.22 
 32.81 
 (15.59)
 0.58 
(b)
"Provision allowed under tax on payment 
basis"
 12.63 
 12.08 
 0.55 
 0.45 
(c)
Provision for doubtful debts and advances 
 13.65 
 10.62 
 3.03 
 3.30 
(d)
Difference between Written down value of Property, Plant and Equipment 
and Intangible assets as per books of accounts and Income Tax
 (1.57)
 (0.55)
 (1.02)
 0.38 
(e)
Fair valuation of Investments
 (3.37)
 (2.26)
 (1.11)
 8.69 
(f)
Impact of Revenue recognition
 12.60 
 12.59 
 0.01 
 6.52 
(g)
Impact of Right-of-use asset
 24.94 
 17.01 
 7.94 
 6.80 
(h)
Impact of lease liabilities
 (22.13)
 (14.41)
 (7.72)
 (6.31)
(i)
Other temporary differences (including tax related to items that will not be 
reclassified to profit or loss)
 0.59 
 1.77 
 (1.18)
 1.11 
Deferred tax (expense) / Income
 (15.09)
21.52 
Net deferred tax assets 
 54.56 
 69.66 
E.	 Reconciliation of deferred tax assets:
I Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
(a)
Opening balance as at 1st April
69.66
48.14
(b)
Tax (income)/expense during the period recognised in:
(i)	 Statement of profit and loss in profit or loss
(14.91)
21.08
(ii)	 Statement of profit and loss under OCI
(0.18)
0.44
Closing balance as at 31st March
54.56
69.66
F.	
Tax assets and liabilities
I Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
(a)
Non-current tax assets (net of tax provision)
8.62
8.62
(b)
Current tax assets (net of tax provision)
2.48
19.81
(c)
Current tax liabilities (net of tax assets)
28.41
7.93
	
During the current year, the Company has received income tax refunds including interest amounting to I 43.89 Crores for 
FY 2017-18 and FY 2021-22. The appellate proceedings for the aforesaid years are underway and pending disposal by 
the income tax department.
18	 Revenue from Operations
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
A.	 Sales of products and services
	
Revenue from contract with customers
	
Sale of products (excluding Goods and Service tax)
	
(i)	 Electric consumer durables
5,358.06
4,734.11
	
(ii)	 Lighting products
989.80
1,048.82
6,347.86
5,782.93
	
Sale of services
	
(i)	 Electric consumer durables
9.79
0.99
	
(ii)	 Lighting products
2.90
2.44
12.69
3.43
6,360.55
5,786.36
B.	 Other operating revenue
	
Export benefits and other incentives
2.30
1.52
	
Scrap sales
24.96
20.90
	
Royalty Income
0.57
0.53
27.83
22.95
6,388.38
5,809.31
	
(For segment related information, Refer Note 36)
19	 Other income
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Interest income
35.28
42.53
Dividend income from subsidiaries
-
9.21
Income from subsidiaries
0.31
0.51
Fair value gain on investments measured at fair value through profit or loss
24.33
15.26
Others
0.42
6.90
60.34
74.41
20	 Cost of materials consumed
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Opening inventories
103.67
111.83
Add: Purchases
1,312.29
1,257.58
Less: Closing inventories
(83.34)
(103.67)
Cost of raw materials consumed
1,332.62
1,265.74
Add: Sub-contracting charges
45.71
42.30
1,378.33
1,308.04
348
349
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
21	 Purchases of stock-in-trade
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Electric consumer durables
2,624.19
2,311.05
Lighting products
510.98
504.29
3,135.17
2,815.34
22	 Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Opening inventories:
Finished goods
175.00
134.73
Stock-in-trade
296.11
230.54
Work-in-progress
37.70
29.61
508.81
394.88
Less:
Closing inventories:
Finished goods
203.54
175.00
Stock-in-trade
371.53
296.11
Work-in-progress
34.33
37.70
609.40
508.81
Changes in inventories:
Finished goods
(28.54)
(40.27)
Stock-in-trade
(75.42)
(65.57)
Work-in-progress
3.37
(8.09)
(100.59)
(113.93)
23	 Employee benefits expense
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Salaries, wages, bonus and other benefits
420.64
371.38
Contribution to provident and other funds (Refer Note 31)
13.52
12.01
Gratuity (Refer Note 31)
3.25
2.72
Compensated absences (Refer Note 31)
4.93
3.30
Post retiral benefits (Refer Note 31)
0.86
0.65
Staff welfare expenses
28.94
23.69
Share-based Payments to employees (Refer Note 35)
2.07
25.88
474.21
439.63
	
Notes:
	
(a)	
For remuneration paid to key management personnel Refer Note 32.
	
(b)	
During the year, the Company has capitalised Employee benefits expense of I 12.47 Crore (Previous year I 13.28 Crore) 
under Product Development & Intangible assets under development as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
24	 Finance costs
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Interest on borrowing
66.01
96.14
Interest on lease liability (Refer Note 30)
6.64
6.41
Interest others
0.12
0.14
72.77
102.69
25	 Other expenses
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Consumption of stores and spares
15.05
13.97
Power and fuel
9.87
9.80
Rent
9.80
10.65
Repair to property, plant and equipment
4.07
3.54
Insurance
3.65
4.87
Rates and taxes
4.88
3.78
Freight and forwarding outward
194.96
164.66
Packing materials
82.84
76.97
After sales service
67.30
67.33
Sales promotion
81.11
48.94
Corporate social responsibility expenses (Refer Note 29)
13.81
13.56
Advertising
136.05
96.86
Legal and professional charges
87.52
84.22
Payment to the auditors (Refer Note below)
1.20
1.25
Bad Debts written off
8.86
6.54
Allowance for credit losses
12.02
14.69
Extended Producer’s Responsibility
14.20
-
Miscellaneous expenses
65.37
67.22
812.56
688.95
	
Notes
	
(a)	
Other expenses includes expenditure on research costs not eligible for capitalisation (Refer Note 28).
	
(b)	
During the year, the Company has capitalised Other expenses of I 12.52 Crore (Previous year ` 5.90 Crore) under 
Product Development & Intangible assets under development as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
	
Payment to the auditors
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Auditors' remuneration (excluding Goods and Service tax)
	
Statutory Audit fees
0.59
0.56
	
Tax audit fees
0.09
0.09
	
Other services
	
(i)	 Certification work
0.03
0.13
	
(ii)	 Others
0.37
0.41
	
Reimbursement of expenses
0.12
0.06
1.20
1.25
350
351
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
26	 Exceptional Items
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Gain on Sale of Investment in subsidiary (net of expenses) (Refer Note a below)
-
(8.89)
Expenditure related to proposed merger (Refer Note b below)
-
3.35
-
(5.54)
	
Notes:
	
(a)	
Income of I 8.89 Crores represents Gain on sale of stake in Butterfly for divestment of 10,72,775 Equity Shares i.e. 
6.00% of the total equity share capital of Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited on 20th September, 2022 & 21st 
September, 2022 through Offer for Sale (“OFS”) mechanism in order to achieve compliance with the minimum public 
shareholding (“MPS”) requirements mandated under Rule 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, as 
amended, read with Regulation 38 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
	
(b)	
Expenses of I 3.35 Crore represents one time cost pertaining to professional expenses such as consultancy, legal 
advisory, share valuation etc incurred for the proposed merger of the subsidiary “Butterfly” into the Company.
27	 Contingent liabilities and commitments
I Crore
Sr 
no.
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
A
Contingent Liabilities:
(to the extent not provided for)
(a)	 Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts
20.72
24.23
(b)	 Income tax liability that may arise in respect of matters in appeal
89.33
33.66
(c)	 Excise duty/ customs duty / service tax liability that may arise in respect of  
matters in appeal
11.25
9.80
(d)	 GST/ Entry Tax/ Sales tax / VAT liability that may arise in respect of matters in appeal
166.41
117.78
(e)	 Corporate and bank guarantees for debt given on behalf of subsidiary Company
249.00
249.00
B
Commitments:
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not 
provided for (net of advances)
8.32
12.43
	
Notes:
	
(a)	
The Company does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above contingent liabilities.
	
(b)	
It is not practicable to estimate the timing of cash outflows, if any, in respect of matters at (a) to (e) above, pending 
resolution of the arbitration/appellate proceedings.
28	 Expenditure on research and development
I Crore
Sr 
no.
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
(a)
Capital expenditure*
33.23
48.52
Sub-total (a)
33.23
48.52
(b)
Revenue expenditure
Raw materials consumed
0.06
0.26
I Crore
Sr 
no.
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Employee benefits
22.74
14.77
Depreciation and amortisation
8.58
6.20
Other expenses
	
Consumption of stores and spares
3.10
1.70
	
Repairs and maintenance
0.01
0.01
	
Miscellaneous expenses
3.65
6.26
Sub-total (b)
38.14
29.20
Total (a) + (b)
71.37
77.72
*includes I 29.17 Crore (Previous year ` 36.82 Crore) capitalised under Product Development & IAUD as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
29	 Expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year
13.81
13.56
Amount of expenditure incurred by the Company during the year
(i)	 Construction / acquision of any asset
-
-
(ii)	 On purposes other than (i) above:
Nature of CSR activities
	
Community Development
2.38
2.05
	
Monitoring & Evaluation
0.23
0.40
	
Skill Development
5.76
3.79
	
Water Conservation
6.38
5.46
	
Transferred to Unspent account
-
1.45
	
Administration
0.50
0.43
Total CSR expenditure
15.25
13.58
Details of related party transactions- contribution to a trust controlled by the Company in 
relation to CSR expenditure as per Ind AS 24, Related Party Disclosures (contributed to 
Crompton (CSR) Foundation)
13.31
13.15
30	 Leases
	
Company as lessee
A	
Right-of-Use assets
I Crore
Cost
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Opening Balance
121.36
101.66
Additions
33.16
30.99
Disposal / derecognised during the year
(17.26)
(11.29)
Closing Balance (a)
137.26
121.36
352
353
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
I Crore
Accumulated depreciation
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Opening Balance
52.51
32.31
Depreciation expense
31.55
27.02
Disposal / derecognised during the year
(17.26)
(6.82)
Closing Balance (b)
66.80
52.51
Closing Balance (a-b)
70.46
68.85
B	
Lease liabilities
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Opening Balance
78.00
77.17
Addition
33.16
30.99
Accredition of interest
6.64
6.41
Payments
(37.32)
(31.49)
Adjustments for disposals
-
(5.08)
Closing Balance
80.48
78.00
Current maturities of lease liabilities
30.40
25.80
Non-current lease liabilities
50.08
52.20
C	
Amounts recognised in Statement of profit and loss
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Depreciation expense of Right-of-Use assets
31.55
27.02
Interest expense on lease liabilities
6.64
6.41
Short term and low value leases
9.80
10.65
47.99
44.08
D	
Maturity analysis of lease liabilities (undiscounted)
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Less than one year
35.21
30.81
One to five years
54.97
56.11
More than five years
0.58
2.60
90.76
89.52
E	
Amounts recognised in statement of Cash Flows
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Total Cash outflow for leases
37.32
31.49
F	
(a)	
Company applied the exemption not to recognise right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases with less than 12 months of 
lease term and low value asset.
	
(b)	
Lease contracts entered by the Company pertains to warehouses and offices taken on lease to conduct its business in 
the ordinary course. The Company does not have any lease restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per 
the contract.
	
(c)	
The Company has several lease contracts that include extension and termination options. Significant judgement is 
exercised by management in determining whether these extension and termination options are reasonably certain to 
be exercised.
31	 Employee Benefits
(a)	 Defined contribution plans (Refer Accounting Policy Note 1.2(o))
	
Amount of I 23.00 Crore (Previous year I 19.25 Crore) is recognised as an expense and included in Employee benefits 
expense as under the following defined contribution plans: (Refer Note 23)
I Crore
Benefits (Contribution to)
2023-24
2022-23
Provident fund
11.40
10.34
Superannuation fund
1.10
1.27
Employee state insurance scheme
0.07
0.07
Labour welfare scheme
0.00
0.01
Gratuity
3.34
2.82
National Pension Scheme
1.30
0.79
Compensated Absences
4.93
3.30
Post retirement medical benefits
0.86
0.65
23.00
19.25
	
Note:- During the year, the Company has capitalised employees benefits of I 0.44 Crore (Previous year I 0.57 Crore) under 
Product Development & Intangible assets under development as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
(b)	 Defined Benefit Plans (Refer Accounting Policy Note 1.2(o)) as per Actuarial Valuation  
are as under:
I Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
Post Retirement Medical 
Benefits
2023-24
(Funded)
2022-23
(Funded)
2023-24
(Non funded)
2022-23
(Non funded)
I
Change in present value of defined benefit obligation  
during the year
Present value of defined benefit obligation at the beginning  
of the year
29.24
26.82
7.55
7.11
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
Interest cost
2.19
1.87
0.56
0.53
Current service cost
3.47
3.04
0.63
0.48
Past service cost
-
-
-
-
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
Actuarial loss / (gain)
1.83
0.82
0.13
(0.21)
354
355
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
I Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
Post Retirement Medical 
Benefits
2023-24
(Funded)
2022-23
(Funded)
2023-24
(Non funded)
2022-23
(Non funded)
Benefits paid
(4.05)
(3.31)
(0.33)
(0.36)
Present Value of defined benefit obligation at the end  
of the year
32.68
29.24
8.54
7.55
II
Change in fair value of plan assets during the year
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
30.97
30.02
-
-
Expected return on plan assets
2.32
2.09
-
-
Contributions
-
-
-
-
Benefits paid from the fund
-
-
-
-
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
-
-
-
-
Actuarial gain / (loss)
2.70
(1.14)
-
-
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
35.99
30.97
-
-
III
Actual return on plan assets
Expected return on plan assets
2.32
2.09
-
-
Actuarial gain / (loss)
2.70
(1.14)
-
-
Actual return on plan assets
5.02
0.95
-
-
IV
Net asset / (liability) recognised in the balance sheet
Present Value of defined benefit obligation at the end of the year
(32.68)
(29.24)
(8.54)
(7.55)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
35.99
30.97
-
-
Asset / (Liability) recognised in the balance sheet
3.31
1.73
(8.54)
(7.55)
V
Expenses recognised in the statement of profit and loss
Current service cost
3.47
3.04
0.63
0.48
Interest cost
(0.13)
(0.22)
0.56
0.53
Past Service cost
-
-
-
-
3.34
2.82
1.19
1.01
VI
Expenses recognised in the Other comprehensive income
Actuarial loss / (gain) on Obligation For the Period
1.83
0.82
0.13
(0.21)
Return on Plan Assets, Excluding Interest Income
(2.70)
1.14
-
-
Change in Asset Ceiling
-
-
-
-
Net (Income) / Expense For the Period Recognised in OCI
(0.87)
1.96
0.13
(0.21)
VII The major categories of plan assets as a percentage  
of total plan
Insurer managed funds
100%
100%
NA
NA
VIII Sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions:
(Decrease) / Increase on present value of defined benefits 
obligation at the end of the year
1% increase in discount rate
(1.72)
(1.58)
(1.18)
0.02
1% decrease in discount rate
1.92
1.76
1.51
2.98
1% increase in salary escalation rate
1.93
1.77
-
-
1% decrease in salary escalation rate
(1.76)
(1.62)
-
-
1% increase in employee turnover rate
0.01
0.05
-
-
I Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
Post Retirement Medical 
Benefits
2023-24
(Funded)
2022-23
(Funded)
2023-24
(Non funded)
2022-23
(Non funded)
1% decrease in employee turnover rate
(0.02)
(0.06)
-
-
1% increase in Medical inflation rate
-
-
1.53
1.31
1% decrease in Medical inflation rate
-
-
(1.20)
(1.03)
IX
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligations
Within the next 12 months
5.56
3.56
0.39
0.38
Between 1 and 5 years
12.33
12.46
1.65
1.58
Between 5 and 10 years
15.69
14.38
2.55
2.28
X
Actuarial assumptions
Discount rate (p.a.)
7.21%
7.49%
7.40%
7.40%
Expected Return on Plan Assets (p.a.)
7.21%
7.49%
N.A
N.A
Employee turnover rate
6.00%
6.00%
6.00%
6.00%
Salary escalation rate
6.00%
6.00%
N.A
N.A
Mortality rate during employment
Indian 
Assured Lives 
Mortality
(2012-14)
Indian 
Assured Lives 
Mortality
(2012-14)
Indian 
Assured Lives 
Mortality
(2012-14)
Indian 
Assured Lives 
Mortality
(2012-14)
Medical premium inflation rate
N.A
N.A
2%
2%
(c)	 The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions 
occurring at the end of the year and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a change in the key 
assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the same method 
used to calculate the liability recognised in the balance sheet has been applied. The methods and types of assumptions 
used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared with the previous year.
(d)	 The Company makes contributions to the Gratuity Trust, which manages the investment. The Trust is a funded defined benefit 
plan for qualifying employees. The Scheme provides for lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement, death while 
in employment or on termination of employment as per the Company’s Gratuity Scheme. Vesting occurs upon completion 
of five years of service.
(e)	 The Company provides post retirement medical benefits to qualifying employees.
(f)	
The actuarial valuation of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were carried out at 31st March, 2024 
and 31st March, 2023. The present value of the defined benefit obligation and the related current service cost and past service 
cost, were measured using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
(g)	 Discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian Government securities as at the balance sheet date for the 
estimated term of the obligations.
(h)	 Expected rate of return on the plan assets is based on the average long-term rate of return expected on investments of the 
Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
(i)	
The salary escalation rate considered in the actuarial valuation is arrived after taking into consideration the seniority, the 
promotion, inflation and other relevant factors.
356
357
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
Compensated absences
	
In respect of compensated absences, accrual is made on the basis of a year-end actuarial valuation as at balance sheet 
date. The actuarial valuation is done as per Project unit credit method.
	
The leave obligation cover the Company’s liability for earned leave. The amount of the provision of ` 15.48 Crore (Previous 
year ` 15.35 Crore) is presented as non-current and ` 3.12 Crore (Previous year ` 2.04 Crore) is presented as current. The 
Company has recognised ` 4.93 Crore (Previous year ` 3.30 Crore) for compensated absences in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
32	 Related Party Disclosures
i)	
List of related parties over which control exist:
	
Name of the subsidiary companies:
	
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited
	
Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited
	
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
	
Crompton (CSR) Foundation
ii)	 Other Related Parties:
	
Swaminathan Enterprises Private Limited (upto 3rd January, 2023; significant influence of Key management personnel)
	
Opera Gratia Pvt. Ltd (upto 30th April, 2023; significant influence of Key management personnel)
iii)	 Name of Post employment benefit plans with whom transactions were carried out during the year:
	
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees’ Gratuity Trust
	
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees’ Superannuation Fund
iv)	 Key Management Personnel:
	
Mr. H. M. Nerurkar, Chairman and Independent Director (upto 20th October, 2023)
	
Mr. D. Sundaram, Chairman and Independent Director
	
Mr. P. M. Murty, Independent Director
	
Ms. Smita Anand, Independent Director
	
Mr. P.R. Ramesh, Independent Director
	
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani, Independent Director
	
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar, Independent Director (from 17th October, 2023)
	
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, Non-Executive Director (upto 23rd April, 2023); Executive Director (From 24th April, 2023 to 30th April, 2023); 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (from 1st May, 2023)
	
Mr. Shantanu Khosla, Managing Director (upto 30th April, 2023); Vice Chairman and Executive Director (from 1st May, 2023 
to 30th April, 2024); Non executiveVice Chairman (from 1st May, 2024)
	
Mr. Mathew Job, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (upto 30th April, 2023)
	
Mr. Sandeep Batra, Chief Financial Officer (upto 30th May, 2022)
	
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam, Chief Financial Officer (from 5th September, 2022)
	
Ms. Pragya Kaul, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer (upto 15th September, 2022)
	
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer (from 28th November, 2022)
v)	 Details of related party transactions:
I Crore
Sr. 
No. Nature of transaction
2023-24
2022-23
1
Services received
Butterfly Ganthimathi Appliances Limited
0.43
0.20
Opera Gratia Pvt. Ltd
0.33
1.47
Total
0.76
1.67
2
Services rendered
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited
0.05
0.22
Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited
0.05
0.22
Butterfly Ganthimathi Appliances Limited
6.61
6.61
Swaminathan Enterprises Private Limited
-
0.08
Total
6.71
7.13
3
Purchase of products
Butterfly Ganthimathi Appliances Limited
9.67
-
Total
9.67
-
4
Sales of products
Butterfly Ganthimathi Appliances Limited
0.12
-
Total
0.12
-
5
Dividend received
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited
-
5.00
Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited
-
4.21
Total
-
9.21
6
Contributions (Employer's) to Post Retirement Funds
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees' Superannuation Fund
1.10
1.27
Total
1.10
1.27
7
Compensation to Key Management Personnel
Short-term benefits*
125.01
71.54
Share-based Payments (Refer Note b below)
(3.31)
9.71
Director's sitting fees
0.41
0.48
Commission
1.60
1.60
Total
123.71
83.33
8
Donations paid
Crompton (CSR) Foundation
13.31
13.15
Total
13.31
13.15
*Short-term benefits for the current year include I 101.6 Crore (previous year: I 48.62 Crores) on account of exercise of stock options
	
Notes:
	
a)	
Liabilities for post retirement benefits being Gratuity, Leave encashment and Post retirement medical benefits are 
provided on actuarial basis for the Company as a whole. The amount pertaining to Key management personnel are not 
included above.
	
b)	
The Company has granted shares under various Schemes to the eligible Key Management Personnel. The amount 
mentioned is the fair value of the grant charged to Statement of profit and loss.
358
359
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
vi)	 Amount due to / from related parties
I Crore
Sr. 
No. Nature of transaction
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
1
Other Receivable
Butterfly Ganthimathi Appliances Limited
-
2.73
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees' Gratuity Trust
3.31
1.73
Total
3.31
4.46
2
Other Payable
Butterfly Ganthimathi Appliances Limited
1.49
-
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees' Superannuation Fund
0.09
0.09
Commission Payable to Key Management Personnel
1.60
1.60
Total
3.18
1.69
	
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
	
All Related Party Transactions entered during the year were in ordinary course of the business and on arm’s length basis. Outstanding 
balances at the year-end with related parties are unsecured and interest free, and will be settled/ recovered in cash.
	
The Company has not made any allowance for bad or doubtful debts in respect of related party trade receivables nor has any 
guarantee been given or received during the year ended 31st March 2024 and 31st March 2023 relating to related party transactions.
33 	 Earnings Per Share (EPS)
	
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year.
	
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted 
average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Equity shares that would 
be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential Equity shares into Equity shares.
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
(a)	 Basic earnings per share
	
Numerator for earnings per share
	
Profit after tax
I Crore
466.45
475.56
	
Denominator for earnings per share
	
Weighted number of equity shares outstanding during the year
Nos
63,97,21,335
63,49,86,510
	
Earnings per share - Basic (one equity share of I 2 each)
I
7.29
7.49
(b)	Diluted earnings per share
	
Numerator for earnings per share
	
Profit after tax
I Crore
466.45
475.56
	
Denominator for earnings per share
	
Weighted number of equity shares outstanding for basic EPS during the year 
Nos
63,97,21,335
63,49,86,510
	
Add: Weighted average number of potential equity shares on account of 
Employee Stock Option Schemes (refer note below)
Nos
-
22,16,124
	
Weighted number of equity shares outstanding for diluted EPS during the 
year 
Nos
63,97,21,335
63,72,02,634
	
Earnings per share - Diluted (one equity share of I 2 each)
I
7.29
7.46
Note:
84,89,793 number of share options are outstanding as on 31st March, 2024 which are anti-dilutive in nature
34	 Impairment testing of Goodwill
	
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Company’s operating division (not at segment level), which 
is not higher than the Company’s operating segments. The aggregate carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each unit 
are as follows:
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Electric Consumer Durables
590.10
590.10
Lighting Products
189.31
189.31
Total
779.41
779.41
	
The recoverable amount is based on a value-in-use calculation using the discounted cash flow method. The value-in-use 
calculation is made using exit multiple and pre-tax budgeted EBITDA projections of the next five years which is considered 
by the Board as a reasonable period. 
	
The key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations are as follows:
	
a)	
Earnings (before interest and tax) margin: The margins have been estimated based on past experience after considering 
incremental revenue and savings from the efficiencies and cost saving initiatives driven by the Company.
	
b)	
Discount rate: Discount rate reflects the current market assessment of the risks specific to a cash generating unit and 
is estimated based on the weighted average cost of capital.
	
c)	
Long-term growth rate: The growth rates used are in line with the long-term average growth rates of the Company and 
are consistent with the internal / external sources of information.
	
The assumptions used are reviewed annually as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycles. These 
estimates may differ from actual results. The values assigned to each of the key assumptions reflect the Management’s past 
experience as their assessment of future trends, and are consistent with external / internal sources of information.
	
Based on the above assumptions and analysis, no impairment was identified for any of the cash generating unit as at 
31st March 2024 and 31st March, 2023 as the recoverable value of the cash generating unit exceeded the carrying value.
	
The Company has also performed sensitivity analysis calculations on the projections used (revenue growth and EBITDA 
margin) and discount rate applied. An analysis of the sensitivity of the computation to a change in key parameters (operating 
margin, discount rates and average growth rate), based on reasonable assumptions, did not identify any probable scenario 
in which the recoverable amount of the cash generating units would decrease below its carrying amount.
35	 Share-based Payments
	
Employee stock options - equity settled
(a)	 The Members of the Company have approved by way of postal ballots grant of Employee stock options under various 
Schemes. The plan envisaged grant of shares to eligible employees at market price/pre-determined value as determined by 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) of the Board of Directors from time to time.
	
Disclosures:
I Crore
Particulars
31st March, 2024/ 
2023-24
31st March, 2023/ 
2022-23
Share-based Payments to employee
2.07
25.88
Employee Stock option outstanding
74.24
139.12
360
361
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
(b)	 The position of the existing schemes is summarised as under:
Particulars
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
Date of Shareholder's 
approval
19-01-
2020 and 
amended on 
06-01-2021
22-10-2016
22-10-2016
22-10-2016
19-01-
2020 and 
amended on 
06-01-2021
22-10-2016
22-10-2016
22-10-2016
Total number of options 
approved under ESOS
98,00,000
40,00,000
1,09,68,057
31,33,731
98,00,000
40,00,000
1,09,68,057
31,33,731
Vesting requirements
1-5 Years
1-5 Years
1-10 Years
1-10 Years
1-5 Years
1-5 Years
1-10 Years
1-10 Years
Exercise price or 
pricing formula (I)
Exercise Price is the 
closing market price on 
the Stock Exchange, as 
on the day prior to the 
date on which the NRC 
approves the Grant.
92.83
185.66
Exercise Price is the 
closing market price on 
the Stock Exchange, as 
on the day prior to the 
date on which the NRC 
approves the Grant.
92.83
185.66
Maximum term of 
Options granted (years)
Options 
granted 
under ESOP 
2019 would 
vest not 
earlier than 
one year 
and not 
later than 5 
years from 
the date of 
grant.
Options 
granted 
under ESOP 
2016 would 
vest not 
earlier than 
one year 
and not 
later than 5 
years from 
the date of 
grant.
Options granted under 
PSP 1 and PSP 2 would 
vest not earlier than one 
year and not later than 
10 years from the date of 
grant
Options 
granted 
under ESOP 
2019 would 
vest not 
earlier than 
one year 
and not 
later than 5 
years from 
the date of 
grant.
Options 
granted 
under ESOP 
2016 would 
vest not 
earlier than 
one year 
and not 
later than 5 
years from 
the date of 
grant.
Options granted under 
PSP 1 and PSP 2 would 
vest not earlier than one 
year and not later than 
10 years from the date of 
grant
Source of shares 
(Primary, Secondary  
or combination)
Primary
Variation in terms  
of options
There have been no variations in the terms of the options
(c)	 Options movement during the year:-
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
No. of options outstanding at 
the beginning of the year
85,66,950
9,92,576
44,10,033
23,27,297
82,64,317
18,93,854
55,38,176
30,79,392
No. of options granted during 
the year
25,55,000
-
-
-
15,25,000
-
-
-
No. of options forfeited / lapsed 
during the year
32,38,390
1,26,413
-
-
11,21,867
1,78,256
-
-
No. of options vested during 
the year
10,01,558
89,978
-
-
10,30,631
1,98,669
-
-
No. of options exercised during 
the year
-
2,59,930
44,10,033
23,27,297
1,00,500
7,23,022
11,28,143
7,52,095
Money realised by exercise  
of options (I)
-
5,19,53,343 40,93,83,363 43,20,85,961
2,59,94,325 14,56,88,852 10,47,25,515 13,96,33,958
No. of options outstanding at 
the end of the year
78,83,560
6,06,233
-
-
85,66,950
9,92,576
44,10,033
23,27,297
No. of options exercisable at 
the end of the year
25,48,560
6,06,233
-
-
17,15,881
8,40,076
44,10,033
23,27,297
Weighted Average Remaining 
Contractual Life (in years)
5.81
2.25
-
-
6.53
3.01
2.26
2.16
(d)	 Weighted average information for year:
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
Weighted average exercise 
price of options granted 
during the year whose
Exercise price equals market 
price (I)
268.09
-
-
-
330.95
-
-
-
Exercise price is greater than 
market price (I)
294.65
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Exercise price is less than 
market price (I)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Weighted average fair value 
of options granted during 
the year whose
Exercise price equals market 
price (I)
108.59
-
-
-
138.21
-
-
-
Exercise price is greater than 
market price (I)
102.80
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Exercise price is less than 
market price (I)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(e)	 The Black-Scholes Valuation Model has been used for computing weighted average fair value considering 
the following inputs:-
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2019
Price of the underlying share in market at the time of the option grant (I)
261.84
330.95
Exercise price (I)
261.84
330.95
Risk free interest rate (based on government securities)
6.93%
7.21%
Expected life (years)
5.56
5.81
Expected volatility
33.06%
32.61%
Dividend yield
0.95%
0.76%
(f)	
Number and Weighted Average Exercise Price of Options
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Number of 
options
Weighted 
Average Exercise 
Price (K)
Number of 
options
Weighted 
Average Exercise 
Price (K)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
1,62,96,856
274.51
1,87,75,739
257.07
Granted during the year
25,55,000
259.09
15,25,000
369.12
Forefeited during the year
33,64,803
391.73
13,00,123
384.42
Exercised during the year
69,97,260
127.68
27,03,760
153.88
Expired during the year
-
-
-
-
Outstanding at the end of the year
84,89,793
345.19
1,62,96,856
274.51
Exercisable at the end of the period
31,54,793
371.36
92,93,287
185.59
(g)	 Weighted average share price of options exercised during the year is I 276.20 (Previous year I 378.99).
362
363
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
36	 Operating Segments
A.	 General Information
	
The Company has determined following reporting segments based on the information reviewed by the Company’s CODM. 
a)	
Electric Consumer Durables
	
b)	
Lighting Products
	
The above business segments have been identified considering:
	
a)	
the nature of products and services
	
b)	
the differing risks and returns
	
c)	
the internal organisation and management structure, and
	
d)	
the internal financial reporting systems.
	
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been 
identified as the Management Committee as explained in the Director’s Report section.
B.	 Information about reportable segments
I Crore
2023-24
Reportable segments
Particulars
Electric 
Consumer 
Durables
Lighting Products
Total
Revenue
External Customers
5,392.18
996.20
6,388.38
Inter-segment
-
-
-
Total revenue
5,392.18
996.20
6,388.38
Segment profit
774.65
105.36
880.01
Segment profit includes:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
17.81
7.93
25.74
Segment assets
1,433.19
353.19
1,786.38
Segment liabilities
1,251.44
357.30
1,608.74
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure
57.63
10.41
68.04
I Crore
2022-23
Reportable segments
Particulars
Electric 
Consumer 
Durables
Lighting Products
Total
Income
External Customers
4,755.66
1,053.65
5,809.31
Inter-segment
-
-
-
Total income
4,755.66
1,053.65
5,809.31
Segment profit
789.30
100.14
889.44
Segment profit includes:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
12.76
6.00
18.76
Segment assets
1,184.03
382.97
1,567.00
Segment liabilities
933.20
337.81
1,271.01
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure
38.44
16.14
54.58
C.	 Reconciliations of information on reportable segments
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
(a)	 Income
	
Total income for reportable segments
6,388.38
5,809.31
Total income (Refer Note 18)
6,388.38
5,809.31
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
(b)	Profit before exceptional items and tax
	
Total profit before exceptional items and tax for reportable segments
880.01
889.44
	
Unallocated amounts:
	
Expense on Employee Stock Option Scheme
(2.07)
(25.88)
	
Finance costs
(72.77)
(102.69)
	
Other unallocable expenditure net of unallocable Income
(194.13)
(172.10)
Total profit before exceptional items and tax from operations as reported in Statement 
of profit and loss 
611.04
588.77
I Crore
Particulars
As at  
31st March, 2024
As at  
31st March, 2023
(c)	 Assets
	
Total assets for reportable segments
1,786.38
1,567.00
	
Other unallocated amounts
	
Goodwill
779.41
779.41
	
Other assets
2,954.13
2,729.61
	
Deferred tax assets (net)
54.56
69.66
Total assets as reported in Balance sheet
5,574.48
5,145.68
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
(d)	Liabilities
	
Total liabilities for reportable segments
1,608.74
1,271.01
	
Other unallocated amounts
	
Borrowings
598.97
922.18
	
Other liabilities
161.29
113.52
Total liabilities as reported in Balance sheet
2,369.00
2,306.71
D.	 Reconciliation of revenue recognised in statement of profit and loss with contracted price
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Revenue as per contracted price
6,879.13
6,232.90
Less: Adjustments*
(518.58)
(446.54)
Total revenue from contract with customers
6,360.55
5,786.36
* includes discounts, schemes, sales return & others.
	
The Company does not have any contract asset or liability as at 31st March, 2024 (Previous year: nil)
364
365
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
E.	 Disaggregation of revenue based on products
	
Information given above concerning reportable segment-wise revenue are sufficient to meet the required disclosures under 
Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts, with Customers, with respect to disaggregation of revenue.
F.	
Geographic information
	
The Company mainly caters to Indian Market, accordingly, secondary information/ geographical segment is not applicable.
G.	 Information about major customers
	
There are no customers having revenue exceeding 10% of total revenues.
37	 Financial instruments – Disclosures
A.	 Accounting classification and fair values
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels 
in the fair value hierarchy. It does not include fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured 
at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
FVTPL
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Non-current financial assets
Trade receivables
-
12.65
12.65
-
-
-
-
Other non-current financial assets
-
12.56
12.56
-
-
-
-
Current financial assets
Current investments
628.14
-
628.14
628.14
-
-
628.14
Trade receivables
-
580.12
580.12
-
-
-
-
Cash and cash equivalents
-
130.79
130.79
-
-
-
-
Bank balance other than cash and cash 
equivalents
-
84.48
84.48
-
-
-
-
Derivative Assets
0.16
-
0.16
0.16
-
-
0.16
Other current financial assets
-
19.70
19.70
-
-
-
-
628.30
840.30
1,468.60
628.30
-
-
628.30
Financial liabilities
Non-current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
298.97
298.97
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
50.08
50.08
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
14.03
14.03
-
-
-
-
Current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
300.00
300.00
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
30.40
30.40
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
1,172.45
1,172.45
-
-
-
-
Other current financial liabilities
-
67.10
67.10
-
-
-
-
-
1,933.03
1,933.03
-
-
-
-
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2023
Carrying amount
Fair value
FVTPL
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Non-current financial assets
Trade receivables
-
15.49
15.49
-
-
-
-
Other non-current financial assets
-
12.07
12.07
-
-
-
-
Current financial assets
Current investments
530.77
-
530.77
530.77
-
-
530.77
Trade receivables
-
529.80
529.80
-
-
-
-
Cash and cash equivalents
-
44.06
44.06
-
-
-
-
Bank balance other than cash and cash 
equivalents
-
3.74
3.74
-
-
-
-
Derivative Assets
0.23
-
0.23
0.23
-
-
0.23
Other current financial assets
-
21.40
21.40
-
-
-
-
531.00
626.56
1,157.56
531.00
-
-
531.00
Financial liabilities
Non-current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
597.18
597.18
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
52.20
52.20
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
13.19
13.19
-
-
-
-
Current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
325.00
325.00
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
25.80
25.80
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
894.25
894.25
-
-
-
-
Other current financial liabilities
-
68.30
68.30
-
-
-
-
-
1,975.92
1,975.92
-
-
-
-
	
The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, other current financial 
assets and other current financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of 
these instruments.
B.	 Fair value heirarchy
	
The fair value of financial instruments as referred to in note (A) above have been classified into three categories depending 
on the inputs used in the valuation technique. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).
	
The categories used are as follows: 
•	 Level 1: Quoted prices for identical instruments in an active market;
•	 Level 2: Directly or indirectly observable market inputs, other than Level 1 inputs; and
•	 Level 3: Inputs which are not based on observable market data.
366
367
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
C.	 Measurement of fair values
	
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
	
The following tables show the valuation techniques used in measuring Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, as well as the significant 
unobservable inputs used.
	
Financial instruments measured at fair value
Type
Valuation technique
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
Inter-relationship 
between significant 
unobservable 
inputs and fair value 
measurement
Derivative instruments - forwards foreign 
exchange contracts
The Company has used discounted 
mark to market of forward contracts 
using current forward rates for remaining 
tenure of the forward contract as 
provided by respective banks.
Not applicable
Not applicable
Derivative instruments - options foreign 
exchange contracts
Fair value of foreign currency options 
contract is provided by bank's with 
whom the derivatives are entered into.
Not applicable
Not applicable
Investment in mutual funds
The fair value of the units of mutual fund 
scheme are based on net asset value at 
the reporting date.
Not applicable
Not applicable
Non current financial assets and liabilities 
measured at amortised cost
Discounted cash flows: The valuation 
model considers the present value of 
expected receipt/ payment discounted 
using appropriate discounting rates.
Not applicable
Not applicable
D.	 Financial risk management
	
The Company has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments:
•	 Credit risk;
•	 Liquidity risk; and
•	 Market risk
	
Risk management framework
	
The Company’s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Company’s risk 
management framework. The Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee (RMC) for identification, evaluation 
and mitigation of operations, strategic and external risks. RMC has the overall responsibility for monitoring and recovering 
the Risk Management Plan and associated practices of the Company.
	
The Company’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Company, to set 
appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are 
reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company’s activities. The Company, through its training 
and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which 
all employees understand their roles and obligations.
	
The RMC oversees how management monitors compliance with the Company’s risk management policies and procedures, 
and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Company. The committee is 
assisted in its oversight role by internal audit. Internal audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management 
controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the audit committee.
	
i.	
Credit risk
	
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to 
meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Company’s receivables from customers, investment in 
mutual funds and cash and cash equivalents. The Company makes provision on trade receivables based on Expected 
Credit loss (ECL) method based on provision matrix.
	
	
Trade receivables
	
	
The Company’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. Credit 
risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously monitoring the creditworthiness 
of customers to which the Company grants credit terms in the normal course of business. The Company has a detailed 
review mechanism of overdue trade receivables at various levels in the organisation to ensure proper attention and 
focus on realisation.
	
	
Summary of the Company’s exposure to credit risk by age of the outstanding from various customers is as follows:
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Not past due
401.05
436.24
Past due 1–360 days
153.65
93.22
Past due 361- 720 days
42.31
34.09
more than 720 days
52.68
26.64
649.69
590.19
	
	
Expected credit loss assessment
	
	
Exposures to customers outstanding at the end of each reporting period are reviewed by the Company to determine 
incurred and expected credit losses. Management believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due are still 
collectible in full, based on historical payment behaviour and extensive analysis of customer credit risk.
	
	
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
Particulars
K Crore
Balance as at 1st April, 2022
30.21
Impairment loss recognised
21.23
Write off of bad debts
(6.54)
Balance as at 1st April, 2023
44.90
Impairment loss recognised
20.88
Write off of bad debts
(8.86)
Balance as at 31st March, 2024
56.92
	
	
Cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits
	
	
The Company held cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits with banks and financial institutions. The credit 
worthiness of such banks and financial institutions is evaluated by the management on an on-going basis and is 
considered to be good. Investment of surplus funds are made in bank deposits and other risk free securities.
	
	
Derivatives
	
	
The derivatives (forwards and options for foreign currency payments) are entered into with banks and financial institution 
counterparties with good credit ratings.
368
369
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
	
Investment in mutual funds
	
	
The Company limits its exposure to credit risk by investing only with counterparties that have a good credit rating. The 
Company does not expect any losses from non performance by these counter parties
	
	
Other than trade receivables, the Company has no other financial assets that are past due but not impaired.
	
ii.	
Liquidity risk
	
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become due at 
reasonable price. The Company manages its liquidity risk by ensuring, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient 
liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable 
losses or risk to the Company’s reputation.
	
	
The Company monitors cash flow requirements and aims at optimising its cash return on investments and to maintain 
the level of its cash and bank balance and other highly marketable mutual fund investments at an amount in excess of 
expected cash outflows on financial liabilities.
	
	
Exposure to liquidity risk
	
	
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The contractual cash 
flows are gross and undiscounted, and include estimated interest payments.
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Contractual cash flows
Total
1 year or 
less
1-2 years
2-5 years
More than 5 
years
Non current financial liabilities
	
Long Term Borrowings (including interest)
298.97
-
298.97
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
55.55
-
25.17
29.80
0.58
	
Trade payables
14.03
3.79
6.05
4.19
-
Current financial liabilities
	
Short term Borrowings (including interest)
331.33
331.33
-
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
35.21
35.21
-
-
-
	
Trade payables
1,172.45
1,172.45
-
-
-
	
Other financial liabilities
35.77
35.77
-
-
-
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2023
Contractual cash flows
Total
1 year or 
less
1-2 years
2-5 years
More than 5 
years
Non current financial liabilities
	
Long Term Borrowings (including interest)
597.18
-
597.18
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
58.71
-
26.38
29.73
2.60
	
Trade payables
13.19
4.41
3.54
5.24
-
Current financial liabilities
	
Short term Borrowings (including interest)
361.50
361.50
-
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
30.81
30.81
-
-
-
	
Trade payables
894.25
894.25
-
-
-
	
Other financial liabilities
31.80
31.80
-
-
-
	
iii.	
Market risk
	
	
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices – such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices 
– will affect the Company’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. Market risk is attributable to 
all market risk sensitive financial instruments including foreign currency receivables and payables. The Company 
is exposed to market risk primarily related to foreign exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and the market value of 
investments. Thus, Company’s exposure to market risk is a function of investing and revenue generating and operating 
activities in foreign currency. The objective of market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure in our foreign 
currency revenues and costs. 
	
	
Market risk comprises two types of risks: currency risk and interest rate risk:
	
a)	
Currency risk
	
	
The Company is exposed to currency risk on account of its receivable and payables in foreign currency. The functional 
currency of the Company is Indian Rupee. The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts and options foreign 
exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk, with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
	
	
The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
	
	
Following is the derivative financial instruments to hedge the foreign exchange rate risk:
Category
Instrument
Currency Cross 
Currency
Amounts  
($ in million)
Buy/Sell
Period
Hedges of recognised liabilities
Option Contract
USD
INR
3.51 Buy
As at 31st 
March, 2024
Hedges of recognised liabilities
Forward Contract
USD
INR
0.07 Buy
As at 31st 
March, 2024
	
	
Exposure to currency risk
	
	
The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities denominated in USD are as below:
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Financial assets
Trade receivables
17.57
7.89
17.57
7.89
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
31.48
55.53
31.48
55.53
Net foreign currency exposure
(13.91)
(47.64)
	
	
Sensitivity analysis
	
	
A reasonably possible strengthening/ (weakening) of the Indian Rupee against foreign currencies at reporting date 
would have affected the measurement of financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies and affected profit 
or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain 
constant and ignores any impact of forecast sales and purchases.
I Crore
Effect in K Crore
Movement
Profit or loss
Strengthening
Weakening
31st March, 2024
USD
5%
(0.70)
0.70
(0.70)
0.70
370
371
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
I Crore
Effect in K Crore
Movement
Profit or loss
Strengthening
Weakening
31st March, 2023
USD 
5%
(2.38)
2.38
(2.38)
2.38
	
b)	
Interest rate risk
	
	
Interest rate risk can be either fair value interest rate risk or cash flow interest rate risk. Fair value interest rate risk is the 
risk of changes in fair values of fixed interest bearing investments because of fluctuations in the interest rates. Cash 
flow interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows of floating interest bearing investments will fluctuate because 
of fluctuations in the interest rates.
	
	
Exposure to Interest Rate Risk / Sensitivity
	
	
Company’s interest rate risk arises from borrowings. The interest rate profile of the Company’s interest-bearing financial 
instruments as reported to the management of the Company is as follows.
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Fixed-rate instruments
Financial assets
	
Bank deposits
153.00
8.00
Total
153.00
8.00
Financial liabilities
	
Non-current borrowings
298.97
597.18
	
Current borrowings
300.00
325.00
598.97
922.18
	
	
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed-rate instruments
	
	
The Company does not account for any fixed-rate financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
38	 Financial performance ratios
Particulars
Numerator
Denominator
 31st March, 
2024
31st March, 
2023
Variance
Refer 
Note
A.	 Performance Ratios
	
Net Profit Margin (in %)
Profit after tax
Total Income
7.23%
8.08%
(10.51%)
	
Net Capital Turnover ratio  
(in times)
Revenue from 
operations
Working Capital
8.08
8.25
(2.08%)
	
Return on Capital Employed  
(in %)
Earnings before 
interest and taxes
Tangible Capital 
Employed
26.78%
31.03%
(13.72%)
	
Return on equity (in %)
Net Profit after Taxes
Average Shareholder's 
Equity
15.43%
17.96%
(14.08%)
	
Return on Investment (in %)
Net gain on investment Weighted average 
investments
7.52%
5.69%
32.16%
(a)
	
Debt Service Coverage Ratio  
(in times)
Profit After Tax + 
Interest + Depreciation
Finance Cost + 
Repayments made 
during the year
1.52
2.50
(39.20%)
(b)
Particulars
Numerator
Denominator
 31st March, 
2024
31st March, 
2023
Variance
Refer 
Note
B.	 Leverage Ratio
	
Debt-Equity Ratio (in times)
Total Debt
Equity
0.19
0.32
(42.47%)
(b)
C.	 Liquidity Ratio
	
Current ratio (in times)
Current Assets
Current liabilities excl. 
current Borrowings
1.52
1.59
(4.44%)
D.	 Activity Ratios
	
Inventory Turnover (in times)
Cost of goods sold
Average Inventory
6.70
7.10
(5.63%)
	
Debtors Turnover (in times)
Revenue from 
operations
Avg. Trade Receivables
11.23
10.98
2.28%
	
Trade Payables Turnover ratio 
(in times)
Cost of goods sold
Avg. Accounts 
payables
4.20
4.38
(4.11%)
	
Note: Explanation for change in the ratio by more than 25%
	
(a)	
Return on inventment increased due to improved yield and duration of investment.
	
(b)	
Movement in ratios is on account of repayment of borrowings during the year.
39	 Assets Pledged as Security
	
The carrying amounts of assets pledged as security for current and non-current borrowings are:
I Crore
Particulars
As at  
31st March, 2024
As at  
31st March, 2023
a)	 Inventories
	
Raw Material
88.60
109.94
	
FG
575.07
471.11
	
WIP
34.33
37.70
b)	 Trade receivables
592.77
545.29
Total assets pledged as security (a+b)
1,290.77
1,164.04
	
Notes:
	
(a)	
Borrowings were applied for the purpose for which they were obtained. Bank returns/ stock statements filed by the 
Company with its bankers are in agreement with books of accounts.
	
(b)	
According to the sanction terms laid out by the consortium lenders, there is exclusive first pari passu charge on stock 
of raw materials, semi-finished and finished goods, stores and spares, bills receivables and book debts, both present 
and future.
40	 Details of relationship with struck-off companies
Name of the struck off Company
Nature of transactions with 
struck off Company
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31st March, 2024
(K Crore)
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31st March, 2023
(K Crore)
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
Company, 
if any, to be 
disclosed
Air Temp Solutions Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Alif Trading Company
Receivables
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Federro Electronics Private Limited*
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
H.K. Power Corporation Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.01 
 0.01 Customer
Hammer Head Technologies Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Kapson Power Technology Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Kiapco Infrastructure Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.01 
 0.01 Customer
372
373
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Name of the struck off Company
Nature of transactions with 
struck off Company
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31st March, 2024
(K Crore)
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31st March, 2023
(K Crore)
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
Company, 
if any, to be 
disclosed
Ncs Infocomm Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.01 
 0.01 Customer
Revive Industries Private Limited*
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
S.S. Electro Works Private Limited*
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Seven Hills Impex Limited*
Advance from customer
 0.01 
 0.01 Customer
Shakedi Shengtai Electrics Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Shreeskanda Systems Private Limited
Receivables
 0.01 
 0.01 Customer
Super Market Grocery Supplies Private Limited*
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Suzusons Care Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Takkar Interna.Trademart Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Techno India Wtr & Waste Wtr Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Triveni Machinery Private Limited*
Receivables
 4.15 
 1.72 Customer
Venus Dealmark Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
*The company was struck off or under the process of striking off as at 31st March, 2024
41	 Capital Management
	
Equity share capital and other equity are considered for the purpose of Company’s capital management. The Company 
manages its capital so as to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to optimise returns to shareholders. The 
capital structure of the Company is based on management’s judgement of its strategic and day-to-day needs with a focus 
on total equity so as to maintain investor, creditors and market confidence. The management and the Board of Directors 
monitors the return on capital as well as the level of dividends to shareholders. The Company may take appropriate steps 
in order to maintain, or if necessary adjust, its capital structure.
	
The Board of Directors seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of 
borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
	
The Company monitors capital using a ratio of ‘adjusted net debt’ to ‘total equity’. For this purpose, adjusted net debt is 
defined as total liabilities, comprising interest-bearing loans and borrowings, less cash and cash equivalents and other bank 
balances. Total equity comprises all components of equity.
	
The Company’s adjusted net debt-to-equity ratio at 31st March, 2024 was as follows:
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Total equity
3,205.48
2,838.97
Total borrowings (including current portion of long-term debts)
598.97
922.18
Less: cash and cash equivalents
130.79
44.06
Less: other bank balances
84.48
3.74
Net debt
383.70
874.38
Overall financing
3,589.18
3,713.35
Gearing ratio
0.11
0.24
	
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the current and previous year.
	
In order to achieve this overall objective, the Company’s capital management, among other things, aims to ensure that it 
meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital structure requirements. 
Breaches in meeting the financial covenants would  permit the bank to immediately call loans and borrowings. There have 
been no breaches in the financial covenants of any interest-bearing loans and borrowing during the current and previous year.
42	 There has been no delay in charges or satisfaction to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.
43	 The Company does not have any transactions not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or disclosed 
as income during the year in tax assessments under the Income-tax Act, 1961.
44	 The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current or previous year.
45	 Utilisation of Borrowed funds and share premium
	
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
a.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
b.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
	
The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
	
a.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
b.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
46	 The Board of Directors of the Company, at its meeting on 25th March, 2023, had approved the Scheme of Arrangement 
under Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Scheme’), for merger of its subsidiary Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited (“Butterfly”) with the Company. Pursuant to the meeting of equity shareholders, secured creditors and 
unsecured creditors of Butterfly, convened as per the directions of Chennai Bench of the Hon’ble National Company Law 
Tribunal on 28th October, 2023, the approval of majority of the public shareholders of the Butterfly was not received in favour 
of the Scheme. Accordingly, the Scheme is not acted upon.
47	 The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘the Code’) relating to employee benefits, during the employment and post-employment, 
received Presidential assent on 28th September, 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Further, the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on 13th November, 2020. However, the effective 
date from which the changes are applicable is yet to be notified and rules for quantifying the financial impact are also not 
yet issued. The Company will assess the impact of the Code and will give appropriate impact in the financial statements in 
the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
48	 No significant subsequent events have been observed which may require an adjustments to the financial statements.
49	 Amount shown as I 0.00 represents amount below I 50,000 (Rupees Fifty Thousand).
50	 Figures for the previous year have been regrouped wherever necessary.
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and  
Chief Executive Officer
Firm's Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
P. R. Ramesh
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 01915274
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
16th May 2024
16th May 2024
374
375
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Financial 
Statements of Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Holding Company”) and its 
subsidiaries (Holding Company and its subsidiaries together 
referred to as “the Group”), which comprise the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024, and the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss including Other Comprehensive 
Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and 
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year then 
ended, and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
including material accounting policy information and other 
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Consolidated Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, and based on consideration 
of reports of other auditors on separate financial statements 
and on the other financial information of subsidiaries, the 
aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements give the 
information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) 
in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in 
conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed 
under section 133 of the Act read with Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended (“Ind AS”) 
and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of 
their consolidated state of affairs of the Group as at March 31, 
2024, of consolidated total comprehensive income (comprising 
of profit and other comprehensive income) consolidated 
changes in equity and its consolidated cash flows for the 
year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing 
(SAs), as specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our 
responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the 
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent 
of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements 
that are relevant to our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by Institute 
of Chartered Accountant of India (“ICAI”), and the relevant 
provisions of the Act and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We 
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and on 
consideration of audit reports of other auditors referred to in 
the “Other Matters” section below, is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 
March 31, 2024. These matters were addressed in the context of 
our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, 
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the 
matters described below to be the key audit matters to be 
communicated in our report.
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matter
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our audit
1
Impairment of and Other Intangible Assets with Indefinite 
Useful Lives
(Refer Notes 2 and 36 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements)
The goodwill balance as of 31st March, 2024 of I 1,285.46 
crores pertains to:
(i)	 I 779.41 crores on account demerger of the Consumer 
Business from Crompton Greaves Limited (now CG 
Power and Industrial Solutions Limited) and Crompton 
Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited in 2015; and
(ii)	 I  506.05 crores on account of business acquisition of 
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited (“Subsidiary”).
Other Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives pertains to 
brand and trademarks purchased on account of acquisition 
of subsidiary.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included, but were 
not limited to, the following:
a)	 Obtained an understanding of the process and assessed the 
design, implementation and tested the operating effectiveness 
of internal controls over the accounting for goodwill and other 
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives arising out of 
business reconstruction transaction.
b)	 Assessed reasonableness of the future revenue and margin 
projections, the historical accuracy of the estimates and its 
ability to produce accurate long-term forecasts.
c)	 Involved our valuation experts (“auditor’s expert”) to assist in 
examining the reasonableness of the Company’s valuation 
model and analysing the underlying key assumptions, including 
discount rates.
Sr. 
No
Key Audit Matter
How the Key Audit Matter was addressed in our audit
Carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets 
with indefinite useful lives is material as at March 31, 2024 
and inherent uncertainty is involved in forecasting and 
discounting future cash flows, determination of discount and 
terminal growth rates for computing the Value in use and the 
assessment of its recoverability.
The Company has carried out an impairment assessment 
using the value-in-use (ViU) calculations which is based 
on Discounted Cash Flow with Exit Multiple Method. 
Determination 
of 
ViU 
involves 
significant 
estimates, 
assumptions and judgements as regards reasonableness 
of assumptions involved in developing projections of entity’s 
financial performance, exit multiples, and discount rates to be 
considered.
Considering the uncertainty involved in forecasting of 
cash flows and the judgement involved with respect to key 
assumptions used in computing the recoverable amount, this 
audit area is considered a key audit matter.
d)	 Evaluated the sensitivity in the valuation, resulting from changes 
to key assumptions applied and compared the assumptions to 
corroborating information including industry reports and data 
from competitors, and historic performance.
e)	 Compared the reasonableness of future operating cash flow 
forecasts with the business plan and budgets approved by the 
Board and tested the mathematical accuracy of management’s 
calculations.
f)	
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the disclosures 
made in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2
Provision for Warranties
(Refer Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements)
The Company’s business involves the sale of products under 
warranty. The Company also has back-to-back contractual 
arrangements with its vendors for reimbursement of cost 
relating to products supplied by the vendors.
Warranty provisions, which are inherently judgemental in 
nature, are provided by the Company to record an appropriate 
estimate of the costs of repairing and replacing products and 
spares within the warranty period. The Company estimates 
and provides for liability for product warranties in the year in 
which the products are sold. Further, the timing of outflows 
will vary based on the actual warranty claims made during the 
warranty period in the future.
The above estimations of warranty provision require significant 
judgement considering the nature and timing of the cash 
outflows. Also, there is estimation uncertainty as regards to 
the timing and the amount of the actual warranty claims that 
may devolve over the warranty period. Accordingly, provision 
for warranties has been determined by us to be a key audit 
matter.
Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included, but were 
not limited to, the following:
a)	 Obtained an understanding of the warranty claims process 
and assessed the design and implementation and tested the 
operating effectiveness of internal controls over the provision for 
warranties.
b)	 Reviewed the historical data of warranty costs incurred in regard 
to the product sales, the trend of claims over the warranty 
period and the comparison between provisions previously 
recognised and actual expenses. Also reviewed the historical 
data of recoveries from vendors against warranty claims and 
defective returns.
c)	 Reviewed reconciliations of sales made during the year with 
sales register to determine completeness on which warranty 
obligation is determined.
d)	 Performed 
enquiry 
procedures 
and 
reviewed 
relevant 
documents in evaluating the accuracy of historical information 
prepared by the management (including cost of repairs and 
returns).
e)	 Reviewed the recognition and appropriateness of provisions 
by verifying the computation of defect rates, vendors recovery 
and mathematical accuracy of management calculations and 
obtaining management statements, evidence and supporting 
documents.
f)	
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the relevant 
disclosures made in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Information Other than the Consolidated 
Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report 
Thereon
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the other information. The other information comprises 
the information included in the Management Discussion and 
Analysis, Chairman’s statement, Director’s report but does 
not include the Consolidated Financial Statements and our 
auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not 
cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information 
is materially inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial 
Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the 
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material 
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report 
that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
376
377
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Responsibilities of Management and Those 
Charged with Governance for the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the preparation and presentation of these Consolidated 
Financial Statements in term of the requirements of the Act 
that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial 
position, consolidated financial performance, consolidated 
changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group in 
accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted 
in India, including the Accounting Standards specified under 
section 133 of the Act. The respective Board of Directors of 
the companies included in the Group are responsible for 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets 
of the Group for preventing and detecting frauds and other 
irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and completeness 
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give 
a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for 
the purpose of preparation of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company, 
as aforesaid.
In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the 
respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the 
Group are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group to 
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters 
related to going concern and using the going concern basis 
of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to 
liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic 
alternative but to do so. The respective Board of Directors of 
the companies included in the Group are also responsible for 
overseeing the financial reporting process of each company.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is 
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with 
Standards on Auditing (“SAs”) will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from 
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in 
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence 
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
consolidated financial statements.
We give in “Annexure A” a detailed description of 
Auditor’s responsibilities for Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
Other Matter
We did not audit the financial statements of three subsidiaries, 
whose financial statements reflect total assets of I 580.52 crores 
as at March 31, 2024, total revenues of I 940.36 crores and net 
cash flows amounting to I 8.49 crores for the year ended on that 
date, as considered in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
These financial statements have been audited by other auditors 
whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management 
and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in 
so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in 
respect of these subsidiaries, and our report in terms of sub-
section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to 
the aforesaid subsidiaries, is based solely on the reports of the 
other auditors.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements and our 
report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is 
not modified in respect of the above matter with respect to our 
reliance on the work done and reports of the other auditors.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
1.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our 
audit and on the consideration of the reports of the other 
auditors on the separate financial statements of the 
subsidiaries referred to in the Other Matters section above 
we report, to the extent applicable, that:
	
a.	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit 
of the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements have been kept 
so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books and the reports of the other auditors.
	
c.	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss including Other 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by this Report 
are in agreement with the relevant books of account 
maintained for the purpose of preparation of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
	
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial 
Statements comply with the Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act.
	
e.	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Holding Company as on March 
31, 2024 taken on record by the Board of Directors of 
the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory 
auditors of its subsidiary companies, incorporated in 
India, none of the directors of the Group companies, 
are disqualified as on March 31, 2024 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of 
the Act.
	
f.	
With respect to the adequacy of internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of the Group, and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate 
report in “Annexure B”.
	
g.	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
	
	
i.	
The Consolidated Financial Statements 
disclose the impact of pending litigations 
on the consolidated financial position of the 
Group – Refer Note 29 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
	
	
ii.	
The Group did not have any material foreseeable 
losses on long-term contracts including 
derivative contracts.
	
	
iii.	
There were no amounts which were required 
to be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Holding Company, and 
its subsidiary companies incorporated in India.
	
	
iv.	
(1)	
The respective Managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries, 
which are companies incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act have represented 
to us and the other auditors of such 
subsidiaries, that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, no funds have been 
advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium 
or any other sources or kind of funds) 
by the Holding Company or any of such 
subsidiaries, to or in any other person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
with the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, as on the date of 
this audit report, that such parties shall, 
whether directly or indirectly lend or invest 
in other persons or entities identified in 
any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Holding Company or any of such 
subsidiaries (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(2)	
The respective Managements of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries, 
which are companies incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act have represented 
to us and the other auditors of such 
subsidiaries, that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, no funds have been 
received by the Holding Company or any 
of such subsidiaries, from any person(s) 
or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
with the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, as on the date of 
this audit report, that the Holding Company 
or any of such subsidiaries, shall, whether 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding 
Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(3)	
Based on the audit procedures that 
have been considered reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances 
performed by us and that performed by 
the auditors of the subsidiaries, associates 
and joint ventures which are companies 
incorporated in India whose financial 
statements have been audited under the 
Act, and according to the information 
and explanations provided to us by the 
Management of the Holding company 
in this regard, nothing has come to our 
or other auditors’ notice that has caused 
us or the other auditors to believe that 
the representations under sub-clause (i) 
and (ii) of Rule 11(e) as provided under (1) 
and (2) above, contain any material mis-
statement.
	
	
v.	
On the basis of our verification and on 
consideration of the reports of the statutory 
auditors of subsidiaries, that are Indian 
companies under the Act, we report that:
	
	
	
a.	
the final dividend paid by the Holding 
Company during the year in respect of 
the same declared for the previous year 
is in accordance with section 123 of 
378
379
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
the Companies Act 2013 to the extent it 
applies to payment of dividend.
	
	
	
b.	
The Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company have proposed final dividend for 
the year which is subject to the approval of 
their respective members at the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting. The dividend 
declared is in accordance with section 
123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
declaration of dividend. (Refer Note 12(h) 
to the Consolidated Financial Statements)
	
	
vi.	
Based on our examination which included 
test checks, the Holding Company and its 
three subsidiary companies have used an 
accounting software for maintaining its books 
of account which has a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has 
operated throughout the year for all relevant 
transactions recorded in the software. Further, 
during the course of our audit we did not come 
across any instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with.
	
	
	
As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable from 
April 01, 2023, reporting under Rule 11(g) of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 on preservation of audit trail as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention 
is not applicable for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2024.
2.	
In our opinion, according to information, explanations 
given to us, the remuneration paid by the Group, to 
its directors is within the limits laid prescribed under 
Section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act and the 
rules thereunder.
3.	
According to the information and explanations given to us, 
the details of Qualifications/adverse remarks made by the 
respective auditors of the subsidiaries in the Companies 
(Auditor’s Report) Order 2020 (CARO) Reports issued till 
the date of our audit report for the companies included in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements are as follows:
Sr. 
No
Name of the Company
CIN
Type of Company 
Clause number of the CARO 
Report which is qualified
1
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
L28931TN1986PLC012728
Subsidiary
Clause ii(b)
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 118247
Date: May 16, 2024
UDIN: 24118247BKFOJD9871
Annexure A
To The Independent Auditor’s Report on even date on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
•	 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or 
error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to 
those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of 
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control.
•	 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the 
audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we 
are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether 
the Holding Company has adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by the management.
•	 Conclude on the appropriateness of the management’s use 
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on 
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant 
doubt on the ability of the Group to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the 
related disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained 
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events 
or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as 
a going concern.
•	 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the Consolidated Financial 
Statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
•	 Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the 
financial information of the entities or business activities 
within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of the financial 
statements of such entities included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of which we are the independent 
auditors. For the other entities included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, which have been audited by other 
auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the 
direction, supervision and performance of the audits 
carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our 
audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other entities included in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal 
control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement 
that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them 
all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be 
thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated in our 
report because the adverse consequences of doing so would 
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 118247
Date: May 16, 2024
UDIN: 24118247BKFOJD9871
380
381
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Annexure B 
To The Independent Auditor’s Report of even date on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited
[Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements’ in the Independent Auditors’ Report 
of even date to the Members of Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Eleectricals Limited on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended March 31, 2024]
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under 
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
Opinion
In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Company as of and for the year ended 
March 31, 2024, we have audited the internal financial controls 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of Crompton 
Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited (hereinafter referred to 
as “the Holding Company”) which includes the internal financial 
controls over financial reporting of the Holding Company’s 
and its subsidiary companies (the Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), which are 
companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
In our opinion, and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the Holding Company and its 
subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated 
in India, have, in all material respects, an adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements and such internal financial controls with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements were operating effectively 
as at March 31, 2024, based on the internal financial controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements criteria 
established by the respective companies considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (“the ICAI”).
Management’s Responsibility for Internal 
Financial Controls
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company and 
its subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated in 
India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal 
financial controls based on the internal control with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements criteria established 
by the respective companies considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and 
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the 
respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required under 
the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiary 
companies, which are companies incorporated in India, 
based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance 
with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the 
ICAI and the Standards on Auditing prescribed under section 
143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal 
financial controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan 
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements was established and 
maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all 
material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements and their 
operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements included 
obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating 
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based 
on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the 
auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, 
whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the 
audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their 
reports referred to in the Other Matter paragraph below, is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion 
on the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiary 
companies, which are companies incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls 
With Reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements
A company’s internal financial control with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of Consolidated Financial 
Statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial 
control with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of consolidated financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of 
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, 
use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a 
material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial 
Controls With Reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls 
with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, including 
the possibility of collusion or improper management override 
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may 
occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk 
that the internal financial control with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements may become inadequate because of 
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with 
the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Other Matter
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the 
adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
insofar as it relates to three subsidiary companies, which are 
companies incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding 
reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated in India. 
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 
For M S K A & Associates
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration No. 105047W
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
Partner
Place: Mumbai
Membership No.: 118247
Date: May 16, 2024
UDIN: 24118247BKFOJD9871
382
383
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Consolidated Balance Sheet 	
as at 31st March, 2024	
I Crore
Particulars
Notes
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
I.	
ASSETS
	
(1)	 Non-current assets
	
(a)	 Property, plant and equipment
2 A
399.06
408.02
	
(b)	 Capital work-in-progress
2 E
11.42
5.46
	
(c)	 Right-of-use assets
2 B
76.23
75.95
	
(d)	 Goodwill
2 C
1,285.46
1,285.46
	
(e)	 Other intangible assets
2 D
1,436.08
1,480.51
	
(f)	 Intangible assets under development
2 F
47.06
21.05
	
(g)	 Financial assets
	
	
(i)	 Investments
3 A
-
0.35
	
	
(ii)	 Trade receivables
7 A
12.65
15.49
	
	
(iii)	 Other financial asset
4 A
19.10
18.73
	
(h)	 Non-current tax assets (net)
20
8.62
9.36
	
(i)	 Other non-current assets
5 A
81.22
75.76
	
Total non-current assets
3,376.90
3,396.14
	
(2)	 Current assets
	
	
(a)	 Inventories
6
830.44
743.85
	
	
(b)	 Financial assets
	
	
	
(i)	 Investments
3 B
689.10
547.83
	
	
	
(ii)	 Trade receivables
7 B
720.89
670.56
	
	
	
(iii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
8
172.06
76.84
	
	
	
(iv)	Bank balances other than (iii) above
9
88.71
32.64
	
	
	
(v)	 Loans
10
0.36
0.66
	
	
	
(vi)	Other financial assets
4 B
20.02
18.97
	
	
(c)	 Current tax assets (net)
20
3.25
19.81
	
	
(d)	 Other current assets
5 B
178.97
147.13
	
	
(e)	 Assets held for sale
11
1.00
-
	
Total current assets
2,704.80
2,258.29
	
TOTAL ASSETS
6,081.70
5,654.43
Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.)
as at 31st March, 2024	
I Crore
Particulars
Notes
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
II.	 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
	
Equity
	
(a)	 Equity share capital
12
128.62
127.22
	
(b)	 Other equity
13
2,871.00
2,532.77
	
Equity attributable to equity holders of parent company
2,999.62
2,659.99
	
(c)	 Non-controlling interests
14
449.35
447.71
	
Total equity
3,448.97
3,107.70
	
Liabilities
	
(1)	 Non-current liabilities
	
	
(a)	 Financial liabilities
	
	
	
(i)	 Borrowings
15 A
298.97
597.18
	
	
	
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
32
52.79
55.93
	
	
	
(iii)	 Trade payables
17 A
	
	
	
	
(a)	 Total Outstanding dues of Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
-
-
	
	
	
	
(b)	 Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro Enterprises 
and Small Enterprises
14.03
13.19
	
	
(b)	 Deferred tax liabilities (net)
20
9.94
12.27
	
	
(c)	 Provisions
16 A
193.73
131.23
	
	
Total non-current liabilities
569.46
809.80
	
(2)	 Current liabilities
	
	
(a)	 Financial liabilities
	
	
	
(i)	 Borrowings
15 B
300.00
325.00
	
	
	
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
32
31.43
27.00
	
	
	
(iii)	 Trade payables
17 B
	
	
	
	
(a)	 Total Outstanding dues of Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
261.57
245.18
	
	
	
	
(b)	 Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro Enterprises 
and Small Enterprises
1,052.89
790.20
	
	
	
(iv)	Other financial liabilities
18
72.12
73.50
	
	
(b)	 Other current liabilities
19
117.90
96.37
	
	
(c)	 Provisions
16 B
203.97
170.48
	
	
(d)	 Current tax liabilities (net)
20
23.39
9.20
Total current liabilities
2,063.27
1,736.93
Total liabilities
2,632.73
2,546.73
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
6,081.70
5,654.43
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Firm's Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
P. R. Ramesh
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 01915274
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
16th May, 2024
16th May, 2024
384
385
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
H Crore
Particulars
Notes
2023-24
2022-23
Income
I.	
Revenue from operations
21
7,312.81
6,869.61
II.	
Other income
22
67.39
66.78
III.	 Total Income (I+II)
7,380.20
6,936.39
IV.	 Expenses
	
Cost of materials consumed
23
1,829.03
1,734.96
	
Purchase of stock-in-trade
24
3,288.84
3,011.32
	
Changes in inventories of finished goods, 	stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
25
(117.56)
(65.93)
	
Employee benefits expense
26
589.87
540.80
	
Finance costs
27
79.19
109.18
	
Depreciation and amortisation expense
2
128.82
115.92
	
Other expenses
28
1,008.94
877.99
	
Total Expenses (IV)
6,807.13
6,324.24
V.	 Profit before tax
573.07
612.15
VI.	 Tax expenses:
20
	
Current tax
134.30
178.62
	
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
(0.78)
(16.71)
	
Deferred tax credit
(2.23)
(26.16)
	
Total Tax expenses (VI)
131.29
135.75
VII.	Profit for the year (V-VI)
441.78
476.40
VIII.	Other comprehensive income
	
(i)	 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
	
	
Remeasurements gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans
(0.40)
(3.33)
	
(ii)	 Income tax related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
20
0.10
0.99
	
Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax) (VIII)
(0.30)
(2.34)
IX. Total comprehensive income for the year (VII+VIII)
441.48
474.06
	
Profit attributable to:
	
Owners of the Holding Company
439.92
463.21
	
Non-controlling interests
1.86
13.19
	
Other Comprehensive income attributable to:
	
Owners of the Holding Company
(0.09)
(2.17)
	
Non-controlling interests
(0.21)
(0.17)
	
Total Comprehensive income attributable to:
	
Owners of the Holding Company
439.83
461.04
	
Non-controlling interests
1.65
13.02
X.	 Earnings per equity share (in K) of face value of K 2 each
35
	
1.	 Basic
6.88
7.29
	
2.	 Diluted
6.88
7.27
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Firm's Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
P. R. Ramesh
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 01915274
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
16th May, 2024
16th May, 2024
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
(A)	 EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
No. of Shares
Amount K Crore
No. of Shares
Amount K Crore
Balance as at the beginning of the reporting year
 63,61,09,719 
 127.22 
 63,34,05,959 
 126.68 
Changes in equity share capital during the year
 69,97,260 
 1.40 
 27,03,760 
 0.54 
Balance as at the end of the reporting year
 64,31,06,979 
 128.62 
 63,61,09,719 
 127.22 
(B)	 OTHER EQUITY 
H Crore
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Other 
comprehensive 
income
Equity 
attributable 
to equity 
holders of 
the parent
Non- 
Controlling 
Interest
Total Other 
Equity
Capital 
Reserve
Securities 
premium
Employee 
stock options 
outstanding 
account
Debenture 
redemption 
reserve
Retained 
earnings
Remeasurement 
gain/(loss) on 
defined benefit 
plans
Balance as at 1st April,2022
0.05
144.87
138.63
75.00 1,964.50
3.23
2,326.28
782.45
3,108.73
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
463.21
-
463.21
13.19
476.40
Dividends paid
-
-
-
-
(158.41)
-
(158.41)
-
(158.41)
Securities premium received
-
41.06
-
-
-
-
41.06
-
41.06
Amount transferred to/(from) Securities 
premium
-
23.58
(23.58)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Amount transferred to/(from) Retained 
earnings
-
-
(1.81)
(75.00)
79.32
-
2.51
-
2.51
Movement in Other comprehensive income 
for the year
-
-
-
-
-
(2.16)
(2.16)
(0.18)
(2.34)
Employee compensation expense for the year 
(Refer Note 26)
-
-
27.17
-
-
-
27.17
-
27.17
Adjustment for changes in ownership interests
-
-
-
-
(166.89)
-
(166.89)
(347.75)
(514.64)
Balance as at 31st March, 2023
0.05
209.51
140.41
- 2,181.73
1.07
2,532.77
447.71
2,980.48
Profit for the year
-
-
-
-
439.92
-
439.92
1.86
441.78
Dividends paid
-
-
-
-
(191.90)
-
(191.90)
-
(191.90)
Securities premium received
-
87.94
-
-
-
-
87.94
-
87.94
Amount transferred to/(from) Securities 
premium
-
64.03
(64.03)
-
-
-
-
-
-
Amount transferred to/(from) Retained 
earnings
-
-
(2.92)
-
2.92
-
-
-
-
Movement in Other comprehensive income 
for the year
-
-
-
-
-
(0.09)
(0.09)
(0.21)
(0.30)
Employee compensation expense for the year 
(Refer Note 26)
-
-
2.36
-
-
-
2.36
-
2.36
Balance as at 31st March, 2024
0.05
361.48
75.82
- 2,432.67
0.98
2,871.00
449.35
3,320.35
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date attached
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Firm's Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
P. R. Ramesh
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 01915274
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
16th May, 2024
16th May, 2024
386
387
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
[A]
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax
573.07
612.15
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
128.82
115.92
Finance cost
79.19
109.18
Loss/(gain) on sale of property, plant and equipment
0.57
(3.75)
Share-based payments to employees
2.36
27.17
Net gain on sale or fair valuation of investments (net)
(26.77)
(15.75)
Interest income
(38.61)
(45.92)
Unrealised exchange loss/(gain) (net)
0.51
(2.69)
146.07
184.16
Cash generated from operations before working capital changes
719.14
796.31
Adjustments for:
Increase in trade receivables
(47.49)
(70.62)
Increase in inventories
(86.59)
(22.81)
Increase in other financial and non financial assets
(45.73)
(14.89)
Increase in trade payables
281.53
33.49
Increase/(Decrease) in other financial and non financial liabilities
25.32
(33.62)
Increase in provisions
95.59
4.59
222.63
(103.86)
Cash generated from operations
941.77
692.45
Income tax paid (net of refunds)
(98.36)
(139.86)
Net cash generated from operating activities [A]
843.41
552.59
[B]
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Add: Inflows from investing activities
Interest received
43.17
43.18
Proceeds from sale of Investment in subsidiary (net)
-
161.08
Proceeds from non-current investments (net)
0.35
-
Proceeds from current investments (net)
-
91.75
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
3.28
8.28
46.80
304.29
Less: Outflows from investing activities
Investment in subsidiaries
-
672.96
Purchase of current investments (net)
114.50
-
Decrease/(Increase) in other bank balances and term deposits
55.40
(710.93)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
(including assets under development & capital advances)
83.79
79.10
253.69
41.13
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities [B]
(206.89)
263.16
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
[C]
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Add: Inflows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of equity shares
89.34
41.60
Proceeds from issue of debentures
-
925.00
89.34
966.60
Less: Outflows from financing activities
Payment of dividend including dividend distribution tax
191.24
157.78
Redemption of non-convertible debentures
325.00
150.00
Repayment of other long-term borrowings
-
9.36
Repayment of short-term borrowings
-
1,449.80
Repayment of lease liabilities
39.01
33.72
Interest paid
75.39
76.47
630.64
1,877.13
Net cash used in financing activities [C]
(541.30)
(910.53)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
95.22
(94.78)
(a)	 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
76.84
171.62
(b)	 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
172.06
76.84
(c)	 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (c = b-a)
95.22
(94.78)
Components of cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year are:
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Balance with banks:
	
In current accounts
60.78
68.74
	
In deposit accounts with original maturity of 3 months or less
111.28
8.00
Cash on hand (including cash in transit)
-
0.10
Total cash and cash equivalents
172.06
76.84
Notes:
(i)	
The above Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared under the ‘Indirect Method’ as set out in the Indian Accounting 
Standard (Ind AS) 7, Statement of Cash Flows as specified in the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards), Rules, 
2015 (as amended).
388
389
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (Contd.)
for the year ended 31st march, 2024
(ii)	
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities:
I Crore
Particulars
As at  
1st April, 
2023
Cash flow changes
Non-cash flow changes
As at  
31st March, 
2024
Receipts
Payments
Unamortised
expenses
Others
Non-current borrowings (Refer Note 15A)
597.18
-
-
1.79
(300.00)
298.97
Current borrowings (Refer Note 15B)
325.00
-
(325.00)
-
300.00
300.00
Total
922.18
-
(325.00)
1.79
-
598.97
I Crore
Particulars
As at  
1st April, 
2022
Cash flow changes
Non-cash flow changes
As at  
31st March, 
2023
Receipts
Payments
Unamortized
expenses
Others
Non-current borrowings (Refer Note 15A)
4.56
925.00
(4.56)
(2.82)
(325.00)
597.18
Current borrowings (Refer Note 15B)
1,602.95
-
(1,604.60)
1.65
325.00
325.00
Total
1,607.51
925.00
(1,609.16)
(1.17)
-
922.18
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Firm's Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
P. R. Ramesh
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 01915274
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
16th May, 2024
16th May, 2024
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited (the 
‘Company’ or ‘Crompton’ or ‘Holding Company’) and its 
subsidiaries (Holding Company and its subsidiaries together 
referred to as ‘the Group’), domiciled in India and incorporated 
under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. 
The Group is a leading brand dealing in consumer electrical 
goods, home appliances, electronic equipment, and instruments 
including fans, water heaters, kitchen appliances, lighting 
luminaires and pumps (domestic/ agriculture/ industrial). Its 
broad product range caters to residential, commercial, and 
industrial sectors, highlighting its versatility. With a focus 
on quality, innovation, and customer satisfaction, the Group 
maintains a strong reputation as a trusted industry leader.
The Group’s operations are spread across strategic locations 
in India, encompassing Bethora and Kundaim in Goa, Baddi 
in Himachal Pradesh, Ahmednagar in Maharashtra, Vadodara 
in Gujarat and Chennai in Tamil Nadu. Complementing these 
manufacturing endeavors is the Company’s cutting-edge 
research and development facility, known as the ‘Innovation 
Centre,’ situated in Mumbai, Maharashtra. This integrated 
network of manufacturing and research facilities underscores 
the Company’s commitment to excellence and its relentless 
pursuit of advancement and growth.
The shares of the Group are listed on National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited and BSE Limited. Further, debt securities 
(non-convertible debentures) of the Company are also listed 
on National Stock Exchange of India Limited. The CIN of the 
Company is L31900MH2015PLC262254. 
These consolidated financial statements comprise the financial 
statements of Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited 
(the ‘Company’) and its subsidiaries (collectively, the ‘Group’). 
Refer Note 45 for list of subsidiaries.
These consolidated financial statements of the Group for 
the year ended 31st March, 2024 were approved for issue in 
accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors on 
16th May, 2024.
1.	  Material Accounting policies
1.1	 Basis of preparation and consolidation
a)	
Basis of preparation
	
i)	
Statement of compliance
	
	
The Group’s consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared on accrual and going concern basis, 
in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind-AS) notified under Section 133 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (the “Act”) read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended 
and other relevant provisions of the Act.
	
	
The Group’s consolidated financial statements 
consistently apply uniform accounting policies 
across all periods, aligning them with those used by 
the Holding Company.
	
ii)	
Basis of measurement
	
	
These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on an accrual basis and a historical cost 
convention, except for the following assets and 
liabilities which have been measured at fair value:
•	 Financial instruments measured at fair value 
through profit or loss; 
•	 Net defined benefit(asset)/ liability - Fair value of 
plan assets less present value of defined benefit 
obligation; and
•	 Share based payment transactions
	
iii)	
Current and non-current classification
	
	
All assets and liabilities have been classified as 
current or non-current as per the Group’s normal 
operating cycle, paragraph 66 and 69 of Ind-AS 1 
and other criteria as set out in Division II of Schedule 
III to the Companies Act, 2013.
	
	
An asset is treated as current when it is:
•	 Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or 
consumed in normal operating cycle:
•	 Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
•	 Expected to be realised within twelve months after 
the reporting period; or
391
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
390
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
•	 Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for 
at least twelve months after the reporting period.
	
	
All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
	
A liability is treated as current when:
•	 It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle;
•	 It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
•	 It is due to be settled within twelve months after 
the reporting period; or
•	 There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve months 
after the reporting period.
	
	
All other liabilities are classified as non-current.
	
	
Based on the nature of products and the time 
between acquisition of assets for processing and 
their realisation in cash and cash equivalents, the 
Group has ascertained its operating cycle as 12 
months for the purpose of current or non-current 
classification of assets and liabilities.
	
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as 
non-current assets and liabilities.
	
iv)	
Presentation currency and rounding-off
	
	
All amounts disclosed in these consolidated 
financial statements and notes are presented in 
I (in Crore), the functional currency of the Group. Items 
included in the consolidated financial statements of the 
Group are recorded using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Group operates 
(the ‘functional currency’).
	
	
All values are rounded off to two decimals as per the 
requirement of Division II of Schedule III to the Act, 
unless otherwise indicated.
b)	
Basis of presentation and consolidation
	
The Consolidated Balance sheet and the Statement of 
profit and loss are prepared and presented in the format 
prescribed in Division II of Schedule III to the Act. The 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared 
and presented as per the requirements of Ind-AS 7, 
Statement of Cash Flows. The disclosure requirements 
with respect to items in the Balance sheet and Statement 
of profit and loss, as prescribed in the Schedule III to the 
Act, are presented by way of notes forming part of the 
financial statements along with the other notes required 
to be disclosed under the notified Accounting Standards 
and the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended.
	
Consolidation
	
The Consolidated financial statements comprise the 
financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries 
as at 31 March 2024.
	
Where the Group has control over an investee, 
it is classified as a subsidiary. The Group controls an 
investee if all three of the following elements are present:
	
(a)	
power over the investee,
	
(b)	
exposure to variable returns from the investee, and
	
(c)	
the ability of the investor to use its power to affect 
those variable returns.
	
Control is reassessed whenever facts and circumstances 
indicate that there may be a change in any of these 
elements of control.
	
Procedure
	
i)	
The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared using uniform accounting policies 
for like transactions and other events in similar 
circumstances. The accounting policies adopted in 
the preparation of consolidated financial statements 
are consistent with those of the previous year.
	
	
The financial statements of all entities used for the 
purpose of consolidation are drawn up to the same 
reporting date as that of the Holding Company, i.e., 
the year ended on 31st March.
	
ii)	
The consolidated financial statements of the 
Company and its subsidiaries have been combined 
on a line by-line basis by adding together the book 
values of like items of assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses, after eliminating intra-group balances, 
intra-group transactions and the unrealised profits/
losses, unless cost/revenue cannot be recovered.
	
iii)	
The excess cost to the Group of its investment in 
subsidiaries, on the acquisition dates over and above 
the Group’s share of equity in the subsidiaries, is 
recognised as ‘Goodwill on Consolidation’ in the 
consolidated financial statements. The said Goodwill 
is not amortised, however, it is tested for impairment 
at each Reporting date and the impairment loss, 
if any, is provided for.
	
iv)	
Non-controlling interests (‘NCI’) in the net assets 
of consolidated subsidiaries are identified and 
presented in the consolidated Balance Sheet 
separately within equity.
	
	
Non-controlling interests represent that part of 
the total comprehensive income and net assets of 
subsidiaries attributable to the interests which is not 
owned, directly or indirectly, by the Holding Company.
	
	
NCI are measured at their proportionate share of 
the acquiree’s net identifiable assets at the date of 
acquisition. Changes in the Group’s equity interest 
in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control 
are accounted for as equity transactions.
	
	
The profit/loss and other comprehensive income 
attributable to non- controlling interests of 
subsidiaries are shown separately in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss and consolidated 
statement of changes in equity.
1.2	 Summary of material accounting estimates, 
assumptions and accounting policies
a)	
Material estimates and assumptions
	
The preparation of consolidated financial statements 
requires the management to make  judgements, use 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, 
and the accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of 
contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about these judgements, 
assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that 
require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of 
the asset or liability affected in future periods. Continuous 
evaluation is done on the estimation and  judgements 
based on historical experience and other factors, 
including expectations of future events that are believed 
to be reasonable. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised prospectively.
	
In particulars, information about material areas of estimates 
and judgments in applying accounting policies that have 
the most material effect on the amounts recognized in the 
standalone financial statements are described below:
i)	
Goodwill impairment
	
For testing of impairment of goodwill, if events or changes 
in circumstances indicate a potential impairment, as part 
of the review process, the carrying amount of the Cash 
Generating Units (‘CGUs’) (including allocated goodwill) 
is compared with its recoverable amount by the Group.
	
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value 
less costs to sell and value in use, both of which are 
calculated by the Group using a discounted cash flow 
analysis. Calculating the future net cash flows expected 
to be generated to determine if impairment exists and to 
calculate the impairment involves material assumptions, 
estimation and judgment. The estimation and judgments 
involve, but are not limited to, industry trends including 
pricing, estimating long-term revenues growth rates and 
operating results. The estimated cash flows are developed 
using internal forecasts. The cash flows are discounted 
using a discount rate in order to compute present values. 
An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed 
in subsequent periods as per Ind-AS 36 – ‘Impairment of 
assets’.
ii)	
Provision for warranty
	
Warranty provision is determined based on the historical 
percentage of warranty expense to sales for the same 
types of goods depending upon the warranty period 
offered. The percentage to the sales is applied to derive 
the warranty expense to be accrued. Actual warranty 
claims are settled against warranty provision. The 
warranty claims may not exactly match the historical 
warranty percentage, so such estimates are reviewed 
annually for any material changes in assumptions and 
likelihood of occurrence.
	
The closing warranty provision is bifurcated into current 
and non-current based on the past settlement trend with 
the non-current portion being discounted to derive the 
present value. The assumptions are consistent with prior 
years. (Refer Note 16)
	
Estimates are made of the expected reimbursement claim 
based upon historical levels of recoveries from supplier, 
applied to the volume of product under warranty as on 
Reporting date. Supplier reimbursements are recognized 
as separate asset as expected recoverable from vendors 
against warranty. Recovery from the vendors is considered 
to be virtually certain.
	
Expected recoverable from vendors against warranty 
is bifurcated into current and non-current based on the 
past recovery trend with the non-current portion being 
discounted to derive the present value. The assumptions 
are consistent with prior years. (Refer Note 5)
392
393
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
iii)	
Estimates related to Share-based payments
	
Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions 
requires determination of the most appropriate valuation 
model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions 
of the grant. This estimate also requires determination 
of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model 
including the expected life of the share option, volatility 
and dividend yield and making assumptions about them. 
(Refer Note 37)
iv)	
Taxes
	
Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of 
tax regulations, changes in tax laws, and the amount and 
timing of future taxable income. Given the wide range 
of business relationships, differences arising between 
the actual results and the assumptions made, or future 
changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future 
adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. 
The Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable 
estimates. The amount of such provisions is based on 
various factors, such as experience of previous tax audits 
and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the 
taxable entity and the responsible tax authority. (Refer 
Note 20)
	
Recognition of deferred tax assets/liability – The extent 
to which deferred tax assets can be recognised is based 
on an assessment of the probability of the future taxable 
income against which the deferred tax assets can 
be utilised.
v)	
Measurement of Defined Benefit Obligations,  
key actuarial assumptions
	
The cost of the defined benefit plans such as gratuity 
and leave encashment are determined using actuarial 
valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various 
assumptions that may differ from actual developments in 
the future. These include the determination of the discount 
rate, future salary increases and mortality rates. Due to 
the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-
term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive 
to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are 
reviewed at each year end.
	
The principal assumptions are the discount and salary 
growth rate. The discount rate is based upon the market 
yields available on government bonds at the accounting 
date with a term that matches that of liabilities. The salary 
increase rate takes into account of inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors on long term basis. 
(Refer Note 33)
	
Detailed information about each of these estimates 
and judgements is included in relevant notes together 
with information about the basis of calculation for each 
affected line item in the consolidated financial statements.
vi)	
Expected Credit Loss (‘ECL’)
	
The Group recognises loss allowance using expected 
credit loss model for financial assets which are not 
measured at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss. Expected 
credit losses are weighted average of credit losses with 
the respective risks of default occurring as the weights. 
Credit loss is the difference between all contractual cash 
flows that are due to the Group in accordance with the 
contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to 
receive, discounted at original effective rate of interest.
	
For Trade receivables, the Group measures loss allowance 
at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. 
The Group computes expected credit loss allowance 
based on a provision matrix which takes into account 
historical credit loss experience and is adjusted for 
forward-looking information. The expected credit loss 
allowance is based on ageing of receivables and the 
rates used in provision matrix. The assessment of the 
correlation between historical observed default rates, 
forecast economic conditions and ECLs is a significant 
estimate. The amount of ECLs is sensitive to changes in 
circumstances and of forecast economic conditions. The 
Group’s historical credit loss experience and forecast of 
economic conditions may also not be representative of 
customer’s actual default in the future.
vii)	 Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
	
The Group reviews the useful life of property, plant and 
equipment at the end of each reporting period. This 
reassessment may result in change in depreciation 
expense in current and future periods.
viii)	 Contingent Liabilities
	
It is not practicable for the Group to estimate the timings of 
cash outflows, if any, in respect of the pending resolution 
of the respective proceedings as it is determinable only 
on receipt of judgements/decisions pending with various 
forums/authorities.
	
The Group does not expect any reimbursements in 
respect of the contingent liabilities. The Group’s pending 
litigations comprise of proceedings pending with various 
direct tax, indirect tax and other authorities. The Group 
has reviewed all its pending litigations and proceedings 
and has adequately provided for where provisions are 
required and disclosed as contingent liabilities where 
applicable, in its standalone financial statements. The 
Group does not expect the outcome of these proceedings 
to have a materially adverse effect on its standalone 
financial statements.
b)	 Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’) and 
Capital Work-in-Progress
i)	
Recognition and initial measurement
	
Land
	
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. For freehold 
land, as no finite useful life can be determined, related 
carrying amounts are not amortized.
	
Leasehold land is carried at historical cost. For leasehold 
land, cost of land amortised over lease term as per 
lease agreement.
	
Other Tangible assets
	
PPE other than land, is initially recognised at acquisition 
cost or construction cost.
	
The cost of an item of PPE comprises:
•	 its purchase price, including import duties and non-
refundable purchase taxes, after deducting trade 
discounts and rebates.
•	 any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to 
the location and condition necessary for it to be capable 
of operating in the manner intended by management.
	
Property, plant and equipment acquired in a business 
combination are recognised at fair value at the 
acquisition date.
	
Where cost of a part of an asset (asset component) is 
Material to total cost of the asset and useful life of that 
part is different from the useful life of the remaining asset, 
useful life of that Material part is determined separately, 
and such asset component is depreciated over its 
separate useful life.
	
Income and expenses related to the incidental operations, 
not necessary to bring the item to the location and 
condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in 
the manner intended by management, are recognised in 
the Statement of profit and loss.
ii)	
Subsequent expenditure
	
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, 
only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Group and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying 
amount of any component accounted for as a separate 
asset is de-recognised when replaced. All other repairs 
and maintenance are charged to Statement of Profit and 
Loss during the year in which they are incurred.
iii)	
Subsequent measurement (depreciation method, 
useful lives, residual value, and impairment)
	
PPE are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses, if any.
	
A depreciable amount for assets is the cost of an asset or 
other amount substituted for cost less its estimated residual 
value. Depreciation on PPE (other than leasehold land) is 
provided based on useful life of the assets as estimated by 
the management on Straight Line Method. The useful lives 
used are in agreement with those specified in Part ‘C’ of 
Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 except in respect 
of following category of property, plant and equipment 
where the useful life is considered differently based on 
technical evaluation, taking into account the nature of 
the asset and the estimated usage basis management’s 
best judgement of economic benefits from those classes 
of assets.
	
Management believes that such estimated useful lives are 
realistic and reflect a fair approximation of the period over 
which the assets are likely to be used.
	
-	
Plant and equipment – maximum 21 years
	
-	
Furniture and fixtures – maximum 15 years
	
-	
Office Equipment – maximum 10 years
	
Premium paid on leasehold lands are amortised over the 
period of lease. Buildings constructed on leasehold land 
are depreciated based on the management estimate of 
useful life, where the lease period is beyond the life of 
the building. In other cases, buildings constructed on 
leasehold land are amortised over the primary lease 
period of the land.
	
Depreciation on addition to/deductions from, owned 
assets is calculated pro rata to the period of use. 
The residual values, useful lives, and method of depreciation 
are reviewed at the end of each financial year, and the effect 
of any change in the estimates of useful life/residual value 
is adjusted prospectively. PPE other than land is tested for 
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
394
395
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
iv)	
De-recognition
	
An item of PPE and any significant part initially recognised 
is de-recognised upon disposal or when no future 
economic benefits are expected from its use. Any gain 
or loss arising on de-recognition of an item of PPE is 
measured as the difference between the net disposal 
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and 
is accordingly recognised in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
v)	
Capital Work-in-Progress
	
PPE which are not ready for intended use as on the date of 
Balance sheet are disclosed as Capital work-in-progress.
	
Advances paid towards the acquisition of property, plant 
and equipment outstanding at each reporting date is 
classified as capital advances under ‘other non-current 
assets’ and the cost of assets not put to use before such 
date are disclosed under ‘Capital work-in-progress’.
c)	
Goodwill, Other Intangible assets and Intangible 
assets under development
i)	
Recognition and initial measurement
	
Goodwill
	
Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising 
from a business combination that are not individually 
identified and separately recognized. Goodwill is carried 
at cost less accumulated impairment losses. (Refer Note 
36 for a description of impairment testing procedures)
	
Other Intangible assets
	
Other intangible assets are initially measured at cost. 
Such assets are recognized where it is probable that the 
future economic benefits attributable to the assets will 
flow to the Company and the cost of the asset can be 
measured reliably.
	
The cost of an intangible asset comprises:
•	 its purchase price, including any import duties and 
other taxes (other than those subsequently recoverable 
from the taxing authorities); and,
•	 any directly attributable expenditure on making the 
asset ready for its intended use.
	
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are 
recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
	
Income and expenses related to the incidental 
operations, not necessary to bring the item to be 
capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management, are recognised in the Statement of 
profit and loss.
ii)	
Subsequent expenditure
	
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it 
increases the future economic benefits embodied in the 
specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is 
recognised in the statement of profit or loss as incurred.
iii)	
Subsequent measurement (amortisation method, 
useful lives and residual value)
	
Intangible assets are subsequently measured at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, if any.
Other intangible assets 
Useful life (in years)
Product Development
Up to 5
Non-compete*
5
Distribution Networks*
8
Computer Software
5-10
Trademark
Indefinite
Technical knowhow/R&D
Indefinite
Brand*
Indefinite
* Intangible assets acquired through Business combination
	
All intangible assets with finite useful life are amortised on 
a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives, and a 
possible impairment is assessed if there is an indication 
that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation 
period and amortisation method for all intangible assets 
are reviewed at each reporting date. Changes, if any, are 
accounted for as changes in accounting estimates.
	
Intangible assets for which there is no foreseeable limit 
to the period over which they are expected to generate 
net cash inflows are considered to have an indefinite life. 
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to 
determine whether it continues, if not, it is impaired or 
changed prospectively basis revised estimates.
iv)	
De-recognition
	
An intangible asset is de-recognised on disposal, or 
when no future economic benefits are expected from 
use. Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an 
intangible asset, measured as the difference between the 
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the 
asset, are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
v)	
Research and development cost
•	 	 Research cost
	
Revenue expenditure on research is charged to Statement 
of profit and loss under the respective heads of accounts 
in the period in which it is incurred.
•	 	 Development cost
	
Development expenditure on new product is capitalised 
as intangible asset, if the Group can demonstrate all of 
the following:
•	 the technical feasibility of completing the intangible 
asset so that it will be available for use or sale;
•	 its intention to complete the development of intangible 
asset and use or sell it;
•	 its ability to use or sell the intangible asset;
•	 How the asset will generate future economic benefits 
including the existence of a market for output of the 
intangible asset or the intangible asset itself or if it is to 
be used internally, the usefulness of the intangible asset;
•	 the availability of adequate technical, financial and 
other resources to complete the development and to 
use or sell the intangible asset; and
•	 its ability to measure the expenditure attributable to 
the intangible asset during the development reliably.
	
Development costs on the intangible assets, fulfilling the 
criteria are amortised over its useful life, otherwise are 
expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
vi)	
Intangible assets under development
	
Intangible assets which are not ready for intended use as 
on the date of Balance sheet are disclosed as Intangible 
assets under development.
	
Advances paid towards the acquisition/development of 
Intangible assets which are outstanding at each reporting 
date are classified as capital advances under ‘other non-
current assets’.
d)	
Leases
	
The Group as a lessee:
	
The Group’s lease asset classes primarily consist of leases 
for land and buildings. The Group assesses whether a 
contract contains a lease, at inception of a contract. A 
contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys 
the right to control the use of an identified asset for a 
period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess 
whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of 
an identified asset, the Group assesses whether:
•	 the contract contains an identified asset, which is 
either explicitly identified in the contract or implicitly 
specified by being identified at the time the asset is 
made available to the Group;
•	 the Group has the right to obtain substantially all of 
the economic benefits from use of the identified asset 
throughout the period of use, considering its rights 
within the defined scope of the contract; and
•	 the Group has the right to direct the use of the identified 
asset throughout the period of use. The Group 
assesses whether it has the right to direct ‘how and for 
what purpose’ the asset is used throughout the period 
of use.
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Group recognises a Right-of-Use asset (‘ROU’) and a 
corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements 
in which it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of 12 
months or less (short-term leases) and low value leases. 
For these short-term and low value leases, the Group 
recognises the lease payments as an operating expense 
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
	
Certain lease arrangements include the option to extend 
or terminate the lease before the end of the lease term. 
ROU assets and lease liabilities include these options 
when it is reasonably certain that they will be exercised.
	
The Group makes an assessment of the expected lease 
term on a lease-by-lease basis and thereby assesses 
whether it is reasonably certain that any options to extend 
or terminate the contract will be exercised. The lease term 
in future periods is reassessed to ensure that the lease 
term reflects the current economic circumstances.
	
The ROU assets are initially recognised at cost, which 
comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the 
commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct 
costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses.
	
The ROU assets are depreciated from the commencement 
date on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease 
term and useful life of the underlying asset. ROU assets are 
evaluated for recoverability whenever events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may 
not be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment testing, 
396
397
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
the recoverable amount (i.e., the higher of the fair value 
less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an 
individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate 
cash flows that are largely independent of those from 
other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is 
determined for the Cash Generating Unit (‘CGU’) to which 
the asset belongs.
	
The lease liability is initially measured at amortised cost 
at the present value of the future lease payments. The 
lease payments are discounted using the interest rate 
implicit in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using 
the incremental borrowing rates in the country of domicile 
of these leases. Lease liabilities are remeasured with a 
corresponding adjustment to the related ROU asset if the 
Group changes its assessment whether it will exercise an 
extension or a termination option.
	
Lease payments included in the measurement of the 
lease liability are made up of fixed payments (including in 
substance fixed), variable payments based on an index 
or rate, amounts expected to be payable under a residual 
value guarantee and payments arising from options 
reasonably certain to be exercised.
	
Subsequent to initial measurement, the liability will be 
reduced for payments made and increased for interest. It 
is remeasured to reflect any reassessment or modification, 
or if there are changes in in-substance fixed payments. 
When the lease liability is remeasured, the corresponding 
adjustment is reflected in the right-of-use asset, or profit 
and loss if the right-of-use asset is already reduced 
to zero.
	
Lease liability and ROU assets have been separately 
presented in the Balance sheet and lease payments have 
been classified as financing cash flows.
e)	
Financial instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to 
a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or 
equity instrument of another entity. Financial instruments 
also include derivative contracts such as foreign currency 
forward contracts, interest rate swaps and currency 
options, and embedded derivatives in the host contract.
	
Financial assets
	
i)	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value 
plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at 
fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs 
that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial 
asset are expensed off in Statement of Profit and 
Loss. However, the Group’s trade receivables that 
do not contain a significant financial component 
are measured at transaction price under Ind-AS 
115 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’. 
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require 
delivery of assets within a time frame established by 
regulation or convention in the marketplace (regular 
way trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., 
the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell 
the asset.
	
ii)	
Classification
	
	
The Group classifies its financial assets in the 
following measurement categories:
•	 those measured at amortised cost, and
•	 those to be measured at fair value either through 
other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’) or fair 
value through profit or loss (‘FVTPL’) on the 
basis of its business model for managing the 
financial assets and the contractual cash flow 
characteristics of the financial asset.
	
iii)	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
After initial recognition, financial assets are measured 
at Fair value through Other Comprehensive Income 
(‘FVOCI’) or through profit or loss (‘FVTPL’) or 
amortised cost.
	
	
All financial assets except for those at FVTPL or at 
FVOCI are subject to review for impairment at least 
at each reporting date to identify whether there is any 
objective evidence that a financial asset or a group 
of financial assets is impaired.
•	 	 Equity instruments
	
	
All equity investments in scope of Ind-AS 109 are 
measured at fair value. Equity instruments which are 
held for trading are classified as FVTPL.
	
	
Investment in equity instruments issued by subsidiary 
companies is measured at cost less impairment.
•	 	 Debt instruments
	
	
A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised cost 
if both the following conditions are met:
•	 The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for collecting 
contractual cash flows, and
•	 Contractual terms of the asset give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI’) on the 
principal amount outstanding.
	
	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments 
depends on the Group’s business model for 
managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics 
of the asset. There are three measurement categories 
into which the Group classifies its debt instruments:
•	 	 Amortized cost
	
	
Assets that are held for collection of contractual 
cash flows, where those cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest, are measured at 
amortised cost.
	
	
These are measured by applying the effective 
interest rate (‘EIR’) method. The EIR method 
allocates interest income over the relevant period by 
applying the EIR (that is the interest rate that exactly 
discounts expected future cash flows to the gross 
carrying amount of the asset).
	
	
A gain or loss on a debt investment (unhedged) 
that is subsequently measured at amortised cost is 
recognised in the Statement of profit and loss when 
the asset is de-recognised or impaired. Interest 
income from these financial assets is included in 
finance income using the EIR method.
•	 	 Fair value through other comprehensive income 
(‘FVOCI’)
	
	
Financial assets that are held within a business 
model whose objective is achieved by both, selling 
financial assets and collecting contractual cash flows 
that are solely payments of principal and interest, are 
subsequently measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income. Fair value movements are 
recognised in the other comprehensive income 
(OCI).
	
	
Interest income is measured using the EIR method 
and impairment losses, if any, are recognised in 
the consolidated statement of profit and loss. On 
derecognition, cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognised in OCI is reclassified from the equity to 
‘other income’ in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss.
•	 	 Fair value through profit or loss (‘FVTPL’)
	
	
A financial asset not classified as either amortised 
cost or FVOCI, is classified as FVTPL. Such financial 
assets are measured at fair value with all changes 
in fair value, including interest income and dividend 
income if any, recognised in ‘other income’ in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss.
iv)	
De-recognition
	
A financial asset (or where applicable, a part of a financial 
asset or part of similar assets) is primarily de-recognised 
(i.e., removed from the Group’s balance sheet) when:
•	 The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have 
expired, or
•	 The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash 
flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to 
pay the received cash flows in full without material delay 
to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; 
and either (a) the Group has transferred substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group 
has neither transferred nor retained substantially all 
the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred 
control of the asset.
•	 When the Group has transferred its rights to receive 
cash flows from an asset or has entered into a 
pass-through arrangement, it evaluates if and to 
what extent it has retained the risks and rewards 
of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor 
retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of 
the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the 
Group continues to recognise the transferred asset 
to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement. 
In that case, the Group also recognises an associated 
liability. The transferred assets and the associated 
liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights 
and obligations that the Group has retained.
	
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a 
guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at 
the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset 
and the maximum amount of consideration that the 
Group could be required to repay.
	
	
On derecognition of financial asset in its entirety, 
the difference between the carrying amount measured 
at the date of derecognition and the consideration 
received is recognised in profit or loss.
398
399
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
	
If the Group enters into transactions whereby it transfers 
assets recognised on its balance sheet but retains 
either all or substantially all of the risks and rewards 
of the transferred assets, the transferred assets are 
not de-recognised, and the proceeds received are 
recognised as a collateralised borrowing.
v)	
Impairment of financial assets
	
The Group assesses on a forward-looking basis the 
expected credit losses associated with its assets carried 
at amortised cost. The impairment methodology applied 
depends on whether there has been a Material increase 
in credit risk.
	
The Group applies expected credit loss (‘ECL’) model for 
recognition and measurement of impairment loss on the 
following financial assets and credit risk exposure based 
on change in credit quality since initial recognition:
•	 Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are 
measured at amortised cost
•	 Trade receivables using the simplified approach 
within Ind-AS 109, using a provision matrix in the 
determination of the lifetime expected credit losses. 
During this process the probability of non-payment 
of the trade receivables is assessed. This probability 
is then multiplied by the amount of the expected loss 
arising from default to determine the lifetime expected 
credit loss for the trade receivables. This does not 
require the Group to track changes in credit risk. 
Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based 
on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its 
initial recognition.
In case the Group identifies any trade receivables as 
doubtful/bad, then it supersedes the above modus 
operandi, and the doubtful/bad receivables are 
provided to the extent is doubtful/bad.
ECL allowance recognised (or reversed) during the 
period is recognised as expense (or income) in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss under the 
head ‘Other expenses’.
vi)	
Write-off
	
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written 
off when the Group has no reasonable expectations of 
recovering the financial asset in its entirety or a portion 
thereof. A write-off constitutes a de-recognition event.
	
Financial liabilities
	
The Group’s financial liabilities comprise of borrowings 
including bank overdrafts and derivative financial 
instruments, trade payable and other liabilities.
	
i)	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
	
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. 
In the case of loans and borrowings and payables, 
financial liability is recognised net of directly 
attributable transaction costs.
	
ii)	
Classification
	
	
The Group classifies all financial liabilities as 
subsequently measured at amortised cost, except 
for financial liabilities at fair value through profit 
or loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives that 
are liabilities, shall be subsequently measured at 
fair value.
	
iii)	
Subsequent measurement
	
	
Financial liabilities are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the EIR method. The EIR 
is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a 
financial liability and of allocating interest expense 
over the relevant period at EIR. The EIR is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash payments 
through the expected life of the financial liability, or, 
where appropriate, a shorter period.
	
	
Financial liabilities carried at fair value through profit 
or loss are measured at fair value with all changes 
in fair value recognised in the Statement of profit 
and loss.
	
iv)	
De-recognition
	
	
Financial liability is de-recognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expires. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, 
such an exchange or modification is treated as 
the derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability. The difference in the 
respective carrying amounts is recognised in the 
Statement of profit and loss.
	
	
Other financial liabilities
	
	
Other financial liabilities are measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method.
	
	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
	
Financial assets and liabilities are offset, and the net 
amount is reported in the balance sheet where there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised 
amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net 
basis or realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must 
not be contingent on future events and must be 
enforceable in the normal course of business and in 
the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the 
Group or the counterparty.
	
	
Derivative financial instruments
	
	
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, 
such as foreign currency forward contracts and 
foreign currency option contracts to manage its 
exposure to foreign exchange risks. For these 
contracts, hedge accounting is not followed, and 
such designated derivative financial instruments 
are initially recognised at fair value on the date on 
which a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently re-measured at fair value through 
profit or loss. Derivatives are carried as financial 
assets when the fair value is positive and as financial 
liabilities when the fair value is negative.
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as 
financial liability at the time of issuance of guarantee. 
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that 
requires the issuer to make specified payments to 
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a 
specified debtor fails to make payments when due 
in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group 
are initially measured at their fair values and, if not 
designated as at FVTPL, are subsequently measured 
at the higher of:
•	 The amount of loss allowance determined in 
accordance with impairment requirements of Ind-
AS 109; and
•	 The amount initially recognised less, when 
appropriate, the cumulative amount of 
income recognised.
f)	
Fair Value Measurement:
	
The Group measures financial instruments such as 
derivatives at fair value at each reporting date.
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement is 
based on the presumption that the transaction to sell 
the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
•	 In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
•	 In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability accessible 
to the Group.
	
The principal or the most advantageous market must be 
accessible by the Group.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using 
the assumptions that market participants would use 
when pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions 
about risk, assuming that market participants act in their 
economic best interest. A fair value measurement of a non-
financial asset takes into account a market participant’s 
ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its highest and 
best use.
	
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate 
in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are 
available to measure fair value, maximising the use of 
relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of 
unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured 
or disclosed in the consolidated financial statements are 
categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as 
follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant 
to the fair value measurement as a whole:
	
Level 1: Financial instruments measured using quoted 
prices (unadjusted) in an active markets for identical assets 
or liabilities that the Group can access at measurement 
date are included in Level 1;
	
Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not 
traded in an active market is determined using valuation 
techniques which maximise the use of observable market 
data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific 
estimates. If all significant inputs require to fair value an 
instrument are observable, the instrument is included in 
level 2; and
400
401
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
Level 3: If one or more of the significant inputs is not based 
on observable market data, the instrument is included in 
level 3.
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements regularly, the Group 
determines whether transfers have occurred between 
levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each 
reporting period.
i)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there 
is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
	
An asset is impaired when the carrying amount of the 
asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount is higher of the asset’s fair value less costs of 
disposal and value in use, which means the present value 
of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing 
use of the asset and its eventual disposal discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the asset.
	
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are 
grouped at their lowest levels for which there are separately 
identifiable cash inflows which are largely independent of 
the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets 
(cash generating units).
	
Losses are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
and reflected in an allowance account. When the Group 
considers that there are no realistic prospects of recovery 
of the assets, the relevant amounts are written off.
	
An impairment loss for an asset is reversed if, and only 
if, the reversal can be related objectively to an event 
occurring after the impairment loss was recognised or 
relates to a change in the estimate of the recoverable 
amount in the previous periods.
	
The carrying amount of an asset is increased to its 
revised recoverable amount, provided that this amount 
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have 
been determined (net of any accumulated amortisation or 
depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised for 
the asset in prior years.
j)	
Inventories
	
Inventories are initially recognised at cost, and 
subsequently at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost comprises all costs of purchase, costs of conversion 
and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories 
to their present location and condition. Weighted 
average cost is used to determine the cost of ordinarily 
interchangeable items.
	
Raw materials, packaging materials and stores and 
spare parts:
	
Cost includes purchase price, (excluding those 
subsequently recoverable by the enterprise from the 
concerned revenue authorities), freight inwards and other 
expenditure incurred in bringing such inventories to their 
present location and condition. In determining the cost, 
the weighted average cost method is used.
	
The aforesaid items are valued at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. However, these inventories are valued at 
net realisable value if the finished products in which they 
are to be incorporated are expected to be sold at a loss.
	
Work in progress, manufactured finished goods and 
traded goods:
	
The cost of work in progress and manufactured finished 
goods is determined on a weighted average basis and 
comprises direct material, cost of conversion and other 
costs incurred in bringing these inventories to their 
present location and condition. The cost of traded goods 
is determined on a weighted average basis.
	
The aforesaid items are valued at the lower of cost and 
net realisable value. Provision for obsolescence on 
inventories is considered on the basis of management’s 
estimate based on demand and market of the inventories.
	
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less the estimated cost of 
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make 
the sale.
	
The comparison of cost and net realisable value is made 
on an item-by-item basis.
k)	
Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash 
at banks, call deposits and other short-term, highly liquid 
investments with original maturities of three months or 
less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash 
and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in 
value. Cash and cash equivalents consist of balances with 
banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and usage.
	
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and 
cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash in banks 
and short-term deposits net of bank overdraft.
l)	
Business Combination
	
The Group applies the acquisition method in accounting 
for business combinations. The consideration transferred 
by the Holding Company to obtain control of a business 
is calculated as the sum of the fair values of assets 
transferred, liabilities incurred, and the equity interests 
issued by the Company as at the acquisition date i.e., 
date on which it obtains control of the acquiree which 
includes the fair value of any asset or liability arising from 
a contingent consideration arrangement.
	
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss as incurred, except to the extent related 
to the issue of debt or equity securities. Identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values 
on the acquisition date. Intangible Assets acquired in a 
Business Combination and recognised separately from 
Goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at the 
acquisition date (which is regarded as their cost).
	
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible Assets 
acquired in a Business Combination are reported at 
cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets 
that are acquired separately.
	
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the 
consideration transferred and the amount recognised for 
non-controlling interests, and any previous interest held, 
over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed. Such goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
m)	 Equity Share Capital
	
Financial instruments issued by the Group are classified 
as equity only to the extent that they do not meet the 
definition of a financial liability or financial asset.
	
The Group’s ordinary shares are classified as 
equity instruments.
n)	
Borrowings and loans
	
Borrowings and loans are initially recognised at fair 
value, net of transaction costs incurred. It is subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the EIR method.
	
Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any 
discount or premium on acquisition and fees or transaction 
costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate.
	
Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction 
costs) and the redemption amount is recognised in the 
Statement of profit and loss over the period of borrowings 
using the EIR.
o)	
Employee benefit plans
i)	
Short-term employee benefits:
	
A Short-term employee benefits including salaries, wages, 
short term compensated absences (such as a paid annual 
leave) where the absences are expected to occur within 
twelve months after the end of the period in which the 
employees render the related service, performance 
incentives, bonuses payable and ex-gratia etc. are 
payable within twelve months after the end of the period in 
which the employees render the related services and non-
monetary benefits for current employees are estimated 
and measured on an undiscounted basis.
ii)	
Post-employment benefits:
•	 	 Defined contribution plans:
	
	
A defined contribution plan is a plan under which 
the Company pays fixed contributions in respect of 
the employees into a separate fund. The Company 
has no legal or constructive obligation to pay 
further contributions after its payment of the fixed 
contribution. The contributions made by the Group 
towards defined contribution plans, namely, State 
governed provident fund, superannuation fund, 
employee state insurance scheme, employee 
pension scheme and labour welfare fund, are 
charged to the profit or loss in the period to which 
the contributions relate.
•	 	 Defined benefit plans:
	
	
The Group has an obligation towards gratuity and 
Post Retirement Medical Benefits (PRMB) which are 
being considered as defined benefit plans covering 
eligible employees. Under the defined benefit 
plans, the amount that an employee will receive on 
402
403
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
retirement is defined by reference to the employee’s 
length of service, final salary, and other defined 
parameters. The legal obligation for any benefits 
remains with the Group, even if plan assets for 
funding the defined benefit plan have been set aside.
	
	
The Group’s obligation towards defined benefit 
plans is determined using the Projected Unit Credit 
Method, with actuarial valuations being carried 
out at each reporting date, which recognises each 
period of service as giving rise to additional unit of 
employee benefit entitlement and measures each 
unit separately to build up the final obligation.
	
	
The obligation is measured at the present value of 
the estimated future cash flows. The discounting 
rate used for determining the present value of the 
obligation under defined benefit plans, is based 
on the market yields on government securities 
as at the reporting date, having maturity periods 
approximately to the terms of related obligations.
	
	
Changes in the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation resulting from Investment plan 
amendments are recognised immediately in the 
Statement of profit or loss as past service cost.
	
	
The liability recognised in the statement of financial 
position for defined benefit plans is the present 
value of the Defined Benefit Obligation (DBO) at 
the reporting date less the fair value of plan assets. 
Management estimates the DBO annually with the 
assistance of independent actuaries.
	
	
Actuarial gains/losses resulting from re-
measurements of the liability/asset are included in 
Other Comprehensive Income.
	
	
In the case of funded plans, the fair value of the plan 
asset is reduced from the gross obligations under 
the defined benefit plans to recognise the obligation 
on a net basis.
iii)	
Other long-term employee benefits:
	
Liability in respect of compensated absences becoming 
due or expected to be availed more than one-year after 
the reporting date is estimated on the basis of actuarial 
valuation performed by an independent actuary using the 
projected unit credit method.
	
Actuarial gains and losses arising from past experience 
and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged to 
statement of profit and loss in the period in which such 
gains or losses are determined.
iv)	
Termination benefits:
	
Termination benefits are recognised as an expense in the 
period in which they are incurred.
v)	
Share-based Payments:
	
Employees of the Group receive remuneration in the 
form of Share-based Payments in consideration of the 
services rendered.
	
Under the equity settled share-based payment, the fair 
value on the grant date of the award given to employees 
is recognised as ‘employee benefit expense’ with a 
corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period.
	
The fair value of the options at the grant date is calculated 
by an independent valuer basis ‘Black Scholes model’. 
At the end of each reporting period, apart from the 
non-market vesting condition, the expense is reviewed 
and adjusted to reflect changes to the level of options 
expected to vest. When the options are exercised, the 
Group issues fresh equity shares.
p)	
Provisions, contingent liabilities, contingent 
assets and commitments
	
A provision is recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of past events 
and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be 
required to settle the obligation, in respect of which a 
reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Timing or 
amount of the outflow may still be uncertain. Provisions 
are recognised at the best estimate of the expenditure 
required to settle the present obligation at the reporting 
date. If the effect of time value of money is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected 
future cash flows using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, 
when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When 
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to 
the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
	
A contingent liability is disclosed when there is a possible 
but not probable obligation arising from past events, 
or a present obligation that may, but probably will not, 
require an outflow of resources, or a present obligation 
whose amount cannot be estimated reliably. Contingent 
liabilities do not warrant provisions but are disclosed. In 
those cases, where the outflow of economic resources as 
a result of present obligations is considered improbable or 
remote, no liability is recognised, or disclosure is made.
	
Contingent assets are disclosed in the consolidated 
financial statements when an inflow of economic benefit 
is probable. However, when the realisation of income is 
virtually certain, then the related asset is not a contingent 
asset, and its recognition is appropriate.
	
Any reimbursement that the Group can be virtually certain 
to collect from a third party concerning the obligation is 
recognised as a separate asset. However, this asset may 
not exceed the amount of the related provision.
	
Commitments are future liabilities for contractual 
expenditure, classified and disclosed as estimated 
amount of contracts remaining to be extracted on capital 
account and not provided for.
q)	
Income taxes
	
Tax expense recognized in profit or loss comprises the 
sum of deferred tax and current tax. It is recognized in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss, except when it relates 
to an item that is recognized in OCI or directly in equity, in 
which case, the tax is also recognized in OCI or directly in 
equity. (Refer Note 20)
i)	
Current tax
	
Current tax is determined as the amount of tax payable 
in respect of taxable income for the year, or on the basis 
of book profits wherever minimum alternate tax (‘MAT’) is 
applicable. The Group’s current tax is calculated using tax 
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the end of the reporting period, and any adjustments to 
tax payable in respect of previous years.
	
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset only if:
•	 there is a legally enforceable right to set off current 
tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation 
authority; and
•	 there is intention either to settle on a net basis, or to 
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
ii)	
Deferred tax
	
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of 
taxable income. However, deferred tax liabilities are not 
recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of 
goodwill. Deferred income tax is also not accounted for if 
it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a 
transaction other than a business combination that at the 
time of the transaction affects neither accounting profit 
nor taxable profit (tax loss).
	
Deferred tax on temporary differences associated with 
investments in subsidiary is not provided if reversal of 
these temporary differences can be controlled by the 
Group and it is probable that reversal will not occur in the 
foreseeable future.
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated, without 
discounting, at tax rates that are expected to apply to 
their respective period of realisation, provided those rates 
are enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the 
reporting period.
	
Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible 
temporary differences (if any) to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which they can be used. The existence of unused 
tax losses is strong evidence that future taxable profit 
may not be available. Therefore, in case of history of 
recent losses, the Group recognises a deferred tax asset 
only to the extent that it has sufficient taxable temporary 
difference or there is convincing other evidence that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available against which 
such deferred tax asset can be realised.
	
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are reviewed 
at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that 
it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will 
be realised.
	
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at 
each reporting date and recognised to the extent that it 
has become probable that future taxable profits will be 
available against which they can be used.
	
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected 
to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, 
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
reporting date and are expected to apply when the related 
deferred income tax asset is realised, or the deferred 
income tax liability is settled.
	
Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised 
as a component of tax income or expense in profit or loss, 
except where they relate to items that are recognised in 
other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which 
case the related deferred tax is also recognised in other 
comprehensive income or equity, respectively.
404
405
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
Current tax assets and current tax liabilities are offset 
when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the 
recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle 
the asset and the liability on a net basis. Deferred tax 
assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset when there 
is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities; and the deferred tax assets 
and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied 
by the same taxation authority.
r)	
Revenue from contract with customers
	
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable 
that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the 
revenue can be reliably measured.
	
The Group uses the principles laid down by the Ind-
AS 115 to determine that how much and when revenue 
is recognised, what is the nature, amount, timing and 
uncertainty of revenues etc. In accordance with the same, 
revenue is recognised through a five-step approach:
•	 Identify the contract(s) with customer;
•	 Identify separate performance obligations in 
the contract;
•	 Determine the transaction price;
•	 Allocate the transaction price to the performance 
obligations; and
•	 Recognize revenue when a performance obligation 
is satisfied.
	
The Company uses the principles laid down by Ind-AS as 
above to recognize revenue from contracts with customers 
when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring 
promised goods or services to a customer. Revenue is 
recognized to the extent of transaction price allocated 
to the performance obligation satisfied. Performance 
obligation is satisfied over time when the transfer of control 
of assets (goods or services) to a customer is done over 
time and in other cases, performance obligations are 
satisfied at a point in time. For performance obligation 
satisfied over time, the revenue recognition is done by 
measuring the progress towards complete satisfaction of 
performance obligation and the progress is measured in 
terms of a proportion of actual cost incurred to date, to 
the total estimated cost attributable to the performance 
obligation. Revenue excludes goods and services tax 
which is recorded separately.
	
Revenues are measured at the fair value of the 
consideration received or receivable, net of discounts and 
other indirect taxes.
	
In Cost Plus Contracts - Revenue is recognized by 
including eligible contractual items of expenditures plus 
proportionate margin as per contract.
	
In Fixed Price Contracts – Revenue is recognized on 
the basis of the stage of completion of the contract. 
The Group has assessed that the stage of completion is 
determined as the proportion of the total time expected to 
complete the performance obligation to that has lapsed 
at the end of the reporting period, which is an appropriate 
measure of progress towards complete satisfaction of 
these performance obligations under Ind-AS 115.
	
Estimates of revenues, costs or extent of progress toward 
completion are revised if circumstances change. Any 
resulting increases or decreases in estimated revenues 
or costs are reflected in profit or loss in the period in which 
the circumstances that give rise to the revision become 
known by management.
i)	
Sale of Goods
	
The Group recognises revenue from the sale of goods 
measured upon satisfaction of performance obligation 
which is at a point in time when control of the goods 
is transferred to the customer, generally on delivery 
of the goods. Revenue is measured based on the 
transaction price, which is the consideration, adjusted 
for volume discounts, rebates, scheme allowances, price 
concessions, incentives, and returns, if any, as specified 
in the contracts with the customers and any taxes or duties 
collected on behalf of the Government such as Goods and 
Services Tax. Due to the short nature of the credit period 
given to customers, there is no financing component in 
the contract.
	
Revenue is only recognised to the extent that it is highly 
probable a significant reversal will not occur. Appropriate 
provisions are recorded for returns and discounts/
incentives which are estimated on the basis of historical 
experience, market assessment and various discount 
programmes launched by the Group.
ii)	
Rendering of services
	
The Group primarily earns revenue from installation, 
operations and maintenance services, which is recognised 
over the period when services are rendered.
	
Revenue from services is recognised as and when services 
are rendered and there are no unfulfilled obligations. 
Revenue from services is measured at fair value of the 
consideration received or receivable, after deduction of 
any sort of discounts and any taxes or duties collected on 
behalf of the government such as goods and services tax.
iii)	
Contract assets
	
A contract asset is the right to consideration in exchange 
for goods or services transferred to the customer. Contract 
assets are in the nature of unbilled receivables, which 
arise when the Group satisfies a performance obligation 
but does not have an unconditional right to consideration. 
Receivables represent the Group’s right to an amount of 
consideration that is unconditional. Contract assets are 
subject to impairment assessment. 
s)	
Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that 
the Group incurred in connection with the borrowing of 
funds. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to 
the acquisition and/or construction of a qualifying asset, 
till the time such qualifying asset becomes ready for its 
intended use, are capitalised. A qualifying asset is one 
that necessarily takes a substantial period to get ready 
for its intended use.
	
All other borrowing costs are charged to the Statement of 
Profit and Loss on an accrual basis as per the EIR method.
t)	
Earnings per share (‘EPS’)
	
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing the net 
profit for the period attributable to the equity shareholders 
of the Group (after deducting attributable taxes) by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
during the period. The weighted average number of equity 
shares outstanding during the year and for all the years 
presented is adjusted for events, such as bonus shares, 
other than the conversion of potential equity shares, that 
have changed the number of equity shares outstanding, 
without a corresponding change in resources.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, 
the net profit or loss for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders and the weighted average number of shares 
outstanding during the year is adjusted for the effects of 
all dilutive potential equity shares.
u)	
Exceptional items
	
On certain occasions, the size, type or incidence of an 
item of income or expense, pertaining to the ordinary 
activities of the Group is such that its disclosure improves 
the understanding of the performance of the Group. Such 
income or expense is classified as an exceptional item and 
accordingly, disclosed in the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements.
v)	
Segment accounting
	
The segment reporting of the Group has been prepared 
in accordance with Ind-AS-108, “Operating Segment” 
(specified under the section 133 of the Companies Act 
2013 (the Act) read with Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rule 2015 (as amended from time to time) and 
other relevant provision of the Act).
	
The Operating Segment is the level at which discrete 
financial information is available and for which the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) monitors the 
operating results of its business segments separately for 
the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation 
and performance assessment. Segment performance 
is evaluated based on profit or loss and is measured 
consistently with profit or loss in the financial statements.
	
Revenue and expenses have been identified to a segment 
on the basis of relationship to operating activities of the 
segment. Revenue, expenses and exceptional items 
which relate to enterprise as a whole and are not allocable 
to a segment on reasonable basis have been disclosed as 
“unallocable”.
	
Segment assets and segment liabilities represent assets 
and liabilities in respective segments. Investments, tax 
related assets, borrowings and other assets and liabilities 
that cannot be allocated to a segment on reasonable 
basis have been disclosed as “unallocable”.
	
Segment revenue resulting from transactions with other 
business segments is accounted on the basis of transfer 
price agreed between the segments. Such transfer prices 
are either determined to yield a desired margin or agreed 
on a negotiated basis.
w)	 Statement of cash flows
	
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, 
whereby profit or loss before tax is adjusted for the effects 
406
407
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
of transactions of non-cash nature and any deferrals or 
accruals of past or future cash receipts or payments. 
The cash flows from operating, investing and financing 
activities of the Group are segregated based on the 
available information.
	
Cash and cash equivalents (including bank balances) 
shown in the Statement of cash flows exclude items 
which are not available for general use as at the date of 
balance sheet.
x)	
Recent accounting pronouncements
	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has notified Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023 
dated 31st March 2023 to amend the following Ind-AS which 
are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1st 
April 2023. The Group has applied these amendments for 
the first time in these consolidated financial statements.
	
i)	
Amendments to Ind-AS 1 - disclosure of 
accounting policies
	
	
The amendments aim to help entities provide 
accounting policy disclosures that are more 
useful by replacing the requirement for entities to 
disclose their ‘significant’ accounting policies with 
a requirement to disclose their ‘material’ accounting 
policies and adding guidance on how entities apply 
the concept of materiality in making decisions about 
accounting policy disclosures.
	
	
The amendments have had an impact on the 
disclosures of accounting policies, but not on the 
measurement, recognition or presentation of any 
items in the consolidated financial statements.
	
ii)	
Amendments to Ind-AS 8 - definition of accounting 
estimates
	
	
The amendments clarify the distinction between 
changes in accounting estimates and changes 
in accounting policies and the correction of 
errors. It has also been clarified how entities use 
measurement techniques and inputs to develop 
accounting estimates.
	
	
The amendments had no impact on these 
consolidated financial statements.
	
iii)	
Amendments to Ind-AS 12 - deferred tax related 
to assets and liabilities arising from a single 
transaction
	
	
The amendments narrow the scope of the initial 
recognition exception under Ind-AS 12, so that it no 
longer applies to transactions that give rise to equal 
taxable and deductible temporary differences such 
as leases.
	
	
The Group previously recognised for deferred 
tax on leases on a net basis. As a result of these 
amendments, the Group has recognised a separate 
deferred tax asset in relation to its lease liabilities and 
a deferred tax liability in relation to its right-of-use 
assets. Since, these balances qualify for offset as 
per the requirements of paragraph 74 of Ind-AS 12, 
there is no impact in the balance sheet. There was 
also no impact on the opening retained earnings as 
at 1st April 2022.
	
iv)	
New standards and amendments issued but not 
effective
	
	
There are no such standards which are notified but 
not yet effective.
	
v)	
The other amendments to Ind-AS notified by these 
rules are primarily in the nature of clarifications.
2	
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets
I Crore
ASSETS
Gross block (Cost)
Depreciation/Amortisation
Net Block
As at  
1st April,  
2023
Additions
Deductions
31st 
March, 
2024
As at 
1st April,  
2023
For the 
year@
Deductions
31st 
March, 
2024
31st 
March, 
2024
As at  
31st March, 
2023
A.	
Property, plant and equipment
	
Freehold land (Refer Note ii)
178.95
-
-
178.95
-
-
-
-
178.95
178.95
	
Leasehold land
2.69
-
-
2.69
0.82
0.03
-
0.85
1.84
1.87
	
Buildings (Refer Note ii)
98.28
0.28
0.42
98.14
14.29
4.62
0.15
18.76
79.38
83.99
	
Leasehold Improvements
5.95
-
0.15
5.80
1.89
1.35
0.01
3.23
2.57
4.06
	
Plant and equipment 
(Including Tools & Dies)
173.59
25.80
11.95
187.44
64.34
27.83
7.15
85.02
102.42
109.25
	
Furniture and fixtures
9.87
0.65
0.03
10.49
4.34
1.64
0.01
5.97
4.52
5.53
	
Electrical Installations and 
Equipment
5.22
0.58
0.11
5.69
0.65
0.85
0.07
1.43
4.26
4.57
	
Office equipment
26.71
6.77
1.34
32.14
14.87
7.16
1.19
20.84
11.30
11.84
	
Vehicles
9.48
10.07
3.52
16.03
1.52
2.68
1.99
2.21
13.82
7.96
	
Sub-total A
510.74
44.15
17.52
537.37
102.72
46.16
10.57
138.31
399.06
408.02
B.	
Right-of-Use assets (Refer Note 32)
128.79
33.16
18.11
143.84
52.84
32.03
17.26
67.61
76.23
75.95
	
Sub-total B
128.79
33.16
18.11
143.84
52.84
32.03
17.26
67.61
76.23
75.95
C.	
Goodwill (Refer Note 36)
1,285.46
-
-
1,285.46
-
-
-
-
1,285.46
1,285.46
	
Sub-total C
1,285.46
-
-
1,285.46
-
-
-
-
1,285.46
1,285.46
D.	
Other intangible assets
	
Computer software
13.48
1.35
-
14.83
9.40
1.97
-
11.37
3.46
4.08
	
Technical knowhow
1.90
-
-
1.90
1.89
-
-
1.89
0.01
0.01
	
Trademark and Patents
32.91
-
-
32.91
-
-
-
-
32.91
32.91
	
Brand
1,163.06
-
-
1,163.06
-
-
-
-
1,163.06
1,163.06
	
Non-Compete
108.45
-
-
108.45
21.69
21.69
-
43.38
65.07
86.76
	
Distribution Networks
205.06
-
-
205.06
25.63
25.63
-
51.26
153.80
179.43
	
Product Development
16.45
9.03
-
25.48
2.19
5.52
-
7.71
17.77
14.26
	
Sub-total D
1,541.31
10.38
-
1,551.69
60.80
54.81
-
115.61
1,436.08
1,480.51
Total A + B + C + D
3,466.30
87.69
35.63
3,518.36
216.36
133.00
27.83
321.53
3,196.83
3,249.94
@ During the year, the Group has capitalised depreciation of I 4.18 Crore under Product Development & Intangible assets under development as 
a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
408
409
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
2	
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets (Contd.)
I Crore
ASSETS
Gross block (Cost)
Depreciation/Amortisation
Net Block
As at  
1st April, 
2022
Additions
Deductions
As at  
31st March, 
2023
As at  
1st April, 
2022
For the 
year
Deductions
As at  
31st March, 
2023
As at  
31st March, 
2023
As at  
31st March, 
2022
A.	
Property, plant and equipment
	
Freehold land (Refer Note ii)
178.40
0.55
-
178.95
-
-
-
-
178.95
178.40
	
Leasehold land
2.69
-
-
2.69
0.81
0.01
-
0.82
1.87
1.88
	
Buildings (Refer Note ii)
94.18
4.63
0.53
98.28
9.83
4.59
0.13
14.29
83.99
84.35
	
Leasehold Improvements
5.79
0.16
-
5.95
0.55
1.34
-
1.89
4.06
5.24
	
Plant and equipment 
(Including Tools & Dies)
150.17
33.23
9.81
173.59
44.77
28.34
8.77
64.34
109.25
105.40
	
Furniture and fixtures
9.27
0.71
0.11
9.87
3.06
1.37
0.09
4.34
5.53
6.21
	
Electrical Installations and 
Equipment
4.47
0.85
0.10
5.22
-
0.70
0.05
0.65
4.57
4.47
	
Office equipment
20.70
7.21
1.20
26.71
11.16
5.20
1.49
14.87
11.84
9.54
	
Vehicles
11.42
4.92
6.86
9.48
2.38
2.08
2.94
1.52
7.96
9.04
	
Sub-total A
477.09
52.26
18.61
510.74
72.56
43.63
13.47
102.72
408.02
404.53
B.	
Right-of-Use assets (Refer Note 32)
103.41
36.66
11.28
128.79
32.31
27.35
6.82
52.84
75.95
71.10
	
Sub-total B
103.41
36.66
11.28
128.79
32.31
27.35
6.82
52.84
75.95
71.10
C.	
Goodwill (Refer Note 36)
1,285.46
-
-
1,285.46
-
-
-
-
1,285.46
1,285.46
	
Sub-total C
1,285.46
-
-
1,285.46
-
-
-
-
1,285.46
1,285.46
D.	
Other intangible assets
	
Computer software
11.35
2.13
-
13.48
8.50
0.90
-
9.40
4.08
2.85
	
Technical knowhow
1.90
-
-
1.90
1.89
-
-
1.89
0.01
0.01
	
Trademark and Patents
32.91
-
-
32.91
-
-
-
-
32.91
32.91
	
Brand
1,163.06
-
-
1,163.06
-
-
-
-
1,163.06
1,163.06
	
Non-Compete
108.45
-
-
108.45
-
21.69
-
21.69
86.76
108.45
	
Distribution Networks
205.06
-
-
205.06
-
25.63
-
25.63
179.43
205.06
	
Product Development
0.68
15.77
-
16.45
0.64
1.55
-
2.19
14.26
0.04
	
Sub-total D
1,523.41
17.90
-
1,541.31
11.03
49.77
-
60.80
1,480.51
1,512.38
Total A + B + C + D
3,389.37
106.82
29.89
3,466.30
115.90
120.75
20.29
216.36
3,249.94
3,273.47
@ During the year, the Group has capitalised depreciation of I 4.83 Crore under Product Development & Intangible assets under development 
as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
E.	 Capital work-in-progress (‘CWIP’)
(i)	
CWIP Movement
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
As at 1st April
5.46
13.00
Add: Additions during the year
17.87
23.36
Less: Capitalized during the year
11.91
30.90
As at 31st March
11.42
5.46
(ii)	 CWIP Ageing schedule 
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than  
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
Projects in progress
8.88
1.01
-
-
9.89
Projects temporarily suspended
-
1.07
0.46
-
1.53
8.88
2.08
0.46
-
11.42
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2023
Amount in CWIP for a period of
Total
Less than  
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than  
3 years
Projects in progress
4.40
0.87
0.07
0.12
5.46
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
4.40
0.87
0.07
0.12
5.46
	
There are no projects which have exceeded their orignial timeline or budget (Previous year Nil)
F.	
Intangible Assets under Development (‘IAUD’)
(i)	
IAUD Movement
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
As at 1st April
21.05
-
Add: Additions during the year
35.41
21.05
Less: Capitalized during the year
9.40
-
As at 31st March
47.06
21.05
(ii)	 IAUD Ageing schedule
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Amount in IAUD for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
28.71
18.35
-
-
47.06
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
28.71
18.35
-
-
47.06
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2023
Amount in IAUD for a period of
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Projects in progress
21.05
-
-
-
21.05
Projects temporarily suspended
-
-
-
-
-
21.05
-
-
-
21.05
	
There are no projects which have exceeded their orignial timeline or budget (Previous year Nil)
	
Notes:
	
(i)	
Carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets given as collateral for borrowings is I 779.41 
Crore; (Previous year I 779.41 Crore).
	
(ii)	
There are no such title deeds of immovable property which are not held in name of the Group.
410
411
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
(iii)	 There have been no proceedings initiated on or are pending against the Group for holding benami property under the 
Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and Rules made thereunder.
	
(iv)	 The Group has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right-of-use assets) or intangible assets or 
both during the current or previous year.
3	
Investments
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
A	
Non-current investments
	
Measured at Fair value through Profit and Loss
	
Investment in Mutual funds (Quoted)
-
0.35
-
0.35
	
Details of investments:
	
Aggregate amount of quoted investments:
	
Book value
-
0.20
	
Market value
-
0.35
B	 Current investments
	
Measured at Fair value through Profit and Loss
	
Investment in Bonds (Quoted)
220.18
265.20
	
Investment in Mutual funds (Quoted)
32.17
-
	
Investment in Mutual funds (Unquoted)
436.75
282.63
689.10
547.83
	
Details of investments:
	
Aggregate book value of:
	
Quoted investments
32.17
265.20
	
Unquoted investments (accounted based on NAV)
248.97
282.63
281.14
547.83
	
Aggregate market value of:
	
Quoted investments
660.31
265.20
	
Unquoted investments
-
-
660.31
265.20
	
Notes:
	
1.	
The investments is in compliance with Section 186(4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
2.	
The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
	
3.	
Refer Note 39 A for information about fair value measurement and Note 39 D (i) for credit risk of investments.
4	
Other financial assets
A	
Other financial assets - Non-current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Security deposits (unsecured, considered good)
19.10
18.73
19.10
18.73
B	
Other financial assets - current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Security deposits (unsecured, considered good)
 20.02 
 18.97 
 20.02 
 18.97 
5	
Other assets
A	
Other assets - Non-current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Capital advances (net) (Refer Note 29)
10.38
10.09
Expected recoverable from vendors against warranty
48.56
43.39
Amount paid under protest
22.28
22.28
81.22
75.76
B	
Other assets - Current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Advance to suppliers
29.51
33.85
Balances with Indirect tax authorities
11.05
11.97
Expected recoverable from vendors against warranty
45.93
27.03
Prepaid expenses
47.45
24.24
Contract Assets
0.26
3.88
Others
44.77
46.16
178.97
147.13
6	
Inventories
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
(At lower of cost and net realisable value)
Raw materials
 86.92 
 116.45 
Add: Goods-in-transit
 1.93 
 1.25 
 88.85 
 117.70 
Work-in-progress
 43.52 
 48.68 
Finished goods
 206.33 
 170.13 
Add: Goods-in-transit
 38.05 
 39.62 
 244.38 
 209.75 
Stock-in-trade
 351.46 
 261.66 
Add: Goods-in-transit
 62.01 
 63.72 
 413.47 
 325.38 
Stores, spares and packing materials
 40.22 
 42.34 
 830.44 
 743.85 
Note:
Inventories are hypothecated with the bankers against working capital facilities (Refer Note 15)
412
413
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
7	
Trade receivables
A	
Trade receivables - Non current (valued at amortised cost)
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Unsecured
Considered good
 12.65 
 15.49 
 12.65 
 15.49 
B	
Trade receivables - Current (valued at amortised cost)
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Unsecured
Considered good
683.59
655.14
Haiving significant increase in credit risk
42.41
38.69
Credit impaired
63.66
33.13
789.66
726.96
Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
(68.77)
(56.40)
720.89
670.56
	
Trade Receivables Ageing (Non-current and Current)
As at 31st March, 2024
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2
Years
2-3
years
More 
than 3 
years
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables–considered good
453.38
185.20
53.72
2.93
-
-
695.23
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables–which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
41.08
0.09
-
41.17
(iii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables–credit impaired
-
0.10
-
-
30.20
20.83
51.13
(iv)	Disputed Trade receivables–considered good
0.45
0.26
0.30
-
-
-
1.01
(v)	 Disputed Trade receivables–which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
1.23
0.01
-
1.24
(vi)	Disputed Trade receivables–credit impaired
-
-
-
-
1.79
10.74
12.53
Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
(68.77)
453.83
185.56
54.02
45.24
32.09
31.57
733.54
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Contd.) 
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2
Years
2-3
years
More 
than 3 
years
(i)	 Undisputed Trade receivables–considered good
517.35
118.57
30.12
4.13
-
-
670.17
(ii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables–which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
33.39
0.49
-
33.88
(iii)	 Undisputed Trade receivables–credit impaired
-
-
-
-
18.89
8.09
26.98
(iv)	Disputed Trade receivables–considered good
0.02
0.30
0.01
0.13
-
-
0.46
(v)	 Disputed Trade receivables–which have 
significant increase in credit risk
-
-
-
0.70
4.11
-
4.81
(vi)	Disputed Trade receivables–credit impaired
-
-
-
-
0.13
6.02
6.15
Allowance for doubtful trade receivables
(56.40)
517.37
118.87
30.13
38.35
23.62
14.11
686.05
	
Notes:-
	
(a)	
The net carrying value of trade receivables is considered a reasonable approximation of fair value.
	
(b)	
Book debts are hypothecated with the bankers against Working capital demand loan & Term Bank loan.(Refer Note 15)
	
(c)	
Refer Note 39 for information about the Group’s exposure to financial risks, and details of impairment losses for trade 
receivables and fair values.
	
(d)	
No trade receivables are due from directors or other officers of the Group either severally or jointly with any other person 
or firms or private companies in which any director is a partner, a director or a member.
	
(e)	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 60 day terms.
8	
Cash and cash equivalents
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Balance with banks:
	
In current accounts
60.78
68.74
	
In deposit accounts with original maturity of 3 months or less
111.28
8.00
Cash on hand (including cash in transit)*
-
0.10
172.06
76.84
*Includes INR equivalent of Foreign Currency
414
415
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
9	
Bank balances (other than Cash and cash equivalents)
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Deposits with original maturity more than 3 months but less than 12 months
 80.00 
 25.00 
Earmarked balances with banks
	
Unclaimed dividend account
 4.77 
 4.10 
	
Bank Balance as Margin money
 3.94 
 3.54 
 88.71 
 32.64 
10	 Loans
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Unsecured considered good
Others (to employees)
0.36
0.66
0.36
0.66
Note - In line with Circular No 04/2015 issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs dated 10th March, 2015, loans given to employees as per the 
Group’s policy are not considered for the purposes of disclosure under Section 186(4) of the Companies Act, 2013.
11	 Assets held for sale
	
Non-current assets or disposal groups comprising of assets and liabilities are classified as ‘held for sale’ when all the following 
criteria are met:
	
(i)	
decision has been made to sell;
	
(ii)	
the assets are available for immediate sale in its present condition;
	
(iii)	 the assets are being actively marketed; and
	
(iv)	 sale has been agreed or is expected to be concluded within 12 month of the Balance sheet date.
	
Subsequently, such non-current assets and disposal groups classified as ‘held for sale’ are measured as the lower of its 
carrying value and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current assets held for sale are not depreciated or amortised.
	
The Group has decided to move from inhouse to outsourcing within some of the non-core activities and classified certain 
assets as ‘asset held for sale’ and consequently provided an impairment loss of I 2.12 Crores. The details of whereas as under:
I Crore
Groups of assets held for sale
WDV as at 
31st March, 2024
Impairment value 
as at 31st March, 
2024
Asset value as at 
31st March, 2024
Plant & Machinery
2.81
1.82
0.99
Electrical equipment
0.04
0.03
0.01
Lease hold improvements
0.27
0.27
-
Total
3.12
2.12
1.00
12	 Equity share capital
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Number
Amount
K Crore
Number
Amount
K Crore
Authorised capital
Equity shares of I 2 each
65,50,00,000
131.00
65,50,00,000
131.00
Issued, subscribed and paid-up
Equity shares of I 2 each, fully paid-up
64,31,06,979
128.62
63,61,09,719
127.22
64,31,06,979
128.62
63,61,09,719
127.22
a.	 Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Number
Amount
K Crore
Number
Amount
K Crore
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 63,61,09,719 
 127.22 
 63,34,05,959 
 126.68 
Shares issued on account of exercising Employee 
stock option schemes
 69,97,260 
 1.40 
 27,03,760 
 0.54 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 64,31,06,979 
 128.62 
 63,61,09,719 
 127.22 
b.	 Rights, preferences and restrictions on shares
The Group has one class of share capital, i.e., equity shares having face value of I 2 per share. Each holder of equity share is 
entitled to one vote per share. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets 
of the Group after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
c.	 Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Group
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Number
% holding 
Number
% holding 
Equity shares of K 2 each fully paid
HDFC Trustee Company Ltd.- A/C HDFC MID - CAP 
Opportunities Fund
 6,07,17,312 
9.44%
 3,55,50,615 
5.59%
Mirae Asset Large Cap Fund
 6,37,22,029 
9.91%
 3,19,62,928 
5.02%
d.	 Shares reserved for issuance under Stock Option Plans of the Group at face value of K 2  
(Also Refer Note 37)
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2024
As at 31st March, 2023
Number
Amount
K Crore
Number
Amount
K Crore
Crompton Stock Option Plan 2016 (ESOP 2016)
6,06,233
0.12
9,92,576
0.20
Crompton Performance Share Plan 1 2016 (PSP 1)
-
-
44,10,033
0.88
Crompton Performance Share Plan 2 2016 (PSP 2)
-
-
23,27,297
0.47
Crompton Stock Option Plan 2019 (ESOP 2019)
78,83,560
1.58
85,66,950
1.71
e.	
No class of shares have been issued as bonus shares or for consideration other than cash by the Group during the period 
of five years immediately preceding the current year end.
f.	
No class of shares have been bought back by the Group during the period of five years immediately preceding the current 
year end.
g.	
There are no shares reserved for issue under options and contracts/commitments for the sale of shares/disinvestment.
416
417
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
h.	
The Board of Directors have recommended payment of final dividend of I 3 (Rupees three only) per equity share of the face 
value of I 2 each for the financial year ended 31st March, 2024.
i.	
Promoter Shareholding
	
Shares held by promoters at the end of the year 31st March, 2024
Promoter name 
No. of shares 
% of total shares
% change during 
the year
NIL
Total
-
-
	
Shares held by promoters at the end of the year 31st March, 2023
Promoter name 
No. of shares 
% of total shares
% change during 
the year
NIL
Total
-
-
	
Note:
	
As per records of the Group, including its register of shareholders/members and other declarations received from shareholders 
regarding beneficial interest, the above shareholding represents both legal and beneficial ownerships of shares.
13	 Other equity
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Capital reserve
0.05
0.05
Securities premium
361.48
209.51
Employee stock option outstanding account
75.82
140.41
Retained earnings
2,599.56
2,348.62
Other comprehensive income
0.98
1.07
Equity - Loss on acquisition of NCI
(166.89)
(166.89)
2,871.00
2,532.77
	
Note: For movements in reserves - refer Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
	
Nature and purpose of reserves
	
Capital reserve
	
Capital reserve was created on cancellation of shares as per statutory requirement.
	
Securities premium
	
Securities premium was created on issue of shares at premium in accordance with Employee Stock Option Plans (ESOP).
	
Employee stock option outstanding
	
The fair value of the equity-settled share based payment transactions with employees is recognised in Statement of profit 	
and loss with corresponding credit to Employee Stock Options Outstanding Account.
	
Retained earnings
	
Retained earnings are the profits that the Group has earned till date, net-off less any transfers to general reserve, dividends 
or other distributions paid to shareholders.
	
Equity - Loss on acquisition of NCI
	
Changes in a parent’s ownership interest that do not result in a change in control of the subsidiary is accounted as equity 
transactions (i.e., no gain or loss is recognised in earnings). The carrying amount of the NCI is adjusted to reflect the change 
in the NCI’s ownership interest in the subsidiary. Any difference between the amount by which the NCI is adjusted and the 
fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised in equity and attributed to the equity holders of the parent.
14	 Non-controlling interest
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
447.71
782.45
Adjustment for changes in ownership interests
-
(347.75)
Profit attributable during the year
1.86
13.19
Other comprehensive income attributable during the year
(0.21)
(0.18)
Balance at the end of the year
449.35
447.71
	
The table below provides information in respect of subsidiary as at 31st March, 2024:
Name of Subsidiary
Country of 
incorporation and 
operation
% of NCI
NCI
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
India
25%
449.35
15	 Borrowings
	
The Group has categorised all borrowings at Amortised Cost in accordance with the requirements of Ind AS 109.
A	
Borrowings - Non-current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Measured at amortised cost
Secured
7.40% Redeemable Non Convertible Debentures Tranche 1
-
325.00
7.40% Series A Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 2
300.00
300.00
7.65% Series B Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures Tranche 2
300.00
300.00
Unamortised Non-Convertible Debentures Issue Expenses
(1.03)
(2.82)
598.97
922.18
Less: Current maturities of long-term borrowings
(300.00)
(325.00)
298.97
597.18
418
419
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
B	
Borrowings - current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Measured at amortised cost
Secured 
Current maturities of non-convertible debentures (Refer Note 15 A)
300.00
325.00
300.00
325.00
	
Notes:
	
(a)	
Non-Convertible Debentures
	
	
(i)	
Terms of Debentures:
Particulars of Debentures
Tranche 1 (2022 issue)
Series A Tranche 2  
(2022 issue)
Series B Tranche 2  
(2022 issue)
Face value per debenture (I)
10,00,000
10,00,000
10,00,000
Date of allotment
12th July, 2022
22nd July, 2022
22nd July, 2022
As at 31st March, 2024 (I Crore)
-
300.00
300.00
As at 31st March, 2023 (I Crore)
325.00
300.00
300.00
Interest
7.40% p.a. payable 
annually
7.40% p.a. payable 
annually
7.65% p.a. payable 
annually
Terms of repayment
Due for redemption  
on 12-01-2024
Due for redemption  
on 22-07-2024
Due for redemption  
on 22-07-2025,with call 
option on 22-07-2024
Secured by charge
on 'Crompton' and 'Crompton Greaves Brand' (including assignment of license, 
agreements, if any)
	
	
(ii)	
Funds raised from Non-Convertible Debentures were utilised for the purpose it were obtained.
	
	
(iii)	 During the year, the Group redeemed Secured Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to I 325 Crores, Tranche 
1 (2022 issue), along with interest thereon, on 12th January, 2024.
	
(b)	
Working capital loan facility is secured by way of charge on the Crompton’s inventories and trade receivables.
	
(c)	
The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any 
government authority.
16	 Provisions
A	
Provisions - Non-current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Provision for employee benefits
	
Provision for post medical retirement benefits (Refer Note 33 A)
8.21
7.24
	
Provision for compensated absences (Refer Note 33)
18.16
15.35
Other provisions
	
Provision for warranty
165.69
105.43
	
Provision for Statutory dues
1.67
3.21
193.73
131.23
B	
Provisions - current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Provision for employee benefits
	
Provision for post medical retirement benefits (Refer Note 33 A)
0.33
0.31
	
Provision for compensated absences (Refer Note 33)
3.41
4.04
	
Provision for gratuity (Refer Note 33 B)
2.65
2.88
Other provisions
	
Provision for warranty
106.24
108.04
	
Provision for Statutory dues
12.67
12.67
	
Provision for Other litigation Claims
0.16
0.06
	
Others
78.51
42.48
203.97
170.48
	
Notes:
	
(1)	 Movement in provisions
I Crore
Warranty
Statutory Dues
Other litigation 
claims
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year
213.47
15.88
0.06
Provision made during the year (net)
154.55
-
0.10
Amounts used during the year
(85.65)
-
-
Unused amounts reversed during the year
(10.44)
(1.54)
-
Carrying amount at the end of the year
271.93
14.34
0.16
Current
106.24
12.67
0.16
Non-Current
165.69
1.67
-
I Crore
Movement of provisions
Others
Total
Carrying amount at the beginning of the year
42.48
271.89
Provision made during the year (net)
36.03
190.68
Amounts used during the year
-
(85.65)
Unused amounts reversed during the year
-
(11.98)
Carrying amount at the end of the year
78.51
364.94
Current
78.51
197.58
Non-Current
-
167.36
	
(2)	 Nature of provisions:
	
(a) 	 Provision for employee benefits represents liability on account of post medical retirement benefits, compensated 
absences and gratuity as per statutory requirements. 
	
(b)	
Product warranties: The Group gives warranties on certain products and services, undertaking to repair/replace 
products, which fail to perform satisfactorily during the warranty period. Provision made represents the amount of the 
expected cost of meeting such obligation on account of repair/replacement. The timing of outflows is expected to be 
within a period of two to five years.
	
(c)	
Provision for statutory dues represents liability on account of non-collection of declaration forms and other legal 
matters which are in appeal under the Acts/Rules.
	
(d)	
Provision for other litigation obligation claims represents liabilities that are expected to materialise in respect of 
matters in appeal.
	
(e)	
Other provisions represent provision for expenses.
420
421
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
17	 Trade payables
A	
Trade payables - Non current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Total Outstanding dues of Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises (Refer Note below)
-
-
Total Outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises
14.03
13.19
14.03
13.19
B	
Trade payables - Current
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Acceptances
156.81
66.17
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (Refer Note below)
261.57
245.18
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
896.08
724.03
1,314.46
1,035.38
	
Notes:
	
(a)	
Micro, Small and Medium enterprises have been identified by the Group on the basis of the information available. Total 
outstanding dues to suppliers which are outstanding for more than the stipulated period and other disclosures as per 
the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, (MSMED Act) as at 31st March, 2024. The disclosure 
pursuant to the said Act is as under:
I Crore
Particulars
31st March, 2024 
/2023-24
31st March, 2023 
/2022-23
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier at 
the end of each accounting year
	
Principal
261.57
245.18
	
Interest
0.02
0.00
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act, 
2006 along with the amount of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed 
day during each accounting year
18.51
4.15
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
(which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without 
adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006
-
-
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year
0.09
0.09
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise, 
for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under Section 23 of the 
MSMED Act, 2006
0.02
0.00
	
(b)	
Identification of micro and small enterprises is basis intimation received from vendors.
	
(c)	
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 90 day terms.
	
Trade Payables Ageing (Non-current and Current)
As at 31st March, 2024
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due  
date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2
Years
2-3
years
More than 
3 years
(i)	 MSME
 210.93 
 50.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 261.57 
(ii)	 Others
 671.69 
 317.73 
 59.53 
 6.04 
 11.93 
 1,066.92 
(iii)	 Disputed dues — MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)	Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 882.62 
 368.37 
 59.53 
 6.04 
 11.93  1,328.49 
As at 31st March, 2023
Not Due
Outstanding for following periods from due  
date of payment
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2
Years
2-3
years
More than 
3 years
(i)	 MSME
195.15
50.03
-
-
-
245.18
(ii)	 Others
615.00
159.25
10.53
5.08
13.53
803.39
(iii)	 Disputed dues — MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
(iv)	Disputed dues - Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
810.15
209.28
10.53
5.08
13.53
1,048.57
18	 Current Financial liabilities - Others
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings
31.33
36.50
Security deposits
36.97
34.76
Creditors for capital goods and services
0.56
0.81
Financial guarantee liability
0.02
0.32
Fair value of derivative liabilities
3.24
1.11
72.12
73.50
19	 Other current liabilities
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Advances from customers
9.62
7.13
Statutory dues payables
48.64
36.21
Unclaimed dividend
4.77
4.10
Employee benefit payables
52.91
47.78
Others
1.96
1.15
117.90
96.37
422
423
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
20	 Income taxes
A.	 Tax expense recognised in Statement of profit and loss comprises:
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Current tax
134.30
178.62
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
(0.78)
(16.71)
Deferred tax credit
(2.23)
(26.16)
Tax expense for the year
131.29
135.75
B.	 Amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Before 
tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Before 
tax
Tax 
(expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Remeasurements gains/(losses) on post employment defined 
benefit plans and tax thereon
(0.40)
0.10
(0.30)
(3.33)
0.99
(2.34)
(0.40)
0.10
(0.30)
(3.33)
0.99
(2.34)
C.	 Reconciliation of effective tax rate
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Profit before tax
573.07
612.15
Applicable tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
Computed tax expense
144.23
154.07
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods (Refer Note below)
(0.78)
(16.71)
Corporate social responsibility disallowance
3.47
3.43
Allowance of dividend received from subsidiaries
-
(2.32)
Impact of Share based payment expense
(10.04)
(9.39)
Effect of differential tax rates & unutilised tax credits used to reduce tax expense
-
0.44
Others
(5.59)
6.23
Income tax expense for the current year
131.29
135.75
Effective tax rate
22.91%
22.18%
	
Notes:
	
a)	
Based on assessment order received during the year, the Group has written-back an amount of I 2.00 Crore in respect 
of tax liability of AY 21-22. Further, additional provision for taxes of I 1.22 Crore made basis the return of income filed for 
AY 2023-24. Both the amounts are adjusted against tax expense for the year ended 31st March, 2024.
	
b)	
Based on assessment order received during the year, the Group has written-back an amount of I 16.71 Crore in respect 
of earlier years and the same is adjusted against tax expense for the year ended 31st March, 2023.
D.	 Components of deferred tax liabilities recognised in Balance sheet and Statement of profit and 
loss:
I Crore
Sr.
no.
Particulars
Balance sheet
Statement of profit and 
loss
As at 31st 
March, 
2024
As at 31st 
March, 
2023
2023-24
2022-23
(a)
Employee stock option outstanding 
 17.22 
 32.81 
 (15.59)
 0.58 
(b)
"Provision allowed under tax on payment basis"
 14.97 
 14.82 
 0.15 
 2.14 
(c)
Provision for doubtful debts and advances 
 15.93 
 13.66 
 2.27 
 2.83 
(d)
Difference between Written down value of Property, Plant and Equipment 
and Intangible assets as per books of accounts and Income Tax
 (11.75)
 (17.57)
 5.82 
 0.99 
(e)
Fair valuation of Investments
 (3.60)
 (2.26)
 (1.34)
 8.69 
(f)
Impact of Revenue recognition
 12.60 
 12.59 
 0.01 
 6.52 
(g)
Impact of Right-of-use asset
 23.49 
 14.53 
 8.96 
 4.93 
(h)
Impact of lease liabilities
 (21.19)
 (12.69)
 (8.50)
 (4.96)
(i)
Difference between fair value & book value of Property, plant and 
equipment and Intangible assets acquired through Business Combination
 (58.51)
 (70.61)
 12.10 
 12.10 
(j)
Provision for Advances
 0.31 
 0.58 
 (0.27)
 0.25 
(k)
Financial Guarantee
 - 
 0.11 
 (0.11)
 0.01 
(l)
MAT Credit Entitlement
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (7.97)
(m)
Other temporary differences (including tax related to items that will not be 
reclassified to profit or loss)
 0.59 
 1.76 
 (1.17)
 1.04 
Deferred tax income 
 2.33 
 27.15 
Net deferred tax liabilities
 (9.94)
 (12.27)
E.	 Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities
I Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
(a)
Opening balance as at 1st April
(12.27)
(39.43)
(b)
Tax (income)/expense during the period recognised in:
(i)	 Statement of profit and loss in profit or loss
2.23
26.16
(ii)	 Statement of profit and loss under OCI
0.10
0.99
Closing balance as at 31st March
(9.94)
(12.27)
F.	
Tax assets and liabilities
I Crore
Sr. 
no.
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
(a)
Non-current tax assets (net of tax provision)
8.62
9.36
(b)
Current tax assets (net of tax provision)
3.25
19.81
(c)
Current tax liabilities (net of tax assets)
23.39
9.20
	
During the current year, the Group has received income tax refunds including interest amounting to J 43.89 Crores for 
FY 2017-18 and FY 2021-22. The appellate proceedings for the aforesaid years are underway and pending disposal by the 
income tax department.
424
425
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
21	 Revenue from Operations
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
A.	 Sales of products and services
	
Revenue from contract with customers
	
Sale of products (excluding Goods and Service tax)
	
(i)	 Electric consumer durables
5,378.42
4,734.11
	
(ii)	 Lighting products
989.81
1,051.60
	
(iii)	 Butterfly Products
911.20
1,041.71
7,279.43
6,827.42
	
Sale of services
	
(i)	 Electric consumer durables
(10.58)
0.99
	
(ii)	 Lighting products
4.87
4.14
(5.71)
5.13
7,273.72
6,832.55
B.	 Other operating revenue
	
Export benefits and other incentives
2.30
1.52
	
Scrap sales
36.79
35.54
39.09
37.06
7,312.81
6,869.61
	
(For segment related information, Refer Note 38)
22	 Other income
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Interest income
38.61
45.92
Fair value gain on investments measured at fair value through profit or loss
26.77
15.75
Others
2.01
5.11
67.39
66.78
23	 Cost of materials consumed
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Opening inventories
117.70
198.32
Add: Purchases
1,754.47
1,612.04
Less: Closing inventories
(88.85)
(117.70)
Cost of raw materials consumed
1,783.32
1,692.66
Add: Sub-contracting charges
45.71
42.30
1,829.03
1,734.96
24	 Purchases of stock-in-trade
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Electric consumer durables
2,615.92
2,311.05
Lighting products
512.58
507.11
Butterfly Products
160.34
193.16
3,288.84
3,011.32
25	 Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Opening inventories:
Finished goods
209.75
206.89
Stock-in-trade
325.38
264.83
Work-in-progress
48.68
46.16
Less:
583.81
517.88
Closing inventories:
Finished goods
244.38
209.75
Stock-in-trade
413.47
325.38
Work-in-progress
43.52
48.68
701.37
583.81
Changes in inventories:
Finished goods
(34.63)
(2.86)
Stock-in-trade
(88.09)
(60.55)
Work-in-progress
5.16
(2.52)
(117.56)
(65.93)
26	 Employee benefits expense
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Salaries, wages, bonus and other benefits
519.77
457.63
Contribution to provident and other funds (Refer Note 33)
16.93
15.45
Gratuity (Refer Note 33)
4.93
3.88
Compensated absences (Refer Note 33) 
6.67
4.05
Post retiral medical benefits (Refer Note 33)
 0.86 
 0.65 
Staff welfare expenses
38.35
31.97
Share-based Payments to employees (Refer Note 37)
2.36
27.17
589.87
540.80
	
Notes:
	
(a)	
For remuneration paid to key management personnel Refer Note 34.
	
(b)	
During the year, the Group has capitalised Employee benefits expense of J 14.20 Crore (Previous year J 13.28 Crore) 
under Product Development & Intangible assets under development as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
426
427
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
27	 Finance costs
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Interest on borrowing
71.27
102.00
Interest on lease liability (Refer Note 32)
7.18
6.85
Interest other
0.12
0.12
Others finance cost
0.62
0.21
79.19
109.18
28	 Other expenses
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Consumption of stores and spares
15.05
13.97
Power and fuel
19.57
19.25
Rent
14.76
15.63
Repair to property, plant and equipment
7.44
7.93
Insurance
5.03
6.23
Rates and taxes
6.62
5.29
Freight and forwarding outward
248.27
223.41
Packing materials
82.84
76.97
After sales service
76.54
76.15
Sales promotion
161.14
109.62
Corporate social responsibility expenses (Refer Note 31)
14.93
13.81
Advertising
136.05
96.86
Legal and professional charges
94.74
105.07
Payment to the auditors (Refer Note below)
1.57
1.64
Bad Debts written off
9.21
7.89
Allowance for doubtful debt
12.37
13.34
Extended Producer’s Responsibility
15.40
-
Miscellaneous expenses
87.41
84.93
1,008.94
877.99
	
Notes:
	
(a)	
Includes expenditure on research and costs not eligible for capitalisation (Refer Note 30)
	
(b)	
During the year, the Group has capitalised Other expenses of I 13.92 Crore (Previous year I 5.90 Crore) under Product 
Development & Intangible assets under development as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
	
Payment to the auditors
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Auditors' remuneration (excluding Goods and Service tax)
	
Statutory Audit fees
0.81
0.80
	
Tax audit fees
0.19
0.17
	
Other services
	
(i)	 Certification work
0.06
0.17
	
(ii)	 Others
0.39
0.43
	
Reimbursement of expenses
0.13
0.07
1.57
1.64
29	 Contingent liabilities and commitments
I Crore
Sr 
no.
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
A
Contingent Liabilities:
(to the extent not provided for)
(a)	 Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts
20.72
24.71
(b)	 Income tax liability that may arise in respect of matters in appeal
89.33
33.66
(c)	 Excise duty/customs duty/service tax liability that may arise in respect of  
matters in appeal
11.92
10.46
(d)	 GST/Entry Tax/Sales tax/VAT liability that may arise in respect of matters in appeal
170.18
119.22
B
Commitments:
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not 
provided for (net of advances)
9.11
15.88
	
Notes:
	
(a)	
The Group does not expect any reimbursements in respect of the above contingent liabilities.
	
(b)	
It is not practicable to estimate the timing of cash outflows, if any, in respect of matters at (a) to (d) above, pending 
resolution of the arbitration/appellate proceedings.
30	 Expenditure on research and development
I Crore
Sr 
no.
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
(a)
Capital expenditure*
36.47
48.96
	
Sub-total (a)
33.67
48.96
(b)
Revenue expenditure
Raw materials consumed
0.23
0.57
Employee benefits
23.58
16.67
Depreciation and amortisation
8.58
6.20
Other expenses
	
Consumption of stores and spares
3.10
1.70
	
Repairs and maintenance
0.01
0.01
	
Miscellaneous expenses
4.17
7.49
	
Sub-total (b)
39.67
32.64
Total (a) + (b)
76.14
81.60
*includes J 30.33 Crore (Previous year J 36.82 Crore) capitalised under Product Development & IAUD as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
428
429
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
31	 Expenditure on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Gross amount required to be spent by the Group during the year
14.89
13.81
Amount of expenditure incurred by the Group during the year
(i)	 Construction/acquision of any asset
-
-
(ii)	 On purposes other than (i) above:
Nature of CSR activities
	
Community Development
3.50
2.30
	
Monitoring & Evaluation
0.23
0.40
	
Skill Development
5.76
3.79
	
Water Conservation
6.38
5.46
	
Transferred to Unspent account
-
1.45
	
Administration
0.50
0.43
Total CSR expenditure
16.37
13.83
Details of related party transactions- contribution to a trust controlled by the Group in relation 
to CSR expenditure as per Ind AS 24, Related Party Disclosures (contributed to Crompton 
(CSR) Foundation)
13.31
13.15
	
Note:
	
During the year,the Group’s subsidiary “Butterfly” has transferred I 0.01 Crore to prime minister’s Citizen Assistance and 
Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund) on 18th July 2023.
32	 Leases
	
Group as lessee
A	
Right-of-Use assets
I Crore
Cost
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Opening Balance
128.79
103.41
Additions
33.16
36.66
Disposal/derecognised during the year
(18.11)
(11.28)
Closing Balance (a)
143.84
128.79
I Crore
Accumulated depreciation
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Opening Balance
52.84
32.31
Depreciation expense
32.03
27.35
Disposal/derecognised during the year
(17.26)
(6.82)
Closing Balance (b)
67.61
52.84
Closing Balance (a-b)
76.23
75.95
B	
Lease liabilities
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Opening Balance
82.93
78.22
Addition
33.16
36.66
Accredition of interest
7.18
6.85
Payments
(39.01)
(33.72)
Adjustments for disposals
(0.04)
(5.08)
Closing Balance
84.22
82.93
Current maturities of lease liabilities
31.43
27.00
Non-current lease liabilities
52.79
55.93
C	
Amounts recognised in Statement of profit and loss
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Depreciation expense of Right-of-Use assets
32.03
27.35
Interest expense on lease liabilities
7.18
6.85
Short term and low value leases
11.04
35.02
Total
50.25
69.22
D	
Maturity analysis of lease liabilities (undiscounted)
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Less than one year
36.64
32.55
One to five years
57.48
60.70
More than five years
1.23
2.60
Total
95.35
95.85
E	
Amounts recognised in statement of Cash Flows
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Total Cash outflow for leases
39.01
33.72
F	
(a)	
The Group applied the exemption not to recognise right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases with less than 12 months 
of lease term and low value asset.
	
(b)	
Lease contracts entered by the Group pertains to warehouses, offices and plant & equipments taken on lease to conduct 
its business in the ordinary course. The Group does not have any lease restrictions and commitment towards variable 
rent as per the contract.
	
(c)	
The Group has several lease contracts that include extension and termination options. Significant judgement is 
exercised by management in determining whether these extension and termination options are reasonably certain 
to be exercised.
430
431
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
33	 Employee Benefits
A	
Holding Company (Crompton)
(a)	 Defined contribution plans (Refer Accounting Policy Note 1.2 (o))
	
Amount of I 23.00 Crore (Previous year I 19.25 Crore) is recognised as an expense and included in Employee benefits 
expense as under the following defined contribution plans: (Refer Note 26)
I Crore
Benefits (Contribution to)
2023-24
2022-23
Provident fund
11.40
10.34
Superannuation fund
1.10
1.27
Employee state insurance scheme
0.07
0.07
Labour welfare scheme
0.00
0.01
Gratuity
3.34
2.82
National Pension Scheme
1.30
0.79
Compensated absences
4.93
3.30
Post retirement medical benefits
0.86
0.65
Total
23.00
19.25
	
Note:- During the year, the Holding Company has capitalised employees benefits of I 0.44 Crore (previous year - I 0.57 Crore) 
under Product Development & Intangible assets under development as a Development cost as per Ind AS 38.
(b)	 Defined Benefit Plans (Refer Accounting Policy Note 1.2 (o)) as per Actuarial Valuation are as under:
I Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
Post Retirement Medical 
Benefits
2023-24
(Funded)
2022-23
(Funded)
2023-24
(Non funded)
2022-23
(Non funded)
I
Change in present value of defined benefit obligation 
during the year
Present value of defined benefit obligation at the beginning  
of the year
29.24
26.82
7.55
7.11
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
	
Interest cost
2.19
1.87
0.56
0.53
	
Current service cost
3.47
3.04
0.63
0.48
	
Past service cost
-
-
-
-
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
	
Actuarial losses / (gains)
1.83
0.82
0.13
(0.21)
Benefits paid
(4.05)
(3.31)
(0.33)
(0.36)
Present Value of defined benefit obligation at the end  
of the year
32.68
29.24
8.54
7.55
II
Change in fair value of plan assets during the year
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
30.97
30.02
-
-
Expected return on plan assets
2.32
2.09
-
-
Contributions
-
-
-
-
Benefits paid from the fund
-
-
-
-
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
-
-
-
-
Actuarial gain/(loss)
2.70
(1.14)
-
-
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
35.99
30.97
-
-
I Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
Post Retirement Medical 
Benefits
2023-24
(Funded)
2022-23
(Funded)
2023-24
(Non funded)
2022-23
(Non funded)
III
Actual return on plan assets
Expected return on plan assets
2.32
2.09
-
-
Actuarial gain/(loss)
2.70
(1.14)
-
-
Actual return on plan assets
5.02
0.95
-
-
IV
Net asset/(liability) recognised in the balance sheet
Present Value of defined benefit obligation at the end  
of the year
(32.68)
(29.24)
(8.54)
(7.55)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
35.99
30.97
-
-
Asset/(Liability) recognised in the balance sheet
3.31
1.73
(8.54)
(7.55)
V
Expenses recognised in the statement of profit and loss
Current service cost
3.47
3.04
0.63
0.48
Interest cost
(0.13)
(0.22)
0.56
0.53
Past Service cost
-
-
-
-
3.34
2.82
1.19
1.01
VI
Expenses recognised in the Other comprehensive 
income
Actuarial losses / (gains) on Obligation For the Period
1.83
0.82
0.13
(0.21)
Return on Plan Assets, Excluding Interest Income
(2.70)
1.14
-
-
Change in Asset Ceiling
-
-
-
-
Net (Income)/Expense For the Period Recognized in OCI
(0.87)
1.96
0.13
(0.21)
VII The major categories of plan assets as a percentage  
of total plan
Insurer managed funds
100%
100%
NA
NA
VIII Sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions:
Increase/(Decrease) on present value of defined benefits 
obligation at the end of the year
1% increase in discount rate
(1.72)
(1.58)
(1.18)
0.02
1% decrease in discount rate
1.92
1.76
1.51
2.98
1% increase in salary escalation rate
1.93
1.77
-
-
1% decrease in salary escalation rate
(1.76)
(1.62)
-
-
1% increase in employee turnover rate
0.01
0.05
-
-
1% decrease in employee turnover rate
(0.02)
(0.06)
-
-
1% increase in Medical inflation rate
-
-
1.53
1.31
1% decrease in Medical inflation rate
-
-
(1.20)
(1.03)
IX
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligations
-
-
-
-
Within the next 12 months
5.56
3.56
0.39
0.38
Between 1 and 5 years
12.33
12.46
1.65
1.58
Between 5 and 10 years
15.69
14.38
2.55
2.28
X
Actuarial assumptions
Discount rate (p.a.)
7.21%
7.49%
7.40%
7.40%
Expected Return on Plan Assets (p.a.)
7.21%
7.49%
N.A
N.A
Employee turnover rate
6.00%
6.00%
6.00%
6.00%
Salary escalation rate
6.00%
6.00%
N.A
N.A
Mortality rate during employment
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality
(2012-14)
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality
(2012-14)
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality
(2012-14)
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality
(2012-14)
Medical premium inflation rate
N.A
N.A
2%
2%
432
433
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
(c)	 The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions 
occurring at the end of the year and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a change in the key 
assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the same method 
used to calculate the liability recognised in the balance sheet has been applied. The methods and types of assumptions 
used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared with the previous year.
(d)	 The Company makes contributions to the Gratuity Trust, which manages the investment. The Trust is a funded defined benefit 
plan for qualifying employees. The Scheme provides for lump sum payment to vested employees at retirement, death while 
in employment or on termination of employment as per the Compant’s Gratuity Scheme. Vesting occurs upon completion 
of five years of service.
(e)	 The Company provides post retirement medical benefits to qualifying employees.
(f)	
The actuarial valuation of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were carried out at 
31st March, 2024 and 31st March, 2023. The present value of the defined benefit obligation and the related current 
service cost and past service cost, were measured using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
(g)	 Discount rate is based on the prevailing market yields of Indian Government securities as at the balance sheet date for the 
estimated term of the obligations.
(h)	 Expected rate of return on the plan assets is based on the average long-term rate of return expected on investments of the 
Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
(i)	
The salary escalation rate considered in the actuarial valuation is arrived after taking into consideration the seniority, the 
promotion, inflation and other relevant factors.
Compensated absences
In respect of compensated absences, accrual is made on the basis of a year-end actuarial valuation as at balance sheet date. 
The actuarial valuation is done as per Project unit credit method.
The leave obligation cover the Holding Company’s liability for earned leave. The amount of the provision of C 15.48 Crore (Previous 
year C 15.35 Crore) is presented as non-current and C 3.12 Crore (Previous year C 2.04 Crore) is presented as current. The Holding 
Company has recognised C 4.93 Crore (Previous year C 3.30 Crore) for compensated absences in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
B	
Subsidiary Company (Butterfly)
(a)	 Defined contribution plans (Refer Accounting Policy Note 1.2 (o))
	
Amount of I 6.71 Crore (Previous year I 5.35 Crore) is recognised as an expense and included in Employee benefits expense 
as under the following defined contribution plans: (Refer Note 26)
I Crore
Benefits (Contribution to)
2023-24
2022-23
Provident fund
2.90
2.87
Employee deposit linked insurance scheme
0.47
0.56
Labour welfare scheme
0.01
0.01
Gratuity
1.59
1.16
Compensated absences
1.74
0.75
Total
6.71
5.35
(b)	 Defined Benefit Plans (Refer Accounting Policy Note 1.2 (o)) as per Actuarial Valuation are as under:
I Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
2023-24
(Funded)
2022-23
(Funded)
I
Change in present value of defined benefit obligation during the year
Present value of defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
10.35
10.93
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
	
Interest cost
0.68
0.65
	
Current service cost
1.44
1.22
	
Past service cost
0.05
-
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
	
Actuarial losses
1.03
1.70
Benefits paid
(1.94)
(4.15)
Present Value of defined benefit obligation at the end of the year
11.61
10.35
II
Change in fair value of plan assets during the year
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
7.47
10.79
Expected return on plan assets
0.58
0.64
Contributions
2.95
0.07
Benefits paid from the fund
(1.94)
(4.15)
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
-
-
Actuarial (loss) / gain 
(0.10)
0.12
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
8.96
7.47
III
Actual return on plan assets
Expected return on plan assets
0.58
0.64
Actuarial (loss) / gain 
(0.10)
0.12
Actual return on plan assets
0.48
0.76
IV
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 
Present Value of defined benefit obligation at the end of the year
(11.61)
(10.35)
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
8.96
7.47
Liability recognised in the balance sheet
(2.65)
(2.88)
V
Expenses recognised in the statement of profit and loss
Current service cost
1.44
1.22
Interest cost
0.10
0.01
Past Service cost
0.05
-
1.59
1.23
VI
Expenses recognised in the Other comprehensive income
Actuarial Losses on Obligation For the Period
1.03
1.70
Return on Plan Assets, Excluding Interest Income
0.10
(0.12)
Change in Asset Ceiling
-
-
Net Expense For the Period Recognized in OCI 
1.13
1.58
VII The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan
Insurer managed funds
100%
100%
434
435
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
I Crore
Particulars
Gratuity
2023-24
(Funded)
2022-23
(Funded)
VIII Sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions:
Increase/(Decrease) on present value of defined benefits obligation at the end of the year
	
0.50% increase in discount rate
(0.58)
(0.57)
	
0.50% decrease in discount rate
0.63
0.62
	
0.50% increase in salary escalation rate
0.63
0.61
	
0.50% decrease in salary escalation rate
(0.59)
(0.57)
	
0.50% increase in employee turnover rate
-
-
	
0.50% decrease in employee turnover rate
-
-
IX
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligations
-
-
Within the next 12 months
0.57
0.44
Between 1 and 5 years
2.31
2.33
Between 5 and 10 years
5.15
4.42
X
Actuarial assumptions
Discount rate (p.a.)
6.97%
7.22%
Expected Return on Plan Assets (p.a.)
6.97%
7.22%
Employee turnover rate
3.00%
3.00%
Salary escalation rate
7.00%
7.00%
(c)	
The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions 
occurring at the end of the year and may not be representative of the actual change. It is based on a change in the key 
assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. When calculating the sensitivity to the assumption, the same method 
used to calculate the liability recognised in the balance sheet has been applied. The methods and types of assumptions 
used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared with the previous year.
(d)	 The subsidiary makes contributions to the Insurer Managed Funds (LIC).
(e)	 The actuarial valuation of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were carried out at 31st March, 
2024 and 31st March, 2023. The present value of the defined benefit obligation and the related current service cost and past 
service cost, were measured using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
(f)	
Discount rate has been determined by reference to market yields on 31st March, 2024 on government bonds of term consistent 
with estimated term of the obligations as per para 83 of Ind AS 19. The source of determining the market yields is the Zero 
Coupon Sovereign Rupee Yield Curve estimated by the Clearing Corporation of India Limited (CCIL) as on 31st March, 2024.
(g)	 Expected rate of return on the plan assets is based on the average long-term rate of return expected on investments of the 
Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
(h)	 The salary escalation rate considered in the actuarial valuation is arrived after taking into consideration the seniority, the 
promotion, inflation and other relevant factors.
	
Compensated absences
	
In respect of compensated absences, accrual is made on the basis of a year-end actuarial valuation as at balance sheet 
date. The actuarial valuation is done as per Project unit credit method.
	
The leave obligation cover the Holding Company’s liability for earned leave. The amount of the provision of C 2.68 Crore 
(Previous year NIL) is presented as non-current and C 0.29 Crore (Previous year C 2.00 Crore) is presented as current. The 
Company has recognised C 1.74 Crore (Previous year C 0.75 Crore) for compensated absences in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss.
34	 Related Party Disclosures
i)	
List of related parties over which control exist:
 	
Name of the subsidiary companies:
	
Crompton (CSR) Foundation 
ii)	 Other Related Parties:
	
Swaminathan Enterprises Private Limited (upto 3rd January, 2023; significant influence of Key management personnel)
	
Opera Gratia Pvt. Ltd. (upto 30th April, 2023; significant influence of Key management personnel)
iii)	 Name of Post employment benefit plans with whom transactions were carried out during the year:
	
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees’ Gratuity Trust
	
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees’ Superannuation Fund
	
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited Employees Group Gratuity Trust Fund
iii)	 Key Management Personnel:
	
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
	
Mr. H. M. Nerurkar, Chairman and Independent Director (upto 20th October, 2023)
	
Mr. D. Sundaram, Chairman and Independent Director
	
Mr. P. M. Murty, Independent Director
	
Ms. Smita Anand, Independent Director
	
Mr. P.R. Ramesh, Independent Director (from 21st May, 2021)
	
Ms. Hiroo Mirchandani, Independent Director (from 28th January, 2022)
	
Mr. Sanjiv Kakkar, Independent Director (from 17th October, 2023)
	
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, Non-Executive Director (upto 23rd April, 2023); Executive Director (From 24th April, 2023 to 30th April, 
2023); Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (from 1st May, 2023)
	
Mr. Shantanu Khosla, Managing Director (upto 30th April, 2023); Vice Chairman and Executive Director (from 1st May, 2023 
to 30th April, 2024); Non executive Vice Chairman (from 1st May, 2024)
	
Mr. Mathew Job, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (upto 30th April, 2023)
	
Mr. Sandeep Batra, Chief Financial Officer (upto 30th May, 2022)
	
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam, Chief Financial Officer (from 5th September, 2022)
	
Ms. Pragya Kaul, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer (upto 15th September, 2022)
	
Ms. Rashmi Khandelwal, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer (from 28th November, 2022)
	
Butterfly Gandhimathi Appliances Limited
	
Mr. M. Padmanabhan, Independent Director
	
Mr. A. Balasubramanian, Independent Director
	
Mr. G.S. Samuel, Independent Director
	
Mr. T.R. Srinivasan, Independent Director
	
Ms. Maheshwari Mohan, Independent Director
	
Mr. K.E. Ranganathan , Independent Director (from 04th April, 2024)
	
Mr. Rangarajan Sriram, Managing Director (from 30th March, 2022)
	
Mr. R. Nagarajan, Chief Financial Officer (upto 05th April, 2023)
	
Ms. Priya Varshinee V M, Company Secretary & Compliance Officer (upto 03th February, 2023)
	
Mr. P.M.Murty - Chairman, Non- Executive Director (from 01st April,2022)
	
Mr. P.R.Ramesh, Independent Director (from 01st April,2022 to 09th November, 2022)
	
Mr. Shantanu Khosla - Non- Executive Director (from 30th March, 2022)
	
Mr. Promeet Ghosh, Non-Executive Director (from 12th May, 2023)
436
437
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
Mr. Mathew Job - Non- Executive Director (upto 30th March, 2023)
	
Ms. Smita Anand, Independent Director (from 01st April,2022)
	
Mr. Kaleeswaran Arunachalam, Non-Executive Director (from 09th November, 2023)
	
Mr. Nithiyanandam Anandkumar , Non-Executive Director (from 09th November, 2023)
	
Mr. Viral Sarvaiya - Company Secretary & Compliance Officer (from 25th March, 2023)
	
Mr. V A Joseph - Chief Financial Officer (from 09th November, 2023)
	
Ms. Ananda Shalini - Chief Financial Officer (from 06th April, 2023 to 20th October, 2023)
	
Mr. R Nagarajan - Chief Financial Officer (upto 05th April, 2023)
v)	 Details of related party transactions:
I Crore
Sr.
No.
Nature of transaction
2023-24
2022-23
1
Services received
Opera Gratia Pvt. Ltd.
0.33
1.47
Total
0.33
1.47
2
Services rendered
Swaminathan Enterprises Private Limited
-
0.08
Total
-
0.08
2
Contributions (Employer's) to Post Retirement Funds
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees' Superannuation Fund
1.10
1.27
Total
1.10
1.27
3
Compensation to Key Management Personnel
Short-term benefits*
127.39
74.34
Share-based Payments (Refer Note b below)
(3.31)
9.71
Director's sitting fees
0.90
1.01
Commission
1.68
2.40
Total
126.66
87.46
4
Donations paid
Crompton (CSR) Foundation
13.31
13.15
Total
13.31
13.15
*Short-term benefits for the current year include C 101.60 Crore (previous year: C 48.62 Crore) on account of exercise of stock options
	
Notes:
	
(a)	
Liabilities for post retirement benefits being Gratuity, Leave encashment and Post retirement medical benefits are 
provided on actuarial basis for the Group as a whole. The amount pertaining to Key management personnel are not 
included above.
	
(b)	
The Group has granted shares under various Schemes to the eligible Key Management Personnel. The amount 
mentioned is the fair value of the grant charged to Statement of profit and loss.
vi)	 Amount due to/from related parties
I Crore
Sr.
No.
Nature of transaction
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
1
Other Receivable
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees' Gratuity Trust
3.31
1.73
Total
3.31
1.73
2
Other Payable
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited Employees' Superannuation Fund
0.09
0.09
Commission Payable to Key Management Personnel
1.68
2.40
Total
1.77
2.49
	
Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties
	
All Related Party Transactions entered during the year were in ordinary course of the business and on arm’s length basis. 
Outstanding balances at the year-end with related parties are unsecured and interest free, and will be settled/recovered 
in cash.
	
The Group has not made any allowance for bad or doubtful debts in respect of related party trade receivables nor has 
any guarantee been given or received during the year ended 31st March 2024 and 31st March 2023 relating to related 
party transactions.
35	 Earnings Per Share (EPS)
	
Basic EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Group by the weighted 
average number of Equity shares outstanding during the year.
	
Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Group by the weighted average 
number of Equity shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of Equity shares that would be 
issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential Equity shares into Equity shares.
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
(a)	 Basic earnings per share
	
Numerator for earnings per share
	
Profit after tax
I Crore
439.92
463.21
	
Denominator for earnings per share
	
Weighted number of equity shares outstanding
	
during the year
Nos
63,97,21,335
63,49,86,510
	
Earnings per share - Basic (one equity share of I 2 each)
I
6.88
7.29
(b)	Diluted earnings per share
	
Numerator for earnings per share
	
Profit after tax
I Crore
439.92
463.21
	
Denominator for earnings per share
	
Weighted number of equity shares outstanding for basic EPS
	
during the year
Nos
63,97,21,335
63,49,86,510
	
Add: Weighted average number of potential equity shares on
	
account of Employee Stock Option Schemes
Nos
-
22,16,124
	
Weighted number of equity shares outstanding for diluted EPS
	
during the year
Nos
63,97,21,335
63,72,02,634
	
Earnings per share - Diluted (one equity share of I 2 each)
I
6.88
7.27
Note: 84,89,793 number of share options are outstanding as on 31st March, 2024 which are anti-dilutive in nature.
438
439
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
36	 Impairment testing of Goodwill
	
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s operating division (not at segment level), which 
is not higher than the Group’s operating segments. The aggregate carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each unit are 
as follows:
I Crore
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Electric Consumer Durables
590.10
590.10
Lighting Products
189.31
189.31
Butterfly
506.05
506.05
Total
1,285.46
1,285.46
	
The recoverable amount is based on a value-in-use calculation using the discounted cash flow method. The value-in-use 
calculation is made using exit multiple and pre-tax budgeted EBITDA projections of the next five years which is considered 
by the Board as a reasonable period.
	
The key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations are as follows:
	
a)	
Earnings (before interest and tax) margin: The margins have been estimated based on past experience after considering 
incremental revenue and savings from the efficiencies and cost saving initiatives driven by the Group.
	
b)	
Discount rate: Discount rate reflects the current market assessment of the risks specific to a cash generating unit and 
is estimated based on the weighted average cost of capital.
	
c)	
Long-term growth rate: The growth rates used are in line with the long-term average growth rates of the Group and are 
consistent with the internal/external sources of information.
	
	
The assumptions used are reviewed annually as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycles. These 
estimates may differ from actual results. The values assigned to each of the key assumptions reflect the Management’s 
past experience as their assessment of future trends, and are consistent with external/internal sources of information.
	
	
Based on the above assumptions and analysis, no impairment was identified for any of the cash generating unit as at 
31st March 2024 and 31st March, 2023 as the recoverable value of the cash generating unit exceeded the carrying value.
	
	
The Group has also performed sensitivity analysis calculations on the projections used (revenue growth and EBITDA 
margin) and discount rate applied. An analysis of the sensitivity of the computation to a change in key parameters 
(operating margin, discount rates and average growth rate), based on reasonable assumptions, did not identify 
any probable scenario in which the recoverable amount of the cash generating units would decrease below its 
carrying amount.
37	 Share-based Payments
	
Employee stock options - equity settled
(a)	
The Members of the Group have approved by way of postal ballots grant of Employee stock options under various Schemes. 
The plan envisaged grant of shares to eligible employees at market price/pre-determined value as determined by the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) of the Board of Directors from time to time.
	
Disclosures:
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Share-based Payments to employee
2.36
27.17
Employee Stock option outstanding
75.82
140.41
(b)	 The position of the existing schemes is summarised as under:
Particulars
31st March, 2024/2023-24
31st March, 2023/2022-23
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
Date of Shareholder's 
approval
19th January, 2020 
and amended on 
06th January, 2021
22nd October, 
2016
22nd October, 
2016
22nd October, 
2016
19th January, 2020 
and amended on 
6th January, 2021
22nd October, 
2016
22nd October, 
2016
22nd October, 
2016
Total number of options 
approved under ESOS
98,00,000
40,00,000
1,09,68,057
31,33,731
98,00,000
40,00,000
1,09,68,057
31,33,731
Vesting requirements
1-5 Years
1-5 Years
1-10 Years
1-10 Years
1-5 Years
1-5 Years
1-10 Years
1-10 Years
Exercise price or pricing  
formula (I)
Exercise Price is the closing market 
price on the Stock Exchange, as on 
the day prior to the date on which 
the NRC approves the Grant.
92.83
185.66
Exercise Price is the closing 
market price on the Stock 
Exchange, as on the day prior 
to the date on which the NRC 
approves the Grant.
92.83
185.66
Maximum term of Options 
granted (years)
Options granted 
under ESOP 2019 
would vest not 
earlier than one 
year and not later 
than 5 years from 
the date of grant.
Options 
granted under 
ESOP 2016 
would vest 
not earlier 
than one year 
and not later 
than 5 years 
from the date 
of grant.
Options granted under PSP 
1 and PSP 2 would vest not 
earlier than one year and not 
later than 10 years from the 
date of grant.
Options granted 
under ESOP 2019 
would vest not 
earlier than one 
year and not later 
than 5 years from 
the date of grant.
Options 
granted under 
ESOP 2016 
would vest 
not earlier 
than one year 
and not later 
than 5 years 
from the date 
of grant.
Options granted under PSP 
1 and PSP 2 would vest not 
earlier than one year and not 
later than 10 years from the 
date of grant.
Source of shares (Primary, 
Secondary or combination)
Primary
Variation in terms of 
options
There have been no variations in the terms of the options
440
441
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
(c)	 Options movement during the year:
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
No. of options outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
85,66,950
9,92,576
44,10,033
23,27,297
82,64,317
18,93,854
55,38,176
30,79,392
No. of options granted during 
the year
25,55,000
-
-
-
15,25,000
-
-
-
No. of options forfeited/lapsed 
during the year
32,38,390
1,26,413
-
-
11,21,867
1,78,256
-
-
No. of options vested during the 
year
10,01,558
89,978
-
-
10,30,631
1,98,669
-
-
No. of options exercised during 
the year
-
2,59,930
44,10,033
23,27,297
1,00,500
7,23,022
11,28,143
7,52,095
Money realised by exercise of 
options (I)
-
5,19,53,343 40,93,83,363 43,20,85,961
2,59,94,325 14,56,88,852 10,47,25,515 13,96,33,958
No. of options outstanding at the 
end of the year
78,83,560
6,06,233
-
-
85,66,950
9,92,576
44,10,033
23,27,297
No. of options exercisable at the 
end of the year
25,48,560
6,06,233
-
-
17,15,881
8,40,076
44,10,033
23,27,297
Weighted Average Remaining 
Contractual Life (in years)
5.81
2.25
-
-
6.53
3.01
2.26
2.16
(d)	 Weighted average information for year:
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2016
PSP 1
PSP 2
Weighted average exercise 
price of options granted 
during the year whose
Exercise price equals market 
price (I)
268.09
-
-
-
330.95
-
-
-
Exercise price is greater than 
market price (I)
294.65
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Exercise price is less than 
market price (I)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Weighted average fair value 
of options granted during 
the year whose
Exercise price equals market 
price (I)
108.59
-
-
-
138.21
-
-
-
Exercise price is greater than 
market price (I)
102.80
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Exercise price is less than 
market price (I)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(e)	 The Black-Scholes Valuation Model has been used for computing weighted average fair value 
considering the following inputs:-
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
ESOP 2019
ESOP 2019
Price of the underlying share in market at the time of the option grant (I)
261.84
330.95
Exercise price (I)
261.84
330.95
Risk free interest rate (based on government securities)
6.93%
7.21%
Expected life (years)
5.56
5.81
Expected volatility
33.06%
32.61%
Dividend yield
0.95%
0.76%
(f)	 Number and Weighted Average Exercise Price of Options
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
Number of 
options
Weighted 
Average Exercise 
Price (K)
Number of 
options
Weighted 
Average Exercise 
Price (K)
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
1,62,96,856
274.51
1,87,75,739
257.07
Granted during the year
25,55,000
259.09
15,25,000
369.12
Forefeited during the year
33,64,803
391.73
13,00,123
384.42
Exercised during the year
69,97,260
127.68
27,03,760
153.88
Expired during the year
-
-
-
0.00
Outstanding at the end of the year
84,89,793
345.19
1,62,96,856
274.51
Exercisable at the end of the period
31,54,793
371.36
92,93,287
185.59
(g)	 Weighted average share price of options exercised during the year is I 276.20 (Previous year I 378.99).
38	 Operating Segments
A.	 General Information
	
The Group has determined following reporting segments based on the information reviewed by the Group’s Chief Operating 
Decision Maker (‘CODM’).
	
a)	
Electric Consumer Durables
	
b)	
Lighting Products
	
c)	
Butterfly (acquisition through business combination)
	
The above business segments have been identified considering:
	
a)	
the nature of products and services
	
b)	
the differing risks and returns
	
c)	
the internal organisation and management structure, and
	
d)	
the internal financial reporting systems.
	
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been 
identified as the Management Committee as explained in the Director’s Report section.
442
443
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
B.	 Information about reportable segments
I Crore
2023-24
Reportable segments
Particulars
Electric 
Consumer 
Durables
Lighting Products
Butterfly
Total
Revenue
External Customers
5,392.18
998.17
922.46
7,312.81
Inter-segment
-
-
-
-
Total revenue
5,392.18
998.17
922.46
7,312.81
Segment profit
774.65
105.32
8.19
888.16
Segment profit includes:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
17.81
7.93
18.06
43.80
Segment assets
1,433.19
394.44
525.12
2,352.75
Segment liabilities
1,251.44
380.59
232.93
1,864.96
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure
57.63
10.41
17.57
85.61
I Crore
2022-23
Reportable segments
Particulars
Electric 
Consumer 
Durables
Lighting Products
Butterfly
Total
Income
External Customers
4,755.66
1,058.13
1,055.82
6,869.61
Inter-segment
-
-
-
-
Total income
4,755.66
1,058.13
1,055.82
6,869.61
Segment profit
789.30
100.52
83.97
973.79
Segment profit includes:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
12.76
6.00
16.15
34.91
Segment assets
1,184.03
425.49
491.40
2,100.92
Segment liabilities
933.20
364.03
205.76
1,502.99
Other disclosures
Capital expenditure
38.44
16.14
9.99
64.57
C.	 Reconciliations of information on reportable segments
(a)	 Income
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
	
Total income for reportable segments
7,312.81
6,869.61
Total income (Refer Note 21)
7,312.81
6,869.61
(b)	 Profit before tax
I Crore
Particulars
2023-24
2022-23
	
Total profit before tax for reportable segments
888.16
973.79
	
Unallocated amounts:
	
Expense on Employee Stock Option Scheme
(2.36)
(27.17)
	
Finance costs
(79.19)
(109.18)
	
Other unallocable expenditure net of unallocable Income
(233.54)
(225.29)
Total profit before tax from operations as reported in Statement of profit and loss
573.07
612.15
(c)	 Assets
I Crore
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Total assets for reportable segments
2,352.75
2,100.92
Other unallocated amounts:
Goodwill
1,285.46
1,285.46
Other assets
2,443.49
2,268.05
Total assets as reported in Balance sheet
6,081.70
5,654.43
(d)	 Liabilities
I Crore
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Total liabilities for reportable segments
1,864.96
1,502.99
Other unallocated amounts:
Borrowings
598.97
922.18
Other liabilities
168.80
121.56
Total liabilities as reported in Balance sheet
2,632.73
2,546.73
D.	 Reconciliation of revenue recognised in statement of profit and loss with contracted price
I Crore
Particulars
As at 
31st March, 2024
As at 
31st March, 2023
Revenue as per contracted price
8016.45
7420.65
Less: Adjustments*
(742.73)
(588.10)
Total revenue from contract with customers
7,273.72
6,832.55
* includes discounts, schemes, sales return & others. 
	
The group has contract asset as at 31st March, 2024 C 0.26 Crore (Previous year: C 3.88 Crore)
E.	 Disaggregation of revenue based on products
	
Information given above concerning reportable segment-wise revenue are sufficient to meet the required disclosures under 
Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with respect to disaggregation of revenue.
F.	
Geographic information
	
The Group mainly caters to Indian Market, accordingly, secondary information/geographical segment is not applicable.
G.	 Information about major customers
	
There are no customers having revenue exceeding 10% of total revenues.
444
445
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
39	 Financial instruments – Disclosures
A.	 Accounting classification and fair values
	
The following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels 
in the fair value hierarchy. It does not include fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured 
at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value.
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
FVTPL
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Non-current financial assets
Non-current investment
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Trade receivables
-
12.65
12.65
-
-
-
-
Other non-current financial assets
-
19.10
19.10
-
-
-
-
Current financial assets
Current investments
689.10
-
689.10
689.10
-
-
689.10
Trade receivables
-
720.89
720.89
-
-
-
-
Cash and cash equivalents
-
172.06
172.06
-
-
-
-
Bank balance other than cash and cash equivalents
-
88.71
88.71
-
-
-
-
Loans
-
0.36
0.36
-
-
-
-
Other current financial assets
-
20.02
20.02
-
-
-
-
689.10
1,033.79
1,722.89
689.10
-
-
689.10
Financial liabilities
Non-current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
298.97
298.97
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
52.79
52.79
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
14.03
14.03
-
-
-
-
Current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
300.00
300.00
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
31.43
31.43
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
1,314.46
1,314.46
-
-
-
-
Derivative liabilities
3.24
-
3.24
3.24
-
-
3.24
Other current financial liabilities
0.02
68.86
68.88
-
-
0.02
0.02
3.26
2,080.54
2,083.80
3.24
-
0.02
3.26
As at 31st March, 2023
Carrying amount
Fair value
FVTPL
Amortised 
Cost
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Non-current financial assets
Non Current Investment
0.35
-
0.35
0.35
-
-
0.35
Trade receivables
-
15.49
15.49
-
-
-
-
Other non-current financial assets
-
18.73
18.73
-
-
-
-
Current financial assets
Current investments
547.83
-
547.83
547.83
-
-
547.83
Trade receivables
-
670.56
670.56
-
-
-
-
Cash and cash equivalents
-
76.84
76.84
-
-
-
-
Bank balance other than cash and cash equivalents
-
32.64
32.64
-
-
-
-
Loans
-
0.66
0.66
-
-
-
-
Other current financial assets
-
18.97
18.97
-
-
-
-
548.18
833.89
1,382.07
548.18
-
-
548.18
Financial liabilities
Non-current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
597.18
597.18
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
55.93
55.93
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
13.19
13.19
-
-
-
-
Current financial liabilities
Borrowings
-
325.00
325.00
-
-
-
-
Lease Liabilities
-
27.00
27.00
-
-
-
-
Trade payables
-
1,035.38
1,035.38
-
-
-
-
Derivative liabilities
1.11
-
1.11
1.11
-
-
1.11
Other current financial liabilities
0.32
72.07
72.39
-
-
0.32
0.32
1.43
2,125.75
2,127.18
1.11
-
0.32
1.43
	
The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, trade payables, other current financial 
assets and other current financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of 
these instruments.
B.	 Fair value heirarchy
	
The fair value of financial instruments as referred to in note (A) above have been classified into three categories depending 
on the inputs used in the valuation technique. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).
	
The categories used are as follows:
•	 Level 1: Quoted prices for identical instruments in an active market;
•	 Level 2: Directly or indirectly observable market inputs, other than Level 1 inputs; and
•	 Level 3: Inputs which are not based on observable market data.
446
447
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
C.	 Measurement of fair values
	
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
	
The following tables show the valuation techniques used in measuring Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, as well as the 
significant unobservable inputs used.
	
Financial instruments measured at fair value
Type
Valuation technique
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
Inter-relationship 
between significant 
unobservable 
inputs and fair value 
measurement
Derivative instruments - 
forwards foreign exchange 
contracts
The Group has used discounted mark to market of 
forward contracts using current forward rates for 
remaining tenure of the forward contract as provided 
by respective banks.
Not applicable
Not applicable
Derivative instruments - 
options foreign exchange 
contracts
Fair value of foreign currency options contract is 
provided by bank's with whom the derivatives are 
entered into.
Not applicable
Not applicable
Investment in mutual funds
The fair value of the units of mutual fund scheme are 
based on net asset value at the reporting date.
Not applicable
Not applicable
Non-current financial assets 
and liabilities measured at 
amortised cost
Discounted cash flows: The valuation model considers 
the present value of expected receipt/payment 
discounted using appropriate discounting rates.
Not applicable
Not applicable
D.	 Financial risk management
	
The Group has exposure to the following risks arising from financial instruments:
•	 Credit risk;
•	 Liquidity risk; and
•	 Market risk
	
Risk management framework
	
The Group’s Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management 
framework. The Group has constituted a Risk Management Committee (RMC) for identification, evaluation and mitigation of 
operations, strategic and external risks. RMC has the overall responsibility for monitoring and recovering the Risk Management 
Plan and associated practices of the Group.
	
The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate 
risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed 
regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management 
standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees 
understand their roles and obligations.
	
The RMC oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures, 
and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The committee is 
assisted in its oversight role by internal audit. Internal audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management 
controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the audit committee.
	
i.	
Credit risk
	
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet 
its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers, investment in mutual 
funds and cash and cash equivalents.The Group makes provision on trade receivables based on Expected Credit loss 
(ECL) method based on provision matrix.
	
	
Trade receivables
	
	
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. Credit risk 
is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously monitoring the creditworthiness of 
customers to which the Group grants credit terms in the normal course of business. The Group has a detailed review 
mechanism of overdue trade receivables at various levels in the organisation to ensure proper attention and focus 
on realisation.
	
	
Summary of the Group’s exposure to credit risk by age of the outstanding from various customers is as follows:
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Not past due
453.83
517.37
Past due 1-360 days
239.58
149.00
Past due 361-720 days
45.24
38.35
more than 720 days
63.66
37.73
802.31
742.45
	
	
Expected credit loss assessment
	
	
Exposures to customers outstanding at the end of each reporting period are reviewed by the Group to determine 
incurred and expected credit losses. Management believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due are still 
collectible in full, based on historical payment behaviour and extensive analysis of customer credit risk.
	
	
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
Particulars
I Crore
Balance as at 1st April,2022
43.06
Impairment loss recognised
21.83
Write off of bad debts
(8.49)
Balance as at 1st April,2023
56.40
Impairment loss recognised
23.18
Write off of bad debts
(10.81)
Balance as at 31st March, 2024
68.77
	
Cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits
	
The Group held cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits with banks and financial institutions. The credit worthiness of 
such banks and financial institutions is evaluated by the management on an on-going basis and is considered to be good. 
Investment of surplus funds are made in bank deposits and other risk free securities.
	
Derivatives
	
The derivatives (forwards and options for foreign currency payments) are entered into with banks and financial institution 
counterparties with good credit ratings.
448
449
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
Investment in mutual funds
	
The Group limits its exposure to credit risk by investing only with counterparties that have a good credit rating. The Group 
does not expect any losses from non performance by these counter parties.
	
Other than trade receivables, the Group has no other financial assets that are past due but not impaired.
	
ii.	
Liquidity risk
	
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become due at reasonable 
price. The Group manages its liquidity risk by ensuring, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to 
meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risk 
to the Group’s reputation.
	
	
The Group monitors cash flow requirements and aims at optimising its cash return on investments and to maintain 
the level of its cash and bank balance and other highly marketable mutual fund investments at an amount in excess of 
expected cash outflows on financial liabilities.
	
	
Exposure to liquidity risk
	
	
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The contractual cash 
flows are gross and undiscounted, and include estimated interest payments.
I Crore
As at 31st March, 2024
Contractual cash flows
Total
1 year or 
less
1-2 years
2-5 years
More than 
5 years
Non current financial liabilities
	
Long Term Borrowings
298.97
-
298.97
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
58.71
-
27.67
30.46
0.58
	
Trade payables
14.03
3.79
6.05
4.19
-
Current financial liabilities
	
Short term Borrowings (including interest)
331.33
331.33
-
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
36.64
36.64
-
-
-
	
Trade payables
1,314.46
1,314.46
-
-
-
	
Other financial liabilities
40.23
40.23
-
-
-
I Crore
As at 31st March,2023
Contractual cash flows
Total
1 year or 
less
1-2 years
2-5 years
More than 
5 years
Non current financial liabilities
	
Long Term Borrowings
600.00
-
300.00
300.00
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
63.30
-
28.38
32.32
2.60
	
Trade payables
13.19
4.41
3.54
5.24
-
Current financial liabilities
	
Short term Borrowings (including interest)
361.50
361.50
-
-
-
	
Lease liabilities (undiscounted)
32.55
32.55
-
-
-
	
Trade payables
1,035.38
1,035.38
-
-
-
	
Other financial liabilities
36.19
36.19
-
-
-
	
iii.	
Market risk
	
	
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices – such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices – 
will affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. Market risk is attributable to all market 
risk sensitive financial instruments including foreign currency receivables and payables. The Group is exposed to market 
risk primarily related to foreign exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and the market value of investments. Thus, Group’s 
exposure to market risk is a function of investing and revenue generating and operating activities in foreign currency. 
The objective of market risk management is to avoid excessive exposure in our foreign currency revenues and costs. 
	
	
Market risk comprises two types of risks: currency risk and interest rate risk
	
	
a)	
Currency risk
	
	
	
The Group is exposed to currency risk on account of its receivable and payables in foreign currency. The functional 
currency of the Group is Indian Rupee. The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts and options foreign 
exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk, with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
	
	
	
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
	
	
	
Following is the derivative financial instruments to hedge the foreign exchange rate risk:
Category
Instrument
Currency Cross 
Currency
Amounts 
($ in 
million)
Buy/Sell
Period
Hedges of recognised liabilities
Option Contract
USD
INR
3.51 Buy
As at  
31st March, 
2024
Hedges of recognised liabilities
Forward Contract
USD
INR
0.07 Buy
As at  
31st March, 
2024
	
	
	
Exposure to currency risk
	
	
	
The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities denominated in USD are as below:
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March,2024
As at
31st March,2023
Financial assets
Trade receivables
17.57
7.90
17.57
7.90
Financial liabilities
Trade payables
31.48
55.55
31.48
55.55
Net foreign currency exposure
(13.91)
(47.65)
450
451
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
	
	
Sensitivity analysis
	
	
	
A reasonably possible strengthening/(weakening) of the Indian Rupee against foreign currencies at reporting date 
would have affected the measurement of financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies and affected 
profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest 
rates, remain constant and ignores any impact of forecast sales and purchases.
Effect in K Crore
Movement
Profit or loss
Strengthening
Weakening
31st March, 2024
USD
5%
(0.70)
0.70
(0.70)
0.70
Effect in K Crore
Movement
Profit or loss
Strengthening
Weakening
31st March, 2023
USD 
5%
(2.38)
2.38
(2.38)
2.38
	
	
b)	
Interest rate risk
	
	
	
Interest rate risk can be either fair value interest rate risk or cash flow interest rate risk. Fair value interest rate risk 
is the risk of changes in fair values of fixed interest bearing investments because of fluctuations in the interest 
rates. Cash flow interest rate risk is the risk that the future cash flows of floating interest bearing investments will 
fluctuate because of fluctuations in the interest rates.
	
	
	
Exposure to Interest Rate Risk/Sensitivity
	
	
	
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from borrowings. The interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing 
financial instruments as reported to the management of the Group is as follows.
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Fixed-rate instruments
Financial assets
	
Bank deposits
195.22
36.54
Total
195.22
36.54
Financial liabilities
	
Non-current borrowings
298.97
597.18
	
Current borrowings
300.00
325.00
Total
598.97
922.18
	
	
	
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed-rate instruments
	
	
	
The Group does not account for any fixed-rate financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or 
loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
40	 Financial performance ratios:
Particulars
Numerator
Denominator
March  
31, 2024
March  
31, 2023
variance
Refer 
Note
A.	 Performance Ratios
	
Net Profit Margin (in %)
Profit after tax
Total Income
5.99%
6.87%
-12.84%
	
Net Capital Turnover ratio (in 
times)
Revenue from 
operations
Working Capital
7.77
8.12
-4.31%
	
Return on Capital Employed (in %)
Earnings before 
interest and taxes
Tangible Capital 
Employed
85.96%
204.11%
-57.88%
(a)
	
Return on equity (in %)
Net Profit after Taxes
Average Shareholder's 
Equity
13.48%
15.02%
-10.29%
	
Return on Investment (in %)
Net gain on investment
Weighted average 
investments
7.36%
5.69%
29.35%
(b)
	
Debt Service Coverage Ratio  
(in times)
Profit After Tax +  
Interest + Depreciation
Finance Cost + 
Repayments made 
during the year
1.61
2.47
-34.80%
(c)
B.	 Leverage Ratio
	
Debt-Equity Ratio (in times)
Total Debt
Equity
0.17
0.30
-41.48%
(c)
C.	 Liquidity Ratio
	
Current ratio (in times)
Current Assets
Current liabilities excl. 
current Borrowings
1.53
1.60
-4.09%
D.	 Activity Ratios
	
Inventory Turnover (in times)
Cost of goods sold
Average Inventory
6.35
6.39
-0.63%
	
Debtors Turnover (in times)
Revenue from 
operations
Avg. Trade Receivables
10.30
10.56
-2.46%
	
Trade Payables Turnover ratio  
(in times)
Cost of goods sold
Avg. Accounts 
payables
4.21
4.53
-7.13%
Note: Explanation for change in the ratio by more than 25%
(a) Net Capital Turnover ratio increased due to increase in working capital.
(b) Return on inventment increased due to improved yield and duration of investment.
(c) Movement in ratios is on account of repayment of borrowings during the year.
41	 Assets Pledged as Security
	
The carrying amounts of assets pledged as security for current and non-current borrowings are:
I Crore
Particulars
31st March, 2024
31st March, 2023
a)	 Inventories
	
Raw Material
88.60
109.94
	
FG
575.07
471.11
	
WIP
34.33
37.70
b)	 Trade receivables
592.77
545.29
Total assets pledged as security (a+b)
1,290.77
1,164.04
	
Notes:
	
(a)	
Borrowings were applied for the purpose for which they were obtained. Bank returns/stock statements filed by the 
Company with its bankers are in agreement with books of accounts.
	
(b)	
According to the sanction terms laid out by the consortium lenders, there is exclusive first pari passu charge on stock 
of raw materials, semi-finished and finished goods, stores and spares, bills receivables and book debts, both present 
and future.
452
453
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
42	 Details of relationship with struck-off companies
Name of the struck off company
Nature of transactions with 
struck off company
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31st March, 2024
(K Crore)
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31st March, 2023
(K Crore)
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company, 
if any, to be 
disclosed
Air Temp Solutions Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Alif Trading Company
Receivables
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Federro Electronics Private Limited*
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
H.K. Power Corporation Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.01 
 0.01 Customer
Hammer Head Technologies Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Kapson Power Technology Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Kiapco Infrastructure Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.01 
 0.01 Customer
Ncs Infocomm Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.01 
 0.01 Customer
Revive Industries Private Limited*
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
S.S. Electro Works Private Limited*
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Seven Hills Impex Limited*
Advance from customer
 0.01 
 0.01 Customer
Shakedi Shengtai Electrics Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Shreeskanda Systems Private Limited
Receivables
 0.01 
 0.01 Customer
Super Market Grocery Supplies Private Limited*
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Suzusons Care Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Takkar Interna.Trademart Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Techno India Wtr & Waste Wtr Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
Triveni Machinery Private Limited*
Receivables
 4.15 
 1.72 Customer
Venus Dealmark Private Limited
Advance from customer
 0.00 
 0.00 Customer
*The company was struck off or under the process of striking off as at 31st March, 2024
43	 Capital Management
	
Equity share capital and other equity are considered for the purpose of Group’s capital management. The Group manages 
its capital so as to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and to optimise returns to shareholders. The capital 
structure of the Group is based on management’s judgement of its strategic and day-to-day needs with a focus on total 
equity so as to maintain investor, creditors and market confidence. The management and the Board of Directors monitors 
the return on capital as well as the level of dividends to shareholders. The Group may take appropriate steps in order to 
maintain, or if necessary adjust, its capital structure.
	
The Board of Directors seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of 
borrowings and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
	
The Group monitors capital using a ratio of ‘adjusted net debt’ to ‘total equity’. For this purpose, adjusted net debt is defined as 
total liabilities, comprising interest-bearing loans and borrowings, less cash and cash equivalents and other bank balances. 
Total equity comprises all components of equity.
	
The Group’s adjusted net debt-to-equity ratio at 31st March, 2024 was as follows:	
I Crore
Particulars
As at
31st March, 2024
As at
31st March, 2023
Total equity
3,448.97
3,107.70
Total borrowings (including current portion of long-term debts)
598.97
922.18
Less: cash and cash equivalents
172.06
76.84
Less: other bank balances
88.71
32.64
Net debt
338.20
812.70
Overall financing
3,787.17
3,920.40
Gearing ratio
0.09
0.21
	
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the current and previous year.
	
In order to achieve this overall objective, the Group’s capital management, among other things, aims to ensure that it 
meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital structure requirements. 
Breaches in meeting the financial covenants would permit the bank to immediately call loans and borrowings. There have 
been no breaches in the financial covenants of any interest-bearing loans and borrowing during the current and previous year.
44	  Additional Information pursuant to Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013
	
For the year ended 31st March, 2024
Name of Entity
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(K Crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(K Crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(K Crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(K Crore)
Parent Company
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited
91.01%
3,138.83
97.95%
432.74
-183.33%
0.55
98.14%
433.29
Indian Subsidiaries
Pinnacles Lighting Project 
Private Limited
0.25%
8.57
0.15%
0.65
0.00%
-
0.15%
0.65
Nexustar Lighting Project 
Private Limited
0.27%
9.38
0.23%
1.00
0.00%
-
0.23%
1.00
Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
8.47%
292.19
1.67%
7.39
283.33%
(0.85)
1.48%
6.54
454
455
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2024
	
For the year ended 31st March, 2023
Name of Entity
Net Assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit or (loss)
Share in other 
comprehensive income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(K Crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(K Crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(K Crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount 
(K Crore)
Parent Company
Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited
90.28%
2,805.75
88.94%
423.70
55.98%
(1.31)
89.10%
422.39
Indian Subsidiaries
Pinnacles Lighting Project 
Private Limited
0.26%
7.93
0.10%
0.50
0.00%
-
0.11%
0.50
Nexustar Lighting Project 
Private Limited
0.27%
8.38
0.11%
0.54
0.00%
-
0.11%
0.54
Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited
9.19%
285.64
10.85%
51.67
44.02%
(1.03)
10.68%
50.64
45	 Separate Financial Statements
	
The Group has following subsidiary companies:
S.No Name of the subsidiary companies
Principal
place of
business
Proportion of 
direct
ownership as on 
31st March, 2024
Proportion of 
direct
ownership as on 
31st March, 2023
1
Pinnacles Lighting Project Private Limited
India
100%
100%
2
Nexustar Lighting Project Private Limited
India
100%
100%
3
Butterfly Ganthimathi Appliances Limited
India
75%
75%
46	 There has been no delay in charges or satisfaction to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.
47	 The Group does not have any transactions not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or disclosed 
as income during the year in tax assessments under the Income-tax Act, 1961.
48	 The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current and previous year.
49	 Utilisation of Borrowed funds and share premium
	
The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
	
a.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
b.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
	
The Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall:
	
a.	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
b.	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
50	 The Board of Directors of the Company, at its meeting on 25th March 2023, had approved the Scheme of Arrangement 
under Sections 230 to 232 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Scheme’), for merger of its subsidiary Butterfly Gandhimathi 
Appliances Limited (“Butterfly”) with the Company. Pursuant to the meeting of equity shareholders, secured creditors and 
unsecured creditors of Butterfly, convened as per the directions of Chennai Bench of the Hon’ble National Company Law 
Tribunal on 28th October, 2023, the approval of majority of the public shareholders of the Butterfly was not received in favour 
of the Scheme. Accordingly, the Scheme is not acted upon.
51	 The Code on Social Security 2020 (‘the Code’) relating to employee benefits, during the employment and post-employment, 
received Presidential assent on 28th September, 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Further, the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on 13th November, 2020. However, the effective 
date from which the changes are applicable is yet to be notified and rules for quantifying the financial impact are also not 
yet issued. The Group will assess the impact of the Code and will give appropriate impact in the financial statements in the 
period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
52	 No significant subsequent events have been observed which may require an adjustments to the financial statements.
53	 Amount shown as I 0.00 represents amount below I 50,000 (Rupees Fifty Thousand).
54	 Figures for the previous year have been regrouped wherever necessary.
For and on behalf of Board of Directors
For M S K A & Associates
D. Sundaram
Promeet Ghosh
Chartered Accountants
Chairman
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Firm's Registration No. 105047W
DIN: 00016304
DIN: 05307658
Vishal Vilas Divadkar
P. R. Ramesh
Partner
Director
Membership No. 118247
DIN: 01915274
Kaleeswaran Arunachalam
Rashmi Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M. No. A28839
Mumbai
Mumbai
16th May, 2024
16th May, 2024
456
457
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
 
BDO India LLP 
The Palm Springs Plaza 
Office No. 1501-8, 15th Floor 
Sector-54, Golf Course Road 
Gurgaon-122001, Haryana 
INDIA 
 
 
 
Independent Assurance Statement 
To  
The Board of Directors and Management 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited 
Equinox Business Park, 1st Floor, Tower 3 
LBS Marg, Kurla (W) 
Mumbai, 400070, Maharashtra, India 
Independent Assurance Statement on select non-financial disclosures in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(BRSR) and Integrated Annual Report (IAR) for the financial year 2023-24. 
Introduction and objective of engagement 
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited (the 'Company') has developed a Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(‘BRSR’), based on the BRSR reporting guidelines including the BRSR Core Indicators prescribed by SEBI for listed entities. The 
reporting criteria have been derived from the Principles of National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC), and 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol - A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. The Company has also developed its Integrated 
Annual Report 2023-24 (‘IAR’) titled “Transforming while Performing” based on the applicable accounting standards and has 
incorporated the principles of the Integrated Reporting (<IR>) Framework published by the International Integrated Reporting 
Council (IIRC). 
BDO India LLP (BDO) was engaged by the Company to provide independent assurance on select non-financial disclosures in the 
BRSR and IAR (the ‘Reports’) those includes the Company’s sustainability performance for the period 1st April 2023 to 31st March 
2024.  
The Company’s responsibilities 
The content of the Reports and their presentation are the sole responsibilities of the Management of the Company. The Company’s 
Management is also responsible for the design, implementation, and maintenance of internal controls relevant to the preparation 
of the Reports, so that it is free from material misstatement. 
BDO’s responsibility 
BDO’s responsibility, as agreed with the Management of the Company, is to provide assurance on the non-financial information of 
BRSR Core Indicators and those of IAR as described in the ‘Scope & boundary of assurance’ section below. We do not accept or 
assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organization. Any reliance a third party may place on the 
Reports is entirely at its own risk.  
Assurance standard and criteria 
We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 
(Revised), “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, and ISAE 3410, “Assurance 
Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statement”, issued by the International Auditing and Standards Board.  
We applied the criteria of ‘Reasonable’ Assurance for non-financial Core Indicators of BRSR (Business Responsibility & 
Sustainability Report), and criteria of ‘Limited’ Assurance for non-financial information of the IAR (Integrated Annual Report). 
Scope & boundary of assurance 
We have assured non-financial information of the BRSR Core Indicators1 and those of Integrated Annual Report, pertaining to the 
Company’s performance for the period 1st April 2023 through 31st March 2024. 
The reporting scope and boundary cover the Company’s operations.  
Assurance methodology 
Our assurance process entailed conducting procedures to gather evidence regarding the reliability of the disclosures covered in the 
assurance scope. Verification on sample basis was carried out at the following locations: 
Verification of BRSR Core indicators for 
‘reasonable’ assurance 
Verification of non-financial sustainability 
performance data of IAR for ‘limited’ assurance 
▪ 
Corporate Office, Mumbai; 
▪ 
Vadodara Plant, Gujarat;  
▪ 
Kundaim and Bethora Plants, Goa 
▪ 
Corporate Office, Mumbai; 
▪ 
Vadodara Plant, Gujarat; 
▪ 
Ahmednagar Plant, Maharashtra; 
▪ 
Kundaim and Bethora Plants, Goa; 
▪ 
Baddi Plant, Himanchal Pradesh 
 
Our professional judgement as Assurance Provider was used for selection of Company’s locations/facilities and non-financial 
information for the verifications. 
 
1   SEBI vide SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated 12 July 2023 
 
 
 
 
We conducted a review and verification of data collection, collation, and calculation methodologies, and a general review of the 
logic of inclusion/omission of relevant information/data in the Reports. Our review process included: 
▪ Evaluate and assess the appropriateness of the quantification methods used to arrive at the non-financial/sustainability 
information of the BRSR Core Indicators and IAR; 
▪ Review of consistency of data/information within the Report as well as between the Reports and source; 
▪ Engagement through discussions with personnel at both corporate and plant/facility levels who are accountable for the data 
and information presented in the Reports; 
▪ Execution of an audit trail of claims and data streams, to determine the level of accuracy in collection, transcription, and 
aggregation; 
▪ Review of data collection and management procedures, and related internal controls. 
 
Limitations & exclusions 
 
There are inherent limitations in an assurance engagement, including, for example, the use of judgment and selective testing of 
data. Accordingly, there are possibilities that material misstatements in the sustainability information of the Reports may remain 
undetected. 
The assurance scope specifically excludes: 
▪ Data and information outside the defined reporting period (1st April 2023 to 31st March 2024); 
▪ Review of the ‘economic and/or financial performance indicators’ included in the Reports or on which reporting is based; we 
have been informed by the Company that these are derived from the Company’s audited financial records;  
▪ The Company’s statements and claims related to any topics other than those listed in the ‘Scope and boundary of assurance’; 
▪ The Company's statements that describe qualitative/quantitative assertions, expression of opinion, belief, inference, 
aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention. 
Our observations  
The sustainability disclosures of the Company, as defined under the scope and boundary of assurance, are fairly reliable and the 
Company has appropriately consolidated data from different sources at the central level. The Company may consider adopting 
standardized protocols for data management and reporting of environmental data across all the units. 
Our above observations, however, do not affect our conclusion regarding the Report. 
Our conclusions 
Based on the scope of our review, we concluded that: 
▪ The disclosures on BRSR Core indicators as mentioned in ‘Scope and boundary of assurance’ fulfil the principles of relevance, 
completeness, reliability, neutrality, and understandability as per ‘reasonable’ assurance criteria; 
▪ The non-financial sustainability performance disclosure of IAR as mentioned in ‘Scope and boundary of assurance’ fulfil the 
principles of relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality, and understandability as per ‘limited’ assurance criteria. 
Our assurance team and independence 
BDO India LLP is a professional services firm providing services in Advisory, Assurance, Tax, and Business Advisory Services, to both 
domestic and international organizations across industry sectors. Our non-financial assurance practitioners for this engagement are 
drawn from a dedicated Sustainability and ESG Team in the organization. This team is comprised of multidisciplinary professionals, 
with expertise across the domains of sustainability, global sustainability reporting standards and principles, and related assurance 
standards. This team has extensive experience in conducting independent assurance of sustainability data, systems, and processes 
across sectors and geographies. As an assurance provider, BDO India LLP is required to comply with the independence 
requirements set out in the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. Our 
independence policies and procedures ensure compliance with the Code. 
 
 
For BDO India LLP 
 
 
 
Dipankar Ghosh 
Partner and Lead| Sustainability & ESG 
Business Advisory Services 
Gurugram, Haryana 
07 June 2024 
 
 
458
459
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
GRI content index	
GRI STANDARD 
DISCLOSURE 
Location
Section
Page No.
“GRI 2:  
General Disclosures 2021”
2-1 Organizational details
Who we are, BRSR  
(Section A Q1-Q24), 257
4-8, 260
2-2 Entities included in the 
organization’s sustainability reporting
About the report, BRSR  
(Section A Q21)
2-3, 260
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and 
contact point
About the report, BRSR  
(Section A-Para I)
3, 260, 265
2-5 External assurance
About the report
3, 260, 282-287
2-6 Activities, value chain and other 
business relationships
Value Chain Partners, BRSR  
(Section - A), Section - B, Principle 1 
LQ-1, Principle 3- LQ-3, LQ 5, LQ-6, 
Principle 5, LQ-4, Principle 6, LQ-6, 
LQ-7
54-55, 80-83, 262, 
265, 269, 276, 
281, 287
2-7 Employees
IAR- Employee Engagement, People, 
Board Report- Employee Engagement, 
BRSR (Section-A Q20)
10, 14, 48-49, 
72-79, 167, 261
2-9 Governance structure and 
composition
Governance, CG Report
102-120, 197
2-10 Nomination and selection of the 
highest governance body
Governance- Role of the board, CG 
Report - Role of the Board
108, 112-113, 198
2-11 Chair of the highest governance 
body
BRSR (Section-B Q8) 
265
2-12 Role of the highest governance 
body in overseeing the management 
of impacts
BRSR (Section-B Q9) 
265
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for 
managing impacts
BRSR (Section-B Q9)
265
2-14 Role of the highest governance 
body in sustainability reporting
BRSR (Section-B Q8)
265
2-15 Conflicts of interest
BRSR (Principle 1 EQ6 & EQ7), L2
268, 269
2-16 Communication of critical 
concerns
BRSR (Section - A Q25)
262
2-17 Collective knowledge of the 
highest governance body
BRSR (Principle 1 EQ1)
267
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of 
the highest governance body
Board evaluation
112
2-19 Remuneration policies
Board Report, CG Report, Nomination 
& Remuneration policy, BRSR  
(Section B 1a, Principle 5 EQ3)
153, 217, 265, 279
2-20 Process to determine 
remuneration
BRSR (Section B1a, Principle 5 EQ3)
265, 279
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio
Board Report - Ratio of remuneration 
of Directors & KMPs, BRSR  
(Principle 5 EQ3)
187, 279
2-22 Statement on sustainable 
development strategy
BRSR (Section-B Q7)
265
2-23 Policy commitments
BRSR (Section-B 1-5)
265
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
BRSR (Section-B Q10)
265
2-25 Processes to remediate negative 
impacts
BRSR (Section-A Q26)
263
GRI STANDARD 
DISCLOSURE 
Location
Section
Page No.
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice 
and raising concerns
BRSR (Section-A Q26)
263
2-27 Compliance with laws and 
regulations
Report on Corporate Governance, 
BRSR (Principle 1 EQ2, Principle 6 E 
Q13)
236, 267, 286
2-28 Membership associations
Membership & Collabrations, BRSR 
(Principle 7 EQ1a, 1b)
104, 288
2-29 Approach to stakeholder 
engagement
Our stakeholders, BRSR  
(Principe 4 EQ1 and Q2)
12-15, 277
“GRI 3:  
Material Topics 2021”
3-1 Process to determine material 
topics
Materiality
16-17
3-2 List of material topics
Materiality
16-17
3-3 Management of material topics
Materiality, BRSR(Principle 4 LQ1, 
LQ2)
16-17, 278
GRI 201:  
Economic Performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated 
and distributed
Economic Value Contribution
64
201-2 Financial implications and other 
risks and opportunities due to climate 
change
Risk Management, BRSR  
(Section-A Q26)
12-127, 263
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations 
and other retirement plans
BRSR (Principle 3 EQ2),  
(Principle 3 LQ4)
272, 276
201-4 Financial assistance received 
from government
Governance, BRSR (Section-A Q26)
105, 263
GRI 202:  
Market Presence 2016
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level 
wage by gender compared to local 
minimum wage
BRSR (Principle 5 EQ2)
279
GRI 203:  
Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
203-1 Infrastructure investments and 
services supported
BRSR (Principle 8 EQ4)
289
GRI 204:  
Procurement Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local 
suppliers
BRSR (Principle 8 EQ4)
289
GRI 205:  
Anti-corruption 2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks 
related to corruption
BRSR (Principle 1 EQ4, EQ5)
268
205-2 Communication and training 
about anti-corruption policies and 
procedures
A Culture of Integrity, BRSR  
(Principle 1 EQ1)
120, 267
205-3 Confirmed incidents of 
corruption and actions taken
BRSR (Principle 1 EQ5, EQ7)
268
GRI 206:  
Anti-competitive Behavior 2016
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive 
behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 
practices
BRSR (Principle 7 EQ2)
288
GRI 207:  
Tax 2019
207-1 Approach to tax
Investors
60-64
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk 
management
Risk Management, Section-A- Q26, 
(Principle 1 EQ2, EQ3)
121-127, 263-264, 
267-268
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and 
management of concerns related to tax
Our stakeholders, (BRSR Principle 4 
EQ1, EQ2)
12-15-277
301-1 Materials used by weight or 
volume
Energy management
97
301-2 Recycled input materials used
Environmental sustainability initiatives, 
BRSR Principle 2, EQ-3, LQ3, LQ4
96, 270, 271
460
461
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
GRI STANDARD 
DISCLOSURE 
Location
Section
Page No.
301-3 Reclaimed products and their 
packaging materials
Energy efficiency, waste management, 
BRSR (Principle 2- EQ3, LQ5)
98-101, 271, 272
GRI 302:  
Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the 
organization
How we create value, BRSR  
(Principle 6 EQ1)
10-11, 282
302-2 Energy consumption outside of 
the organization
BRSR (Principle 6 EQ1)
282
302-3 Energy intensity
BRSR (Principle 6 EQ1)
282
302-4 Reduction of energy 
consumption
Environment
94-99
302-5 Reductions in energy 
requirements of products and services
Environment
94-99
GRI 303:  
Water and Effluents 2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a 
shared resource
Water management, BRSR  
(Principle 6 EQ3, EQ4, LQ1)
100, 279-283, 286
303-2 Management of water discharge-
related impacts
Water management, BRSR  
(Principle 6 EQ3, EQ4, LQ1)
100, 279-283, 286
303-3 Water withdrawal
Water management, BRSR  
(Principle 6 EQ3, EQ4, LQ1)
100, 279-283, 286
303-4 Water discharge
Water management, BRSR  
(Principle 6 EQ3, EQ4, LQ1)
100, 279-283, 286
303-5 Water consumption
Water management, BRSR  
(Principle 6 EQ3, EQ4, LQ1)
100, 279-283, 286
GRI 305:  
Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
Reducing GHG Emissions, BRSR 
(Principle 6 EQ7)
98-99, 284
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions
Reducing GHG Emissions, BRSR 
(Principle 6 EQ7)
99, 284
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
BRSR (Principle 6 EQ7)
284
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
Reducing GHG Emissions, BRSR 
(Principle 6 EQ7)
98-99, 284
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur 
oxides (SOx), and other significant air 
emissions
BRSR (Principle 6 EQ6)
283
GRI 306:  
Waste 2020
306-1 Waste generation and significant 
waste-related impacts
Waste management, BRSR  
(Principle 6 EQ9)
101, 284
306-2 Management of significant 
waste-related impacts
Waste management, BRSR  
(Principle 6 EQ9)
101, 284
306-3 Waste generated
Waste management, BRSR  
(Principle 6 EQ9)
101, 284
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
Waste management, EPR, BRSR 
(Principle 6 EQ4)
101, 284
306-5 Waste directed to disposal
BRSR (Principle 6 EQ3)
282
GRI 308:  
Supplier Environmental 
Assessment 2016
308-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using environmental criteria
Suppliers selection process
120
308-2 Negative environmental impacts 
in the supply chain and actions taken
BRSR (Principle 6 LQ6)
287
GRI 401:  
Employment 2016
401-1 New employee hires and 
employee turnover
BRSR Section A, Point 22
262
GRI STANDARD 
DISCLOSURE 
Location
Section
Page No.
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time 
employees that are not provided to 
temporary or part-time employees
 BRSR (Principle 3 EQ2)
272
401-3 Parental leave
BRSR (Principle 3 EQ5)
272
GRI 403:  
Occupational Health  
and Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety 
management system
“Strengthening our health and safety 
performance,BRSR (Principle 3 EQ10, 
EQ12) 
“
76, 274, 275
403-2 Hazard identification, risk 
assessment, and incident investigation
Enterprise risk management 
framework, BRSR Principle 3 EQ10 
(b), ( c)
121-127, 274
403-3 Occupational health services
“Strengthening our health and safety 
performance, BRSR (Principle 3 
EQ10(d)) 
“
76, 274
403-4 Worker participation, 
consultation, and communication on 
occupational health and safety
BRSR (Principle 3 EQ8)
273
403-5 Worker training on occupational 
health and safety
BRSR (Principle 3 EQ8)
273
403-6 Promotion of worker health
“Strengthening our health and safety 
performance, BRSR (Principle 3 EQ12, 
EQ13) 
“
76, 275
403-7 Prevention and mitigation 
of occupational health and safety 
impacts directly linked by business 
relationships
Value chain partners, BRSR (Principle 
3 EQ15)
80-83, 275
403-8 Workers covered by an 
occupational health and safety 
management system
BRSR Principle 3 EQ10(a)
274
403-9 Work-related injuries
“Strengthening our health and safety 
performance, BRSR (Principle 3 
EQ11)”
76, 275
403-10 Work-related ill health
“Strengthening our health and safety 
performance, BRSR (Principle 3 
EQ11)”
76, 275
GRI 404:  
Training and Education 2016
404-1 Average hours of training per 
year per employee
“BRSR(Principle 1 EQ1, Principle 3 
EQ8)”
273
404-2 Programs for upgrading 
employee skills and transition 
assistance programs
“BRSR (Principle 3 EQ8)”
273
404-3 Percentage of employees 
receiving regular performance and 
career development reviews
BRSR (Principle 3 EQ9)
274
GRI 405:  
Diversity and Equal  
Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 
and employees
“Creating inclusive workplaces, BRSR 
(Section A Q21)”
77, 261
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and 
remuneration of women to men
BRSR (Principle 5 EQ3) 
279
GRI 406:  
Non-discrimination 2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and 
corrective actions taken
BRSR (Principle 5 EQ6)
280
462
463
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
GRI STANDARD 
DISCLOSURE 
Location
Section
Page No.
GRI 408:  
Child Labor 2016
408-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents of child 
labor
BRSR (Principle 5 EQ6)
280
GRI 409:  
Forced or Compulsory  
Labor 2016
409-1 Operations and suppliers at 
significant risk for incidents of forced or 
compulsory labor
BRSR (Principle 5 EQ6)
280
GRI 410:  
Security Practices 2016
410-1 Security personnel trained in 
human rights policies or procedures
BRSR (Principle 5 EQ1)
279
GRI 413:  
Local Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local community 
engagement, impact assessments, and 
development programs
Communities, BRSR (Principle 8 LQ6)
84-93, 290
413-2 Operations with significant actual 
and potential negative impacts on local 
communities
Communities, BRSR (Principle 8 LQ6)
84-93, 290
GRI 414:  
Supplier Social 
Assessment 2016
414-1 New suppliers that were 
screened using social criteria
Supplier selection process
120
414-2 Negative social impacts in the 
supply chain and actions taken
BRSR ( Principle 8 LQ1)
290
GRI 415:  
Public Policy 2016
415-1 Political contributions
Donation and political contributions
105
GRI 416:  
Customer Health and  
Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the health and 
safety impacts of product and service 
categories
BRSR (Principle 9 EQ2)
291
GRI 417:  
Marketing and Labeling 2016
417-1 Requirements for product and 
service information and labeling
BRSR (Principle 9 LQ4)
293
GRI 418:  
Customer Privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints 
concerning breaches of customer 
privacy and losses of customer data
Digital enablement, BRSR (Principle 9 
EQ3)	
58-59, 291
	
464
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Tower 3, 1st Floor, East Wing, Equinox Business Park, 
LBS Marg, Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070
www.crompton.co.in 
CIN: L31900MH2015PLC262254
