Cyient Ltd.       4th Floor, A Wing, 11 Software  
    CIN: L72200TG1991PLC013134 
 Units Layout, Madhapur 
   www.cyient.com 
 Hyderabad -500 081        
  Company.secretary@cyient.com 
 India         
 T +91 40 6764 1000  
    F +91 40 2311 0352 
24 June 2025 
BSE Limited    
  National Stock Exchange of India Ltd 
PJ Towers, 25th Floor, 
 Exchange Plaza,      
Dalal Street   
 Bandra-Kurla Complex, Bandra (E)        
Mumbai 400001. 
 Mumbai-400 051.  
Scrip Code: 532175 
 Scrip Code: CYIENT 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
Sub: Notice of the 34th Annual General Meeting (AGM) and Annual Report FY 2024-25 
In compliance with the Companies Act 2013, rules framed thereunder and SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time, please find enclosed 
the Annual Report, Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (‘BRSR’) and Notice of Annual 
General Meeting for the Financial Year 2024-25, which is being sent to the Shareholders through 
electronic mode whose e-mail addresses are registered with the Company/Depository Participant(s) 
(‘DPs’). Further, in accordance with Regulation 36(1)(b) of the Listing Regulations, the Company will 
be sending a letter to Shareholders whose e-mail addresses are not registered with Company/DPs 
providing the weblink from where the Annual Report FY 2024-25 can be accessed on the Company’s 
website. 
The 34th AGM will be held on Wednesday, 16 July 2025, at 03.00 p.m. IST through video conference 
and other audio-visual means (VC). 
The 34th AGM Notice and the Annual Report FY 2024-25 (Including BRSR) will be made available on 
the Company’s website – https://www.cyient.com/investors/  
Information at a glance:  
Particulars
Details
Time and date of AGM 
03:00 p.m. IST, Wednesday, 16 July  2025 
Mode 
Video conference and other audio-visual means 
Cut-off date for e-voting 
Monday,  7 July 2025 
E-voting start time and date
09:00 a.m. IST, Sunday, 13 July 2025 
E-voting end time and date
05:00 p.m. IST, Tuesday, 15 July 2025 
This for your information and records. 
Thanking you 
For Cyient Limited 
Ravi Kumar Nukala 
Dy. Company Secretary 
Ravi Kumar 
Nukala
Digitally signed by Ravi Kumar 
Nukala 
Date: 2025.06.24 18:22:27 +05'30'
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
DESIGNING TOMORROW  
WITH INTELLIGENT ENGINEERING
2  |  Annual Report 2024-25
INTELLIGENT 
ENGINEERING
to Design, Build, and Maintain  
Products, Plants, and Networks
Intelligent Engineering combines the power of 
core engineering with advanced technologies 
to drive innovation, efficiency, and resilience. 
Through this approach, we help our customers 
streamline operations, design intelligent 
solutions across products, plants, and networks, 
and enhance user experiences — positioning 
them for success in a world shaped by rapid 
technological and market megatrends.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  3 
TABLE OF 
CONTENT
Key Performance Highlights
Global Footprint
Corporate Information
Message From The Non-Executive Chairman
Message From The Executive Vice Chairman & MD
Message From The Chief Executive Officer
Board of Directors
Senior Leadership
Awards & Recognitions
Intelligent Engineering Solutions And Platforms
Success Stories
Customer Testimonials (New Section)
In the Media
Empowering Tomorrow Together
Notice of Annual General Meeting 
Board of Directors’ Report
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report
Management Discussion and Analysis
Report on Corporate Governance
Standalone Financial Statements
Consolidated Financial Statements
Historical Perspective
Financial Analysis
Significant Milestones
Shareholders’ Handbook
04
06
08
10
12
14
18
20
22
26
32
36
42
46
50
63
80
131
151
205
296
431
432
436
440
4  |  Annual Report 2024-25
KEY PERFORMANCE 
HIGHLIGHTS FY25
Cyient DET Revenue Segmentation by Geography
APAC
EMEA
20%
31%
NAM
49%
In the Financial Year 2025, Cyient DET (Digital Engineering and Technology) 
recorded a revenue of Rs. 5,816 crore with a de-growth of 1.6%.  
EBIT margins stood at 13.5%, down by 261 bps YoY, and net profit 
witnessed a de-growth of 12.2% YoY. DET’s free cash flow generation in 
the year was at ₹801 crores, the highest ever, with a growth of 6.2% YoY.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  5 
Cyient DET 
Revenue 
YoY de-growth  
of 1.6%
₹5,816Cr
Dividend  
Payout 
Group  
Net Profit 
46%
Cyient DET 
Net Profit  
YoY de-growth  
of 12.2%
₹605Cr
Cyient DET  
Order Intake 
YoY de-growth  
of 7.3% 
$836.1Mn
Cyient DET 
EBIT 
YoY de-growth  
of 17.5% 
₹787Cr
Cyient DET  
FCF 
YoY a growth  
of 6.2% YoY 
₹801Cr
(US$ 687.7 Mn, a de-growth of 3% cc YoY)
(US$ 71.6 Mn)
(Dividend at ₹26 per share)
(US$ 93.1 Mn) 
Margin of 13.5%, down by 261 bps YoY)
(US$ 94.7 Mn) 
Conversion at 132.3% on Net Profit
For Consolidated Financials of the Group, please refer to page #313 to 429 of this report.
Financial Information for Cyient DLM is available in the Cyient DLM Annual Report.
6  |  Annual Report 2024-25
GLOBAL FOOTPRINT
Cyient has become a pivotal force 
in the global technology landscape, 
partnering with over 300 customers, 
including 30% of the top 100 global 
innovators. Our commitment is to 
forge Intelligent Engineering solutions 
across products, plants, and networks. 
We are dedicated to Designing 
Tomorrow Together— a vision of 
a future that is technologically 
advanced, culturally inclusive, socially 
responsible, and environmentally 
sustainable. At Cyient, we leverage 
our expansive global presence to 
deliver transformative solutions which 
anticipate and meet the dynamic 
needs of industries worldwide.
Associates
10 Delivery Centres
Countries
Customers
16000+
North America
30
300+
Annual Report 2024-25  |  7 
17 Delivery Centres
15 Delivery Centres
6 Delivery Centres
Europe
India
APAC
Global Headquarters
Global Presence
8  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
Registered Office 
Cyient Limited 
4th Floor, ‘A’ Wing 11,  
Software Units Layout Infocity,  
Madhapur, Hyderabad – 500081  
Tel: +91 40 6764 1000
Statutory Auditors 
S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants,  
The Skyview 10, 18th Floor,  
Zone B, Survey No.83/1,  
Raidurgam, Hyderabad – 500032
Internal Auditors 
KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP  
Salarpuria Knowledge city,  
Orwell, 6th floor, Unit-3,  
Sy. No. 83/1, Plot No 2,  
Raidurg, Hyderabad – 500034
Bankers 
The Hongkong and Shanghai  
Banking Corporation Limited 
6-3-1107 & 1108, Raj Bhavan Road,  
Somajiguda Hyderabad – 500082  
Tel: +91 40 6616 2077
Citibank NA 
‘Queens Plaza’, 1st Floor Sardar Patel 
Road Secunderabad – 500003  
Tel: +91 40 4000 5720
 
Punjab National Bank 
(Formerly Oriental Bank of Commerce), 
9-1-128/1, Oxford Plaza Complex, 
S.D.Road, Secunderabad – 500 003 
 Tel: +91 40 2770 4935
Company Secretary &  
Compliance Officer
Sudheendhra Putty 
4th Floor, ‘A’ Wing, 11,  
Software Units Layout Infocity, 
Madhapur Hyderabad – 500081  
Tel: +91 40 6764 1322
Registrar & Share Transfer Agents
KFin Technologies Limited 
Selenium, Tower B, Plot No. 31 & 32, 
Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally, Hyderabad – 500032, 
Rangareddy, Telangana.  
Tel: +91 40 6716 1562
Annual Report 2024-25  |  9 
Realistic and 
reliable at all 
times
Unbiased in 
decisions and 
impartial in actions
Objectivity, and 
honesty in every 
transaction
Dignity at all time, 
recognition  
when it is due
Open to 
suggestions, 
feedback, and ideas
ValuesFIRST stands for
Values always come first at Cyient 
The ValuesFIRST Navigator 
reaffirms our values and 
celebrates ‘Cyientists’  
living them every day.
Scan the QR code  
to know more
10  |  Annual Report 2024-25
MESSAGE FROM THE
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
Dear Shareholders,
As we reflect on FY25, I am pleased to share that Cyient 
has delivered a resilient performance in a difficult year, 
navigating an uncertain global environment with discipline 
and adaptability. Our continued focus on innovation, 
operational excellence, and long-term approach reinforces 
our readiness for the future.
This year, we made meaningful progress by advancing 
intelligent engineering solutions across products, plants, 
and networks. Our efforts to integrate Digital, Engineering, 
and Technology continue to help our customers unlock 
new possibilities in digital ER&D and support their 
sustainability ambitions.
Our Values FIRST framework—anchored in Fairness, 
Integrity, Respect, Sincerity, and Transparency—
alongside an AGILE workplace culture where we nurture 
ambition, growth mindset, inclusion, leadership, and 
empowerment—continues to guide our decisions and 
reinforce our commitment to inclusive, responsible 
growth. Notably, our ESG efforts were recognized 
with a best-in-class score of 71 in the DJSI Ranking, 
underscoring the depth of our integration of sustainability 
principles into our operations.
During the year, we broadened our sustainability agenda 
with greater adoption of renewable energy, enhanced 
energy efficiency, and a growing focus on circular economy 
practices. These are steps in a long-term journey, and 
we remain committed to building on this foundation in 
the years ahead.
Through the Cyient Foundation, the CSR arm of Cyient 
Ltd., we continued to advance our “Empower Tomorrow 
Together” initiative with a focus on education, digital 
access, healthcare, and skills development. Our efforts 
reached over 200,000 children and supported 22,000 
students annually across 33 government schools. We also 
facilitated digital training for 35,000 individuals through 83 
Cyient Digital Centers, with over 14,000 women earning 
M M MURUGAPPAN
Non-Executive Chairman
Annual Report 2024-25  |  11 
I extend my thanks to Mr. Krishna Bodanapu, Executive 
Vice Chairman and Managing Director, and our leadership 
teams for their steadfast efforts and focus. I also warmly 
welcome Mr. Sukamal Banerjee as Executive Director and 
CEO. With his leadership, Cyient is well placed to build on 
its engineering strengths and expand its global footprint.
My appreciation also goes to my fellow Board Members for 
their support to the Company. We are pleased to welcome 
Ms. Debjani Ghosh to the Board. Her experience will bring 
added insight to our deliberations and strengthens our 
commitment to diverse leadership. I would also like to 
recognize our Founder Chairman, Dr. BVR Mohan Reddy, 
for his ongoing guidance and congratulate him on receiving 
lifetime achievement awards from the Institute of Directors 
and the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
Looking ahead, we remain focused on strengthening 
our capabilities, deepening customer relationships, and 
advancing sustainable growth. With strategic investments 
in digital capabilities we are continually aligning ourselves 
with market needs and long-term trends.
Together, we will continue to design a better tomorrow 
and create lasting value for all stakeholders.
Thank you to our associates, partners, customers, and 
shareholders for your steadfast support and confidence in 
us. We look forward to another year of Designing Tomorrow 
Together.
Warm regards,
M M Murugappan 
Non-Executive Chairman 
Cyient Limited
certifications. Our Skill Centers provided vocational training 
to nearly 9,300 youth and women, contributing to improved 
livelihood opportunities.  
In our adopted villages, we conducted health screenings 
and cardiac tests that benefited thousands, with early 
interventions helping to save lives. Environmental initiatives 
included planting over 106,000 trees, developing green 
zones, and introducing rainwater harvesting systems 
in schools. Our associates contributed time and effort 
through over 7,000 volunteer hours, reflecting a shared 
commitment to community engagement. These initiatives 
were recognized with the CSR Excellence Awards 2024 by 
the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
The BVR Mohan Reddy School of Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship (BVR SCIENT) at IIT-Hyderabad, 
established with the support of the Cyient Foundation, 
is committed to shaping world-class innovators and 
entrepreneurs to fuel the nation’s journey towards an 
Atma Nirbhar Bharat. In the past year, BVR SCIENT 
has empowered over 1,000 students by fostering 
entrepreneurial mindsets through dynamic awareness 
programs and hands-on initiatives. The school has also 
laid the foundation for a thriving innovation ecosystem—
bridging academic institutions, innovation hubs, industry 
mentors, and incubators—to accelerate ideation, 
collaboration, and scalable impact.
Cyient DLM continues to make steady progress by 
combining strong engineering capabilities with advanced 
manufacturing to create lasting value for customers, 
partners, and shareholders. I appreciate the Cyient DLM 
team’s consistent efforts and commitment to excellence. 
Our 
newly 
formed, 
wholly-owned 
subsidiary, 
Cyient Semiconductors, marks an important step as we 
enter the evolving semiconductor landscape. Drawing 
on our design expertise, Cyient Semiconductors is well-
positioned to serve emerging opportunities in alignment 
with Cyient’s broader innovation agenda.
12  |  Annual Report 2024-25
MESSAGE FROM THE
EXECUTIVE VICE CHAIRMAN
& MANAGING DIRECTOR
Dear Shareholders,
As I reflect on the past year, I am filled with immense 
pride and gratitude for our journey at Cyient. FY25 
marked another important chapter in our evolution, 
underscored by resilience, innovation, and strategic 
focus. We continued to make meaningful strides in 
intelligent engineering and technology services while 
sharpening our alignment with global megatrends. Our 
commitment to Accelerating Digital, Engineering, and 
Technology Convergence has enabled our customers 
to reimagine digital ER&D, develop intelligent platforms 
and products, and advance their sustainability agendas.
Our 
purpose—Designing 
Tomorrow 
Together—
continues to guide us. It reflects our collaborative 
approach to building intelligent products, plants, and 
networks that power a better and sustainable future. 
This mission is grounded in five core megatrends 
that shape our strategy: Smart Operations, Digital 
Healthcare, Intelligent Mobility, Sustainability, and 
Space Systems. We are especially proud of our 
advancements in emerging technologies, including our 
strategic embrace of Generative AI (GenAI), which has 
deepened our engineering capabilities and enhanced 
our competitiveness. 
In FY25, our Group recorded revenues of ₹7,360 crores, 
growing 3% YoY, with EBIT at 12%, PAT of ₹622 crores, 
and free cash flow of ₹688 crores—representing a YoY 
growth of 6.2%.
Several notable developments have further reinforced 
Cyient’s position in the global engineering landscape. 
At a Group level, there are three strategic themes that I 
would like to highlight:
1. 	 Unprecedented Revenue Growth and Momentum:
	
FY25 marked our highest-ever Group revenue. Over 
the past seven years, we have doubled our revenues 
and quadrupled them over the last 12 years. This 
trajectory is a testament to our relentless focus on 
KRISHNA BODANAPU
Executive Vice Chairman & Managing Director
Annual Report 2024-25  |  13 
value creation and innovation. It gives us a strong 
foundation to propel our next phase of growth.
2. A Balanced, Diversified Business and Industry 
Portfolio:
	
Our growth is the result of deliberate, long-term 
choices to develop a diversified and balanced 
portfolio—both across our business verticals and 
the industries we serve. We are now charting two 
distinct growth paths:
•	
Cyient DET: Focused on engineering services 
and technology-led transformation.
•	
Cyient DLM: Advancing opportunities through 
engineering-driven manufacturing.
	
Across industries, our revenue mix reflects a strong 
and balanced presence: 38% from Transportation, 
27% from Energy & Sustainability, and 20% from 
Connectivity. What ties these segments together is 
our deep-rooted engineering expertise—powered 
by a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship. 
	
In 
addition, 
we 
are 
confident 
that 
Cyient 
Semiconductor Pvt Ltd (CSPL)—our newly formed 
entity dedicated to cutting-edge semiconductor 
technologies and AI-led innovation—will play a 
pivotal role in shaping our future growth.
3. 	 Global Footprint, Local Strength:
	
Our people strategy supports our global ambitions. 
With operations in 30 countries and 48 delivery 
centers, over 90% of our workforce are local 
nationals, and more than one-third of our leadership 
team is based outside India. Geographically, 45% of 
our business comes from North America, 33% from 
Europe, 18% from APAC, and 4% from India. This 
localized presence combined with a global outlook 
enables us to navigate geopolitical complexities 
while staying agile and resilient.
Growth momentum, portfolio balance, and global-local 
synergy form the core of Cyient’s long-term resilience 
strategy. We see the current world order as a matrix of 
interconnected yet distinct geopolitical and economic 
systems. Our balanced approach enables us to navigate 
this complexity with confidence and purpose.
I am also pleased to welcome Sukamal Banerjee as 
Executive Director and CEO of Cyient DET, who joined us 
in February 2025. Sukamal brings a wealth of experience 
in digital engineering and technology leadership. With 
him at the helm of DET, we are well-positioned to scale 
our engineering offerings and deliver technology-driven 
transformation at a greater pace and impact.
While FY25 presented headwinds, especially in demand 
volatility, our customer relationships remain robust. 
Our top customers posted strong results, reinforcing 
our relevance and strategic alignment. We are working 
closely with them to mitigate near-term uncertainties 
and co-create solutions for long-term growth. Backed 
by our diversified portfolio and leadership depth, I am 
confident that we are poised to emerge stronger and 
more focused in the years ahead.
Beyond business, we are committed to making Cyient 
a responsible, equitable, and accountable organization. 
Our ESG efforts are benchmarked against the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), where we scored 71, 
maintaining a position in the 90th percentile or above 
across all dimensions. In FY24, we conducted a Human 
Rights Assessment to proactively mitigate risks. 
Our Women in Leadership program grew participation by 
60%, and our renewable energy initiatives gained further 
momentum—particularly through solar infrastructure 
at our facilities.
Internally, we continue to foster an inclusive, dynamic 
workplace that champions well-being and professional 
growth. Our Values FIRST—Fairness, Integrity, Respect, 
Sincerity, and Transparency—remain central to our 
culture. Guided by our AGILE goals, we are nurturing 
ambition, a growth mindset, inclusion, leadership, and 
empowerment.
Thank you for your unwavering trust in Cyient. With a 
strong leadership team, robust fundamentals, and a 
purpose-driven culture, we look forward to building on 
our momentum and delivering another year of impactful 
growth in FY26.
Warm regards,
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice Chairman & Managing Director
Cyient Limited
14  |  Annual Report 2024-25
MESSAGE FROM THE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
Dear Shareholders,
As I reflect on FY25, I am proud to share that Cyient 
has once again delivered a resilient performance, 
continuing our journey of transforming industries with 
intelligent engineering and technology-led innovation. 
In a year marked by macroeconomic uncertainty 
and evolving customer priorities, our unwavering 
commitment to solving complex problems that matter 
has enabled us to sustain growth and strengthen our 
market leadership.
Cyient’s Digital Engineering and Technology (DET) 
business revenue stood at ₹5,816 crores, maintaining 
a solid EBIT margin of 13.5%. Order intake for DET 
reached ₹7,070 crores, reflecting a 5.4% YoY decline 
driven by macro uncertainties. Order Intake was 
significantly higher in the second half of the year and 
continues to show improvement into FY 26.  In parallel, 
we secured 24 large deals with a total contract value 
of ₹3,135 crores, highlighting our continued relevance 
and value to customers across industries amid 
ongoing global economic pressures. Notably, we added 
marquee logos such as a leading American technology 
hyperscaler, 
Europe’s 
largest 
semiconductor 
manufacturer, 
a 
multinational 
consumer 
goods 
corporation, and a major South Asian multinational 
automotive manufacturer, expanding our customer 
base in strategic growth areas.
Throughout the year, we continued to invest in high-
impact technologies and co-innovation with our 
partners. We collaborated with CAF to boost global 
rail innovation, partnered with Allegro Microsystems 
to establish a Center of Excellence, in Hyderabad, 
specializing 
in 
magnetic 
sensors 
and 
power 
semiconductors, and joined the Hydrogen Cluster 
Finland in partnership with Business Finland to support 
clean energy initiatives. In collaboration with Microsoft, 
we accelerated the adoption of AI and Generative AI 
technologies, specifically the Industry AI Advisor, which 
enables rapid experimentation and optimization of AI 
use cases. Through our partnership with Siemens, we 
SUKAMAL BANERJEE
Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer
Annual Report 2024-25  |  15 
support customers through the Xcelerator platform to 
drive precision design and innovation using AI-powered 
engineering tools.
In semiconductor and connectivity, we won key deals for AI 
chip design for datacenter and automotive applications, 
and for low-power adaptive electromyography sensing 
chips. Our connectivity portfolio saw its highest-ever 
order intake, driven by significant wins in operations 
support and broadband rollout investments.
We are proud to highlight the success of our award-
winning GenAI application, aimed at enabling cost-
efficient and sustainable operations in the rail industry, 
as a hallmark of how intelligent engineering can be used 
to solve problems that matter. In FY25, we continued to 
build platforms, accelerators, and solutions embedded 
with GenAI, ML, and advanced analytics, strengthening 
our position as a leader in next-gen digital engineering.
We also deepened customer relationships through 
several CXO Cyience events (proprietary and exclusive 
forum dedicated to fostering powerful, trusted, and 
progressive forward-looking conversations amongst 
leaders), engaging over 60 key decision-makers across 
strategic accounts, hunting for potential clients, and 
partners.
In FY25, we received strong industry recognition that 
reaffirmed the strength of our strategy, innovation, 
and execution. We were honored for our technology 
leadership in sustainability and acknowledged for our 
accelerated rise among the top global ER&D service 
providers. Leading analysts recognized our high-growth 
semiconductor and medical devices businesses, placing 
us in the leadership zone for the first time. Our continued 
excellence in digital engineering was recognized for the 
second consecutive year, alongside our growing impact 
in the fast-evolving e-mobility services space.
Our position as a trusted technology partner was 
reaffirmed by winning Raytheon Technologies’ Premier 
Award for the third consecutive year, in recognition of 
our excellence in innovation, cost efficiency, and service 
delivery.
With a global workforce of 16,000+ associates, we 
continue to foster a workplace that celebrates diversity, 
innovation, and purpose. Our Associate Satisfaction 
(ASAT) score stood at 90, outperforming industry 
benchmarks, while our Customer Satisfaction (CSAT) 
score reached an all-time high of 69.5, a testament to 
our people-first culture and customer-centric approach.
This year, we also launched Cyient Semiconductor as a 
standalone subsidiary, marking a significant milestone 
in our growth strategy. The Global Capability Services 
(GCS) vertical, launched at GCC Conclave 2024, will 
further help us scale innovation and delivery excellence 
for Indian captive centers of global customers.
As we look towards FY26, the global Engineering 
Research & Development (ER&D) services market 
presents a cautiously optimistic landscape. While 
enterprises are expected to increase their ER&D 
budgets, there are macro uncertainty overhangs from 
global trade actions. The focus is clearly shifting from 
expansion to optimization. Cost pressures and the 
growing demand to demonstrate a strong return on 
investment (ROI) are driving strategic changes in how 
organizations allocate their engineering spends.
Headcount growth is expected to remain modest, 
underscoring a broader industry shift toward improving 
productivity 
and 
automating 
workflows. 
Rather 
than expanding vendor portfolios, organizations are 
reallocating budgets within their existing partners, 
emphasizing the need for agility, domain expertise, and 
digital innovation from service providers.
To remain competitive, ER&D partners must offer highly 
skilled and adaptable talent and deliver measurable value 
through emerging technologies such as AI, automation, 
and digital engineering platforms.
16  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Key Trends that are expected to shape the next year 
include:
•	
North America is expected to lead the recovery in 
ER&D services, providing strong growth momentum. 
Despite prevailing headwinds in Europe, the market 
is projected to grow steadily at 7–8%.
•	
Vertical-specific growth will continue, with notable 
traction in semiconductor, internet and ISV, defense, 
healthcare & life sciences, and industrial products. 
These sectors are poised to benefit from heightened 
demand for innovation, supply chain resilience, and 
digital transformation.
Cyient is well positioned to capitalize on these 
trends through our focused investments in emerging 
technologies, balanced portfolio, strong customer base 
across growing industries, and a foundation of delivery 
excellence.  
As we enter FY26, we do so with renewed purpose and 
confidence—ready to design the future, deliver with 
agility, and drive value for all our stakeholders.
Warm regards,
Sukamal Banerjee
Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer
Cyient Limited
Annual Report 2024-25  |  17 
INNOVATION IN OUR DNA
DRIVEN  BY  5 MEGA TRENDS
50
30
15
R&D Labs, 
Incubation Centres,  
Innovation Studios 
and COEs
Industry 4.0 & 
Smart Operations
Intelligent &  
Meta Mobility
Digital  
Healthcare
Sustainability
Space  
Systems
Platforms & Accelerators
INTELLI CYIENT
PLATFORM-X | SDX
Global Academic 
Associations
100 solutions across 
emerging technologies
18  |  Annual Report 2024-25
BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS
As Cyient advances its commitment 
to delivering Intelligent Engineering 
across products, plants, and 
networks, our Board of Directors 
play a pivotal role in steering the 
company towards sustainable, long-
term growth. The Board ensures 
that we remain aligned with the 
evolving interests of all stakeholders, 
with deep industry insights and a 
strong sense of stewardship. Their 
guidance anchors our pursuit of 
business excellence and reinforces 
our unwavering commitment to 
the highest standards of corporate 
governance and ethical leadership.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  19 
Executive Director &  
Chief Executive Officer
Founder Chairman  
& Board Member
Independent Director
SUKAMAL BANERJEE 
BVR MOHAN REDDY
VIVEK GOUR
MATANGI  
GOWRISHANKAR 
KRISHNA BODANAPU
NITIN PRASAD
VIKAS SEHGAL
M.M. MURUGUPPAN
DEBJANI GHOSH
Independent Director
Executive Vice Chairman  
& Managing Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
Non-Executive Chairman
Independent Director
20  |  Annual Report 2024-25
SENIOR  
LEADERSHIP
Our senior leadership team plays 
a critical role in navigating Cyient 
through a dynamic and evolving 
business landscape. With a clear 
strategic vision and deep industry 
expertise, they drive growth, 
uncover new opportunities, and 
shape the company’s long-term 
trajectory. Their leadership is 
instrumental in fostering strong 
customer partnerships and 
delivering innovative, impactful 
solutions—ensuring Cyient remains 
a trusted and forward-thinking 
partner in Intelligent Engineering.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  21 
Executive Director &  
Chief Executive Officer
President &  
Chief Financial Officer
SUKAMAL BANERJEE 
PRABHAKAR ATLA
DR. PNSV NARASIMHAM
K. A. PRABHAKARAN
President &  
Head of Corporate Functions
Senior Vice President &  
Chief Technology Officer
22  |  Annual Report 2024-25
AWARDS AND
RECOGNITIONS
Our journey of excellence continues to earn recognition from industry bodies, media, and global 
analysts. These accolades are a testament to our relentless focus on innovation, customer impact, 
and responsible growth. They reflect the trust we’ve built with our stakeholders and validate our 
leadership across engineering, and digital transformation. Explore the highlights of a year marked by 
milestones and meaningful recognition.
Financial Express
FuTech Awards 2024 for  
Best Aerospace and Defence Solution
Institute of Directors 
Golden Peacock Award for Lifetime 
Achievement and Leadership in Technological 
Innovations to Dr. B.V.R. Mohan Reddy 
KPMG
India ESG Excellence Award 2024 for 
Excellence in ESG in the Technology, 
Media and Telecom Sector
Society for Human Resource 
Management (SHRM)
HR Excellence Award 2024 for  
Excellence in Total Rewards
Annual Report 2024-25  |  23 
Entrepreneur India 
14th Entrepreneur Award 2024 for Best 
CSR Initiative of the Year
The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India
9th ICSI CSR Excellence Award for 
exceptional contribution in CSR
CII Telangana State Van Mahotsav 
Awards 2024-25
Honored as green champion and best 
corporate for 9th consecutive time 
The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India
24th ICSI Lifetime Achievement Award 
for Dr. B.V.R. Mohan Reddy
The Indo-French Chamber of 
Commerce and Industry (IFCCI) 
2024 IFCCI CSR Awards in Livelihood 
Initiatives - Women Empowerment 
through Skill Development
24  |  Annual Report 2024-25
RECOGNIZED BY GLOBAL ANALYSTS & ADVISORS
TOP 12 GLOBAL LEADERS FOR ER&D 
Across Emerging Technologies
Across Industries
Tier 1 Player in 
Leadership Zone for 
Telecommunications 
Rising Star 
for Oil & Gas
Top 20 Pure Play  
ES Provider &  
Top Risers 2024
Leaders in  
ER&D Globally 
Leaders in Digital 
Engineering 
Top 5 Leaders  
in Data & AI
Rising Star  
for Power & Utilities
Tier 1 Player in Leadership Zone for 
Automotive & Semiconductors
Tier 1 Player in 
Leadership Zone 
for Industrial
Leaders for the  
first time in  
Medical Devices 
Leading  
Aerospace  
Globally 
2024
Annual Report 2024-25  |  25 
The CyientifIQ Experience Center (CEC) showcases innovative outcomes we have 
delivered over 30 years to 300+ organizations globally. The CEC houses over 100 Intelligent 
Engineering solutions developed in collaboration with more than ten partners. This state-
of-the-art facility serves as a hub for innovation, collaboration, and cutting-edge research, 
reinforcing our promise of Designing Tomorrow Together. 
26  |  Annual Report 2024-25
INTELLIGENT 
ENGINEERING 
SOLUTIONS AND 
PLATFORMS
Our signature technological 
assets are a testament to 
Cyient’s culture of innovation 
and engineering excellence. They 
reflect our unwavering commitment 
to pushing the boundaries—
delivering differentiated value to our 
customers through cutting-edge 
solutions, advanced capabilities, 
and the power of Intelligent 
Engineering.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  27 
Coddy is an advanced Generative AI 
solution purpose-built to accelerate 
and streamline legacy application 
migration. By automating code 
analysis, refactoring, and even 
generating new application 
components, Coddy empowers 
organizations to modernize their 
software landscape with speed, 
accuracy, and reduced risk. 
Leveraging the power of GenAI, 
Coddy intelligently understands 
legacy codebases, suggests 
optimized architectures, and 
facilitates seamless transformation 
to modern tech stacks—enabling 
enterprises to future-proof their 
digital infrastructure and drive 
innovation with confidence.
FEATURES & BENEFITS:
1.	 Accelerated Time-to-Market: Automates code analysis, 
generation, and testing—reducing migration timelines significantly 
and enabling quicker deployment of modernized systems.
2.	 Reduced Operational Downtime: Ensures near-zero service 
disruptions during the transition, maintaining business continuity 
throughout the migration process.
3.	 Lower Total Cost of Ownership (TCO): Minimizes manual effort, 
reduces reliance on legacy skillsets, and cuts costs associated with 
maintenance, support, and redevelopment.
4.	 Improved System Performance and Reliability: Upgraded 
applications are optimized for modern platforms, delivering faster 
response times, better stability, and higher availability.
5.	 Future-Ready Architecture: Migrates to scalable, secure, and 
industry-compliant technologies that can support future innovation 
and integration needs.
6.	 Enhanced Productivity: Frees up engineering bandwidth by 
automating repetitive tasks like script generation and functional 
testing.
SIGNATURE ASSETS 
HIGHLIGHTS 
Coddy - Legacy Application Migration Leveraging Generative AI
28  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CyARC is a next-generation AI-
powered platform designed to 
streamline regulatory compliance 
with speed, precision, and 
adaptability. Acting as a one-stop 
solution for regulatory experts, 
CyARC leverages advanced 
algorithms and cloud-based 
architecture to simplify complex 
compliance processes across 
industries. From medical devices 
to aerospace, rail, mining, and 
nuclear, CyARC intelligently 
interprets regulations, accelerates 
documentation workflows, and 
ensures audit readiness—helping 
organizations stay ahead of 
regulatory demands. By boosting 
operational agility, enhancing trust, 
and reducing compliance overhead, 
CyARC transforms regulatory 
challenges into a competitive 
advantage in today’s fast-evolving 
landscape.
1.	 Automated Compliance Intelligence – Slash Costs by 40% 
Reduce manual overhead with AI-driven compliance gap analysis 
and standards mapping for faster, cost-effective audits.
2.	 Smart Literature Discovery – Supercharge Research Efficiency 
Harness a powerful search engine to scan PubMed, Cochrane, 
Scholar, and more—cutting research time with intelligent filtering.
3.	 Unified Regulatory Repository – Eliminate Data Scattering 
Centralize fragmented global regulations into one dynamic 
platform—saving time, effort, and reducing errors.
4.	 Faster Onboarding & Execution – Up to 40% Quicker Compliance 
Cycles 
Achieve regulatory readiness faster with intuitive tools that reduce 
both execution timelines and learning curves.
5.	 AI-Powered Regulation Comparator – Boost Productivity by 30% 
Make smarter, quicker decisions by tagging and comparing 
international regulations side-by-side with AI-driven precision.
FEATURES & BENEFITS:
CyARC – Accelerator for Smart Connected Healthcare Products
Annual Report 2024-25  |  29 
Cyient Containers Solution Starter 
Kit (C2S2) is a plug-and-play 
accelerator built to fast-track your 
transition from monolith to modern, 
cloud-native architecture. Powered 
by Cyient’s Containerization 
and Microservices Framework 
(CCMF), C2S2 lays the foundation 
for building modular, extensible, 
and composable microservices 
solutions—delivering cloud-
agnostic flexibility and enterprise-
grade scalability.
Whether you’re modernizing legacy 
applications or building new digital 
services, C2S2 helps organizations 
plan, implement, and monitor their 
containerization journey with ease. 
It streamlines service orchestration, 
enables rapid prototyping, and 
reduces development cycles—
significantly accelerating time to 
market.
FEATURES & BENEFITS:
1.	 Faster Cloud-Native Adoption: Simplifies the shift from legacy to 
microservices, reducing migration time and complexity.
2.	 Future-Proof Architecture: Enables modular builds that support 
innovation and integration with minimal refactoring.
3.	 Improved Developer Productivity: Pre-built patterns and 
scaffolding reduces setup time and allows teams to focus on 
business logic.
4.	 Vendor-Neutral Deployment: Ensures flexibility with a cloud-
agnostic approach—deploy across AWS, Azure, GCP, or hybrid 
environments.
5.	 Lower TCO & Risk: Reduces technical debt and operational 
overhead with standardized, reusable components.
C2S2 – Accelerate Your Microservices Journey
30  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CyOps is an AI-powered 
infrastructure-as-code (IaC) auto-
generator that empowers teams 
to define, configure, version, and 
deploy cloud resources at scale—
faster, smarter, and with greater 
consistency. Designed with intuitive 
user interfaces, CyOps enables 
users to select cloud services, 
input key parameters, and instantly 
generate production-grade scripts 
tailored to their environment.
By embedding intelligence into 
the infrastructure provisioning 
process, CyOps eliminates manual 
errors, accelerates deployment, 
and ensures repeatable, version-
controlled infrastructure delivery 
across multi-cloud environments.
FEATURES & BENEFITS:
1.	 Accelerated Infrastructure Provisioning: Automates script 
generation, reducing setup time and speeding up cloud resource 
deployment.
2.	 Reduced Operational Errors: Built-in intelligence ensures accurate, 
validated configurations—minimizing human error and rework.
3.	 Cloud-Agnostic Flexibility: Supports reusable, shareable scripts 
across major cloud platforms, enabling seamless scaling and 
portability.
4.	 Boosted DevOps Productivity: Frees up engineering effort for 
innovation by eliminating repetitive infrastructure coding tasks.
5.	 Versioned & Reusable Code: Enables infrastructure standardization 
with version-controlled and easily replicable configurations.
CyOps - Automate Infrastructure as Code, Intelligently
Annual Report 2024-25  |  31 
EchoWrks  is  a Cloud Based Clinical Application 
that offers a comprehensive set of features 
tailored to enhance clinical workflows and 
improve diagnostic precision. The inbuilt 
DICOM image viewer seamlessly integrates 
with existing systems, providing instant access 
to high-resolution medical images.
Leveraging AI-based automated quantification 
algorithms, EchoWrks ensures precise and 
rapid analysis, reducing the time clinicians 
spend on manual measurements. The suite’s 
advanced image annotation tools facilitate 
clear and effective communication among 
medical teams, supporting accurate and 
collaborative decision-making. Additionally, 
EchoWrks enables customized report 
generation, allowing healthcare professionals 
to create detailed, patient-specific reports 
effortlessly. 
These features collectively enhance the 
efficiency, accuracy, and productivity of clinical 
operations, making EchoWrks an indispensable 
tool in modern healthcare settings.
FEATURES & BENEFITS:
1.	 AI-Based Automated Quantification: Ensures precise 
and rapid analysis, significantly reducing the time 
clinicians spend on manual measurements, thereby 
increasing diagnostic efficiency.
2.	 Advanced Image Annotation Tools: Facilitates clear 
and effective communication among medical teams, 
supporting accurate and collaborative decision-
making.
3.	 Customized Report Generation: Allows healthcare 
professionals to effortlessly create detailed, patient-
specific reports, enhancing the accuracy and 
personalization of patient care.
4.	 Rapid Clinical Application Development: Enables 
scaling up of multiple clinical packages and facilitates 
accelerated deployment of AI based medical image 
quantification algorithms. 
EchoWrks- Cloud Based Clinical Application Suite
32  |  Annual Report 2024-25
SUCCESS STORIES
These success stories highlight 
the transformative power of our 
Intelligent Engineering solutions 
in solving complex challenges 
across products, processes, plants, 
and networks. They illustrate 
how we partner with customers 
to deliver measurable impact—
driving innovation, efficiency, and 
sustainability. 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  33 
In a multi-year aerospace engagement, Cyient is 
delivering an AI-powered technical documentation 
platform for a next-generation regional turboprop 
aircraft designed for sustainable mobility.
This cutting-edge platform is transforming the way 
documentation supports the aircraft lifecycle—offering 
a modular, scalable architecture that enables faster 
time-to-market, personalized user experiences, 
and seamless access across devices. By embedding 
proprietary AI tools, the solution streamlines content 
delivery, boosts productivity, and ensures precision in 
complex aerospace environments.
Built to serve a global customer base, the platform 
addresses evolving industry needs, from design 
through aftermarket support. It leverages Cyient’s deep 
domain expertise across aircraft systems, structures, 
software, and digital engineering.
This innovation represents a key step in aerospace 
digitalization—enhancing safety, empowering 
engineers, and redefining how the industry manages 
mission-critical information in the era of intelligent 
engineering.
Cyient’s AI-driven 
documentation platform 
combines modular 
architecture with embedded 
intelligence to accelerate 
delivery and enhance global 
accessibility.
ADVANCING AEROSPACE INNOVATION 
THROUGH AI-ENABLED DOCUMENTATION
34  |  Annual Report 2024-25
A prominent UK telco faced 
significant customer experience 
challenges in key areas: Belfast, 
London, and along the M8 
motorway. Belfast was the worst-
performing city, with network 
inefficiencies threatening its 
reputation. London, as a business 
hub, needed to maintain its 
leadership in voice quality. The 
M8 motorway, a critical transport 
route, faced performance gaps 
and coverage issues.
Cyient’s solution was data-driven and targeted:
•	 In Belfast, Cyient took full responsibility for the network, conducting 
feasibility studies and launching performance improvement programs, 
transforming it from the worst to the best-performing city.
•	 In London, Cyient optimized the network to maintain #1 voice quality, 
surpassing competitors.
•	 For the M8, Cyient’s subsidiary, Celfinet, improved network coverage and 
performance, enhancing the commuter experience.
The results:
•	 Belfast saw a 37.19% improvement in voice and data quality.
•	 London retained its #1 voice quality.
•	 The M8 became the 3rd best-performing motorway in the UK.
TRANSFORMING NETWORK PERFORMANCE TO 
DELIVER BEST-IN-CLASS CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
Cyient’s data-driven 
interventions turned the 
client’s lowest-performing 
city into a benchmark for 
network excellence in just 
one year.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  35 
In a strategic semiconductor collaboration, Cyient 
delivered a full turnkey solution—including two analog 
ASICs and a mixed-signal SoC-to drive next-generation 
laser distance measurement devices.
Designed for fast, high-precision operation in compact, 
battery-powered formats, the solution addressed 
the demanding needs of advanced geospatial and 
measurement applications. The analog front-end ASIC 
enabled ultra-low-noise signal capture with minimal 
group delay variation, while the laser driver ASIC 
delivered high-speed, sub-nanosecond resolution 
pulses. At the core, a mixed-signal SoC integrated an 
ARM Cortex-M4 processor, floating-point DSP, ADC, 
analog filters, power management, and timing control-
all optimized for accuracy, responsiveness, and power 
efficiency.
From initial design to industrialization and volume 
production, Cyient provided a seamless end-to-
end engagement. The result: high-performance, 
miniaturized measurement systems that set new 
benchmarks for precision, energy efficiency, and form 
factor-helping our client redefine leadership in smart 
metrology.
DELIVERING NEXT-GEN 
PRECISION THROUGH CUSTOM 
SEMICONDUCTOR SOLUTIONS
OPTIMIZING NETWORK OPERATIONS WITH 
REAL-TIME FAULT DETECTION
Cyient co-developed a 
custom ASIC solution 
powering compact, high-
accuracy laser distance 
measurement systems 
for professional-grade 
applications.
36  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CUSTOMER 
TESTIMONIALS
At Cyient, our customers are at the heart of everything we do. We 
continuously strive to deliver innovative, high-impact solutions that 
address real-world challenges. These testimonials reflect the strength of 
our partnerships, the value we bring to our customers, and the trust we’ve 
built through collaboration, agility, and a shared commitment to excellence.
ANTONY KORNAS 
Head of Engineering, Siemens 
NICO NEUMANN 
Co-CEO of Deutsche Aircraft
Using rich sources of data, I can see Siemens working with Cyient to develop mobility 
solutions from the first passenger mile to the final passenger mile. Siemens has been 
successfully working with Cyient, for over 16 years now during this time we have 
developed a very strong relationship allowing us to trust one-an-other to develop 
mobility solutions that are fit for the future. 
We are thrilled to be working with Cyient and the expansion of our partnership represents 
a strong commitment to India while supporting the “Make in India” initiative. 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  37 
SUNIL MENON
Executive, Global Networks & Technology, Telstra 
A partner like Cyient with the expertise and AI can help in scaling aspect and bringing 
talent to help us accelerate with our go-to-market strategies  in terms of how we bring 
AI into our products, solutions and services as well as driving the larger ecosystem of 
vendors as well as academia. 
ESPEN LIED 
COO, GreenH
We are excited to collaborate with Cyient to bring our hydrogen vision to life in Bodø. 
With Cyient’s expertise, we’ll complete the detailed engineering of our hydrogen plant 
and provide the basis for procurement, construction, and installation of our first facility 
for the production and direct bunkering of green hydrogen.
38  |  Annual Report 2024-25
MANOJ UNNIKRISHNAN
CTO, Diagnostics Cardiology, GE Healthcare 
GERARD MAJOOR
Global Platform, Program and Project Management Office Leader 
Philips Patient Monitoring, Philips
I’ve had the pleasure of collaborating with Cyient for a good time now, and their 
commitment to innovation and excellence has consistently exceeded our expectations 
at GE Healthcare. Their solutions and Services have not only streamlined our processes 
but have also contributed significantly to our success. Cyient’s dedication to client 
satisfaction is commendable, and I always look forward to what more Cyient has to offer. 
In my 20 years as an R&D leader in several Philips businesses, Cyient has been a 
reliable partner to me, providing invaluable support in addressing challenging issues, 
fulfilling sudden resource requirements, and delivering specialized long-term services. 
The seamless collaboration with Cyient, characterized by a lack of friction, has been 
particularly noteworthy. Their team consistently acts and feels like an extension of our 
internal staff. Additionally, their diversity ensures the availability of tailored solutions 
for every challenge encountered.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  39 
STEPHEN HODSON
Global Services Director Immuno Diagnostics,  
Thermo Fisher Scientific 
KENTA IMAIDA
President, Micware Navigations
We engaged Cyient to support us in evaluating, benchmarking, and improving our 
Service IT ecosystems. The Cyient team took a proactive, consultative approach, 
quickly assimilating our business and customer needs, and responded to our super 
sporty timelines by assembling an international team to work at pace in jointly defining 
the strategy, roadmap, and how to address both our business and customer pain points. 
With the benefit of hindsight, I just wish we had brought Cyient on board sooner!
We are pleased to collaborate with Cyient and bring together our shared vision for 
advancing intelligent mobility. This partnership represents a step forward in addressing 
the challenges of modern transportation by leveraging technology and innovation to 
deliver impactful, scalable solutions that benefit industries and communities worldwide.
40  |  Annual Report 2024-25
PRAVEEN YASARAPU
Founder and CEO, Azimuth AI
RACHEL ROBINSON
COO, MassMedic 
The synergies between our companies are clear, and we are eager to leverage Cyient’s 
deep expertise in ASIC design, coupled with their proven ability to deliver high-
quality, innovative solutions across multiple industries. Together, we aim to deliver 
groundbreaking solutions that will push the boundaries of semiconductor technology 
for the global as well as Indian market.
Cyient’s engineering excellence and commitment to innovation make them a 
valuable addition to our association. Together, we look forward to driving significant 
advancements in the MedTech space.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  41 
Designing 
Tomorrow 
Together 
Our Promise to Stakeholders.
cyient.com
42  |  Annual Report 2024-25
IN THE MEDIA
Discover Cyient’s defining moments of FY25—our key achievements, breakthrough innovations, and strategic 
milestones. This section highlights the major stories that made headlines, illustrating our continued growth, 
industry leadership, and impact across global markets.
Cyient and American Data Solutions (ADS) announced a 
strategic partnership to transform the way businesses manage, 
access, and utilize digital content. The collaboration combines 
Cyient’s deep engineering expertise and global reach with ADS’ 
cutting-edge content management technologies. 
Cyient is proud to announce that it has expanded its strategic 
partnership with Deutsche Aircraft. Cyient has been awarded 
a multi-year contract to manage the advanced technical 
documentation to support the product lifecycle of safety-
critical aviation systems for the 40-seater regional turboprop 
the D328eco. 
Cyient and American Data Solutions Forge 
Strategic Partnership to Revolutionize Content 
Management
Cyient Expands Strategic Partnership with 
Deutsche Aircraft, Secures Multi-Year Deal for 
D328eco® Technical Publication
Cyient signed a memorandum of understanding with 
Micware Navigations to work in partnership across mutual 
engineering services support, customer introduction, and 
marketing strategy. This strategic partnership aims to deliver 
transformative solutions for intelligent mobility, focusing on 
safer, smarter, and more sustainable transportation systems.
Cyient and Micware Navigations Forge Strategic 
Alliance to Shape the Future of Mobility
Annual Report 2024-25  |  43 
Cyient announced the launch of its new office in Sydney, Australia, 
located in Parramatta, New South Wales. This strategic expansion 
underscores Cyient’s commitment to the Australian market, 
strengthening its position and enhancing its capabilities to 
serve customers across the connectivity sector. The Parramatta 
office will enable Cyient to deepen its partnerships with leading 
connectivity providers, creating a collaborative environment that 
encourages innovation and operational excellence.
Cyient announced the expansion of its partnership with Allegro 
MicroSystems, Inc. (“Allegro MicroSystems”) (Nasdaq: ALGM) with 
the inauguration of a Center of Excellence (CoE) in Hyderabad, 
India. The CoE, located at Cyient’s Manikonda Campus, will focus 
on developing next-generation magnetic sensors and power 
semiconductor products for the automotive industry. 
Cyient Opens New State-of-the-Art Office in Sydney, 
Expanding its Footprint in Australia
Cyient and Allegro MicroSystems Partner to 
Drive Innovation in Magnetic Sensors & Power 
Semiconductors for Automotive Industry
Cyient is proud to announce that its Founder Chairman, 
Dr. B.V.R. Mohan Reddy, has been honored with the prestigious 
Golden Peacock Award for Lifetime Achievement and Leadership 
in Technological Innovations by the Institute of Directors (IOD). 
The award recognized Dr. Reddy’s visionary contributions to 
technology and his lasting impact on the engineering and 
innovation landscape.
Cyient’s Founder Chairman Receives Lifetime 
Achievement Award at London Event of Institute 
of Directors
44  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Cyient announced the acquisition of a 27.3% stake in 
Azimuth AI, a fabless custom ASIC company known for its 
expertise in intelligent energy and power solutions. This 
strategic investment marks a significant milestone in Cyient’s 
semiconductor journey and demonstrates the continued focus 
to drive accelerated growth in this industry. 
Cyient announced that it has been honored with a Premier Award 
from its customer RTX, for the third consecutive year. RTX has 
recognized Cyient Ltd. with the Premier Award for performance 
in 2023 and overall excellence in Cost Competitiveness and 
Collaboration & Customer Service.
Cyient Acquires Stake in Azimuth AI to Build 
Cutting-Edge ASIC Chips and Strengthen 
Semiconductor Capabilities
Cyient Receives Premier Award for Excellence from 
RTX for the 3rd Consecutive Year
Cyient and Business Finland entered into a memorandum of 
understanding (MoU) to collaborate in advancing technology 
innovation. This strategic partnership aims to foster joint 
initiatives focused on cutting-edge technologies, including 
5G, AI, sustainability solutions, space technology, and robotics. 
The collaboration will leverage Cyient’s strong presence in 
Europe, especially in Finland, and a robust platform to work 
with the Finnish ecosystem, including startups. 
Cyient Partners with Business Finland to Drive 
Innovation in Emerging Technologies and 
Sustainability
Annual Report 2024-25  |  45 
DIVERSITY MATTERS
ONE CYIENT
46  |  Annual Report 2024-25
EMPOWERING  
TOMORROW TOGETHER
Through the Cyient Foundation, we are committed to giving back to the communities we serve by driving impactful 
initiatives across key areas such as Quality Education, Digital Literacy, Skill Development, Women’s Empowerment, 
Community Development, Healthcare, and Innovation & Entrepreneurship. These focus areas reflect our 
dedication to fostering inclusive growth and creating lasting, positive change in society.
Foundation’s Key Highlights from FY2024-25
Supported over 200,000 children with 
quality education, health, and technology 
in Cyient-adopted schools.
Conducted 28,101 health checks and 
4,258 heart inspections in adopted 
villages, saving over 500 lives.
Collected over 15,000 kilograms of paper 
waste from schools, distributing 15,000 
notebooks in return.
Provided IT education for 35,000 people 
across five states through 83 Cyient 
Digital Centers and certified over 14,000 
women in digital skills.
Three adopted schools fully transitioned 
to solar power, installing solar panels over 
3,500 sq ft and generating significant solar 
energy.
BVR SCIENT, promoted by Cyient Foundation, conducted entrepreneurship masterclasses for 1,000+ 
rural engineering students in Telangana, earning a 2024 CSR Excellence Award from ICSI for community 
impact.
Figures as of March  31, 2025
Collaborated with 33 government schools 
to educate close to 22,000 children 
nationwide every academic year.
Developed 48,564 sq. m. of land for 
environmental conservation and installed 
rainwater catchments on 80,212 sq ft of 
school rooftops. 
More than 1,700 Cyient Associates 
joined the Heroes Fighting for Our Planet 
initiative, contributing over 7,000 hours of 
volunteering to create sustainable social 
impact through Cyient CSR Initiatives.
Since FY16, Cyient Skill Centres trained 
9,282 individuals in practical skills, 
securing jobs for 8,004 people and helping 
them achieve a sustainable livelihood, with 
an increase in monthly wages by ₹8,000.
Over the last 9 years, planted over 
106,054 trees with a 85.5% survival rate, 
earning an award from CII Telangana for 
nine consecutive years.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  47 
Cyient’s school adoption program, initiated in 2007-08, began 
with two government schools and 850 children. Today, the Cyient 
Foundation supports 33 government schools with 21,103 children 
across four states. Since the program’s inception, over 200,000 
children have gained access to quality education, aided by teaching 
tools, school infrastructure, health and nutrition support, and ICT/
IoT facilities. Through our efforts, girl child enrollment in adopted 
schools has risen from 20% to 56%, and the overall SSC pass rate 
has increased from 30% to 88%.
Since launching our Cyient Digital Centers (CDC) initiative in 
2014 with four National Digital Literacy Mission Centers, we have 
expanded to 83 CDCs across Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. These 
centers have certified over 25,000 adults (men and women) in L1 
and L2 IT literacy as part of the Digital India Initiative. Over 14,500 
women have been trained in digital literacy, with over 80% finding 
these skills useful for accessing e-governance facilities.
Cyient Foundation has partnered with the Asian Healthcare 
Foundation (AHF) to address healthcare challenges through 
research and development. In FY24-25, we conducted 28,101 
general health checkups and 4,258 cardiac health assessments, 
saving over 500 lives. We also performed 2,500 free eye surgeries 
for the elderly and improved healthcare access in Cyient-adopted 
villages. Every household in these villages now has access to 
sanitation and safe drinking water.
Cyient operates two skill centers in Telangana, focusing on vocational 
training for women. The Cyient Urban Micro Skill Center (CUMSC) 
and Cyient IT/ITES Skill Center have trained over 9,282 youth and 
women in IT, electronics, manufacturing, and vocational skills. With 
an 85% placement rate, these centers have helped local industries 
by providing a skilled talent pool, ensuring high retention rates.
School Education
Digital Literacy Initiatives
Healthcare and Community Development
Women Empowerment Through Skill Development
48  |  Annual Report 2024-25
As part of our environmental initiatives, Cyient developed 48,564 sq 
m of neglected government land into a park and enabled rainwater 
catchment systems on 80,000 sq ft of school rooftops. We have 
also planted over 106,000 saplings with an 85.5% survival rate and 
generated over 100,000 solar energy units from rooftops in our 
adopted schools. Our ‘Wealth out of Waste’ program has helped 
recycle 15.3K kg of paper waste from schools, distributing 15,000 
notebooks in exchange.
Cyient Foundation’s impact extends far beyond education, reaching 
deep into community well-being and sustainability. Its healthcare 
efforts have saved 500+ lives through cardiac screenings, provided 
2,500 free eye surgeries, and ensured sanitation and safe drinking 
water in adopted villages—eliminating infant deaths and achieving 
full school attendance. Skill centers have trained over 9,000 youth 
and women with an 85% placement rate, building a strong local 
workforce. Environmental initiatives include rainwater harvesting, 
solar energy generation, and recycling 15.3K kg of paper waste. 
With 7,000+ volunteer hours and BVR SCIENT nurturing rural 
entrepreneurship, Cyient is driving meaningful, lasting change 
at the grassroots.
Dr. BVR Mohan Reddy School of Innovation and Entrepreneurship 
(BVR SCIENT), promoted by Cyient Foundation in collaboration 
with IIT Hyderabad, is fostering an innovation-driven mindset and 
entrepreneurship culture among students. Through initiatives 
like SCIENT SPARK and transformative masterclasses on 
Entrepreneurship Essentials, the school has empowered over 
1,000 students—particularly from rural and tier-2/3 engineering 
colleges in Telangana—to develop prototypes and refine their 
entrepreneurial ideas. In recognition of its impactful work in building 
sustainable communities, the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India (ICSI) honored Cyient with a CSR Excellence Award in 2024.
Environmental Protection Initiatives
Social Impact 
Dr. BVR Mohan Reddy School of  
Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Annual Report 2024-25  |  49 
DESIGNING A SUSTAINABLE 
TOMORROW TOGETHER
Our major offices are running 
on 75% renewable energy 
Go Green Campaign and  
Zero plastic across locations
Improved Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index score by six points
Conducted climate risk assessment 
aligned with TCFD guidelines  
Pioneered zero-emission 
lime production through 
the ZEQL initiative
Committed To Net-Zero Emissions in Alignment with UN-SDG
Received the Silver Award in Environmental Management from 
ELCITA for renewable energy use, water conservation, and 
waste recycling at our Bangalore facility.
50  |  Annual Report 2024-25
NOTICE OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Notice is hereby given that the 34th (Thirty Fourth) Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the shareholders of the Company will be 
held on Wednesday, 16 July 2025 at 3.00 PM (IST) through Video Conference (VC) or Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM) to 
transact the following business:
	
I.	
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt:
a.	
the audited standalone financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2025, 
together with the reports of the board of directors and the auditors thereon;
b.	
the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2025, 
together with the report of the auditors thereon;
2.	
To declare a final dividend of ₹ 14/- (at the rate of 280% on face value of ₹ 5/- each) on the equity shares for the 
financial year 2024-25.
3.	
To appoint a director in place of Mr. Krishna Bodanapu (DIN: 00605187), who retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment as a director liable to retire by rotation.
	
II.	
SPECIAL BUSINESS
4.	
APPOINTMENT OF SECRETARIAL AUDITORS
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of section 204 and all other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013, Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014 (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force), and Regulation 
24A(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (as amended) and pursuant to the recommendations of the Audit Committee and of Board of Directors of the 
Company, M/s. MKS & Associates, a peer reviewed Sole Proprietorship firm of Practicing Company Secretaries 
(Sole Proprietorship concern No. S2017TL460500) be and are hereby appointed as the Secretarial Auditors of 
the Company for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years commencing from the conclusion of this 34th (Thirty fourth) 
Annual General Meeting until  the conclusion of 39th (Thirty ninth) Annual General Meeting to be held in the year 
2030 at such remuneration plus applicable taxes and actual out of pocket expenses incurred in connection with the 
audit as may be mutually agreed between the Board of Directors of the Company and the Secretarial Auditors.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors of the Company, (including its committees thereof), be and is 
hereby authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be deemed proper, necessary, or expedient, 
including filing the requisite forms or submission of documents with any authority or accepting any modifications 
to the clauses as required by such authorities, for the purpose of giving effect to this resolution and for matters 
connected therewith, or incidental thereto.”
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Cyient Limited
Sudheendhra Putty
Place: Hyderabad 	
Company Secretary
Date: 24 April 2025 	
M. No. F5689
Registered Office
Cyient Limited
4th Floor, A Wing, Plot No.11, Software Units Layout, Infocity,
Madhapur, Hyderabad 500 081, Telangana, India 
CIN: L72200TG1991PLC013134
Email: company.secretary@cyient.com
Website: www.cyient.com
Tel: +91 40 6764 1000
Annual Report 2024-25  |  51 
1.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) vide its General 
circular No. 09/2024 dated 19 September 2024 in relation 
to “Clarification on holding of AGM and EGM through VC 
or OAVM and passing of Ordinary and Special resolutions 
by the companies under the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with Rules made thereunder – Extension of timeline” 
(the “MCA Circular”) has allowed the Companies to 
conduct their AGM and EGM through VC or OAVM up to 
30 September 2025. In line with the MCA Circular, the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India vide its circular 
no. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 
in 
relation to “Relaxation from compliance with certain 
provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015” (the “SEBI Circular”) 
has relaxed the applicability of regulation 36(1)(b) of 
the (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
(LODR) Regulations, 2015 for AGMs and regulation 
44(4) of the LODR Regulations for general meetings (in 
electronic mode) till 30 September 2025. In compliance 
with the MCA Circular and SEBI Circular and the erstwhile 
MCA and SEBI circulars issued in this behalf, the AGM of 
the members of the Company is being held through VC 
/ OAVM. The registered office of the Company shall be 
deemed to be the venue for the AGM.
2.	
As the AGM will be conducted through VC / OAVM, the 
facility for appointment of Proxy by the Members is not 
available for this AGM and hence the Proxy Form and 
Attendance Slip including Route Map are not annexed to 
this Notice.
3.	
The attendance of the Members attending the AGM 
through VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose 
of ascertaining the quorum under Section 103 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
4.	
Explanatory statement Pursuant to Section 102 (1) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 on the special business proposed to 
be transacted in the AGM is annexed to this notice.  Refer 
Annexure – A.
5.	
The relevant details as required by Regulation 36 of SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard 
on General Meetings (SS 2) issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India, of directors seeking 
appointments/re-appointments is annexed hereto. Refer 
Annexure - B.
6.	
All the documents referred to in this Notice are available 
for inspection by the members. Those who desire to 
obtain the same may write to company.secretary@
cyient.com 
7.	
The Register of directors and key managerial personnel 
and their shareholding, maintained under Section 170 of 
the Act, and the Register of Contracts or Arrangements 
in which the directors are interested, maintained under 
Section 189 of the Act, will be available electronically for 
inspection by the members during the AGM.
8.	
Corporate shareholders intending to authorize their 
authorized representatives to attend the AGM are 
requested to send a certified copy of the board resolution 
to the company authorizing them to attend and vote 
on their behalf at the AGM. The scanned copy (PDF / 
JPEG format) of the Board Resolution authorising its 
representatives to attend and vote at the AGM, pursuant 
to Section 113 of the Act together with attested specimen 
signature(s) of the duly authorised representative(s), be 
sent to:
(i)	
the Company Secretary at the E-mail: 
company.secretary@cyient.com
(ii)	 the Scrutinizer at E-mail: manishcs31@gmail.com 
(iii)	  a copy marked to evoting@kfintech.com 
	
The scanned image of the above-mentioned 
documents should be in the naming format 
“Corporate Name and Event No.”
9.	
The Board of Directors of the company had declared an 
interim dividend of ₹ 12/- per share i.e., at the rate of 
240% on face value of ₹ 5/- on 24 October 2024. The 
same was paid on 21 November 2024.
10.	 Final dividend of ₹ 14/- per share, i.e., at the rate of 280% 
on face value of ₹ 5/- each for the year ended 31 March 
2025, as recommended by the board, if declared at the 
AGM, will be payable to those persons whose names 
appear in the Register of Members of the company as at 
the close of business hours on 4 July, 2025. Dividend will 
be paid within 30 days from the date of AGM.
11.	 Members holding shares in physical form may write to the 
company/company’s R&T agents for any change in their 
address and bank mandates; members holding shares in 
electronic form may inform the same to their depository 
participants immediately so as to enable the Company 
to dispatch dividend warrants at their correct addresses, 
where applicable.
12.	 In terms of Schedule I of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015, listed companies are required to use the Reserve 
Bank of India’s approved electronic mode of payment 
such as National Automated Clearing House (NACH), 
National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT) and Real Time 
Gross Settlement (RTGS) for making payments like 
dividend to the members. Accordingly, members holding 
securities in demat mode are requested to update their 
NOTES:
52  |  Annual Report 2024-25
bank details with their depository participants. Members 
holding securities in physical form may send a request 
updating their bank details to the company’s Registrar 
and Transfer Agent.
13.	 In terms of SEBI Circular Nos. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_
IAD-1/P/ CIR/2023/131 dated 31 July 2023, as further 
amended by the Corrigendum cum Amendment circular 
No. 
SEBI/HO/OIAE/ 
OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/135 
dated 4 August 2023 and the Master Circular No. SEBI/
HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-3/P/CIR/2023/195, the SEBI has 
established a common Online Dispute Resolution Portal 
(“ODR Portal”) for resolution of disputes arising in the 
Indian Securities Market.
	
In terms of the said circulars, the investors, after duly 
exhausting their option to resolve their grievances with 
the RTA/ Company directly and through existing SCORES 
platform, can initiate dispute resolution through the ODR 
Portal (https://smartodr.in/login).
14.	 Deduction of tax at source (TDS) on dividend:
i.	
As you may be aware, in terms of the provisions of 
the Income-tax Act, 1961, (the “IT Act”) as amended 
by the Finance Act, 2020, dividend paid or distributed 
by a Company on or after 1 April 2020 shall be taxable 
in the hands of the shareholders. The Company shall 
therefore be required to deduct tax at source at the 
time of payment of dividend.
ii.	
In order to enable us to determine the appropriate 
TDS rate, members are requested to submit the 
documents in accordance with the provisions of the 
IT Act, as set out hereunder:
a)	
For resident shareholders: Tax will be deducted 
at source under Section 194 of the IT Act @ 
10% on the amount of dividend payable unless 
exempt under any of the provisions of the IT 
Act. However, in case of individuals, TDS would 
not apply, if the aggregate of total dividend 
distributed to them by the Company during FY 
2025-26 does not exceed INR. 10,000.
	
Tax at source will not be deducted in cases where 
a shareholder provides Form 15G (applicable to 
an individual below the age of sixty years) / Form 
15H (applicable to an individual above the age of 
60 years), provided that the eligibility conditions 
are being met. 
	
Blank Form 15G and 15H can also be downloaded 
from the website of the Company, viz., 
https://www.cyient.com/investors/financial-
information 
	
NEEDLESS TO STATE, THE PERMANENT ACCOUNT 
NUMBER (PAN) WILL NEED TO BE MANDATORILY 
MENTIONED.
	
In order to provide exemption from withholding 
of tax, the following entities must provide a self-
declaration as listed below:
•	
Insurance companies: A declaration that they 
are beneficial owners of shares held along with 
a copy of certificate of registration granted by 
IRDAI
•	
Mutual Funds: A declaration that they are 
governed by the provisions of section 10(23D) 
of the Act along with copy of registration 
documents (self-attested).
•	
Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) established 
in India: A declaration that its income is exempt 
under section 10(23FBA) of the IT Act and they 
are established as Category I or Category II AIF 
under the SEBI Regulations. Copy of registration 
documents(self-attested) should be provided.
•	
Entities covered by Circular 18 of 2017 issued 
by the Central Board of Direct Tax: a declaration 
containing the following along with supporting a 
document:
	
We are an entity covered by Circular 18 of 2017 
issued by the Central Board of Direct Tax and our 
income is unconditionally exempt under Section 
10 of the Income-Tax Act, 1961 and we are 
statutorily not required to file return of income 
under Section 139 of the IT Act.
•	
Department of Government: such entities will 
need to provide a declaration stating:
	
We are a Corporation named ______________<> 
set up under ___________ <<<>Act>>whose 
income is exempt from any income-tax or can 
be considered as a ‘Government’ and qualify for 
exemption under section 196 of the Income tax 
Act, 1961.
•	
NPS Trusts: such trusts will need to provide a 
declaration stating the following along with a 
supporting document: 
	
We qualify as NPS Trust for the purpose of 
section 197A(1E) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 
and our income is eligible for exemption under 
section 10(44) of the Income-tax Act, 1961.
	
The Resident Non-Individual Members i.e. 
Insurance 
companies, 
Mutual 
Funds 
and 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  53 
Alternative Investment Fund (AIF) established in 
India and Non-Resident Non-Individual Members 
i.e. Foreign Institutional Investors and Foreign 
Portfolio Investors may alternatively submit 
the relevant forms / declarations / documents 
stated above through their respective custodian 
who is registered on NSDL/CDSL platform, on or 
before the aforesaid timelines.
b)	
For non-resident shareholders: Tax is required 
to be withheld in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 195 and Section 196D of the IT Act 
at applicable rates in force. As per the relevant 
provisions of the IT Act, the tax shall be withheld 
@ 20% (plus applicable surcharge and cess) on 
the amount of dividend payable. 
	
However, as per Section 90 of the IT Act, a 
non-resident shareholder has the option to 
be governed by the provisions of the Double 
Tax Avoidance Agreement (“DTAA”) between 
India and the country of tax residence of the 
shareholder, if they are more beneficial to the 
shareholder. 
	
For this purpose, i.e., to avail of the Tax Treaty 
benefits, the non-resident shareholder will have 
to provide the following:
a)	
Self-attested copy of Permanent Account 
Number (PAN Card), if any, allotted by the 
Indian income tax authorities;
b)	
Self-attested 
copy 
of 
Tax 
Residency 
Certificate (TRC) obtained from the tax 
authorities of the country of which the 
shareholder is resident for FY 2025-26;
c)	
Self-declaration in electronic Form 10F, if 
all the details required in the form are not 
mentioned in the TRC;
d)	
Self-declaration 
by 
the 
non-resident 
shareholder 
of 
having 
no 
permanent 
establishment in India in accordance with 
the applicable Tax Treaty; 
e)	
Self-declaration of beneficial ownership by 
the non-resident shareholder. 
f)	
Self -declaration by the non-resident 
shareholder for eligibility of DTAA rate; 
g)	
Self-declaration 
by 
the 
non-resident 
shareholder for no Place of effective 
management; 
h)	
Self-declaration 
by 
the 
non-resident 
shareholders for no business connection;
	
The documents referred to in point nos. (c) to (e) 
above can be downloaded from the Company’s 
website viz. https://www.cyient.com/investors/
financial-information 
	
The Company is not obligated to apply the 
beneficial DTAA rates at the time of tax 
deduction/withholding on dividend amounts. 
Application of beneficial DTAA Rate will depend 
upon the completeness and satisfactory review 
by the Company of the documents submitted by 
Non-Resident shareholder.
	
To enable us to determine the appropriate TDS 
/ withholding tax rate applicable, we request you 
to provide the above details and documents not 
later than 14 July, 2025.
iii.	 Dividend will be paid after deducting the tax at source 
as under:
a)	
NIL for resident individual shareholders receiving 
dividend up to INR. 10,000 or in case Form 15G / 
Form 15H (as applicable) along with self-attested 
copy of the PAN is submitted.
b)	
10% for resident shareholders in case PAN is 
provided/available. 
c)	
20% for resident shareholders, if PAN is not 
provided / not available. 
d)	
Tax will be assessed on the basis of documents 
submitted by the non-resident shareholders 
e)	
20% plus applicable surcharge and cess 
for non-resident shareholders in case the 
aforementioned documents are not submitted.
f)	
20% plus applicable surcharge and cess 
for non-resident shareholders in case the 
aforementioned documents are not submitted.
	
Kindly note that the aforementioned documents 
should be uploaded with KFin Technologies 
Limited, the Registrar and Transfer Agent at 
https://ris.kfintech.com/form15 or emailed to 
einward.ris@kfintech.com. No communication 
on the tax determination/deduction shall be 
entertained after 14 July, 2025.
	
In case tax on dividend is deducted at a higher rate 
in the absence of receipt of the aforementioned 
details/documents, you would still have the 
option of claiming refund of the excess tax paid 
at the time of filing your income tax return. No 
claim shall lie against the Company for such 
taxes deducted.
	
The tax credit can also be viewed in Form 26AS 
by logging in with your credentials (with valid 
54  |  Annual Report 2024-25
PAN) at TRACES https://www.tdscpc.gov.in/
app/login.xhtml or the e-filing website of the 
Income Tax department of India https://eportal.
incometax.gov.in /iec/foservices/#/login
15.	 Members who wish to claim unclaimed dividends of the 
past years, are requested to correspond with Mr. N. Ravi 
Kumar, Deputy Company Secretary at the company’s 
registered office. Pursuant to provisions of sections 
124 and 125, and other applicable provisions, if any, of 
the Act, all unclaimed / unpaid dividends for a period of 
seven years from the date they become due for payment 
are required to be transferred to the Investor Education 
Protection Fund (‘IEPF’). The shares in respect of such 
unclaimed dividends are also liable to be transferred to 
the demat account of the IEPF Authority. In view of this, 
shareholders are requested to claim the dividend from the 
company within the stipulated timeline.
16.	 In case of joint holders attending the AGM, the shareholder 
whose name appears as the first holder in the order of 
names as per the Register of Members of the company 
will be entitled to vote.
17.	 Shareholders desirous of obtaining any information 
concerning the accounts and operations of the company 
are requested to send their queries to the registered 
office of the company at least seven days before the date 
of the AGM, so that the information requested may be 
made available.
18.	 The certificates from the secretarial auditors of the 
company under SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits 
and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021, as amended, will be 
available for inspection by the shareholders at the AGM.
19.	 ELECTRONIC DISPATCH OF ANNUAL REPORT AND 
PROCESS FOR REGISTRATION OF EMAIL ID FOR 
OBTAINING ANNUAL REPORT:
a.	
In accordance with, the General Circular Nos. 20/2020 
dated 5 May 2020, 19/2021 dated 12 December 2021, 
21/2021 dated 14 December 2021 and 09/2023 dated 
25 September 2023 issued by MCA and Securities 
and Exchange Board of India circular no. SEBI/HO/
CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/167, owing to the 
difficulties involved in dispatching of physical copies 
of the financial statements (including Report of Board 
of Directors, Auditor’s report or other documents 
required to be attached therewith), such statements 
including the Notice of AGM are being sent in 
electronic mode to Members whose e-mail address 
is registered with the company or the Depository 
Participant(s). 
b.	
The Notice of AGM along with Annual Report for the 
financial year 2024-25, will also be available on the 
Company’s website at https://www.cyient.com, 
websites of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
at 
www.bseindia.com 
and 
www.nseindia.com 
respectively, and on the website of KFin Technologies 
Private Limited (‘KFin’/‘RTA’) at https://evoting.
kfintech. com.
c.	
Procedure for registering the e-mail address 
and obtaining the Notice and Remote E-voting 
instructions by the shareholders whose e-mail 
addresses are not registered with the Depositories 
(in case of shareholders holding shares in Demat 
form) or with RTA (in case of shareholders holding 
shares in physical form):
i.	
Those Members who have not yet registered 
their e-mail addresses are requested to get their 
e-mail addresses registered by following the 
procedure given below:
a.	
Members holding shares in demat form can 
get their e-mail ID registered by contacting 
their respective Depository Participant.
b.	
Members holding shares in physical form 
may register their e-mail address and mobile 
number with KFin by sending e-mail to 
einward.ris@kfintech.com along with signed 
scanned copy of the request letter providing 
the e-mail address, mobile number, self-
attested PAN copy and copy of share 
certificate for receiving the Notice and the 
e-voting instructions.
c.	
Further, those members who have not 
registered their e-mail addresses and mobile 
nos. and in consequence could not be served 
the Notice, may temporarily get themselves 
registered with KFin, by clicking the link: 
https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/
mobilereg/mobileemailreg.aspx 
d.	
Members are requested to support our 
commitment to environmental protection 
by choosing to receive the Company’s 
communication 
through 
e-mail 
going 
forward.
ii.	
With a view to help us serve better, Members 
who hold shares in identical names and in the 
same order of names in more than one folio 
are requested to write to the Company/RTA to 
consolidate their holdings in one folio.
iii.	 Members who have registered their e-mail 
address, mobile nos., postal address and bank 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  55 
account details are requested to validate/
update their registered details by contacting the 
Depository Participant in case of shares held in 
electronic form or by contacting KFin, in case the 
shares are held in physical form.
20.	 PAYMENT OF DIVIDEND THROUGH ELECTRONIC 
MODE ONLY FOR PHYSICAL FOLIOS:
(i)	
SEBI, vide its circular dated 03 November 2021 
(subsequently amended by circulars dated 14 
December 2021, 16 March 2023 and 17 November 
2023) mandated that the security holders (holding 
securities in physical form), whose folio(s) are not 
updated with the KYC details (any of the details viz., 
PAN; Choice of Nomination; Contact Details; Mobile 
Number and Bank Account Details and signature, 
if any) shall be eligible for any payment including 
dividend, interest or redemption in respect of such 
folios, only through electronic mode with effect 
from 01 April 2024.  
	
You may also refer to SEBI FAQs by accessing the 
link: https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/faqfiles/jan-
2024/1704433843359.pdf (FAQ No 38 & 39)
(ii)	 For the purpose of updation of KYC details against 
your folio, you are requested to send the details to 
our RTA, M/s. KFin Technologies Limited (Unit:_
CYIENT), (Kfin or RTA) Selenium Tower-B, Plot No. 31 
& 32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, 
Serilingampally, Hyderabad – 500 032, Telangana 
a.	
Through hard copies which should be self 
-attested and dated; OR
b.	
Through 
electronic 
mode, 
provided 
that 
they are sent through E-mail id of the holder 
registered with RTA and all documents should be 
electronically/digitally signed by the Shareholder 
and in case of joint holders, by first joint holder; 
OR
c.	
Through web- portal of Kfin -  https://ris.
kfintech.com;
	
Investors can download the following forms & 
SEBI Circulars, which are also uploaded on the 
website of the company and on the website of 
Kfin at the following link:  https://ris.kfintech.
com/clientservices/isc/isrforms.aspx 
a.	
Form ISR-1 duly filled in along with self-
attested 
supporting 
documents 
for 
updating the KYC details; 
b.	
Form ISR-2 duly filled in for banker 
attestation of signature along with ‘Original 
cancelled cheque’ with your name(s) printed 
thereon or self-attested copy of bank 
passbook/statement
c.	
Form SH-13 for updation of Nomination for 
the aforesaid folio OR ISR-3 for Opt-out of 
the Nomination 
	
APPLICATION(S) BY KFIN
	
Members are requested to note that as an ongoing 
endeavour to enhance shareholders experience and 
leverage new technology, Kfin has developed following 
applications for shareholders:
	
Investor Support Centre: 
	
Members are hereby notified that our RTA, KFin 
Technologies 
Limited 
(Formerly 
known 
as 
KFin 
Technologies Private Limited), based on the SEBI Circular 
(SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/72) dated 
Jun 08, 2023, have created an online application which can 
be accessed at https://ris.kfintech.com/default.aspx#  > 
Investor Services > Investor Support 
	
Members are required to register / signup, using the 
Name, PAN, Mobile and email ID. Post registration, user 
can login via OTP and execute activities like, raising 
Service Request, Query, Complaints, check for status, 
KYC details, Dividend , Interest , Redemptions, eMeeting 
and eVoting Details.
	
Quick link to access the signup page: https://kprism.
kfintech.com/signup 
	
Summary of the features and benefits are as follows:
1.	
The provision for the shareholders to register online.
2.	
OTP based login (PAN and Registered mobile number 
combination)
3.	
Raise 
service 
requests, 
general 
query, 
and 
complaints.
4.	
Track the status of the request. 
5.	
View KYC status for the folios mapped with the 
specific PAN.
6.	
Quick links for SCORES, ODR, e-Meetings and 
eVoting.
7.	
Branch Locator
8.	
FAQ’s
Senior Citizens investor cell:
	
As part of our RTA’s initiative to enhance the investor 
experience for Senior Citizens, a dedicated cell has been 
newly formed to assist exclusively the Senior Citizens in 
redressing their grievances, complaints, and queries. The 
Senior Citizens wishing to avail this service can send the 
communication with the below details to the email id, 
senior.citizen@kfintech.com . 
56  |  Annual Report 2024-25
	
Senior Citizens (above 60 years of age) have to provide 
the following details:
1.	
ID proof showing Date of Birth
2.	
Folio Number
3.	
Company Name
4.	
Nature of Grievance
	
The cell closely monitors the complaints coming from 
Senior Citizens through this channel and assists them at 
every stage of processing till closure of the grievance.
	
Online PV:
	
In today’s ever-changing dynamic digital landscape, 
security, foolproof systems and efficiency in identity 
verification are paramount. We understand the need 
to protect the interests of you (shareholders) and also 
comply with KYC standards. Ensuring security and KYC 
compliance is paramount of importance in today’s remote 
world. Digital identity verification, using biometrics and 
digital ID document checks, helps combat fraud, even 
when individuals aren’t physically present. To counteract 
common spoofing attempts, we engage in capturing 
liveness detection and facial comparison technology. 
	
We are excited to announce that our RTA has introduced 
an Online Personal Verification (OPV) process, based on 
liveness detection and document verification. 
	
Key Benefits:
a.	
A fully digital process, only requiring internet access 
and a device.
b.	
Effectively reduces fraud for remote and unknown 
applicants.
c.	
Supports KYC requirements.
	
Here’s how it works:
(i)	
Users receive a link via email and SMS.
(ii)	 Users record a video, take a selfie, and capture an 
image with their PAN card.
(iii)	 Facial comparison ensures the user’s identity 
matches their verified ID (PAN).
	
WhatsApp: 
	
Shareholders can use WhatsApp Number: (91) 910 009 
4099 to avail bouquet of services. 
21.	 PROCEDURE FOR REMOTE E-VOTING AND E-VOTING 
DURING THE AGM
Instructions for E-voting:
i.	
In terms of the provisions of Section 108 and 109 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) read with 
Rule 20 and 21 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 (hereinafter called the 
Rules for the purpose of this Section of the Notice) 
and Regulation 44 of the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Company 
is providing facility to exercise votes on the items 
of business given in the Notice through electronic 
voting system to members holding shares as on 
7 July, 2025 (End of Day) being the Cut-off date fixed 
for determining voting rights of members, entitled to 
participate in the e-voting process and poll.
ii.	
The remote e-Voting period commences on 
13 July, 2025 (09:00 AM IST) and ends on 15 July, 
2025 (05:00 PM IST).
iii.	 The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion 
to their shares in the paid-up equity share capital of 
the Company as on the cut-off date. 
iv.	 The details of the process and manner for remote 
e-Voting and e-AGM are explained herein below: 
Step 1 : 
	
Access to Depositories e-Voting system in case of 
individual shareholders holding shares in demat mode. 
Step 2 : 
	
Access to KFintech e-Voting system in case of 
shareholders holding shares in  physical and non-individual 
shareholders in demat mode. 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  57 
Details on Step 1 are mentioned below: 
I)	
Login method for remote e-Voting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode. 
Type of shareholders
Login Method
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL
1.	
User already registered for IDeAS facility:
i.	
Visit URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com 
ii.	
Click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” under ‘IDeAS’ section. 
iii.	 On the new page, enter User ID and Password. Post successful authentication, 
click on “Access to e-Voting” 
iv.	 Click on company name or e-Voting service provider and you will be re-directed 
to e-Voting service provider website for casting the vote during the remote 
e-Voting period.
2.	
User not registered for IDeAS e-Services
i.	
To register click on link: https://eservices.nsdl.com
ii.	
Select “Register Online for IDeAS” or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/
SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp 
iii.	 Proceed with completing the required fields.
iv.	 Follow steps given in points 1.
3.	
Alternatively by directly accessing the e-Voting website of NSDL
i.	
Open URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ 
ii.	
Click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. 
iii.	 A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit 
demat account number held with NSDL), Password / OTP and a Verification Code 
as shown on the screen. 
iv.	 Post successful authentication, you will requested to select the name of the 
company and the e-Voting Service Provider name, i.e. KFintech. 
v.	
On successful selection, you will be redirected to KFintech e-Voting page for 
casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period.
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with CDSL 
1.	
Existing user who have opted for Easi / Easiest
i.	
Visit URL: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/home/login  or 
	
URL: www.cdslindia.com 
ii.	
Click on New System Myeasi;
iii.	 Login with your registered user id and password. 
iv.	 The user will see the e-Voting Menu. The Menu will have links of ESP i.e. KFintech 
e-Voting portal.
v.	
Click on e-Voting service provider name to cast your vote.
2.	
User not registered for Easi/Easiest
i.	
Option 
to 
register 
is 
available 
at: 
https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/
Registration/EasiRegistration
ii.	
Proceed with completing the required fields.
iii.	 Follow the steps given in point 1
58  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Type of shareholders
Login Method
3.	
Alternatively, by directly accessing the e-Voting website of CDSL  
i.	
Visit URL: www.cdslindia.com
ii.	
Provide your demat Account Number and PAN No. 
iii.	 System will authenticate user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as 
recorded in the demat Account.
iv.	 After successful authentication, user will be provided links for the respective 
ESP, i.e KFintech where the e- Voting is in progress.
Individual Shareholder 
login through their demat 
accounts / Website of 
Depository Participant
1.	
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your DP 
registered with NSDL /CDSL for e-Voting facility.
2.	
Once logged-in, you will be able to see e-Voting option. Once you click on e-Voting 
option, you will be redirected to NSDL / CDSL Depository site after successful 
authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. 
3.	
Click on options available against company name or e-Voting service provider – 
KFintech and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of KFintech for casting your 
vote during the remote e-Voting period without any further authentication.
Important note: 
	
Members who are unable to retrieve User ID / Password are advised to use Forgot user ID and Forgot Password 
option available at respective websites. 
	
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login 
through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type 
Helpdesk details 
Securities held with NSDL 
Please contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in
or call at: 022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000
Securities held with CDSL 
Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request at  
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com; or 
contact at toll free no. 1800 22 55 33
Details on Step 2 are mentioned below: 
II)	
Login method for e-Voting for shareholders 
other than Individual’s shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode and shareholders 
holding securities in physical mode.
(A)	 Members whose email IDs are registered 
with the Company/ Depository Participants 
(s), will receive an email from KFintech which 
will include details of E-Voting Event Number 
(EVEN), USER ID and password. They will 
have to follow the following process: 
i.	
Launch internet browser by typing the 
URL: https://evoting.kfintech.com/  
ii.	
Enter the login credentials (i.e. User ID 
and password). In case of physical folio, 
User ID will be EVEN (E-Voting Event 
Number) xxxx, followed by folio number. 
In case of Demat account, User ID will be 
your DP ID and Client ID. However, if you 
are already registered with KFintech for 
e-voting, you can use your existing User 
ID and password for casting the vote. 
iii.	 After 
entering 
these 
details 
appropriately, click on “LOGIN”.
iv.	 You will now reach password change 
Menu wherein you are required to 
mandatorily change your password. 
The new password shall comprise of 
minimum 8 characters with at least one 
upper case (A- Z), one lower case (a-z), 
one numeric value (0-9) and a special 
character (@,#,$, etc.,). The system will 
prompt you to change your password 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  59 
and update your contact details like 
mobile number, email ID etc. on first 
login. You may also enter a secret 
question and answer of your choice 
to retrieve your password in case you 
forget it. It is strongly recommended 
that you do not share your password 
with any other person and that you take 
utmost care to keep your password 
confidential. 
v.	
You need to login again with the new 
credentials. 
vi.	 On successful login, the system will 
prompt you to select the “EVENT” 
i.e., ‘Cyient Limited- Annual General 
Meeting” and click on “Submit”.
vii.	 On the voting page, enter the number 
of shares (which represents the number 
of votes) as on the Cut-off Date under 
“FOR/AGAINST” 
or 
alternatively, 
you may partially enter any number 
in “FOR” and partially “AGAINST” but 
the total number in “FOR/ AGAINST” 
taken together shall not exceed your 
total shareholding as mentioned herein 
above. You may also choose the option 
ABSTAIN. If the Member does not 
indicate either “FOR” or “AGAINST” it 
will be treated as “ABSTAIN” and the 
shares held will not be counted under 
either-head.
viii.	Members 
holding 
multiple 
folios/
demat accounts shall choose the voting 
process separately for each folio/ 
demat accounts.
ix.	 Voting has to be done for each item of 
the notice separately. In case you do not 
desire to cast your vote on any specific 
item, it will be treated as abstained.
x.	
You may then cast your vote by 
selecting an appropriate option and 
click on “Submit”.
xi.	 A confirmation box will be displayed. 
Click “OK” to confirm else “CANCEL” 
to modify. Once you have voted on the 
resolution(s), you will not be allowed 
to modify your vote. During the voting 
period, Members can login any number 
of times till they have voted on the 
Resolution(s).
	
Instructions for members for voting during the 
e-AGM session:
1.	
The e-voting window shall be activated upon 
instructions of the Chairman during the 
e-AGM.
2.	
E-voting during the AGM is integrated with 
the VC platform and no separate login is 
required for the same. The shareholders 
shall be guided on the process during the 
e-AGM.
3.	
Members/shareholders, 
attending 
the 
e-AGM through Video Conference and who 
have not cast their vote on resolutions 
through Remote e-Voting shall be eligible 
to cast their vote through e-voting system 
available during the e-AGM.
4.	
Members who have voted through Remote 
e-Voting will be eligible to attend the 
e-AGM, however, they shall not be allowed 
to cast their vote again during the e-AGM.
5.	
As the AGM is being conducted through 
VC / OAVM, for the smooth conduct of 
proceedings of the AGM, Members are 
encouraged to express their views / send 
their queries in advance mentioning their 
name, demat account number / folio number, 
email id. Questions /queries received by the 
Company till 12 July, 2025 (5.00 P.M.) shall 
only be considered and responded during 
the AGM.
22.	 OTHER INSTRUCTIONS:
a)	
Speaker Registration: The Members who wish to 
speak during the meeting may register themselves 
as speakers for the AGM to express their views. 
They can visit https://emeetings.kfintech.com and 
login through the user id and password provided in 
the mail received from Kfintech. On successful login, 
select ‘Speaker Registration’ which will opened from 
9 July, 2025 (09:00 AM IST) and ends on 12 July, 2025 
(05:00 PM IST). Members shall be provided a ‘queue 
number’ before the meeting. The Company reserves 
the right to restrict the speakers at the AGM to only 
those Members who have registered themselves, 
depending on the availability of time for the AGM.
b)	
Post your Question:  The Members who wish to post 
their questions prior to the meeting can do the same 
by visiting https://emeetings.kfintech.com. Please 
login through the user id and password provided in 
the mail received from Kfintech. On successful login, 
select ‘Post Your Question’ option which will opened 
60  |  Annual Report 2024-25
from 9 July, 2025 (09:00 AM IST) and ends on 14 July, 
2025 (05:00 PM IST).
c)	
In case of any query and/or grievance, in respect 
of voting by electronic means, Members may refer 
to the Help & Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 
and E-voting user manual available at the download 
section of https://evoting.kfintech.com (KFintech 
Website) or contact Ms. C Shobha Anand, at 
evoting@kfintech.com or call KFintech’s toll free No. 
1-800-309-4001 for any further clarifications.
d)	
The Members, whose names appear in the Register of 
Members / list of Beneficial Owners as on 7 July, 2025, 
being the cut-off date, are entitled to vote on the 
Resolutions set forth in this Notice. A person who is 
not a member as on the cut-off date should treat this 
Notice for information purposes only. Once the vote 
on a resolution(s) is cast by the Member, the Member 
shall not be allowed to change it subsequently. 
e)	
In case a person has become a Member of the 
Company after dispatch of AGM Notice but on or 
before the cut-off date for E-voting, he/she may 
obtain the User ID and Password in the manner as 
mentioned below:
i.	
If the mobile number of the member is registered 
against Folio No./ DP ID Client ID, the member 
may send SMS: MYEPWD <space> E-Voting 
Event Number+Folio No. or DP ID Client ID to 
9212993399 
1.	
Example for NSDL: 
2.	
MYEPWD <SPACE> IN12345612345678 
3.	
Example for CDSL: 
4.	
MYEPWD <SPACE> 1402345612345678 
5.	
Example for Physical: 
6.	
MYEPWD <SPACE> XXXX1234567890
ii.	
If e-mail address or mobile number of the 
member is registered against Folio No. / DP 
ID Client ID, then on the home page of https://
evoting.kfintech.com/ , the member may click 
“Forgot Password” and enter Folio No. or DP ID 
Client ID and PAN to generate a password. 
iii.	 Members who may require any technical 
assistance or support before or during the AGM 
are requested to contact KFintech at toll free 
number 1-800-309-4001 or write to them at 
evoting@kfintech.com.
f)	
Scrutinizer: The Company has appointed Mr. Manish 
Kumar Singhania, a Practicing Company Secretary 
(Membership No. A22056 and CP No. 8068) having 
address at Flat No. 402, 4th Floor, Mahadev Residency, 
Hill Top Colony, Erramanzil, Hyderabad-500 082, 
Telangana, India as the Scrutinizer to conduct 
the voting process (e-voting and poll) in a fair and 
transparent manner.
g)	
The Scrutinizer will submit his report to the Chairman 
of the Company or to any other person authorized by 
the Chairman after the completion of the scrutiny of 
the e-voting (votes cast during the AGM and votes 
cast through remote e-voting), not later than 48 
hours from the conclusion of the AGM. The results 
of the electronic voting shall be declared to the Stock 
Exchanges after the AGM. The results along with 
the Scrutinizer’s Report, shall also be placed on the 
website of the Company.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  61 
Annexure A
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Item 4: 
Appointment of Secretarial Auditors
In terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 2024, Regulation 24A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 relating to 
Secretarial Audit of Listed Companies was amended with the following changes:
1.	
Secretarial Audit of the listed companies and their material subsidiaries to be undertaken by a Peer Reviewed Company 
Secretary; and 
2.	
Appointment of Secretarial Auditors for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years (and in case of firm of Company Secretaries, for 
2 (two) terms of 5 (five) consecutive years) with the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting;
Accordingly, pursuant to the provisions of section 204 and all other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013, 
Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force), and Regulation 24A(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as amended), the Company is required to appoint 
secretarial auditors for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years with the approval of its shareholders in its Annual General Meeting. 
The Board of Directors of the Company has, based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, at its meeting held on 24 
April 2025 after duly evaluating and considering various factors such as industry experience, competency of the audit team, 
efficiency in conduct of audit and independence has approved and recommended the appointment of M/s. MKS & Associates, a 
peer reviewed Sole Proprietorship firm of Practicing Company Secretaries (Sole Proprietorship concern No. S2017TL460500) as 
the Secretarial Auditors of the Company, to carry out the Secretarial Audit for a term of 5 (five) consecutive years commencing 
from the conclusion of this 34th (Thirty fourth) Annual General Meeting until  the conclusion of 39th (Thirty ninth) Annual General 
Meeting to be held in the year 2030. The annual remuneration  will be payable to the Secretarial Auditors  as mutually agreed 
between  Managing Director and the secretarial  auditors. The said remuneration shall not exceed ₹ 10 lakhs in any  financial year.
The proposed Secretarial Auditors have provided their consent to their appointment as Secretarial Auditors and have confirmed 
that their appointment, if approved by the shareholders will be in accordance with Regulation 24A of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 and Section 204 of Companies Act 2013 and 
in particular, the eligibility and qualifications prescribed under Regulation 24A (1A), and Regulation 24A (1B).
Accordingly, based on the recommendations of the Audit Committee, the Board of Directors recommends the resolution 
contained in item no. 4 of the accompanying Notice to the shareholders for approval by way of an Ordinary Resolution.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their relatives is, in any way, concerned or interested in 
the Resolution set out at Item No. 4 of the Notice.
PROFILE OF MKS & ASSOCIATES:
M/s. MKS & Associates is a professional services firm offering a comprehensive suite of Secretarial, Legal, and Insolvency 
Resolution services to domestic and international businesses of all sizes. Founded in 2008 by CS Manish Kumar Singhania, 
the firm has consistently supported clients, associates, and professionals in achieving enhanced transparency and regulatory 
compliance.
Initially established as a proprietorship under the leadership of CS Manish Singhania, the firm has since expanded its capabilities 
by inducting additional Company Secretaries, thereby strengthening its core competencies in corporate advisory services. With 
over 18 years of experience and a team of 10 professionals—including both qualified and semi-qualified personnel—the firm has 
built significant expertise in corporate law, regulatory filings, and representation before statutory and regulatory authorities 
such as the Registrar of Companies, National Company Law Tribunal, Regional Directors, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Reserve 
Bank of India, SEBI, Stock Exchanges, DGFT, and other regulatory bodies.
MKS & Associates also houses a specialized boutique law division offering focused legal advisory and compliance services in the 
areas of Company Law, Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, Securities Laws, FEMA, Corporate Restructuring, Documentation, 
and Regulatory Approvals.
62  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure B
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON DIRECTORS RECOMMENDED FOR APPOINTMENT / REAPPOINTMENT AS REQUIRED 
UNDER REGULATION 36 OF THE SEBI LISTING REGULATIONS AND APPLICABLE SECRETARIAL STANDARDS:
BRIEF RESUME:
Krishna Bodanapu is Executive Vice Chairman & Managing Director at Cyient.
He is responsible for providing strategic direction to the company and creating long-term value for stakeholders.
An alumnus of the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University, Krishna is a member of several industry associations, 
including CII and the India-US CEO Forum, and is well-known for his outstanding leadership in advancing the use of technology 
in engineering and manufacturing practices.
Full Name
: Bodanapu Ganesh Venkat Krishna
DIN
: 00605187
PAN
: ACXPB3546M
Designation
: Executive Vice Chairman & Managing Director
Date of Birth
: 28 August 1976
Age (years)
: 48 Years
Nationality
: Indian
Educational Qualifications
: B.E., MBA
Experience
: As mentioned in the brief resume
Nature of expertise in specific functional areas;
: Engineering, business management and strategy
Date of first appointment on the Board of the Company : 24 April 2014
Disclosure of relationships between directors inter-se
: He is the son of Mr. B.V.R. Mohan Reddy, Founder Chairman and 
Non Executive Director of the Company
Names of listed entities in which the director also holds 
the directorship
: Name of the Listed Entity
Category
Cyient DLM Limited
Non Executive Chairman
Names of listed entities in which the director holds 
membership of Committees of the board
: Name of the Listed Entity
Particulars
Cyient DLM Limited
i.	 Audit Committee
ii.	Stakeholder Engagement 
Committee
Listed entities from which the person has resigned in 
the past three years
: Nil
Shareholding in the Company
: 1,913,260 Equity Shares of ₹ 5 each;
Terms and conditions of appointment
: Director who retires by rotation and being eligible, offers himself 
for re-appointment as a director liable to retire by rotation (viz., 
Re-appointment in terms of Section 152(6) of the Companies Act, 
2013)
Remuneration sought to be paid
: The details of the same are provided in the report on corporate 
governance.
Remuneration last drawn
The details of the same are provided in the report on corporate 
governance.
The number of meetings of the Board attended during 
the year
8 – he has attended all the 8 meetings held during the year.
Directorships of other Boards & Committee 
Memberships (other than listed Companies)
:
Name of the Entity
Category
Awaze Limited
Director
Cyient Urban Micro Skill Centre 
Foundation
Director
Cyient Semiconductors Private 
Limited
Director; Member in
i.	 Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee
ii.	Audit Committee
Vineyard Point Software Private 
Limited
Director
Infocad Enterprises Private 
Limited
Director
Saranam Ventures Private 
Limited
Director
Annual Report 2024-25  |  63 
Board’s Report
Dear members,
Your Directors take pleasure in presenting the Thirty Fourth (34th) Board’s Report on the business and operations of the Company 
(the “Company” or “Cyient”), along with the audited Financial Statements for the FY ended 31 March 2025. The Consolidated 
performance of the Company and its subsidiaries has been referred to, wherever required in the report.
1.	
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS:
(Amount in ₹ Million, except for EPS data)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
FY 2025
FY 2024
FY 2025
FY 2024
Revenue from contracts with customers
24,136
24,614
73,604
71,472
Other Income
805
751
966
659
Total Income
24,941
25,365
74,570
72,131
Expenses
Operating Expenditure
18,437
17,647
62,171
58,444
Depreciation and amortization expense
891
948
2,672
2,667
Total Expenses
19,328
18,595
64,843
61,111
Profit before finance cost and tax
5,613
6,770
9,727
11,020
Share of loss from Associate and Joint Venture
-
-
(49)
-
Finance Cost
170
220
928
1,160
Exceptional item
7,831
-
-
(676)
Profit before tax (PBT)
13,274
6,550
8,750
9,184
Current tax
2,034
1,607
2,518
2,390
Deferred tax
(6)
(30)
(251)
(234)
Profit after Tax (PAT)
11,246
4,973
6,483
7,028
Non- controlling Interest
-
-
326
200
Profit attributable to Shareholders of the Company
11,246
4,973
6,157
6,828
Other Comprehensive Income
34
58
299
(112)
Basic EPS
102.20
45.33
55.95
62.24
Diluted EPS
101.39
44.94
55.51
61.71
Paid up share capital
555
555
555
555
Other Equity
37,114
28,788
52,540
42,026
2.	
STATE OF AFFAIRS AND COMPANY’S PERFORMANCE:
	
Your Company is a global engineering and technology solutions Company, delivering Intelligent Engineering and Technology 
Solutions for a Digital, Autonomous, and Sustainable Future. It engages with customers across their value chain helping 
to design, build, operate and maintain the products and services that make them leaders and respected brands in their 
industries and markets. Customers draw on the Company’s expertise in engineering, manufacturing, and digital technology 
to deliver and support their next-generation solutions that meet the highest standards of safety, reliability and performance.
	
Your Company provides engineering, manufacturing, geospatial, network and operations management services to global 
industry leaders. It delivers innovative solutions that add value to businesses through the deployment of robust processes 
and state-of-the-art technology. The Company’s high-quality products and services help clients leverage market 
opportunities and gain competitive advantage. 
64  |  Annual Report 2024-25
3.	
DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY:
	
Your Company has declared dividends in line with the dividend distribution policy of the Company. 
	
Details of dividend declared by the Company are as follows:
Particulars
FY 2025
FY 2024
Dividend per 
share (in ₹)
Dividend %
Dividend per 
share (in ₹)
Dividend %
Interim dividend
12
240
12
240
Final dividend*
14
280
18
360
Total dividend
26
520
30
600
	
*Final Dividend has been recommended by the Board of Directors at its Meeting held on 24 April 2025. The payment of final 
dividend is subject to approval of the shareholders of the Company in the ensuing AGM of the Company.
	
The Company has fixed 4 July, 2025 as the “Record Date” for the purpose of determining the entitlement of Members to 
receive dividend for FY25.
	
In terms of regulation 43A of SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has formulated and uploaded dividend distribution 
policy on it’s corporate website. The web-link for the same has been disclosed separately at the end of this report. 
4.	
EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS):
	
The Basic EPS of your Company stood at ₹102.20 at standalone level and ₹55.95 at consolidated level for the FY ended 31 
March 2025.
5.	
TRANSFER TO RESERVES:
	
The Company has not transferred any amount to reserves during the year under review.
6.	
LIQUIDITY:
	
The Company continues to be debt-free and maintains sufficient cash reserves to meet its operations and strategic 
objectives. As at 31 March 2025, your Company had liquid assets of ₹ 9,700 Million as against ₹ 4,636 Million at the previous 
year end. These funds have been invested in short-term deposits with scheduled banks & financial institutions, mutual 
funds, perpetual bonds and tax-free bonds. 
7.	
PUBLIC DEPOSITS:
	
Your Company has not accepted any deposits falling within the meaning of Section 73 or 74 of the Act during the year under 
review and as such, no amount on account of principal or interest on deposits from public were outstanding as on the date 
of the balance sheet.
8.	
SHARE CAPITAL:
	
8.1.	The Particulars of share capital of the Company are as follows:
Particulars
Amount (₹)
Authorized share capital
(280,000,000 Equity Shares of ₹ 5.00 each)
1,400,000,000
Issued, subscribed and paid-up share capital
(111,038,924 Equity Shares of ₹ 5.00 each)
555,194,620
	
8.2.	Shares allotted during the FY 2025:
Annual Report 2024-25  |  65 
(a)	 Public issue, rights issue, preferential issue: 
	
No such shares were issued during the FY 2025. 
(b)	 Issue of Shares under ESOP: 
	
Your Company has allotted the following Equity Shares to the associates of the Company and its subsidiaries upon 
exercise of an equal number of stock options vested in them pursuant to the extant Stock Option Schemes of the 
Company:
Sl. No.
Date of Allotment
Scheme
Number of Equity Shares 
allotted
1
25 April 2024
ASOP 2015
11,354
2
05 June 2024
ASOP 2015
14,838
3
10 July 2024
ASOP 2015 and ASRU 2020
9,430
4
23 August 2024
ASOP 2015 and ASRU 2020
25,283
5
08 October 2024
ASOP 2015 and ASRU 2020
9,240
6
08 November 2024
ASOP 2015 and ASRU 2020
24,418
7
04 December 2024
ASOP 2015
26,604
8
09 January 2025
ASOP 2015 and ASRU 2020
7,348
9
31 January 2025
ASOP 2015 and ASRU 2020
8,424
10
28 February 2025
ASOP 2015 and ASRU 2020
12,173
Total
149,112
(c)	 Issue of Shares with differential rights as to dividend, voting or otherwise: 
	
There were no issue of equity shares with differential rights as to dividend, voting or otherwise.
(d)	 Issue of Sweat Equity Shares: 
	
There were no issue of sweat equity shares during the FY 2025.
(e)	 Issue of Bonus Shares: 
	
No Bonus Shares were issued during the FY 2025.
(f)	 Buy-back of Shares: 
	
No shares were bought back during the FY 2025. 
9.	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
	
In compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act, Regulation 33 of SEBI Listing Regulations and in accordance with the 
Indian Accounting Standards notified under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, the Company has 
prepared the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
	
The audited consolidated financial statements together with the Independent Auditor’s Report thereon form part of this 
Annual Report.
10.	 SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATE COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES:
	
The status of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures as at 31 March 2025 is published as a part of the Annual Report. 
The details of ‘Material Subsidiaries’ are published in the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this Annual 
Report. The list of group companies are provided in AOC-2, kindly refer to Annexure 3.
	
Statement containing the salient features of the Financial Statements of the Subsidiary Companies/Associate 
Companies/JV:
66  |  Annual Report 2024-25
	
As per the provisions of Sections 129 of the Act read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, a separate 
statement containing the salient features of the Financial Statements of the Subsidiary Companies/Associate Companies/
JV in Form AOC-1 is published as a part of the Annual Report. Kindly refer to Annexure 2.
	
During the year, there has been no material change in the nature of the business of the subsidiaries and JV, except the 
following: 
	
Material Events concerning the Subsidiaries:
•	
In terms of the order dated 12 July 2024 passed by  the Regional Director (South Eastern Region) of the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs, Government of India, the Scheme of Amalgamation of Citec Engineering India Private Limited with 
Cyient Insights Private Limited has been approved. Both entities are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company. The 
appointed date for the Amalgamation was 1 November 2023.
•	
At a meeting of Board of Directors on 20 August 2024, the Company had considered and approved the sale of up to 
1,14,99,390 equity shares i.e. approximately 14.50% of the total outstanding equity shareholding in its subsidiary, 
Cyient DLM Limited (“Cyient DLM”), by way of a share sale utilising the block deal window mechanism provided by the 
stock exchanges (in one or more tranches) in terms of the applicable framework at a price in line with the SEBI Circular 
dated October 26, 2017 bearing reference number CIR/MRD/DP/118/2017 (“Transaction”). The transaction was duly 
completed on 21 August 2024.
•	
Company has incorporated ‘Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited’,  a wholly owned subsidiary on 23 August 2024 
in India.
•	
Company has incorporated ‘Cyient Project Management Consultancy -LLC - S.P.C’,  a wholly owned subsidiary on 23 
September 2024 in UAE.
•	
Company has incorporated ‘Cyient Semiconductors Inc’,  a step down   subsidiary on 16 October 2024 in USA.
•	
The Company has made investment in Azimuth AI, Inc., in the USA through the step-down subsidiary viz. Cyient 
Semiconductors Inc, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited.
•	
The Company has acquired Abu Dhabi & Gulf Computer Est., in the Abu Dhabi through the step-down subsidiary viz., 
Cyient Project Management Consultancy - L.L.C in Abu Dhabi.
•	
Cyient, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company in the US, has converted from a California corporation to a 
Delaware corporation.
•	
Company has incorporated ‘Cyient Semiconductors Europe Private Limited’,  a step down subsidiary on 15 January 
2025 in UK.
•	
On October 04, 2024, the Company through it’s subsidiary Cyient DLM Inc., USA acquired 100% of the shares of Altek 
Electronics Inc, USA an electronic manufacturing services provider in the United States.
11.	 BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT:
	
Cyient is committed to ‘Design a Sustainable Tomorrow Together’ and to integrating environmental, social, and governance 
(ESG) considerations throughout the whole value chain, from operations to suppliers, clients, and the communities in which 
operates. We are dedicated to working together to ensure consistency throughout, concentrating on circularity, and 
producing social value that will benefit the ecosystem in the long run. 
	
In pursuance of Regulation 34 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
describing the initiatives taken by the Company from an environmental, social and governance perspective is enclosed to 
this report. Kindly refer to Annexure 1. The web-link for the same has been disclosed separately at the end of this report.
12.	 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
	
Our commitment to CSR stems from Cyient and its subsidiaries’ abiding concern for society and environment. A concern 
captured in the words of the Founder, Dr. BVR Mohan Reddy: “We believe in the philosophy that sustained development of 
society is vital to the sustained growth of the businesses that exist within that community. Over the last 30 years, we built a 
great Company “Cyient” creating shareholder value consistently.
	
Your Company believes in giving back to society in some measure that is proportionate to its success in business. In view of 
this, the Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) aims to extend beyond charity and enhance social impact.
	
Cyient’s ‘Global Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility’ outlines its philosophy of “Empowering Tomorrow Together”. 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  67 
As responsible corporate citizens, we undertake several 
transformational initiatives that contribute towards 
community 
empowerment 
and 
all-round 
societal 
development. With strategic social investments in 
several key areas like healthcare, smart villages, skill 
development, and education, we foster long-term 
sustainable community development, and drive growth 
initiatives that aim to make a meaningful impact in 
people’s lives.
	
Cyient’s CSR activities are spearheaded by the Cyient 
Foundation and Cyient Urban Micro Skill Centre 
Foundation. At times, we also work with NGOs, Trusts, 
government bodies, educational institutions, other 
corporates & industry associations and other suitable 
implementing organizations as implementing partners for 
its CSR programs.
	
Cyient is guided by its ESG committee and CSR Policy 
and vision. The Company has formed a CSR committee 
(designated as ESG Committee) as per Section 135 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 to formulate and recommend to the 
Board, a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy which shall 
indicate the activities to be undertaken by the Company 
as specified by law. 
	
CSR programs are delivered under 5 pillars i.e., 
a)	
Education & Digital Literacy
b)	
Women Empowerment & Skill Development
c)	
Preventive Health Care & Rural Development
d)	
Environmental Protection & Conservation
e)	
Innovation & Entrepreneurship
	
During the Financial year 2025, the Company has spent an 
amount of ₹ 72 Million in pursuance of its CSR Activities. 
The details of the CSR initiatives of the Company form 
part of the annual report. The CSR Annual Report is 
enclosed to this report. Kindly refer to Annexure 5.
	
The details of the ESG Committee can be found at the 
Report of Corporate Governance, which forms part of this 
report. The CSR Policy of the Company can be accessed 
at the Company’s website. The web-link for the same has 
been disclosed separately at the end of this report.
13.	 BOARD OF DIRECTORS, KMP AND SMP:
	
13.1.	
Board of Directors:
	
The Board of the Company is duly constituted. 
None of the directors of the Company are 
disqualified under the provisions of the Act or 
under the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
	
13.2.	
Board Diversity:
	
Your Company has a truly diverse Board that 
includes and makes good use of diversity in 
the skills, regional and industry experience, 
background, 
race, 
gender, 
ethnicity 
and 
other 
distinctions 
among 
directors. 
This 
diversity is considered in determining the 
optimum composition of the Board. All Board 
appointments are made on merit, in the context 
of the skills, experience, independence and 
knowledge which the Board as a whole requires 
to be effective.
	
13.3.	
Independent Directors:
	
As a policy, the Company believes that 
Independent Directors comprise at least 50% of 
the board strength. Mr. Vivek Narayan Gour has 
been nominated as Lead Independent Director. 
He acts as a liaison between the non-executive 
directors and the management and performs 
such other duties as the Board/ Independent 
Directors may decide from time to time. None 
of the Independent Directors is related to the 
promoters and/or promoter group.
	
13.4.	
Declaration by Independent Directors:
	
The Company has received necessary declaration 
from each independent director under Section 
149(7) of the Companies Act, 2013, that he / she 
meets the criteria of independence laid down in 
Section 149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Regulation 25 of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
13.5.	
Statement regarding opinion of the Board with 
regard to integrity, expertise and experience 
(including the proficiency) of the Independent 
Directors appointed during the year:
	
It is hereby declared that in the opinion of the 
Board, each independent director appointed 
is a person of integrity and possesses all the 
relevant expertise and experience (including 
the proficiency). The Company has imparted 
68  |  Annual Report 2024-25
necessary familiarization programme to the 
newly inducted independent director.
13.6.	
Registration of Independent Directors in 
Independent Directors Databank:
	
All the Independent Directors of your Company 
have been registered and are members of 
Independent Directors Databank maintained by 
the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA).
13.7.	
Certificate from Company secretary in practice:
	
The Certificate on Non- Disqualification of 
Directors pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and 
Schedule V Para C clause 10 (i) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations is published elsewhere in the Annual 
Report.
13.8.	
Company’s policy on Directors’ appointment 
and 
remuneration 
including 
criteria 
for 
determining qualifications, positive attributes, 
independence of a director and other matters 
provided under sub-section (3) of section 178 of 
the Companies Act, 2013:
	
The Leadership, Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee of the Company has formulated the 
criteria for determining qualifications, positive 
attributes and independence of Directors, in 
terms of the provisions of Section 178(3) of 
the Act, and Regulation 19 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. The same can be accessed at the 
Company’s website. The web-link for the same 
has been disclosed separately at the end of this 
report.
13.9.	
Changes in the composition of Board of 
Directors:
	
Your Company made the following changes to 
the composition of Board of Directors: 
(i)	
Appointments:
(a)	 Ms. Debjani Ghosh (DIN: 07820695) was 
appointed as an Independent Director 
of the Company for a period of 3 years 
with effect from 23 January 2025;
(b)	 Mr. Sukamal Banerjee (DIN: 10535670) 
was appointed as an Executive Director 
and CEO for a period of 5 years with 
effect from 19 February 2025.
(ii)	 Retirements and re-appointments at the 
AGM:
(a)	 AGM 2024: 
	
At the previous AGM held on 01 July 
2024, the following Directors who 
retired by rotation and being eligible, 
offered themselves for re-appointment 
as a director, liable to retire by rotation 
and were appointed as Directors of the 
Company:
i.	
Mr. BVR Mohan Reddy  
(DIN: 00058215); and 
ii.	
Mr. MM Murugappan  
(DIN: 00170478);
(b)	 AGM 2025:
	
Mr. Krishna Bodanapu (DIN: 00605187) 
who retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers himself for re-appointment as a 
director liable to retire by rotation.
(iii)	 Re-appointment of Director:
	
Pursuant to the provisions of regulation 
36 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and SS 
2 on General Meetings issued by ICSI, brief 
particulars of the director proposed to be 
re-appointed are provided as an annexure to 
the notice convening the AGM.
(iv)	 Resignations/retirements:
i.	
Mr. Karthikeyan Natarajan resigned as 
an Executive Director and CEO of the 
Company with effect from 23 January 
2025;
ii.	
Mr. Ramesh Abhishek resigned as an 
Independent Director of the Company 
with effect from 22 May 2024. 
	
Mr. Ramesh Abhishek has confirmed 
that he has resigned to balance 
his 
professional 
and 
personal 
commitments and there are no other 
material reasons for the same.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  69 
13.10.	
KMP as at the end of the financial year:
(a)	 Following are the KMP of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 2(51), and 203 of the Act 
read with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 as at 31 March 
2025:
Sl. No.
Name of the KMP
Designation
1
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice- Chairman & MD
2
Sukamal Banerjee
Executive Director and CEO
3
Prabhakar Atla
Chief Financial Officer
4
Sudheendhra Putty
Company Secretary
(b)	 Changes in office of KMP:
(i)	
Appointments:
	
Mr. Sukamal Banerjee (DIN: 10535670) was appointed as an Executive Director and CEO for a period of 5 
years with effect from 19 February 2025. 
(ii)	 Resignations and Retirements:
	
Mr. Karthikeyan Natarajan (DIN: 03099771) resigned as an Executive Director and CEO of the Company 
with effect from 23 January 2025.
13.11.	
Details of Senior Management Personnel (SMP) as at the end of the financial year
	
Following are the SMP of the Company in accordance with the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations (other 
than those already designated as KMP in the paragraph above):
Sl.
 No.
Name of the SMP
Designation
Tenure in the Company 
(in years)
1
PNSV Narasimham
President & Head of Corporate Functions
9
2
John Renard
President - Europe
30
3
Katie Cook
President - North America
15
4
K.A. Prabhakaran*
Senior Vice-President & Chief Technology Officer
5
Anand Parameswaran
President and Chief Delivery Officer (CDO)
17
6
Andrew Smith
Senior Vice President & BU Head - Transport
8
7
Herman Kleynhans
Senior Vice President &BU Head - MEU
5
8
Ramanand Puttige
Senior Vice President & Head of Global Human Resources
14
9
Ramya Mohan
Vice President & and Head of Group Strategy
3
10
Navroze Palekar
Vice-President & General Counsel
4
11
Rajaneesh Kini 
Ramananda*
President & Chief Technology Officer (CTO)
-
	
	
Changes in the SMP during the FY 25 are as follows:
*	
Mr. K.A. Prabhakaran was appointed as Senior Vice- President & Chief Technology Officer effective 10 March 
2025 in place of Mr. Rajaneesh Kini Ramananda; 
	
The details about the composition of the board, KMP, SMP and the committees of the board can be found at 
the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this report.
70  |  Annual Report 2024-25
14.	 POLICY 
ON 
DIRECTORS’ 
APPOINTMENT 
AND 
REMUNERATION AND OTHER DETAILS:
	
The Company’s policy on Directors’ appointment and 
remuneration and other matters provided in section 
178(3) of the Act have been disclosed in the report on 
Corporate Governance, which forms part of the Boards’ 
Report. The web-link for the same has been disclosed 
separately at the end of this report. 
	
Criteria of the payment of remuneration to Non-
Executive Directors has been published on the website 
of the Company at the ‘Corporate Governance’ section. 
The web-link for the same has been disclosed separately 
at the end of this report. 
15.	 BOARD MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR:
	
During the FY 2025, Eight (8) meetings of the board were 
held, the details of which have been disclosed in the 
report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this 
report. The maximum interval between any two meetings 
did not exceed 120 days, as prescribed by the Act.
16.	 BOARD EVALUATION AND ASSESSMENT: 
	
The Company has organized the Board Evaluation process 
of the performance of the Board, Board Committees, 
Directors including Executive Directors, Independent 
Directors, and the Chairperson. The Board Evaluation 
process was based on an internal questionnaire circulated 
among the Directors with regard to the performance 
evaluation of the Board, the Committees, the Directors 
as Executive Directors, Independent Directors and the 
Chairperson. The Independent Directors have carried out 
the performance evaluation of the Chairperson.
	
The Details of the evaluation undertaken can be found at 
the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part 
of this report.
17.	 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD:
	
As required under the provisions of the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, as on 31 March 2025, the Board has 
the following committees:
•	
Audit Committee;
•	
Leadership, Nomination & Remuneration Committee;
•	
Risk Management Committee;
•	
Stakeholders Engagement Committee;
•	
ESG Committee (this committee handles the matters 
pertaining to Corporate Social Responsibility as 
required under section 135 of the Act);
	
During the year, all recommendations made by the 
committees were approved by the Board. A detailed note 
on the composition of the various committees is provided 
in the report on Corporate Governance, which forms part 
of this report.
18.	 ADEQUACY OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS:
	
Internal Financial Controls are part of risk management 
process addressing financial and financial reporting risks. 
They ensure the orderly and efficient conduct of business, 
including adherence to Company policies, safeguarding 
of its assets, prevention and detection of fraud, error 
reporting mechanisms, accuracy and completeness of 
the accounting records. They aid in the timely preparation 
of financial statements. The Internal Financial Controls 
have been documented, digitized and embedded in the 
business process. 
19.	 AUDIT AND AUDITORS:
19.1.	
Statutory Auditors:
	
At the 33rd (Thirty Third) AGM held on 01 July 
2024, the members had approved the re-
appointment of S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP, 
Chartered Accountants, (ICAI Firm Registration 
Number 101049W/E300004) as the Statutory 
Auditors of the Company for a second term, 
to hold office for a period of five years from the 
conclusion of that AGM till the conclusion of the 
38 (Thirty Eighth) AGM.
19.2.	
Secretarial Auditors:
	
In terms of section 204 of the Act read with 
Regulation 24A(1) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
and based on the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee, the Board of Directors have 
approved and recommends the appointment of 
M/s. MKS & Associates, a peer reviewed firm of 
Practicing Company Secretaries (Concern No. 
S2017TL460500) as the Secretarial Auditors 
of the Company at the ensuing AGM for a term 
of 5 (five) consecutive years commencing from 
the conclusion of this 34th (Thirty fourth) Annual 
General Meeting until  the conclusion of 39th 
(Thirty ninth) Annual General Meeting to be held 
in the year 2030. 
19.3.	
Internal Auditors:
	
The Board has re-appointed KPMG Assurance 
and Consulting Services LLP (‘KPMG’) (FRM- 
101248W/W-100022) as co-sourced Internal 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  71 
Auditors of the Company. KPMG will support 
the management in performing internal audits of 
select areas as approved by the Audit Committee 
of the Board and based on the engagement letter 
signed with the Company. 
20.	 AUDITORS’ REPORT AND SECRETARIAL AUDITORS’ 
REPORT: 
20.1.	
Statutory Auditor’s Report:
	
The Notes on financial statements referred 
to in the Statutory Auditors’ Report are self-
explanatory and do not call for any further 
comments. The Statutory Auditors’ Report 
does not contain any qualification, reservation, 
adverse remark or disclaimer The Report is 
enclosed to the financial statements in this 
Annual Report.
20.2.	
Secretarial Auditors’ Report: 
	
The Company has undertaken an audit for the 
FY 2025 as required under the Act and the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. The Secretarial Auditors’ 
Report for FY 2025 does not contain any 
qualification, reservation or adverse remark. The 
Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year 
ended 31 March 2025 is enclosed to this report. 
Kindly refer to Annexure 10.
	
Secretarial Audit Report of Material listed 
Subsidiary:
	
The 
Secretarial 
Audit 
Report 
issued 
by 
Mr. Manish Kumar Singhania, (Membership 
Number: 22056 and CP Number: 8086) of M/s 
MKS & Associates, Company Secretaries, for 
Cyient DLM Limited, a material Indian listed 
subsidiary for the FY 2025 is enclosed to this 
report. Kindly refer to Annexure 11.
20.3.	
Instances of fraud reported by the Auditors: 
	
During the year under review, the statutory 
auditors and the secretarial auditors have not 
reported any instances of frauds committed 
in the Company by its Officers or Employees 
under section 143(12) of the Act to the Central 
Government or the Audit Committee of the 
Company.
20.4.	
Annual Secretarial Compliance Report:
	
The Annual Secretarial Compliance Report for 
the FY 2025 for all applicable compliances as per 
the SEBI Regulations and Circulars/Guidelines 
issued thereunder has been duly obtained by the 
Company.
	
The Annual Secretarial Compliance Report issued by 
Mr. Krishna Mohan (Membership Number: 46514 and CP 
Number: 16957) of M/s Krishna Mohan and Associates, 
Company Secretaries, has been submitted to the Stock 
Exchanges within 60 days of the end of the Financial Year.
21.	 SECRETARIAL STANDARDS:
	
The Company is in due compliance with all the applicable 
secretarial standards issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India.
22.	 VIGIL MECHANISM:
	
The Company has put in place a Whistle Blower Policy and 
has established the necessary vigil mechanism as defined 
under Regulation 22 of the SEBI Listing Regulations for 
employees and others to report concerns about unethical 
behavior. It also provides for adequate safeguards against 
the victimization of employees who avail of mechanism. 
No person has been denied access to the Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. 
	
The Whistle blower Policy is available on the website of the 
Company. The web-link for the same has been disclosed 
separately at the end of this report. The Company has 
implemented a web based/online mechanism under the 
whistle blower policy. This mechanism encompasses the 
entire trail from the login of a complaint to its eventual 
redressal. The system also affords a dial-in facility to 
associates in various languages across the countries 
where the Company has its operations. 
23.	 ESOP:
	
The Company has the following ESOP/RSU Schemes, 
framed in accordance with and in compliance with the 
SEBI (SBEB & SE) Regulations:
•	
Associate Stock Option Plan 2015;
•	
Associate Restricted Stock Units Scheme 2020;
•	
Associate Stock Option Scheme 2021;
•	
Associate Stock Option Plan 2023;
	
During the year, the Company had granted options to 
the associates of the Company and its subsidiaries, in 
accordance with the SEBI (SBEB & SE) Regulations.  There 
are no material changes in the ESOP/RSU Schemes of the 
Company and they are in compliance with the Regulations. 
72  |  Annual Report 2024-25
No individual associate  was granted ESOP/RSUs more 
than 1% during the year.
	
Disclosures pursuant to SEBI (SBEB & SE) Regulations is 
hosted and available on the Company’s website and the 
same is available for electronic inspection by the Members 
during the AGM. The web-link for the same is https://
www.cyient.com/hubfs/2025/Investors/Resource%20
Center/ESOP_Table_-_Annual_Report_2025.pdf. 
	
Further, a Certificate from the secretarial auditors of the 
Company as prescribed under SEBI (SBEB & SE) Regulations 
shall be placed before the members in the AGM.
24.	 CONSERVATION 
OF 
ENERGY, 
TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION, FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS AND 
OUTGO
	
The particulars relating to conservation of energy, 
technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings and 
outgo, as required to be disclosed under the Companies 
Act, 2013 are enclosed to this report. Kindly refer to 
Annexure 12.
25.	 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 34 read with 
Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a report on 
Management Discussion & Analysis is enclosed to this 
report. Kindly refer to Annexure 4.
26.	 DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
	
Pursuant to Section 134(5) of the Act, the Board of 
Directors, to the best of their knowledge and ability, 
confirm that:
a)	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards have been followed 
and there are no material departures;
b)	
they have selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Company at the end of the financial year and of the 
profit of the Company for that period;
c)	
they have taken proper and sufficient care for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
d)	
they have prepared the annual accounts on a going 
concern basis;
e)	
they have laid down internal financial controls to be 
followed by the Company and such internal financial 
controls are adequate and operating effectively;
f)	
they have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
27.	 PARTICULARS 
OF 
LOANS, 
GUARANTEES 
AND 
INVESTMENTS:
	
Particulars of loans given, investments made, guarantees 
given and securities provided along with the purpose for 
which the loan, guarantee, or security is proposed to be 
utilized by the recipient are provided in the Standalone 
Financial Statements. (Kindly refer note 5B to the 
Standalone Financial Statements).
28.	 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
	
The Company has complied with the provisions of section 
188(1) of the Act dealing with related party transactions. 
The information on transactions with related parties 
pursuant to section 134(3) (h) of the Act read with Rule 8 
(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 are given in 
Form AOC- 2 and is enclosed to this report. Kindly refer 
to Annexure 3. Reference is also made to Note No. 24 of 
standalone financial statements.
29.	 ANNUAL RETURN:
	
In accordance with the Act, a copy of the annual return in 
the prescribed form as on 31 March 2025 is available on 
the Company’s website. The web-link for the same has 
been disclosed separately at the end of this report. 
30.	 PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES:
	
The information required under Section 197(12) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with rule 5 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014 are as follows:
Annual Report 2024-25  |  73 
I.	
Disclosures as per Rule 5(1):
a)	
The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company 
for the financial year:
i)	
Executive Directors:
Name
DIN 
Designation
Ratio to Median remuneration
Krishna Bodanapu
00605187
Executive Vice-Chairman & MD
165.07
Karthikeyan 
Natarajan
03099771
Executive Director & CEO
134.18
Sukamal Banerjee
10535670
Executive Director & CEO
11.26
ii)	
Non-Executive/ Independent Directors:
Name
DIN
Designation
Ratio to Median remuneration
M.M. Murugappan
00170478
Non-Executive Director
1.99
B.V.R Mohan Reddy
00058215
Non-Executive Director
5.96
Matangi 
Gowrishankar
01518137
Independent Director
1.99
Vivek N Gour
00254383
Independent Director
1.99
Vikas Sehgal
05218876
Independent Director
4.14
Nitin Prasad
05261866
Independent Director
1.99
Debjani Ghosh
07820695
Independent Director
0.50
b)	
The percentage increase in remuneration of each director, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, 
Company secretary in the financial year:
Name
Designation
% increase in remuneration in the 
financial year
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice-Chairman & MD
(9.5%)
Sukamal Banerjee*
Executive Director & CEO
NA
M.M. Murugappan
Non-Executive Director
Nil
B.V.R Mohan Reddy
Non-Executive Director
Nil
Matangi Gowrishankar
Independent Director
Nil
Vivek N Gour
Independent Director
Nil
Vikas Sehgal
Independent Director
Nil
Nitin Prasad
Independent Director
Nil
Debjani Ghosh*
Independent Director
NA
Prabhakar Atla
Chief Financial Officer
(21.1%)
Sudheendhra Putty
Company Secretary
12.6%
Notes: 
*Mr. Debjani Ghosh was appointed as director during FY 2025 and therefore there is no comparable figure for 
previous year
*Mr. Sukamal Banerjee was appointed as Executive Director & CEO during FY 2025 and therefore there is no 
comparable figure for previous year
74  |  Annual Report 2024-25
c)	
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year: 3.92%
d)	
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of Company: 11,884
e)	
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel 
in the last financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and 
justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial 
remuneration:
Average percentile increase already made in the 
salaries of employees other than the managerial 
personnel
Percentile increase in the 
managerial remuneration
Justification, if any
4.52%
(12.22%)
NA
f)	
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company:
	
The Company affirms remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company.
g)	
The key parameters for any variable component of remuneration availed by the Executive Directors:
	
As per the resolution passed by the shareholders in the annual general meeting held on 21 June, 2023.
II.	
Disclosures as per Rule 5(2):
	
The statement containing particulars of employees as required under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) of 
the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is provided in a sub-annexure 
forming part of this report. Further, the report and the financial statements are being sent to the members excluding 
the aforesaid sub-annexure. In terms of Section 136 of the Act, the said sub-annexure is open for inspection at the 
Registered Office of the Company. Any shareholder interested in obtaining a copy of the same may write to the 
Company Secretary at company.secretary@cyient.com.
31.	 LOANS AND ADVANCES IN THE NATURE OF LOANS TO FIRMS/COMPANIES IN WHICH DIRECTORS ARE INTERESTED:
	
The information as required to be provided under Schedule V Para C clause 10 (m) of the SEBI Listing Regulations forms part 
of the report on Corporate Governance enclosed to the Annual Report. 
32.	 DETAILS OF MATERIAL SUBSIDIARIES OF THE LISTED ENTITY:
	
The information as required to be provided under Schedule V Para C clause 10 (n) of the SEBI Listing Regulations forms part 
of the report on Corporate Governance enclosed to the Annual Report.
33.	 PARTICULARS RELATING TO THE SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, PROHIBITION 
AND REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013 (POSH):
	
The Company has complied with provisions relating to the constitution of Internal Complaints Committee under the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 during the FY 2025.
List of Initiatives under POSH for FY 2024-25
•	
Posh Panel connect every quarter to ensure all the complaints registered are duly discussed with improved approach on 
building awareness. Further, the Company continues to have the posh committee meetings to enhance the awareness 
among associates.
•	
Digital compliance of POSH-100% in the portal.
•	
Awareness sessions to associates through two Virtual platforms inviting external speakers and also through other 
business monthly meetings.
•	
PoSH session
•	
Know your right session
Annual Report 2024-25  |  75 
•	
For DLM, a session with theatrical play specifically for 
all the blue collared employees in Hyderabad campus 
on POSH
•	
Awareness 
and 
sensitization 
continue 
during 
Induction of associates.
•	
All new associates go through the mandatory POSH 
dcafe course.
•	
POSH panel have been nominated for training in 
various national and state level forums (NHRD, 
NASSCOM and CII) awareness was held during the 
year.
•	
POSH street acts in all locations pan india for better 
visual impact of the subject 
•	
POSH 
awareness 
for 
third 
party 
associates 
scheduled Pan India  to ensure fair communication  in 
accordance to our  Cyient Value ‘s 
	
The following is the summary of the complaints 
received and disposed off during the FY 2024-25:
(a)	 No. of complaints received: 3
(b)	 No. of complaints disposed: 3
(c)	 No. of complaints pending as on end of the 
financial year: 0
34.	 RISK MANAGEMENT: 
	
The Company pursues a comprehensive risk management 
programme as an essential element of sound corporate 
governance and is committed to continuously embedding 
risk management in its daily culture. This process is 
followed in five steps:
•	
Identify risks and opportunities
•	
assess risk and performance for key processes
•	
evaluate the risk impact across business operations
•	
develop mitigation plan for the risks identified and
•	
monitor the risks at regular intervals and report to
•	
the Risk Management Committee
The Company has classified the risks into five categories:
i.	
Strategic
ii.	
Reputational 
iii.	 Operational
iv.	 Financial 
v.	
Compliance/Litigation. 
	
Each identified risk is assessed according to its 
probability and impact on the Company.
	
The Board of Directors has formed an internal risk 
management committee to identify, evaluate, 
mitigate and monitor the risk management in 
the Company. The committee comprises cross-
functional membership from the senior management 
of the Company. The primary objectives of the 
Committee are to assist the Board in the following:
•	
To provide an oversight for all categories of risk 
and promulgate risk culture in the organization.
•	
To adopt leading risk management practices 
in the industry and manage risk proactively at 
organizational level.
•	
Help to develop a culture of the enterprise that 
all levels of people understand risks.
•	
Provide input to management of risk appetite 
and tolerance and monitor the organization’s 
risk on an ongoing basis.
•	
Approve and review risk management plan which 
includes Company’s risk management structure, 
framework, methodologies adopted, guidelines 
and details of assurance and review of the risk 
management process.
•	
Monitor risks and risk management capabilities 
and mitigation plans.
	
More details on the risk management committee of 
the board can be found in the report on corporate 
governance. Members may also refer to the 
Management Discussion & Analysis Report.
35.	 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE:
	
The Company will continue to uphold the true spirit 
of Corporate Governance and implement the best 
governance practices. A report on Corporate Governance 
pursuant to the provisions of Corporate Governance 
Code stipulated under the SEBI Listing Regulations forms 
part of the Annual Report. Kindly refer to Annexure 7.
	
Full details of the various board committees are also 
provided therein along with Auditors’ Certificate regarding 
compliance of conditions of corporate governance is 
enclosed as Annexure 6.
76  |  Annual Report 2024-25
36.	 CYBER SECURITY INCIDENTS OR BREACHES OR LOSS 
OF DATA OR DOCUMENTS
There were no such incidents during the FY 2025.
37.	 SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS:
	
There are no orders passed by the regulators or courts 
or tribunals impacting the going concern status and 
Company’s operations in future.
38.	 DECLARATION BY THE CEO
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 17 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, a declaration by the CEO of the 
Company declaring that all the members of the board 
and the senior management personnel of the Company 
have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct of 
the Company is enclosed to this report. Kindly refer to 
Annexure 8.
	
The CEO/CFO certification to the board pursuant to 
Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations is enclosed 
to this report. Kindly refer to Annexure 9.
39.	 MATERIAL CHANGES & COMMITMENTS:
	
There were no material changes and commitments 
affecting the financial position of the Company which 
occurred between the end of financial year to which the 
financial statement relates on the date of this report. 
The other changes in commitments are provided in the 
relevant places of the annual report.
40.	 COST RECORDS AND COST AUDIT
	
Maintenance of cost records and requirement of cost 
audit as prescribed under the provisions of Section 148(1) 
of the Act are not applicable for the business activities 
carried out by the Company.
41.	 APPLICATION 
UNDER 
INSOLVENCY 
AND 
BANKRUPTCY CODE, 2016:
	
The Company has not made any application under the 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 during the FY 
2025.
42.	 DETAILS OF DIFFERENCE BETWEEN AMOUNT OF 
THE VALUATION DONE AT THE TIME OF ONE TIME 
SETTLEMENT AND THE VALUATION DONE WHILE 
TAKING LOAN FROM THE BANKS OR FINANCIAL 
INSTITUTIONS ALONG WITH THE REASONS THEREOF:
	
The Company has not made any such valuation during the 
FY 2025.
43.	 UNCLAIMED DEMAT SUSPENSE ACCOUNT
	
The details of the same can be found at the report on 
corporate governance, which forms part of this Annual 
report.
44.	 WEB-LINKS OF VARIOUS POLICIES:
	
As required by the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, your Company provides the weblinks are provided herewith:
Sl.
No.
Particulars
Weblink
1
Annual Return
https://www.cyient.com/investors/ 
2
Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report
https://www.cyient.com/investors/corporate-governance/  
3
Dividend Distribution Policy
https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/2021/investors/corporate-governance/
Dividend%20Distribution%20Policy%20(FY22)%5B21%5D.pdf
4
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy
https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/2021/CSR/Cyient_CSR_Policy_3.1.pdf 
5
Policy on Directors’ appointment and
Remuneration
https://www.cyient.com/investors/corporate-governance/ 
6
Whistle Blower Policy
https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/2025/Investors/Corporate%20Governance/
Policies/Whistle_Blower_Policy__Procedure.pdf
7
Disclosures pursuant to SEBI  
(SBEB & SE) Regulations
https://www.cyient.com/investors/corporate-governance/
8
Familiarization programme of the 
Independent Directors
https://www.cyient.com/investors/corporategovernance/
Annual Report 2024-25  |  77 
Sl.
No.
Particulars
Weblink
9
Policy for determining material 
subsidiaries of the Company
https://cdn2.hubspot.net/hubfs/5724847/FY_19_Revamp_Assets_
Website/Investors%20/Corporate%20Governance/Policy%20to%20
determine%20materiality.pdf
10
Policy on dealing with related party 
transactions
https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/2025/Investors/Corporate%20Governance/
Related_Party_Transactions_Policy.pdf
11
Prevention of sexual harassment 
policy
https://www.cyient.com/investors/corporategovernance/
12
Environment, health and safety policy
https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/2025/Investors/Corporate%20Governance/
Policies/EOHS_Policy.pdf
13
Company’s policy on Directors’ 
appointment and remuneration 
including criteria for determining 
qualifications, positive attributes, 
independence of a director and other 
matters provided under sub-section 
(3) of section 178 of the Companies 
Act, 2013:
https://www.cyient.com/investors/corporategovernance/
45.	 ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
	
The Board of Directors extends its sincere gratitude to the Company’s customers, shareholders, vendors, and bankers 
for their continued support during the year. The Board also places on record its deep appreciation for the dedication and 
contribution of employees at all levels. The Company’s consistent growth has been made possible by their hard work, 
cooperation, and commitment.
	
The Directors would like to make a special mention of the valuable support received from various departments of the 
Central and State Governments, particularly the Software Technology Parks of India, Development Commissioners – 
SEZ, Department of Communication and Information Technology, the Direct and Indirect Tax Authorities, the Ministry 
of Commerce, the Reserve Bank of India, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs/Registrar of Companies, the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India, the Stock Exchanges, and other regulatory authorities. The Board looks forward to their continued 
support in the Company’s future endeavours.
For and on behalf of the Board
M.M. Murugappan
Krishna Bodanapu
Hyderabad
Director, Non-Executive Chairman
Executive Vice-Chairman & Managing Director
24 April, 2025
 DIN : 00170478
DIN : 00605187
78  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Annexures to Board’s Report
Annexure
Particulars
Annexure-1
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
Annexure-2
Form AOC-1
Annexure-3
Form AOC-2
Annexure-4
Report on Management Discussion & Analysis
Annexure-5
CSR Annual Report
Annexure-6
Certificate regarding compliance of conditions of corporate governance
Annexure-7
Report on Corporate Governance
Annexure-8
Declaration by the CEO regarding Code of Conduct
Annexure-9
CEO/CFO certification to the board pursuant to Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations
Annexure-10
Secretarial Audit Report of the Company
Annexure-11
Secretarial Audit Report Cyient DLM Limited, a material subsidiary
Annexure-12
Particulars relating to conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings and outgo
Annual Report 2024-25  |  79 
GLOSSARY OF VARIOUS TERMS USED IN THE REPORT AND ITS ANNEXURES: 
In this report and the annexures thereon, unless otherwise stated, the words and expressions shall have the following meaning 
and/or expansions:
Sl. 
No.
Term
Meaning
1.
“Act”
Companies Act, 2013 read along with the rules framed thereunder (including any statutory 
modifications, amendments thereto or re-enactment thereof, the circulars, notifications, 
regulations, rules, guidelines, if any, issued by the Government of India)
2.
“AGM”
Annual General Meeting
3.
“ASOP”
Associate Stock Option Plans
4.
“BSE”
BSE Limited
5.
“CEO”
Chief Executive Officer
6.
“CFO”
Chief Financial Officer
7.
“COO”
Chief Operating Officer
8.
“CSR”
Corporate Social Responsibility
9.
“EPS”
Earnings per Share
10. “ESG”
Environmental, Social, and Governance
11. “ESOP”
Employee Stock Option Plans 
12. “FY” or “Fiscal Year” or 
“Financial Year”
Financial Year
13. “HR”
Human Resource
14. “ICAI”
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
15. “ICSI”
Institute of Company Secretaries of India
16. “IPO”
Initial Public Offering
17. “IT”
Information Technology
18. “KMP”
Key Managerial Personnel
19. “LODR” or “SEBI Listing 
Regulations”
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 as amended
20. “MD”
Managing Director
21. “NSE”
The National Stock Exchange of India Limited
22. “₹” or “INR” or “Rs.”
Indian Rupees, the lawful currency of India
23. “QMS”
Quality Management System
24. “RSU”
Restricted Stock Units
25. “SEBI”
Securities and Exchange Board of India
26. “SEBI (SBEB & SE) 
Regulations”
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 as amended
27. “SS”
Secretarial Standards
28. “SEZ”
Special Economic Zone
29. “SMP”
Senior Management Personnel;
30. “WTD”
Whole-Time Director
80  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure-1
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1. 	 Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L72200TG1991PLC013134
2.	
Name of the Listed Entity 
Cyient Limited
3.	
Year of incorporation 
1991
4.	
Registered office address 
4th Floor, ‘A’ Wing, Plot .11, Software, Units Layout, 
Infocity, Madhapur Hyderabad, Telangana - 500 081
5.	
Corporate address
4th Floor, ‘A’ Wing, Plot .11, Software, Units Layout, 
Infocity, Madhapur Hyderabad, Telangana - 500 081
6.	
E-mail 
company.secretary@cyient.com
7.	
Telephone
+91 40 6764 1000
8.	
Website
www.cyient.com
9.	
Financial year for which reporting is being done
FY 2024-25
10.	 Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
National Stock Exchange (NSE: CYIENT) and the Bombay 
Stock Exchange (BSE: 532175))
11.	 Paid-up Capital
₹ 555,194,620
12.	 Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of 
the person who may be contacted in case of any queries 
on the BRSR report
PNSV Narasimham
President – Corporate Functions
Phone: +91-40-67641000
Email: pnsv.narasimham@cyient.com
13.	 Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this 
report made on a standalone basis (i.e., only for the 
entity) or on a consolidated basis (i.e., for the entity 
and all the entities which form a part of its consolidated 
financial statements, taken together). 
Standalone (Engineering Services, India). Certain 
data points in this report have been restated for 
the comparative year due to change in approach, 
methodology and re-computation of certain attributes 
that includes Research & Development, Energy, 
Emissions, Water, Waste, Openness of Business and Input 
material sourcing. These re-statements have been made 
to ensure accuracy, completeness and consistency. The 
restated data reflects our commitment to transparency 
and continual improvement in reporting practices.
14.	 Name of assurance provider
NA
15.	 Type of assurance obtained
NA
II.	
Products/services
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. 
No.
Description of 
Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover  
of the entity
1
Engineering 
Services
The Company’s service and solution offerings span across various 
business units, including Aerospace & Defense, Transportation, 
Semiconductor, Medical & Healthcare, Communications, Energy & 
Utilities, Hi-tech, and Automotive.
100.00
17.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover)
S. 
No. 
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total turnover contributed
1
Engineering Services
62099
100.00
Annual Report 2024-25  |  81 
III.	 Operations
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated: 
Locations 
Number of plants
Number of offices 
Total
National (No. of States)
-
11
11
International (No. of Countries)
-
15
15
Details of locations of the Company’s offices / plants are listed elsewhere in the Annual Report.
19.	 Markets served by the entity: 
a.	
Number of locations
Locations 
Number
National (No. of States) 
6
International (No. of Countries) 
15
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
•	
81.35%
c.	
A brief on types of customers
Cyient is committed to being a trusted partner for a diverse range of B2B clients across multiple industries. 
Our collaborative approach enables us to work alongside leading organizations in aerospace and defense, rail 
transportation, communications, utilities, hi-tech, semiconductors, energy, and industrial plant engineering. 
Additionally, we play a pivotal role in advancing geospatial technologies, medical technology and healthcare, 
automotive and mobility, mining and natural resources, and digital industries, driving innovation and fostering 
success. By deeply understanding our clients’ distinct needs, we develop tailored solutions that accelerate their 
growth and enhance their achievements. Our unwavering dedication to customer-centric excellence allows us to 
build long-lasting, strong relationships, ensuring continued success for our partners.
IV.	 Employees
20.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year: 
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B) 
% (B / A) 
No. (C) 
% (C / A) 
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
11,884
8,914
75.01
2,970
24.99
2.
Other than Permanent (E) 
138
114
82.61
24
17.39
3.
Total employees (D + E)
12,022
9,028
75.10
2,994
24.90
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
5.
Other than Permanent (G) 
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
6.
Total workers (F + G) 
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
*Note: Excluding categories other than Employees ensures data consistency and accuracy, as contingent workers 
often have varied, short-term, or third-party contractual arrangements that can lead to unreliable or incomparable ESG 
metrics. Since our core business operations and culture are primarily driven by permanent employees, focusing ESG 
reporting on this group provides a clear and representative picture of our workforce practices. This approach also aligns 
with certain voluntary ESG frameworks that allow flexibility in defining the reporting boundary based on materiality and 
direct management control.
82  |  Annual Report 2024-25
b.	
Differently abled Employees and worker
S. 
No
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
74
53
71.62
21
28.38
2.
Other than Permanent (E) 
0
0
0.00
0
0.00
3.
Total differently abled  
employees. (D + E) 
74
53
71.62
21
28.38
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
6.
Total differently abled 
workers (F + G) 
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
21.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Total
(A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors 
9
2
22.22
Key Management Personnel 
4
0
0.00
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers (Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
FY 2024-25  
(Turnover rate  
in current FY)
FY2023-24  
(Turnover rate in  
previous FY)
FY 2022-23  
(Turnover rate in the year 
prior to the previous FY)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees 
27.50
28.10
27.60
21.60
25.50
22.50
32.60
29.10
31.80
Permanent Workers 
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
V.	 Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures) 
	
23. 	 (a) 	 Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
SI. 
No.
Name of the holding / 
subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint 
ventures (A) 
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture 
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity 
Does the entity indicated at column 
A, participate in the Business 
Responsibility initiatives of the 
listed entity? (Yes/No) 
The details of holding/subsidiary/associate companies/joint ventures have been cross-referenced in the 
Board’s Report.
VI.	 CSR Details
	
24.	 (i)	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No) – Yes
	
	
(ii)	 Turnover  - ₹24,136 Mn
	
	
(iii)	 Net worth - ₹37,669 Mn
Annual Report 2024-25  |  83 
VI.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received 
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No) 
(If yes, then 
provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redress policy)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year 
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year 
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year 
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year 
Remarks
Communities 
Yes
8
0
 All the 
complaints 
have been 
resolved.
0
0
NA
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
We have a 
designated 
Compliance 
and Grievance 
Redressal 
Officer, along 
with a Nodal 
Officer, and 
dedicated email 
addresses for 
investors to 
submit their 
complaints 
or concerns 
Cyient | 
Contact Us
0
0
 NA
0
0
NA 
Shareholders 
Yes
6
6 
Under 
review.
79
Nil
NA
Employees 
and workers 
Yes
4
0
All the 
complaints 
have been 
resolved.
5
0
NA
Customers
Yes 
Cyient | 
Contact Us
 0
0 
 NA
0
0
NA
84  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received 
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No) 
(If yes, then 
provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redress policy)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year 
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year 
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year 
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year 
Remarks
Value Chain 
Partners
Yes
We have 
established 
a common 
email inbox 
for vendors to 
report their 
issues. This 
email is listed 
in the Vendor 
Business Code 
of Conduct 
document, 
which is 
distributed to 
all suppliers 
as a weblink 
accompanying 
the Purchase 
Order.
0 
0
NA
0
0
-
Other (please 
specify) 
Yes
1
0
NA
0
NA
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues Please indicate material responsible 
business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that present a risk or an 
opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with 
its financial implications, as per the following format
Annual Report 2024-25  |  85 
S. 
No. 
Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O) 
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity 
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate 
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications) 
1.
Energy 
Management
Opportunity
The strategic adoption 
of renewable energy 
technologies—particularly 
solar and wind power—
presents a transformative 
opportunity to diminish 
dependence on finite, 
carbon-intensive resources 
such as fossil fuels. This 
transition not only fosters 
long-term cost efficiency but 
also enhances the stability 
and resilience of energy 
systems. Moreover, renewable 
energy is instrumental 
in significantly curbing 
greenhouse gas emissions, 
thereby contributing to 
environmental preservation 
while simultaneously driving 
down operational and societal 
energy costs. Embracing these 
sustainable alternatives is a 
critical step toward a cleaner, 
more economically viable 
energy future.
NA
 Positive
2.
Climate 
Transition & 
Physical Risks
Risk
The sector may face climate 
transition risks like regulatory 
shifts, rising energy costs, 
and pressure to adopt 
greener technologies, while 
physical risks include extreme 
weather disrupting data 
centers, supply chains, and 
infrastructure resilience.
Our focus is towards 
adopting renewable energy 
and investing in resilient 
infrastructure. Diversified 
supply chains and disaster-
resistant facilities help reduce 
vulnerabilities, while aligning 
with sustainability regulations 
ensures compliance and cost 
efficiency. Predictive analytics 
and AI-driven monitoring may 
further strengthen operational 
resilience and business 
continuity.
Negative
86  |  Annual Report 2024-25
S. 
No. 
Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O) 
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity 
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate 
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications) 
3.
Supply Chain 
Management
Risk
Cyient’s supply chain 
is subject to a range of 
potential risks that could 
impact both operational 
performance and corporate 
reputation. A key concern 
lies in the sustainability 
practices of its suppliers. If 
suppliers fail to adhere to 
environmentally responsible 
standards, it could lead to an 
increase in Cyient’s Scope 
3 emissions, undermining 
the company’s broader 
sustainability objectives. 
Additionally, any instances of 
regulatory non-compliance 
by suppliers may expose 
Cyient to legal liabilities, 
operational disruptions, 
and reputational damage. 
Proactive engagement 
and rigorous oversight of 
supply chain partners are 
therefore essential to mitigate 
these risks and uphold the 
company’s commitment 
to responsible business 
practices.
To fortify our commitment 
to responsible business 
practices, we adhere to 
a robust Vendor Code 
of Conduct (VCoC) and 
a meticulously designed 
Sustainable Supplier 
Assessment Framework. 
These initiatives serve as 
essential pillars in mitigating 
potential supply chain risks 
while fostering ethical and 
sustainable sourcing.
Furthermore, our recurring 
Vendor Meets act as a 
strategic platform for 
meaningful engagement 
with our partners. These 
interactions enable us to 
reinforce our sustainability 
objectives, ensure alignment 
with our core principles, and 
collaboratively drive progress 
towards a more resilient and 
environmentally conscious 
supply chain.
Negative
4.
Human 
Capital 
Management
Opportunity
The talent shortage in the 
Software & IT Services 
industry creates opportunities 
for investment in education, 
upskilling, and diversity 
initiatives, fostering 
innovation, workforce 
expansion, and long-term 
business growth while 
enhancing employee retention 
and engagement.
NA
Positive
Annual Report 2024-25  |  87 
S. 
No. 
Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O) 
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity 
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate 
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications) 
5.
Occupational 
Health & 
safety
Risk
Risks in the service industry 
include ergonomic strain, 
prolonged screen exposure, 
mental stress, and burnout, 
which can lead to reduced 
productivity, absenteeism, and 
employee disengagement. 
Prioritizing ergonomic setups, 
mental health support, and 
wellness programs is essential 
for workplace well-being.
Promoting ergonomic 
workspaces, screen time 
management, mental health 
support, and wellness 
programs, ensuring a 
healthier and more productive 
workforce.
Negative
6.
Customer 
Relations
Opportunity
Cyient believes that enhanced 
customer loyalty in the sector 
drives repeat business, brand 
trust, and long-term revenue 
growth, creating opportunities 
for premium services, cross-
selling, and market expansion.
NA
Positive
7.
Corporate 
Governance
Opportunity
Stakeholders—including 
investors, regulators, 
and customers—expect 
transparent reporting on 
financial performance, ESG 
metrics, and governance 
practices. In a sector with high 
environmental and social risks, 
transparency is key to building 
credibility and maintaining 
access to capital. Inadequate 
or inconsistent disclosure can 
lead to regulatory scrutiny, 
loss of investor confidence, 
and reputational harm. It also 
affects the company’s ability 
to be included in sustainability 
indices or to qualify for 
ESG-linked financing. The 
quality and completeness 
of disclosures reflect the 
company’s governance 
maturity and accountability.
NA
Positive
88  |  Annual Report 2024-25
S. 
No. 
Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O) 
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity 
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate 
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications) 
8.
Business 
Ethics, 
Integrity & 
Transparency
Risk
Engaging in unethical business 
practices poses significant 
risks to Cyient’s financial 
stability and corporate 
reputation. Such actions 
can lead to serious legal and 
regulatory repercussions, 
including fines, sanctions, and 
operational conflicts. Beyond 
the immediate consequences, 
unethical conduct undermines 
stakeholder trust—eroding 
customer loyalty, diminishing 
market share, and weakening 
investor confidence.
Maintaining the highest 
standards of integrity is 
not only a legal obligation 
but a strategic necessity. 
By fostering a culture of 
transparency, accountability, 
and ethical decision-
making, Cyient reinforces its 
commitment to responsible 
governance and long-term 
value creation.
The Corporate Governance 
Manual serves as a 
foundational guide for 
the Board, management, 
and employees, providing 
insightful direction and 
strategic counsel. It empowers 
stakeholders to navigate 
decisions aligned with our 
vision, mission, and long-term 
growth strategy, ensuring a 
steadfast commitment to 
Environmental, Social, and 
Governance (ESG) principles.
By integrating ESG-
driven governance, we 
aim to foster sustainable 
development, enhance 
corporate responsibility, and 
create lasting value for all 
stakeholders. This manual 
not only reinforces ethical 
leadership but also acts as 
a blueprint for achieving 
resilience and prosperity in 
an ever-evolving business 
landscape.
Negative
Annual Report 2024-25  |  89 
S. 
No. 
Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O) 
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity 
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate 
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications) 
9.
Data Security 
& Privacy
Risk
Breaches in data privacy 
can have far-reaching 
consequences, exposing 
organizations to substantial 
legal liabilities, financial 
penalties, and reputational 
harm. Such incidents not 
only compromise sensitive 
information but also erode the 
trust of customers, partners, 
and other key stakeholders. 
A decline in confidence can 
lead to reduced business 
opportunities, customer 
attrition, and long-term 
damage to brand credibility.
At Cyient, protecting data 
privacy is a critical priority. 
By implementing robust data 
protection protocols and 
adhering to global compliance 
standards, we aim to ensure 
the confidentiality, integrity, 
and security of all stakeholder 
information—reinforcing our 
commitment to ethical and 
responsible data stewardship.
Cyient employs a robust 
Data Leak Prevention 
(DLP) solution designed to 
safeguard the intellectual 
property of both our clients 
and our organization. This 
advanced security mechanism 
proactively monitors, detects, 
and prevents unauthorized 
access or transmission of 
sensitive information. By 
implementing stringent data 
protection controls, our 
DLP framework ensures the 
confidentiality and integrity 
of critical assets—reinforcing 
our commitment to secure, 
responsible, and trustworthy 
business operations.
Negative
90  |  Annual Report 2024-25
S. 
No. 
Material issue 
identified 
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O) 
Rationale for identifying the 
risk / opportunity 
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate 
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate 
positive or 
negative 
implications) 
10. Systemic Risk 
Management
Risk
The rise of cloud computing 
and SaaS introduces systemic 
risks such as server downtime, 
programming errors, and 
cyber threats, which can 
disrupt critical industries 
like finance and utilities. 
These sectors rely heavily on 
centralized cloud data centers, 
increasing vulnerability 
to failures. Compliance 
challenges also arise, as 
shifting data storage to 
third-party providers requires 
strict adherence to privacy 
and security regulations. 
Additionally, service 
disruptions or breaches can 
lead to financial losses and 
reputational damage, making 
cybersecurity investments 
and disaster recovery 
strategies essential. While 
improved IT infrastructure 
creates market expansion 
opportunities, companies 
must balance innovation 
with robust risk mitigation to 
ensure long-term resilience.
Investment in robust 
cybersecurity, including 
encryption, multi-factor 
authentication, and real-
time threat monitoring to 
prevent breaches. Redundant 
data centers and disaster 
recovery plans can minimize 
service disruptions and 
ensure business continuity. 
Compliance with regional 
data privacy regulations is 
essential, requiring strict 
governance frameworks and 
periodic audits. Diversifying 
cloud infrastructure across 
multiple providers enhances 
resilience.
Negative
11. Competitive 
Behaviour
Risk
Software and IT service 
entities face risks such as 
costly litigation, regulatory 
scrutiny, and potential 
antitrust violations due to 
overlapping patent claims 
and restrictive IP practices. 
Legal challenges may impact 
market share, pricing power, 
and revenue, requiring 
careful IP management to 
balance innovation and fair 
competition.
Adopting transparent IP 
policies, ensure fair licensing 
practices, and engaging in 
proactive patent management 
to balance innovation with 
competition while minimizing 
litigation risks and regulatory 
scrutiny.
Negative
Annual Report 2024-25  |  91 
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting 
the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1. 	 A. 	 Whether your entity’s policy/policies 
cover each principle and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
No
Yes
B. 	 Has the policy been approved by the 
Board? (Yes/No)
Yes
No
Yes
C. 	 Web Link of the Policies, if available
Link to Policies: 
Cyient_CSR_Policy_Document_Revised_V3.3.pdf
EOHS_Policy.pdf
HR-IN-G-PSH-C5-POL(Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy).pdf
NOTES ON AGENDA FOR THE BOARD MEETING TO BE HELD ON 25TH 
JULY, 2001
Code_of_Conduct.pdf
LP-017-ABC (Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy).pdf
FP-028-VCC(Vendor Business Code Of Conduct).pdf
Microsoft Word - New Microsoft Word Document
Cyient_Sustainability_Policy.pdf
SOP_for_Grievance_Redressal_at_Cyient_Foundation_CSR_Projects_
V1.1.pdf
Human_Rights_Policy_Final.pdf 
2. 	 Whether the entity has translated the 
policy into procedures. (Yes / No)
Yes
No
Yes
3. 	 Do the enlisted policies extend to your 
value chain partners? (Yes/No)
Yes, Cyient and its affiliated entities enforce a comprehensive Vendor 
Code of Conduct. This code is meticulously designed to be applicable to all 
vendors, sub-vendors, and subcontractors engaged in business transactions 
with us or acting on our behalf. The Vendor Code of Conduct encompasses a 
wide array of provisions, including governance, environmental conduct, and 
social responsibility. By extending these policies to our value chain partners, 
we ensure that our commitment to excellence, sustainability, and ethical 
conduct is consistently upheld across all levels of our operations. 
The detailed policy may be accessed at:
FP-028-VCC(Vendor Business Code Of Conduct).pdf
92  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
4. 	 Name of the national and international 
codes/certifications/labels/ 
standards 
(e.g., 
Forest 
Stewardship 
Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) 
standards (e.g., SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, 
BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped 
to each principle
Cyient has achieved multiple quality management system certifications, 
demonstrating its commitment to excellence and industry standards. 
Below are the following national and international certifications, labels, and 
standards:
Quality Management Systems (QMS):
•	
ISO 9001:2015 – Establishes a framework for quality management, 
ensuring consistent product and service excellence.
•	
TL 9000 R 6.3/R5.7 – A specialized QMS tailored for the 
telecommunications sector.
•	
ISO 22163 (IRIS) Rev 04 – Defines quality management requirements 
specific to the railway industry.
•	
AS 9100 Rev D – A comprehensive QMS designed for the aerospace 
sector.
•	
ISO 13485:2016 – Focuses on quality assurance in medical device 
manufacturing.
Information Security and IT Management:
•	
ISO 27001:2022 (ISMS) – Establishes guidelines for information security 
management systems, safeguarding data and systems integrity.
•	
TISAX – A security standard dedicated to the automotive industry.
•	
SOC 2 Type II – Ensures compliance with information security policies 
and controls within service organizations.
•	
ISO/IEC 20000-1:2018 – Focuses on IT service management, ensuring 
efficiency and reliability in IT operations.
Environmental Management and Sustainability:
•	
ISO 14001:2015 (EMS) – Outlines environmental management system 
standards to enhance sustainable practices.
Occupational Health and Safety:
•	
ISO 45001:2018 (OHSMS) – A global standard for occupational health 
and safety management systems, promoting workplace safety.
Capability Maturity and Organizational Excellence:
•	
CMMI 2.0 – A performance improvement framework that enhances 
process maturity and operational effectiveness.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  93 
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
5.	
Specific commitments, goals and targets 
set by the entity with defined timelines, if 
any.
Our sustainability framework is built on well-defined objectives that serve 
as key benchmarks, enabling us to track progress and measure the impact 
of our initiatives. By setting clear, time-bound targets across various pillars, 
we ensure consistent advancements while refining our strategies through 
ongoing monitoring.
Environmental Goals
•	
Increase renewable energy utilization at owned sites to 54.00% by FY 
2025 and 75.00% by FY 2040
•	
Reduce Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 18.00% by FY 2025 and 50.00% by FY 
2040
•	
Achieve 100.00% wastewater recycling at owned sites by FY 2030
•	
Implement 50.00% rainwater harvesting in owned offices by FY 2026
•	
Conduct ESG assessments of suppliers covering 75.00% of total 
organizational spend by FY 2027
•	
Reduce single-use plastic by 50.00% by FY 2030
•	
Eliminate the use of virgin paper by FY 2026
Social Goals
•	
Ensure 95.00% associate participation in the eSAT survey by FY 2030
•	
Increase female workforce representation to 27.00% by FY 2025 and 
39.00% by FY 2030
•	
Positively impact 1 million individuals through community initiatives by 
FY 2030
•	
Provide sustainability training to all associates by FY 2030
•	
Conduct Human Rights training for all associates by FY 2030
These targets reflect our commitment to fostering sustainable business 
practices, ensuring environmental responsibility, and driving positive social 
impact while continuously refining our approach for long-term success.
6.	
Performance of the entity against the 
specific commitments, goals and targets 
along-with reasons in case the same are 
not met.
Yes, the performance related and other relevant details will be disclosed in our
Sustainability Report FY 25.
The entity remains committed to aligning with its ESG goals and targets, 
with continuous efforts to enhance alignment in the subsequent reporting 
periods Strategic initiatives are being undertaken to progressively improve 
performance and ensure sustained compliance with ESG commitments.
	
Governance, leadership and oversight
94  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
7. 	 Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets 
and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
At Cyient, sustainability is at the core of our business philosophy, guiding our decision-making and long-term strategy. We 
recognize the importance of integrating Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) considerations into our operations 
to drive meaningful impact and contribute to a more sustainable future.
As a leading provider of engineering and technology solutions, Cyient operates in a sector that plays a pivotal role in driving 
industrial innovation, digital transformation, and sustainable infrastructure development. The engineering and technology 
services industry is increasingly focusing on ESG-driven initiatives, including energy efficiency, digital connectivity, and 
responsible sourcing. Companies in this space are expected to balance technological advancements with environmental 
responsibility, ethical labor practices, and community development.
As we advance our sustainability agenda, we acknowledge several challenges that require innovative solutions and persistent 
effort. Transitioning to renewable energy while maintaining operational efficiency demands strategic investments and 
collaborations. Reducing emissions and implementing circular economy principles across our owned sites and supply chain 
necessitates rigorous assessment, monitoring, and adaptation. Ensuring responsible water management and fostering 
a gender-responsive approach to human rights due diligence remain critical areas that require strong governance and 
stakeholder engagement.
Despite these challenges, we have established ambitious, time-bound targets to accelerate our ESG progress. Key 
environmental goals include increasing renewable energy utilization at our owned sites to 75.00% by FY 2040, reducing 
Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 18.00% by FY 2025 and 66.00% by FY 2040, and achieving 100.00% wastewater recycling at 
owned sites by FY 2030. Additionally, we aim to implement 50.00% rainwater harvesting in our owned offices by FY 2026 
and conduct ESG assessments of suppliers representing 75.00% of our total organizational spend by FY 2027.
As a key player in the engineering and technology services sector, Cyient is committed to aligning its business practices 
with global sustainability objectives, ensuring responsible innovation while fostering positive social and environmental 
impact. Through a structured and proactive approach, Cyient remains dedicated to creating lasting value for stakeholders 
and the broader industry. These targets reflect our commitment to building a resilient and responsible organization. As we 
move forward, we remain dedicated to transparent reporting, continuous improvement, and fostering partnerships that 
advance global sustainability efforts. Through a structured and proactive approach, Cyient is determined to create lasting 
value for stakeholders and the environment.
8. 	 Details 
of 
the 
highest 
authority 
responsible 
for 
implementation 
and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility 
policy (ies). 
The implementation and oversight of our Business Responsibility policies 
are meticulously managed by a dedicated leadership team, spearheaded 
by the President of Corporate Functions, Mr. PNSV Narasimham. This 
team engages in regular, strategic dialogues to address critical aspects of 
Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG). Through these discussions, we 
ensure that our policies are effectively executed and continuously refined to 
meet evolving standards and expectations.
9. 	 Does 
the 
entity 
have 
a 
specified 
Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). 
If yes, provide details.
Yes, Cyient has established a dedicated ESG Committee, which is integral to 
our sustainability strategy. This committee, composed of three esteemed 
board members, convenes at least twice annually to meticulously review 
and guide the company’s performance in pivotal areas such as sustainability, 
health and safety, diversity and inclusion, and corporate social responsibility. 
The committee’s oversight ensures that our sustainability initiatives are 
aligned and effectively integrated into our business operations, fostering a 
continuous improvement.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  95 
10. 	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company: 
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was 
undertaken by Director / 
Committee of the Board/ Any other 
Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Any other – please 
specify)
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
Performance against above policies and 
follow up action
Committee of the Board: ESG 
Committee and Risk Management 
Committee
ESG Committee: Meets annually
Risk Management Committee: 
Meets biannually
Compliance with statutory requirements 
of relevance to the principles, and 
rectification of any non-compliances
Committee of the Board: ESG 
Committee and Risk Management 
Committee
ESG Committee: Meets once a year 
Risk Management Committee: 
meets 2 times in a year
11. 	 Has the entity carried out independent 
assessment/ evaluation of the working of 
its policies by an external agency? (Yes/ 
No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
No
12. 	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions 
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not 
consider the principles 
material to its business 
(Yes/No)
NA
No
NA
The entity is not at a stage 
where it is in a position to 
formulate and implement 
the policies on specified 
principles (Yes/No)
No
The entity does not have 
the 
financial 
or/human 
and 
technical 
resources 
available for the task (Yes/
No)
No
It is planned to be done in 
the next financial year (Yes/
No)
No
Any other reason (please 
specify)
Cyient Limited maintains an active presence in 
various industry forums, where it contributes 
to discussions on sector-relevant issues and 
shares its perspectives to support collective 
progress. The Company also undertakes public 
interest initiatives, independently and in col-
laboration with trade associations and industry 
partners. These engagements are guided by 
the Company’s core values and commitment to 
responsible industry participation. As such, a 
standalone policy governing these activities is 
not deemed necessary currently.
96  |  Annual Report 2024-25
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key 
processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators 
are expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily 
disclosed by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally, and ethically 
responsible.
Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent 
and Accountable. 
Essential Indicators
1. 	 Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics/principles covered under the training and 
its impact
%age of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors (BoD)
4
Regulatory Updates, Legal compliances
100.00
Key Managerial Personnel 
(KMPs)
1
EOHS
25.00
Employees other than 
BoD and KMPs
39
Compliance Training
First Aid Training
Fire mock drill training
Medical Technology and Healthcare
Awareness on Quality Policy, Objectives, Safety 
policy & Objectives
Safety Awareness
85.00
Workers
NA
NA
NA
2. 	 Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by 
the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial 
year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in 
Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the 
entity’s website):
Monetary
NGBRC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement 
agencies/ judicial institutions
Amount 
(in INR)
Brief of 
the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Penalty/Fine
Nil
Settlement
Compounding Fee
Non-Monetary
NGBRC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ enforcement 
agencies/ judicial institutions
Amount 
(in INR)
Brief of 
the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Imprisonment
Nil
Punishment
Annual Report 2024-25  |  97 
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary 
or non-monetary action has been appealed
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/enforcement agencies/judicial institutions
Not Applicable
 
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide 
a web-link to the policy.
	
Cyient’s Global Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy establishes a framework to prevent unethical practices within 
the organization. It outlines strict prohibitions against bribery, corruption, facilitation payments, and kickbacks, 
ensuring compliance with legal and ethical standards. The policy applies to all associates and mandates responsible 
business conduct, including transparent record-keeping and due diligence in third-party engagements. Additionally, it 
provides guidelines on handling gifts, hospitality, political and charitable donations, and reporting concerns related to 
misconduct. This policy reinforces Cyient’s commitment to integrity, accountability, and ethical governance.
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directors
0
0
KMPs
0
0
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
6.	
Details of complaints regarding conflict of interest:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number 
Remarks 
Number 
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors
0
NA
0
NA
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
0
NA
0
NA
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
Not Applicable
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365) / Cost of goods/services procured) in the following 
format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payable 
32
30
98  |  Annual Report 2024-25
9.	
Open-ness of business. Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and 
related parties along-with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24#
Concentration of 
purchases
a.	
Purchases from trading houses as a % of 
total purchases 
Nil
Nil
b.	
Number 
of 
trading 
houses 
where 
purchases are made from
Nil
Nil
c.	
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as 
% of total purchases from trading houses
NA
NA
Concentration of 
Sales
a.	
Sales to dealers/ distributors as % of total 
sales 
Nil
Nil
b.	
Number of dealers / distributors to whom 
sales are made
Nil
Nil
c.	
Sales to top 10 dealers / distributors as % 
of total sales to dealers / distributors
NA
NA
Share of RPTs in
Purchases (Purchases with related parties/ 
Total Purchases)
2.00%
5.00%
Sales (Sales to related parties / Total Sales)
45.50%
46.00%
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to 
related parties / Total loans & advances)
100.00%
100.00%
Investments (Investments in related parties / 
Total Investments made)
72.00%
0.00%
#The financial figures for the period ending 31st March 2024 have been restated to improve accuracy and clarity in reporting 
following the guidelines set forth in SEBI’s circular dated December 20, 2024, which outlines Industry Standards Forum guidance 
for BRSR Core.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topics / principles covered under 
the training
%age of value chain partners 
covered (by value of business done 
with such partners) under the 
awareness programmes
Nil
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? 
(Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes, Cyient has implemented stringent measures to prevent and manage conflicts of interest within its Board of 
Directors and senior management. Employees are required to notify local management of any potential conflicts or 
situations that may appear as such, with disclosure strongly encouraged in cases of uncertainty. Annual declarations 
from board members regarding their interests in various organizations are collected to ensure transparency. Directors 
and senior management must avoid and disclose any activities or associations that conflict with the company’s business 
interests. Relationships with suppliers, contractors, customers, competitors, or regulators should not compromise 
independent judgment. 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  99 
Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1. 	 Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively. 
FY 2024-25 
FY 2023-24# 
Details of improvements in 
environmental and social impacts
R&D
Nil
Nil
NA
Capex
1.16
Nil
-
#The R&D investment for the period ending 31st March 2024 have been restated to improve accuracy and clarity in reporting 
following the guidelines set forth for BRSR Reporting Format. The previously reported figure was 74M.
2.	
A. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
B. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
A. We have implemented a thorough Sustainable Supplier Assessment Framework to assess and incorporate 
sustainability and ESG principles throughout our supply chain. While we do not have a standalone policy, we prioritize 
sourcing materials from local suppliers within India. Additionally, our commitment to sustainable sourcing and 
responsible supply chain practices is explicitly detailed in the Vendor Code of Conduct (CoC), which may be accessed at 
FP-028-VCC(Vendor Business Code Of Conduct).pdf 
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling, and disposing at the end of 
life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	
Cyient’s primary focus is on delivering engineering services, thereby this does not apply to our operations. We do 
not engage in activities that produce significant amounts of plastics, e-waste, hazardous waste, or other materials 
requiring end-of-life reclamation. Our operations are centered around delivering innovative engineering solutions, 
which inherently minimizes our environmental impact in terms of product waste.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether 
the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution 
Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same. 
	
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing 
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format? 
NIC Code 
Name 
of the 
product/
service
% of total 
turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the 
life cycle perspective/
assessment was 
conducted
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated 
in public domain  
(Yes/No) 
If yes, provide the 
web-link
Not Applicable
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your 
products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, 
briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product/Service
Description of the risk/concern
Action Taken
Not Applicable
100  |  Annual Report 2024-25
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
As a provider of engineering and technology services, Cyient’s operations do not involve material-intensive 
processes that rely on physical inputs. Therefore, it is not applicable within the context of our service delivery.
	
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and 
safely disposed, as per the following format:
Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Re-used
Recycled
Safely Disposed
Re-used
Recycled
Safely Disposed
Plastics (including 
packaging)
As an engineering and technology 
solutions provider, Cyient’s service-
oriented operations do not involve the 
use of substantial physical input materials. 
Therefore, this metric is not applicable 
within the context of our business activities.
NA
E-waste
Hazardous waste
Other waste
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials  
as % of total products sold in respective category
As a provider of engineering and technology solutions, Cyient operates within a service-based model that does not 
rely on significant physical input materials. Accordingly, this metric is not applicable to our business operations.
Principle 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
Essential Indicators
1.	
a. 	 Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% Of employees covered by 
Total
(A)
Health insurance Accident insurance Maternity benefits Paternity benefits 
Day care facilities 
No.
(B)
%
(B/ A)
No.
(C)
%
(C/A)
No.
(D)
% 
(D/A)
No.
(E)
%
(E/ A)
No.
(F)
%
(F/ A)
Permanent Employees
Male
8,914
8,914
100
8,914
100
NA
NA
8,295
93.10
0
0.00
Female
2,970
2,970
100
2,970
100
2,970
100
NA
NA
2,926
98.50
Total
11,884
11,884
100
11,884
100
2,970
24.99
8,295
69.80
2,926
24.60
Other than Permanent Employees
Male
114
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
24
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
138
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Annual Report 2024-25  |  101 
b. 	 Details of measures for the well-being of workers: 
Category 
% Of workers covered by
Total
(A)
Health insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
benefits
Day care facilities
No. (B) 
% 
(B/A)
No. 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
No. 
(D)
% 
(D/A)
No. 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
No. 
 (F)
%
 (F/A)
Permanent Workers
Male
NA
Female
Total
Other than Permanent Workers
Male
NA
Female
Total
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures 
as a % of total revenue of the company
0.59
0.30
2.	
Details of retirement benefits.
Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. of employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
No. of workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100.00
100.00
Y
100.00
100.00
Y
Gratuity
100.00
100.00
NA
100.00
100.00
NA
ESI
100.00
100.00
Y
100.00
100.00
Y
Others - please 
specify
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the 
entity in this regard.
	
Yes, Cyient is committed to fostering an inclusive and accessible work environment in alignment with the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. In addition to physical infrastructure, we conduct regular training and sensitization 
programs for managerial and senior leadership teams to promote awareness, empathy, and proactive support for 
employees with disabilities. These initiatives are part of our broader commitment to building a diverse and equitable 
workplace where every individual can thrive with dignity and independence.
102  |  Annual Report 2024-25
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
Yes, Cyient upholds a strong commitment to equal opportunity and non-discrimination, in alignment with the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. Our Human Rights Policy is a key component of our commitment to fostering 
an inclusive, equitable, and non-discriminatory workplace. It ensures that individuals are treated fairly and without 
bias across all stages of employment, irrespective of disability, gender, age, caste, religion, sexual orientation, or any 
other protected characteristic. The policy is embedded within our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and is actively 
implemented across the organization. To further operationalize this commitment, Cyient collaborates with external 
agencies that specialize in training and placing individuals with disabilities. These partnerships help us identify skilled 
candidates and integrate them into suitable roles within the company.
Awareness and sensitization programs are also conducted to equip our leadership and HR teams with the knowledge 
and tools to support inclusive hiring and workplace practices.
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender 
Permanent employees 
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100.00
88.00
NA
NA
Female
65.00
83.00
NA
NA
Total
90.00
87.00
NA
NA
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/ No
(If yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Cyient has established a robust and transparent grievance redressal frame-
work that ensures all employees and workers have access to fair and timely res-
olution processes. This includes a comprehensive grievance redressal policy 
applicable to all permanent employees, as well as a Whistleblower Policy that 
extends to all employees and workers across Cyient’s offices and subsidiaries. 
The system enables individuals to confidentially report concerns related to 
misconduct, unethical behavior, or fraud directly to the designated Ombud-
sperson. In compliance with legal requirements, Cyient has also constituted an 
Internal Complaints Committee to address issues related to workplace harass-
ment, ensuring a safe and respectful work environment. To reinforce the effec-
tiveness of this framework, the company conducts regular site inspections, an-
nual employee surveys, and maintains an anonymous hotline. These proactive 
measures help identify and address concerns promptly, fostering a culture of 
accountability, trust, and employee well-being.
Other than Permanent Employees
Permanent Workers
NA
Other than Permanent Workers
Annual Report 2024-25  |  103 
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of employees/ 
workers in 
respective category, 
who are part of 
associations or 
Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of employees/ 
workers in 
respective category, 
who are part of 
associations or 
Union (D)
% 
(D/C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
11,884
0
0.00
12,733
0
0.00
Male
8,914
0
0.00
9,729
0
0.00
Female
2,970
0
0.00
2,966
0
0.00
Total Permanent 
Workers
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A)
On health and 
safety measures
On skill 
upgradation
Total (D)
On health and 
safety measures
On skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/A)
Employees
Male 
9,028
7,726
85.58
6,101
67.58
9,810
7,626
64.50
6,668
67.97
Female
2,994
2,449
81.80
1,909
63.76
3,025
2,298
63.81
1,681
55.57
Total
12,022
10,175
84.64
8,010
66.63
12,875*
9,943
64.10
8,351
64.86
Workers
Male 
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
141
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
40
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
181
NA
NA
NA
NA
*This includes 40 employees who chose not to reveal their gender. Out of 40, 19 were trained on Health & Safety & 2 on 
Skill up-gradation in FY 2023-24. The numbers for FY 2023-24 have been restated to account for the same.
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Male 
9,028
7,783
86.21
9,810
8,022
81.77
Female
2,994
2,338
78.09
3,025
2,529
83.60
Total
12,022
10,121
84.19
12,835
10,570
82.35
Workers
Male 
NA
NA
NA
141
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
40
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
181
NA
NA
	
104  |  Annual Report 2024-25
10.	 Health and safety management system: 
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ 
No). If yes, the coverage such system?
	
Yes, 100.00% of our offices have implemented occupational health and safety management system and are ISO 
45001:2018 certified.
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity?
	
Cyient follows a structured Aspect Impact, Hazard Identification, and Risk Assessment (AIHIRA) process to identify 
and evaluate work-related hazards on both routine and non-routine bases. This system enables the organization to 
proactively assess environmental and occupational risks, implement mitigation measures, and ensure compliance 
with applicable regulations. Regular assessments, including those for new or modified tasks, help maintain a safe 
working environment and support continuous improvement in health and safety performance.
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from 
such risks. (Y/N).
	
Yes, Cyient has established a responsive and transparent system that empowers workers to report work-related 
hazards and withdraw from unsafe conditions without fear of retaliation. Our enhanced incident management 
process, supported by a digital EHS reporting platform, enables employees to promptly log safety concerns 
or incidents. Upon submission, alerts are automatically sent to the fire and safety teams for immediate action. 
The reporting individual is kept informed throughout the investigation, from initiation to resolution, ensuring 
accountability and trust. This mechanism aligns with our commitment to uphold worker safety, promote a culture 
of risk awareness, and ensure timely redressal of workplace hazards.
d.	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
(Yes/ No)
	
Cyient is committed to promoting the overall well-being of its workforce by offering access to a range of non-
occupational medical and healthcare services. These include periodic complimentary health screenings, mental 
wellness initiatives, and access to professional counseling support. Such programs are designed to proactively 
support the physical and emotional health of our associates beyond the workplace. To ensure continuity and 
resilience across our value chain, we also encourage our vendors to adopt similar employee wellness practices. 
Furthermore, we have strengthened our transportation and security arrangements to enhance the safety and 
comfort of our associates during work-related travel.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category*
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per 
one million-person hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
High consequence work-related injury or ill-
health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
*including the contract workforce
Annual Report 2024-25  |  105 
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	
Cyient prioritizes the health and safety of its workforce through a structured approach. All our facilities are equipped 
with critical emergency response tools such as Automated External Defibrillators and fire evacuation chairs to ensure 
preparedness during emergencies. We have implemented a digital EOHS incident reporting system via MyCyient.
com, enabling associates to confidentially report safety concerns or incidents. To strengthen awareness, we offer a 
mandatory “Safety Awareness” E-learning module alongside a recommended EOHS training course for all employees. 
Regular communication campaigns, including mailers and visual displays, address key topics such as ergonomics, heat 
stress, road safety, and seasonal health tips. Our “Well-Being Wednesday” initiative, led by HR Business Partners, 
promotes holistic wellness through targeted health-related activities and resources.
13.	 Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Working conditions
0
NA
NA
0
NA
NA
Health and Safety 
0
NA
NA
0
NA
NA
14.	 Assessments for the year
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities 
or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100%
Working conditions
100%
	
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
No significant safety-related incidents or material concerns were identified during the assessment conducted for the 
reporting period.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees 
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N).
	
In the unfortunate event of an employee’s death, the company extends comprehensive support to their family, 
including financial assistance and other welfare measures.
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entities to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited 
by the value chain partners.
	
Cyient has implemented GreyT HR, a tool designed to ensure statutory compliance across all downstream value 
chain partners. This system meticulously uploads and monitors partner details, ensuring adherence to statutory 
requirements such as ESI and PF deposits. Our HR compliance team oversees this process, utilizing the tool to track 
compliance on a monthly, quarterly, and half-yearly basis. All compliance evidence is diligently recorded and maintained 
for thorough verification and oversight.
106  |  Annual Report 2024-25
3.	
Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health / 
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Category
Total no. of affected employees/workers
No. of employees/workers that are rehabilitated 
and placed in suitable employment or whose 
family members have been placed in suitable 
employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees
0
0
0
0
Workers
0
0
0
0
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management 
of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
No, currently the entity does not offer formal transition assistance programs for employees retiring or exiting the 
organization.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners  
(by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and Safety Practices
We have screened 89 suppliers, who contribute to around 30.00% of our 
total annual expenditure, through Dunn & Bradstreet’s ESG assessment 
reporting.
Working Conditions
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners. 
	
Nil
	
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders.
1.	
Describe the process for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
Cyient follows a structured and methodical process to identify its key stakeholder groups. This involves collaboration 
between the board and senior leadership to assess various stakeholder categories based on their influence, interest, and 
relevance to the organization’s strategic goals. Through regular engagement, feedback collection, and environmental 
analysis, the company ensures that stakeholder expectations are effectively understood and addressed. This approach 
enables the organization to build resilient relationships, enhance transparency, and align its operations with stakeholder 
priorities, thereby supporting sustainable growth and long-term value creation.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  107 
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder 
group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
vulnerable 
and 
marginalized 
group (Yes/
No)
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website), Other
Frequency of 
engagement (annually, 
half yearly, quarterly, 
others – please specify)
Purpose and scope 
of engagement 
including key topics 
and concerns 
raised during such 
engagement
Investors
No
•	 Annual General Meeting
•	 Quarterly Meetings
•	 Annual Report & Sustainability 
Report
•	 Shareholder information on 
website
•	 Timely response to shareholder 
queries
•	 Cyient’s Internal Newsletter 
‘Communique’
•	 Press release
Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Need Basis
Financial and 
Sustainability 
performance of the 
organization
Employees
No
•	 Associate surveys
•	 Cyient’s Internal Newsletter 
‘Communique’
•	 Annual Report & Sustainability 
Report
•	 Press release
Quarterly, Half yearly/ 
Continuous
Associate 
Engagement, 
Learning & 
development
Senior 
Management
No
•	 Associate surveys
•	 Cyient’s Internal Newsletter 
‘Communique’
•	 Annual Report & Sustainability 
Report
Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Need Basis
Board Evaluation, 
Discussions
Local
Community
Yes
•	 Community workshops
•	 Press releases
Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Need Basis/ 
Continuous
Education & IT 
Literacy, Skill 
Development, 
Innovation & 
Infrastructure, 
Healthcare, 
Community 
Development
Suppliers
No
•	 Supplier Workshops
•	 	Annual Report & Sustainability 
Report
•	 	Cyient’s Internal Newsletter 
‘Communique’
•	 	Social media platforms such as 
LinkedIn, and Twitter
Annually/ Need Basis/ 
Continuous
Business related 
discussions, 
awareness 
workshop on 
sustainability
108  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and 
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
At Cyient, stakeholder engagement is integral to our ESG strategy. We identify key stakeholders—such as investors, 
employees, clients, leadership, communities, and suppliers—through a structured mapping process based on their 
relevance and impact. Consultations are conducted via surveys, meetings, and focused discussions to gather insights 
on economic, environmental, and social issues. When delegated, feedback is formally documented and shared with the 
Board through periodic reports and ESG committee updates. This process ensures that stakeholder perspectives are 
embedded in strategic decisions, reinforcing our commitment to sustainable and responsible business practices.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and 
social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these 
topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
	
Yes, stakeholder consultation plays a pivotal role in identifying and managing environmental and social topics at Cyient. 
We follow a structured five-step materiality assessment process to ensure that stakeholder insights are meaningfully 
integrated into our sustainability strategy:
1.	
Issue Identification: We begin by compiling a comprehensive list of environmental and social issues, aligned with 
sector-specific ESG standards and global frameworks.
2.	
Strategic Relevance: These issues are evaluated against our core business objectives, including growth, 
operational efficiency, brand equity, and long-term resilience.
3.	
Risk Prioritization: Each issue is assessed for its potential impact and associated risks, enabling prioritization 
based on business relevance and preparedness.
4.	
Stakeholder Engagement: We actively engage with internal and external stakeholders to validate the significance 
of these issues and understand their expectations.
5.	
Benchmarking: The findings are cross-referenced with global benchmarks such as the UN Sustainable Development 
Goals (SDGs), National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC), and the Dow Jones Sustainability 
Index (DJSI)
Insights from this process helps us curate our sustainability strategy and initiatives accordingly. Stakeholder input has 
led to the advancement of energy efficiency initiatives and the strengthening of health and safety programs, ensuring 
our actions remain both stakeholder-focused and strategically aligned.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ 
marginalized stakeholder groups.
Cyient regularly engages with vulnerable and marginalized stakeholder groups to understand and address their 
specific concerns. Through ongoing dialogue with community members, local NGOs, and grassroots organizations, 
we identify key areas where support is most needed—such as access to education, digital literacy, employability, 
and environmental awareness. Based on these insights, we have implemented targeted initiatives including skill 
development programs for youth and women, digital literacy campaigns in underserved regions, and community-led 
environmental projects. We ensure that any issues raised such as accessibility challenges are promptly addressed.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  109 
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the 
following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A)
No. of employees 
/ workers covered 
(B)
% (B/A) 
Total (C)
No. of employees 
/ workers covered 
(D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Permanent
11,884
11,884
100.00
12,733
12,733
100.00
Other than permanent
138
138
100.00
142
142
100.00
Total Employees
12,022
12,022
100.00
12,875
12,875
100.00
Workers
Permanent
NA
NA
NA
0
0
100.00
Other than permanent
NA
NA
NA
266
266
100.00
Total Workers
NA
NA
NA
266
266
100.00
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
Total 
(D)
FY 2023-24
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Permanent
11,884
1,955
16.45
9,929
83.55
12,327
0
0
12,327
100.00
Male
8,914
1,081
12.12
7,833
87.88
9,416
0
0
9,416
100.00
Female
2,970
874
29.42
2,096
70.58
2,911
0
0
2,911
100.00
Other than 
Permanent
138
40
28.98
98
71.02
105
0
0
105
100.00
Male
114
58
50.87
56
49.13
57
0
0
57
100.00
Female
24
0
0
24
100.00
48
0
0
48
100.00
Workers
Permanent
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Male
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Female
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Other than 
Permanent 
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Male
-
-
-
-
-
141
-
-
-
-
Female
-
-
-
-
-
40
-
-
-
-
110  |  Annual Report 2024-25
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
a.	
Median remuneration / wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)
7
2,400,000
2
1,500,000
Key Management Personnel
4
19,608,474
0
0
Employees other than BoD 
and KMP
9,017
574,183
2,992
409,956
Workers
NA
NA
NA
NA
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2024-25 
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females 
as % of total wages
17.83
18.00
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused 
or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, Cyient has established a clear governance structure to address human rights impacts associated with its operations. 
The responsibility for overseeing human rights-related matters lies with designated individuals and committees, 
ensuring accountability and proactive management. Our Head of ESG and DEI (Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion) leads 
the efforts in identifying, assessing, and mitigating any potential or actual human rights risks. Additionally, a dedicated 
leadership panel is responsible for managing and reviewing all whistleblower complaints, with oversight from the Board 
of Directors. This multi-tiered approach ensures that human rights concerns are addressed promptly, transparently, 
and in alignment with our ethical commitments.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues
	
Cyient has established comprehensive internal mechanisms to address grievances related to human rights, ensuring 
a safe, respectful, and inclusive workplace. Our Associate Grievance Redressal Policy provides a structured and 
confidential platform for employees to raise concerns without fear of retaliation. In addition, we operate an independent 
Integrity Helpline, managed by an external agency, which allows both internal and external stakeholders to report 
issues anonymously. This ensures impartial investigation and resolution in line with regulatory and ethical standards. 
To further reinforce our commitment, we have constituted an Internal Complaints Committee in accordance with 
the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, to address these 
grievances. These mechanisms collectively uphold our human rights commitments and foster a culture of transparency, 
accountability, and trust.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  111 
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
3
0
All the 
complaints 
have been 
resolved
3
2
All the 
complaints 
have been 
resolved
Discrimination at 
workplace
1
0
All the 
complaints 
have been 
resolved
1
0
All the 
complaints 
have been 
resolved.
Child Labour
0
0
NA
0
NA
NA
Forced Labour/ 
Involuntary Labour
0
0
NA
0
NA
NA
Wages
0
0
NA
0
NA
NA
Other human rights 
related issues
0
0
NA
0
NA
NA
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total complaints reported under Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
3
3
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employee/ 
workers 
0.10
0.09
Complaints on POSH upheld 
NA
NA
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
Our Disciplinary Action Policy incorporates a comprehensive non-retaliation clause, which explicitly prohibits any 
adverse action against individuals who, in good faith, report violations of the Cyient Code of Ethics & Business Conduct, 
including human rights infringements. The policy acknowledges the emotional and professional stress that may 
accompany such disclosures and ensures that whistleblowers are protected throughout the investigative process. In 
alignment with our Whistleblower Policy & Procedures, every complainant is entitled to full protection from retaliation. 
This includes protection against demotion, dismissal, intimidation, or any form of discrimination arising from their 
decision to report misconduct or cooperate in an investigation. To ensure impartiality and transparency, Cyient has 
constituted dedicated Internal Committees at operational locations. These bodies are empowered by the Chairman 
and Managing Director to investigate complaints thoroughly and confidentially, in accordance with the provisions 
and other applicable laws. These mechanisms are periodically reviewed and strengthened to align with evolving legal 
standards and best practices in corporate governance. Through these proactive measures, Cyient reaffirms its zero-
tolerance stance on discrimination and harassment, and its unwavering support for those who courageously speak up 
in defense of ethical conduct and workplace justice.
112  |  Annual Report 2024-25
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
Yes, our business agreements and contractual frameworks are firmly anchored in human rights principles, as outlined in 
our Vendor Code of Conduct. We mandate that all vendors uphold and actively advocate for globally recognized human 
rights standards, ensuring ethical and responsible business practices. Furthermore, vendors are required to exercise 
due diligence to prevent any actions that may contravene these fundamental principles, reinforcing our commitment 
to integrity, fairness, and corporate responsibility.
10.	 Assessments of the year
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory 
authorities or third parties)
Child labour
100.00
Forced/involuntary labour
100.00
Sexual harassment
100.00
Discrimination at workplace
100.00
Wages
100.00
Others – please specify
NA
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 9 above. 
	
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
complaints.
	
Cyient is committed to upholding human rights across all facets of its operations. In response to the grievances redressal 
system, we have proactively enhanced our Talent Management Process to better reflect our values of equity and 
fairness. This modification ensures broader representation and participation of associates from diverse backgrounds 
in career development, performance evaluations, and leadership opportunities. The revised process integrates 
inclusive assessment, transparent feedback, and structured grievance redressal systems, enabling employees to voice 
concerns without fear of bias or exclusion.
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due- diligence conducted
	
Cyient Limited has not yet conducted a formal human rights due diligence process. However, as an initial step, the 
company carried out a comprehensive gap assessment across its operations in FY 2024-25 to identify potential 
human rights risks and impacts. Moving forward, we are committed to integrating a robust human rights due diligence 
framework into our policy commitments, ensuring its effective implementation within business operations and 
extending its scope to our supply chain. Our goal is to establish a gender-responsive human rights due diligence 
mechanism that applies both to our internal operations and across our supply chain, fostering ethical and inclusive 
business practices.
3.	
Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes, Cyient complies with the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, ensuring that all its office 
premises are accessible to persons with disabilities. We conduct sensitization and awareness programs for managers 
and senior leaders to promote understanding, and responsiveness to the needs of differently abled individuals. 
These efforts are part of our broader inclusion strategy, reinforcing our dedication to accessibility, dignity, and equal 
opportunity for all.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  113 
4.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners  
(by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual harassment 
We have utilized Dunn & Bradstreet’s ESG assessment reporting to screen 89 
suppliers, who collectively account for around 30.00% of our annual spend.
Discrimination at workplace
Child labour
Forced/involuntary labour
Wages
Others – please specify
-
5.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
	
Nil.
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
 1.	 Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24#
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A) (in GJ)
16,954
23,912
Total fuel consumption (B) (in GJ)
0
0
Energy consumption through other sources (C) (in GJ)
0
0
Total energy consumed from renewable sources 
(A+B+C) (in GJ)
16,954
23,912
From non-renewable sources 
Total electricity consumption (D) (in GJ)
52,640
58,205
Total fuel consumption (E) (in GJ)
2,286
2,840
Energy consumption through other sources (F) (in GJ)
0
0
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources 
(D+E+F) (in GJ)
54,926
61,045
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F) (in GJ)
71,880
84,957
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumption/ revenue from operations) 
(GJ/ ₹)
0.00000297
0.00000345*
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total energy consumption/ revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP) (GJ/ $)
0.0000615
0.00007051**
Energy intensity in terms of physical output (GJ/ $)
NA
NA
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may 
be selected by the entity (GJ/FTE)
6.18
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
114  |  Annual Report 2024-25
# The numbers for FY 2023-24 for electricity consumption from non-renewable sources have been restated due to enhanced 
coverage of electricity consumption points. 
* The intensity has been restated owing to change in the unit of measurement considered in denominator for intensity calculation.
**The intensity adjusted for PPP has been restated following the guidelines set forth in SEBI’s circular dated December 20, 2024, 
which outlines Industry Standards Forum guidance for BRSR Core. The PPP factor has been sourced from IMF database. https://
www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC.
2.	
Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve 
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT 
scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
No, Cyient is not currently classified as a Designated Consumer under the Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) 
Scheme administered by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), Government of India. However, Cyient remains 
committed to energy efficiency. We voluntarily adopt best practices in energy management and continuously monitor 
our environmental performance to align with global sustainability goals.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24# 
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Surface water
0
0
(ii)	 Groundwater
5,664
8,429
(iii)	Third party water
73,048
74,562
(iv)	Seawater / desalinated water
0
0
(v)	 Others
3,249
0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i+ii+iii+iv+v)
81,961
82,991
Total volume of water consumption (in Kilolitres)
81,961
82,991
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Kilolitres/₹)  
(Water consumed / revenue from operations) 
0.00000339
0.00000407*
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)  
(Water consumed / revenue from operations adjusted for PPP) 
(Kilolitres/$)
0.0000701
0.0000688**
Water intensity in terms of physical output 
NA
NA
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity (Kilolitres /FTE)
7.05
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency. 
#The numbers for water consumption for FY 2023-24 have been restated due to reconciliation of withdrawal numbers.
* The intensity has been restated owing to change in the unit of measurement considered in denominator for intensity 
calculation.
**The intensity adjusted for PPP has been restated following the guidelines set forth in SEBI’s circular dated December 
20, 2024, which outlines Industry Standards Forum guidance for BRSR Core. The PPP factor has been sourced from IMF 
database. https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  115 
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24#
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilo liters)
(i)	
To Surface water
0
0
- 	
No treatment
0
0
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(ii) 	 To Groundwater
0
0
- 	
No treatment
0
0
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iii)	 To Seawater
0
0
-	
No treatment
0
0
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
0
0
(iv)	 Sent to third parties 
0
0
-	
No treatment 
0
0
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment  
0
0
(v)	 Others
0
0
-	
No treatment
0
0
-	
With treatment
0
0
Total water discharged (in kilo liters) 
0
0
#The numbers for water discharge for FY 2023-24 have been restated due to change in methodology to account for 
reconciliation of wastewater discharge destinations.
Water discharge across all office locations is recorded as zero due to the presence of Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs), 
ensuring complete recycling and reuse of wastewater.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation. 
Cyient has not yet implemented Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) system across its facilities. However, we have adopted 
sustainable water management practices to minimize environmental impact and promote resource efficiency. At our 
operational sites, wastewater is systematically treated through on-site Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs). The treated 
water is then recycled and reused for non-potable applications such as sanitation, landscaping, and gardening, thereby 
significantly reducing freshwater consumption and discharge volumes.
While ZLD is not currently in place, we continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance our water stewardship initiatives 
and align with industry best practices.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24# 
NOx
MT
0.08
0.26
Sox
MT
0.16
0.06
Particulate matter (PM)
MT
0.38
0.04
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
-
-
Others – please specify
-
-
-
# The numbers for air emissions have been restated for FY 2023-24, owing to change in the unit of measurement considered 
for comparability of the data to FY 2024-25 numbers.
116  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24# 
Total Scope 1 emissions  
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tons of 
CO2 equivalent
1,117
1,211
Total Scope 2 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, 
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tons of 
CO2 equivalent
10,630
8,170
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions/ 
revenue from operations)
tCO2/₹
0.000000486
0.000000331*
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity 
(Total scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions/ 
revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
tCO2/$
0.00001005
0.00000778 **
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
in terms of physical output 
-
NA
NA
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
Metric tons of 
CO2  equivalent
1.01
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
* The intensity has been restated owing to change in the unit of measurement considered in denominator for intensity 
calculation.
**The intensity adjusted for PPP has been restated following the guidelines set forth in SEBI’s circular dated December 
20, 2024, which outlines Industry Standards Forum guidance for BRSR Core. The PPP factor has been sourced from IMF 
database. https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC.
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
	
Yes, Cyient has proactively initiated several strategic interventions aimed at curbing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 
reinforcing our commitment to climate stewardship and sustainable operations. As part of our transition toward 
cleaner energy sources, we have significantly expanded our renewable energy footprint by deploying solar power 
infrastructure across key locations, including Kakinada, Vizag, Warangal, and Madhapur. These installations have 
meaningfully reduced our dependence on grid-based electricity and contributed to lowering our carbon intensity. Our 
Bangalore and Manikonda campuses now derive a substantial portion of their energy needs from solar power. In addition 
to renewable energy adoption, we are fostering a culture of green mobility by establishing electric vehicle (EV) charging 
stations at our Manikonda, Madhapur, and Bangalore facilities. These stations support both two- and four-wheeled EVs, 
encouraging employees to embrace low-emission transportation alternatives. Collectively, these initiatives reflect 
Cyient’s integrated approach to environmental responsibility combining clean energy, and sustainable infrastructure 
to drive long-term impact in reducing GHG emissions.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  117 
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24#
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
0.76
0.04
E-waste (B)
39.13
25
Bio-medical waste (C)
0
0
Construction and demolition waste (D)
58
0
Battery waste (E)
12.81
11
Radioactive waste (F)
0
0
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
3.47
2.94
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please 
specify, if any. (Break-up by composition i.e. by 
materials relevant to the sector)
86.41
106.00
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
200.58
145.00
Waste intensity per rupee of Turnover 
(Total waste generated /Revenue from operations)
0.00000000832
0.00000000589*
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total waste generated / Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP)
0.000000171
0.000000120**
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Waste intensity (optional) –
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
0.02
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations 
(in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 	 Recycled
138.06
-
(ii) 	 Re-used
0
17
(iii)	 Other recovery operations
0
-
Total
138.06
17
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) 	 Incineration
0
-
(ii) 	 Landfilling
0
-
(iii) 	 Other disposal operations
62.52***
129
Total
62.52
129
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? 
(Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
* The intensity has been restated owing to change in the unit of measurement considered in denominator for intensity calculation.
**The intensity adjusted for PPP has been restated following the guidelines set forth in SEBI’s circular dated December 20, 
2024, which outlines Industry Standards Forum guidance for BRSR Core. The PPP factor has been sourced from IMF database. 
https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC.
*** The waste under ‘Other disposal operations’ is being disposed off through PCB authorized vendors.,
118  |  Annual Report 2024-25
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted 
by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices 
adopted to manage such wastes.
	
Cyient adopts a comprehensive approach to waste management, aimed at minimizing ecological impact and promoting 
sustainable operations across all its facilities. Our waste segregation system is designed to ensure efficient sorting at 
source, with clearly labeled bins for recyclables, organic waste, and non-recyclables. All waste streams are managed 
through authorized vendors certified by the Pollution Control Board, ensuring compliance with environmental 
regulations. To reduce paper waste, we collaborate with certified recycling partners and promote the use of recycled 
paper products, including notepads and office supplies. Organic waste, such as food and garden residues, is processed 
through on-site Organic Waste Converters, which transform biodegradable material into nutrient-rich compost 
used for in-house landscaping and gardening. In line with our commitment to environmental stewardship, Cyient has 
implemented stringent controls to minimize the use of hazardous and toxic substances in our operations. We actively 
discourage the use of non-biodegradable and harmful materials through internal awareness campaigns and regular 
employee communications. Where chemicals are necessary such as in cleaning processes or sewage treatment only 
certified, regulatory-compliant products are used. We employ dilution and neutralization techniques to reduce chemical 
concentration, ensuring safe handling and disposal. Wastewater generated at our facilities is treated through Sewage 
Treatment Plants (STPs), and the treated water is reused for non-potable applications like sanitation and irrigation, 
further reducing our environmental footprint. 
11.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where 
environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
S. 
No.
Location of 
operations/
offices
Type of 
operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval / clearance are being 
complied with? (Y/N)
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
Cyient is committed to environmental stewardship and the preservation of biodiversity. We conduct thorough due 
diligence to ensure that our operations do not encroach upon or adversely impact ecologically sensitive zones, 
including national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, coastal regulation zones, and other 
protected ecosystems. Cyient does not operate any facilities or conduct business activities in or around areas 
classified as ecologically sensitive where environmental approvals or clearances are mandated.
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year:
Name and brief 
details of project
EIA 
Notification 
No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external agency 
(Yes / No)
Results communicated 
in public domain
(Yes / No)
Relevant 
Web link
During the reporting period, Cyient did not undertake any projects or operations that fall under the purview of the 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification, 2006, issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and 
Climate Change (MoEFCC), Government of India. Accordingly, no EIAs were conducted, as none of our activities 
triggered the applicability criteria outlined in the notification.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  119 
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act 
and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
S. 
No.
Specify the law / 
regulation / guidelines 
which was  
not complied with
Provide details 
of the  
non-compliance
Any fines / penalties / action 
taken by regulatory agencies such 
as pollution control boards or by 
courts
Corrective  
action taken, if any
Yes, Cyient is fully compliant with all applicable environmental laws, regulations, and guidelines in India. This includes 
adherence to the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 
and the overarching Environment (Protection) Act, along with the rules and notifications issued thereunder. We 
maintain all necessary environmental consents and clearances, and our operations are regularly monitored to ensure 
alignment with prescribed norms.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres): 
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
(i)	
Name of the area: 
(ii)	 Nature of operations 
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Not applicable as none of our site are located in areas of water stress.
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Surface water
-
-
(ii)	 Groundwater
-
-
(iii)	Third party water
-
-
(iv)	Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v)	 Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
-
-
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
-
-
Water intensity per rupee of turnover  
(Water consumed / turnover) 
-
-
Water intensity (optional)  
– the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
-
-
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
Water intensity in terms of physical output 
(i)	
To Surface water
-
-
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
120  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
(ii)	 To Groundwater
-
-
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iii)	 Into Seawater
-
-
- 	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(iv)	 Sent to third-parties
-
-
- 	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
(v)	 Others
-
-
- 	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – please specify level of treatment
-
-
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
-
-
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format: 
Parameter
Unit
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Scope 3 emissions
(Break-up of the GHG into 
CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, 
SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
Not calculated
Not calculated
Total Scope 3 emissions per 
rupee of turnover
-
-
Total Scope 3 emission 
intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
-
-
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide 
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and 
remediation activities. 
	
Not Applicable 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  121 
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the 
same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
S. 
No
Initiative 
undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any,  
may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
1
Use of 
renewable 
energy
We have made notable progress in advancing the 
use of renewable energy across our operations. 
Our offices in Bangalore, Manikonda, Madhapur, 
Kakinada, Vizag, and Warangal are leading this 
transition, increasingly powered by clean and 
sustainable energy sources.
Our strategic shift toward renewable 
energy has led to a substantial 
reduction in carbon emissions, 
underscoring our commitment to 
environmental sustainability. At 
the same time, this transition has 
contributed to lower operational costs, 
demonstrating the dual benefits of 
ecological responsibility and economic 
efficiency.
2
Installation of 
EV charging 
stations
As part of our commitment to environmental 
sustainability and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions, we have installed electric vehicle (EV) 
charging stations for both two-wheelers and four-
wheelers at our facilities in Manikonda, Madhapur, 
and Bangalore. These efforts reflect our proactive 
approach to promoting cleaner transportation 
alternatives and supporting the transition to a low-
carbon future within our organization
To encourage the adoption of electric 
vehicles and reduce emissions 
associated with employee commuting, 
we have implemented initiatives that 
support cleaner, more sustainable 
transportation options.
3
Recycling of 
wastewater
We have taken a meaningful step toward 
environmental conservation by installing in-house 
Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) at our facilities 
in Manikonda, Madhapur, Bangalore, Kakinada, 
and Warangal. These systems enable efficient 
wastewater management and support our 
commitment to sustainable resource utilization and 
environmental responsibility.
This initiative enables efficient 
wastewater recycling, significantly 
reducing our water footprint and 
reinforcing our commitment to 
sustainable water management 
practices.
4
Waste 
Management
To support our sustainability goals, we have 
installed Organic Waste Converters at our offices 
in Manikonda, Madhapur, and Bangalore. These 
systems transform food waste into nutrient-rich 
compost, which is then used as natural fertilizer 
in our gardens—promoting a circular approach 
to waste management. Additionally, we have 
eliminated the procurement and use of single-
use plastics across all our offices, reinforcing our 
commitment to reducing environmental impact.
This initiative has significantly reduced 
the volume of waste sent to landfills 
by repurposing organic waste and 
eliminating the use of single-use 
plastics. It has also fostered a culture of 
sustainability within the organization, 
encouraging environmentally 
responsible practices across all levels.
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
	
Yes, Cyient has a robust Business Continuity and Disaster Management Plan designed to ensure operational resilience 
and uninterrupted service delivery. The plan includes comprehensive risk assessments, Business Impact Analyses, and 
the identification of critical functions. A dedicated Crisis Management Team (CMT) oversees recovery efforts, while 
Emergency Response Teams (ERTs) manage on-ground incidents. The Chief Information Officer (CIO) leads initiatives 
to strengthen IT infrastructure and data security. These measures collectively safeguard business operations, minimize 
downtime, and uphold client commitments, reinforcing Cyient’s preparedness to respond swiftly and effectively to 
unforeseen disruptions.
122  |  Annual Report 2024-25
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What 
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard. 
	
During the reporting period, Cyient did not identify any significant adverse environmental impacts arising from its 
value chain. Our operations and supplier engagements are structured to align with sustainable practices and regulatory 
compliances. 
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts.
	
89 suppliers contributing to ~30.00% of the total annual spend have been screened using Dunn & Bradstreet ESG 
assessment reporting
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent.
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations. 
The Company is a member of 7 trade and industry chambers/ associations. 
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such 
body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. 
No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and industry 
chambers/ associations 
(State/National)
1
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) National
National
2
National Association of Software and Service Companies National
National
3
Global Compact Network India National
National
4
Indo-American Chamber of Commerce National
National
5
National HRD Network National
National
6
The Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry State
State
7
Hyderabad Management Association State
State
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the 
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.	
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
NA
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
S. 
No
Public policy 
advocated
Method 
resorted for 
such advocacy
Whether information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review by Board
Web Link, 
if available
NA
Annual Report 2024-25  |  123 
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year.
Name and 
brief details of 
project
SIA Notification No.
Date of 
notification
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external 
agency  
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain
(Yes / No)
Relevant Web Link
Education: 
Quality 
Education 
through School 
Adoption
CF/
CSR00004617/02012025/
EDU/ITL/SD/CD
2/1/2025
Yes
Yes
https://www.cyient.
com/investors/
corporate-
governance 
Community 
Development:  
Cyient Adopted 
Village
CF/
CSR00004617/11022025/
AV24_25
11/2/2025
Yes
Yes
https://www.cyient.
com/investors/
corporate-
governance 
IT Literacy: 
Cyient Digital 
Centers 
CF/
CSR00004617/02012025/
EDU/ITL/SD/CD
2/1/2025
Yes
Yes
https://www.cyient.
com/investors/
corporate-
governance 
IT Literacy: 
Cyient Digital 
Centers 
CF/
CSR00004617/02012025/
EDU/ITL/SD/CD
2/1/2025
Yes
Yes
https://www.cyient.
com/investors/
corporate-
governance 
Environmental 
Protection 
(Plantation and 
Conservation)
CF/
CSR00004617/21042024/
WC/GE/TS/AP
21/04/2024
Yes
Yes
https://www.cyient.
com/investors/
corporate-
governance 
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by 
your entity, in the following format:
S. 
No.
Name of Project for 
which R&R is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project 
Affected Families 
(PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid to 
PAFs in the FY (In 
INR)
NA
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
Cyient Foundation has established grievance redressal mechanisms at the Cyient Adopted Schools, Cyient Adopted 
Villages and Cyient Urban and ITES Skill Centers. 
Placed the Grievance Registers which are easily accessible to all stakeholders these registers are language appropriate, 
gender-sensitive and allows the immediate attention of the Cyient Foundation for quick resolution. Cyient Foundation 
has sensitized the community about the Grievance Redressal procedure and resolving the issues on priority.
124  |  Annual Report 2024-25
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24#
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
17.00%
21.00%
Directly from within India 
88.00%
92.00%
*The number for Percentage of input material sourced directly from MSMEs and within India for FY 2023-24 have been restated 
following the guidelines set forth in SEBI’s circular dated December 20, 2024, which outlines Industry Standards Forum guidance 
for BRSR Core.
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed 
on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost: 
Location
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Rural 
-
-
Semi urban
-
-
Urban
1.77
1.96
Metropolitan 
98.23
98.04
(Place to be categorized as per RBI Classification System - rural / semi-urban / urban / metropolitan)
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
None
NA
None
NA
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies:
S. No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount Spent (in INR)
We do not undertake CSR projects in aspirational districts.
3.	
(a)	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
		
	
No, we don’t have a formal preferential policy, However, we diligently monitor and document information about 
suppliers from marginalized or vulnerable groups, including minority-owned businesses in the USA and those with 
MSME status in India.
(b)	 From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
Not Applicable
(c)	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
Not Applicable 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  125 
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the 
current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
S. 
No. 
Intellectual Property based on traditional 
knowledge
Owned/ Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared
(Yes / No)
Basis of 
calculating 
benefit share 
1.
Cyient-Class 9 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
2.
Cyient-Class 35 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
3.
Cyient-Class 42 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
4.
VISMON – Class 9 (Word Mark)
Yes
No
-
5.
VISMON– Class 35 (Word Mark)
Yes
No
-
6.
VISMON – Class 42 (Word Mark)
Yes
No
-
7.
VISMON   – Class 9 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
8.
VISMON– Class 35 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
9.
VISMON – Class 42 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
10. CYIENT FOUNDATION – Class 35 (Word Mark)
Yes
No
-
11. CYIENT FOUNDATION – Class 36 (Word Mark)
Yes
No
-
12. CYIENT FOUNDATION – Class 45 (Word Mark)
Yes
No
-
13. CYIENT FOUNDATION– Class 35 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
14. CYIENT FOUNDATION– – Class 36 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
15. CXO CYIENCE – Class 42 (Word Mark)
Yes
No
-
16. CXO CYIENCE– Class 42 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
17. Arc-Class 35 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
18. Arc– Class 42 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
19. Arc– Class 45 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
20. FAST -Class 35 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
21. FAST- Class 42 (Device Mark)
Yes
No
-
22. SYSTEM AND METHOD OF GENERATING AN 
ANATOMICAL THREE-DIMENSIONAL MODEL 
(Indian Patent Application No.: 202541018615)
Yes
No
-
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of the authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
NA 
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. 
No
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted from CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups
1.
<Education> Quality Education through 
School Adoption
21,103
37.01
2.
<Community Development> Cyient 
Adopted Village
1,864
11.37
3.
<Women Empowerment> Skill 
Development Initiative (Cyient Urban / 
ITES Skill Centers
1,286
74.80
4.
<IT Literacy> Cyient Digital Centers 
1,056
30.20
126  |  Annual Report 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 9:  Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback. 
	
Cyient has a dedicated microsite for customers to provide feedback and lodge complaints, if any. http://www.
cyient.com/contact-us. We follow a structured approach to grievance resolution, ensuring timely acknowledgment, 
investigation, and appropriate corrective actions which ensures transparency and responsiveness in addressing 
consumer grievances, reinforcing trust and commitment to customer satisfaction.
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about
Parameter
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
This metric is not relevant to Cyient as our main 
business is providing engineering services, 
and it does not involve the manufacturing of 
any product which would carry such specific 
information.
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2024-25
Remarks 
FY 2023-24
Remarks
Received 
during the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data Privacy
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Advertising
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Cyber Security
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Delivery of essential services
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Restrictive Trade Practices
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Unfair Trade Practices
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
Other
0
0
NA
0
0
NA
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
0
Not applicable
Forced recalls
0
Not applicable
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, 
provide a web-link of the policy.
Yes, Cyient has a comprehensive framework and policy to manage cybersecurity and data privacy risks. The Cyient 
Cyber Security Policy and Framework (SP-004-CSPF) and the Global Data Privacy Policy (GP-017-GDP) outline the 
necessary measures and objectives. You can access these documents through the following links:
Cyient complies with General Data Protection Rules ( GDPR) and maintains an Information Security Management 
System (ISMS) that meets ISO/IEC 27001:2013 and ISO/IEC 27002:2013 standards. These standards ensure the secure 
management of information assets against both internal and external threats. Our cybersecurity strategy is integrated 
with the company’s key goals and is overseen by the CEO, CIO, and finance teams. The Risk Management Committee, 
which includes the CEO, supervises all cybersecurity matters.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  127 
Cyient takes data privacy and security seriously. We have implemented a robust data loss prevention policy and a Data 
Retention policy that clearly defines the timeframe for permanently deleting personal data. Our commitment to the 
highest standards of data privacy and security is demonstrated by our accountability to data protection authorities in 
every country where we operate.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of 
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; 
penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
Not applicable. 
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches – No instances of data breach reported in the FY 25.
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers – Not Applicable
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches - Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if 
available).
	
Information relating to all the services provided by the Company are available on the Company’s website. 
https://www.cyient.com/ 
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services. 
	
Not applicable
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services. 
	
Not applicable
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? 
(Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer 
satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or 
the entity as a whole? (Yes/No) 
	
The requirement to display product information is not relevant to Cyient, as the company’s primary focus is engineering 
services rather than the manufacturing of goods. Recently, Cyient conducted its annual customer satisfaction survey 
via a web-based platform, facilitated by an independent research firm.
128  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure - 3
FORM NO. AOC - 2
(Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Form for Disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the company with related parties referred to 
in sub section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length transaction under third proviso 
thereto.
1.	
Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at Arm’s length basis.
	
The company has not entered into any contract or arrangement or transaction with its related parties which is not at arm’s 
length during FY 2025.
2.	
Details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at Arm’s length basis: 
(a)	 Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship:
SI. No.
Entity
Relationship
1.
Cyient Europe Limited
Subsidiary
2.
Cyient Benelux BV
Step down subsidiary
3.
Cyient Schweiz GmbH
Step down subsidiary
4.
Cyient SRO
Step down subsidiary
5.
Cyient Semiconductors NV (formerly Cyient NV w.e.f February 03, 2025)
Step down subsidiary
6.
Cyient Inc.
Subsidiary
7.
Cyient Canada Inc.
Step down subsidiary
8.
Cyient Defense Services Inc.
Step down subsidiary
9.
Cyient GmbH
Subsidiary
10.
Cyient AB
Step down subsidiary
11.
Cyient KK
Subsidiary
12.
Cyient Insights Private Limited
Subsidiary
13.
Cyient DLM Limited
Subsidiary
14.
Cyient DLM Inc.
Step down subsidiary
15.
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
Subsidiary
16.
Integrated Global Partners Pty Limited, Australia
Step down subsidiary
17.
Integrated Global Partners Pte. Limited, Singapore
Step down subsidiary
18.
Integrated Global Partners SpA, Chile
Step down subsidiary
19.
IG Partners South Africa (Pty) Ltd, South Africa
Step down subsidiary
20.
Workforce Delta Pty Limited
Step down subsidiary
21.
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
Subsidiary
22.
Cyient Israel India Limited
Subsidiary
23.
Cyient Solutions and Systems Private Limited
Subsidiary
24.
Cyient Urban Microskill Centre Foundation
Subsidiary
25.
Cyient Global Captive Solutions Private Limited
Subsidiary
26.
Infotech HAL Limited
Joint Venture*
Annual Report 2024-25  |  129 
SI. No.
Entity
Relationship
27.
Grit Consulting Pte Ltd
Step down subsidiary
28.
Celfinet – Consultoria em Telecomunicações, S.A.
Step down subsidiary
29.
METEMESONIP, UNIPESSOAL LDA
Step down subsidiary
30.
Celfinet UK Telecommunications Consulting Services Ltd
Step down subsidiary
31.
Celfinet Espanã - Consultoria en Telecomunicaciones, SL
Step down subsidiary
32.
Celfinet (Brasil) - Consultoria em Telecomunicações, Ltda.
Step down subsidiary
33.
Celfinet Mozambique – Consultoria em Telecomunicações, Limitada, 
Mozambique
Step down subsidiary
34.
Celfinet Mexico - Consultoria de Telecomunicaciones AS
Step down subsidiary
35.
Celfinet Germany - Telecommunications Consulting Services GmbH
Step down subsidiary
36.
Sentiec Oyj
Step down subsidiary
37.
Citec Group Oy Ab
Step down subsidiary
38.
Cyient Oy Ab
Step down subsidiary
39.
Citec Engineering France Sarl
Step down subsidiary
40.
Cyient Engineering Ab
Step down subsidiary
41.
Cyient Engineering & Information GmbH
Step down subsidiary
42.
Cyient Group France SAS
Step down subsidiary
43.
Akilea Overseas Ltd
Step down subsidiary
44.
Cyient Norway AS
Step down subsidiary
45.
Altek Electronics LLC
Step down subsidiary
46.
Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited
Subsidiary
47.
Cyient Semiconductors Inc.
Step down subsidiary
48.
Cyient Semiconductors Europe Private Limited
Step down subsidiary
49.
Cyient Project Management Consultancy - L.L.C - S.P.C
Subsidiary
50.
Abu Dhabi & Gulf Computers Establishment
Step down subsidiary
51.
Azimuth AI Inc.
Associate
52.
Cyient Associate Stock Option Scheme 2021 Trust  
Entity with common KMP
53.
Cyient Foundation
Entity with common KMP
54.
Infotech ESOP Trust
Entity with common KMP
55.
Scient Development Foundation
Entity with common KMP
130  |  Annual Report 2024-25
(b)	 Nature of contracts/arrangements/transactions;
IT Enabled Engineering Services & Geospatial Services.
(c)	 Duration of the contracts/arrangements/transactions;
Intercompany agreements entered into with subsidiary companies, as amended and ongoing.
Duration: 1 April 2024 and 31 March 2025
(d)	 Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transactions, including the value, if any;
	
To provide IT Enabled Engineering Services & Geospatial Services to the client/customers of the company as a tripartite 
agreement. 
	
Value: The payment terms of each project are as per the intercompany agreements entered with the respective 
subsidiaries.
(e)	 Date(s) of approval by the Board, if any;
	
Not applicable as these are at arms’ length basis and in the ordinary course of the business.
(f)	 Amount paid as advances, if any;
	
Nil
*An application has been filed initiating corporate insolvency process under section 10 of IBC, 2016 before the Bangalore 
Bench of NCLT 
For and on behalf of the Board
M.M. Murugappan
Krishna Bodanapu
Hyderabad
Director, Non-Executive Chairman
Executive Vice-Chairman & Managing Director
23 April, 2025
 DIN : 00170478
DIN : 00605187
Annual Report 2024-25  |  131 
Industry Outlook
Global Economic Environment
The global economic landscape in FY25 was shaped by a 
complex interplay of persistent macroeconomic challenges 
and moderate resilience. Global GDP growth settled at 3.2%, 
reflecting a cautiously optimistic sentiment buoyed by easing 
inflation and measured shifts in monetary policy. Despite 
these positive indicators, a confluence of factors including 
geopolitical instability, constrained credit availability, and 
continued supply chain recalibrations continued to remain as 
challenges for sustained economic momentum.
Within 
this 
macroeconomic 
context, 
Cyient’s 
Digital, 
Engineering, and Technology (DET) segment encountered 
considerable in-year headwinds across several business 
units, which translated into a subdued revenue performance 
and consequently into an impact on in-year profitability. We 
managed to mitigate some of these headwinds with our 
proactive cost control and operational efficiency measures. 
At the same time, Cyient DET’s disciplined approach to cash 
management ensured yet another year of outstanding free 
cash flow generation, amounting to 132% of net profits.
As the company looks forward to FY26, Cyient DET maintains 
a cautious yet optimistic outlook. While macroeconomic 
uncertainty continues to linger, the gradual easing of financial 
conditions and the increasing momentum behind enterprise 
digital transformation initiatives are expected to create 
favourable conditions for growth. Over the past year, we have 
proactively addressed internal challenges and strengthened 
our foundational capabilities—investments that are poised to 
deliver long-term value. Cyient is now strategically positioned 
to capitalize on emerging opportunities through an intensified 
focus on customer centricity, expansion of key accounts, 
and the delivery of high-impact digital engineering solutions 
powered by scalable and platform-driven approaches.
The company’s FY26 priorities include:
•	 Deepening client engagement in key verticals through 
co-innovation
•	 Expanding investments in AI, software defined products, 
and cloud native engineering
•	 Strengthening global delivery and talent capabilities to 
support long-term scalability
The company enters FY26 with a solid foundation and a clearly 
articulated roadmap designed to accelerate value creation for 
our customers and stakeholders through innovation, agility, 
and executional excellence.
Annexure – 4
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Engineering, Research & Development (ER&D) Outlook
The Engineering, Research & Development (ER&D) industry 
is projected to grow at a steady pace of approximately 4–5% 
in FY26. Although macroeconomic pressures continue to 
influence enterprise spending behaviors, businesses are 
expected to maintain a strategically cautious stance prioritizing 
profitability, operational efficiency, and the rationalization of 
discretionary expenditures.
The primary growth impetus in the year ahead will stem from the 
deepening integration of digital technologies across product 
development and operational ecosystems. As software 
defined systems increasingly become embedded throughout 
the engineering value chain, organizations are placing greater 
emphasis on scalable, integrated platforms that offer both 
flexibility and efficiency. The wide spectrum of technology 
inefficiencies across various industries brings forward the need 
for reliable technology led engineering partners who can bridge 
this gap with bespoke solutions for the industries. 
Investment activity is expected to remain strong in high-
impact technology areas such as Digital Engineering, Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) and Industry 4.0 frameworks targeted towards 
the convergence of operational technology and information 
technology domains. These areas will play a critical role in 
helping enterprises enhance customer experiences, reduce 
time-to-market, and maintain competitive advantage in an 
increasingly dynamic and fast-evolving global landscape.
As the ER&D landscape continues to evolve, Cyient remains 
deeply committed to supporting its customers’ innovation 
agendas through its domain centric approach, digital 
engineering expertise, and proven track record of delivering 
scalable and transformative solutions.
Business Unit Outlook
Transportation
The commercial aerospace sector continues its post-
pandemic recovery trajectory in 2024 as well. As per IATA, 
the total full year traffic for 2024 was 10.6% higher than for 
2023 with key industry indicators—such as scheduled flight 
volumes, revenue per passenger mile and overall load factor 
surpassing pre-COVID benchmarks. The traffic is expected 
to grow at a healthy rate of 8% in 2025 re-emphasizing the 
realism in the aircraft orders placed with OEMs in the recent 
past. The aircraft OEMs continue to focus on addressing 
delivery backlogs, while Maintenance, Repair, and Overhaul 
(MRO) providers scale operations to support expanding fleets.
132  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Simultaneously, the defence segment is experiencing a 
marked uptick in investment, driven largely by heightened 
geopolitical uncertainties that are reshaping national security 
priorities across multiple regions.
Despite this momentum, the industry continues to grapple 
with persistent challenges, including supply chain disruptions, 
skilled workforce shortages, and extended lead times. In 
response, aerospace and defence companies are accelerating 
the deployment of digital technologies and advanced 
automation tools to enhance operational throughput, improve 
turnaround times, and strengthen supply chain resilience all of 
which are critical to driving profitability and speed-to-market.
Cyient’s robust positioning across the aerospace value chain 
from initial design through manufacturing to aftermarket 
support remains a core competitive advantage. This 
experience, along with security cleared Cyient facilities, 
allows for a comprehensive approach to supporting defense 
initiatives. The company’s diversified customer base, spanning 
across the original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and MRO 
service providers, further reinforces its market resilience. 
Additionally, Cyient’s capability in Build to Specification (B2S) 
is gaining significant traction within the aerospace sector, 
allowing for bespoke solutions tailored to specific needs 
of our customers. This trend not only enhances innovation 
but also reinforces Cyient’s positioning as a partner capable 
of delivering precise and high-value engineering solutions. 
Moving into FY26, Cyient’s growth strategy for commercial 
and defense aerospace sector will pivot on accelerating digital 
transformation initiatives, driving product innovation, B2S and 
expanding aftermarket services.
Sustainability
Throughout 
FY25, 
global 
momentum 
toward 
energy 
transition remained strong, with governments, industries, 
and communities aligning their efforts to meet ambitious 
climate objectives including the goal of tripling global clean 
energy capacity by 2030. This paradigm shift has sustained 
significant investment in areas such as grid modernization, 
digital infrastructure, electrification, and the integration of 
renewable energy sources into traditional energy systems.
Cyient’s Sustainability Business Unit is well positioned 
to support this transformation, offering comprehensive 
capabilities 
that 
span 
sustainability 
advisory, 
plant 
engineering, intelligent grid modernization, and asset 
performance optimization. These offerings allow Cyient to 
create tangible value for clients navigating the dual imperatives 
of decarbonization and operational excellence.
To further sharpen its strategic focus and accelerate delivery 
outcomes in this expansive domain, Cyient has restructured 
the Sustainability Business Unit into three specialized 
verticals: Energy, Mining & Minerals, and Utilities. This new 
organizational structure enhances agility and ensures greater 
alignment with the evolving needs of clients across the 
sustainability spectrum.
The global energy demand is expected to increase by 20-
30% by 2035 driven primarily by the growth in electricity 
consumption across the spurt in data centres, EVs and green 
hydrogen generation. The increase in demand is expected 
to be fulfilled largely by conventional fuel types who today 
support about 2/3rds of the global demand, while renewable 
energy types and alternative energy technologies continue 
to cement their demand fulfilment profile. This sharp rise in 
energy demand will continue to be coupled with the global 
urgency from sovereigns to bridge energy deficit and to 
strengthen energy security as a posture for economic growth 
and resilience. 
Cyient’s deep expertise in providing end-end technology 
led engineering solutions across conventional, renewable, 
nuclear and alternative fuel sources, along with its diversified 
geographic presence, uniquely positions the company to help 
clients achieve their energy objectives while simultaneously 
enhancing efficiency, resilience, and long-term value.
Connectivity
In FY25, the communications sector continued to face the 
challenges from the sudden spike in capital interest rates, that 
constrained capital expenditure across critical infrastructure 
areas including fiber optics, wireless technologies, 5G 
networks, 
and 
private 
telecommunications 
systems. 
Nevertheless, large-scale government programs such as the 
Broadband Equity, Access, and Deployment (BEAD) and Rural 
Digital Opportunity Fund (RDOF) initiatives are expected 
to catalyse infrastructure development, particularly in 
underserved and rural regions across the United States.
Although FY25 showed early signs of recovery following 
a challenging FY24, growth in the latter half of the year 
was dampened by renewed geopolitical tensions and 
macroeconomic 
uncertainty, 
particularly 
affecting 
performance in the third and fourth quarters.
Despite these headwinds, Cyient remains confident in the 
long-term potential of its Connectivity Business Unit. The 
company continues to focus on strengthening its digital 
and transformational capabilities, with a view to enabling 
clients to modernize their network infrastructure and achieve 
scalable, future-ready outcomes though improved operational 
performance. With a firm commitment to innovation and 
customer success, Cyient is well-equipped to drive sustained 
growth in this space over the medium to long term.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  133 
New Growth Areas
Semiconductors
Despite the cyclical challenges faced by the semiconductor 
industry in FY25, Cyient’s strategic commitment to this high 
growth sector remains resolute. Given the significant potential 
of the semiconductor space which is projected to become 
a $1 trillion global industry by 2030, Cyient took a decisive 
step forward by establishing Cyient Semiconductors Private 
Limited as a standalone subsidiary.
This initiative is fully aligned with India’s national ambition of 
building a $100 billion semiconductor ecosystem, as outlined 
by the Indian Electronics and Semiconductor Association 
(IESA). Cyient Semiconductors is structured to capture 
emerging opportunities across the value chain, focusing 
on the development of turnkey ASIC solutions tailored to 
fast evolving sectors such as high-performance computing, 
artificial intelligence, Industry 4.0, robotics, communications, 
healthcare, and automotive.
With a legacy of more than 40 delivered turnkey silicon 
solutions in areas such as power management, RF design, and 
signal processing, Cyient brings deep technical expertise to 
the chip design space. The company is uniquely equipped to 
support clients across the entire product lifecycle from initial 
design and prototyping to final silicon production and delivery.
To lead this critical growth area, Cyient appointed Mr. Suman 
Narayan as CEO of Cyient Semiconductors. With his extensive 
experience in the global semiconductor industry, Mr. Narayan 
is well positioned to guide the company through its next phase 
of growth and innovation.
Cyient has committed significant capital to this initiative and to 
support talent-intensive R&D efforts. These investments will 
focus on building customized chip solutions to address diverse 
industry requirements and deliver superior performance 
outcomes tailored to each client’s strategic goals.
Automotive
While the global automotive industry experienced a general 
slowdown in FY25, Cyient’s automotive business achieved 
steady growth, given our differentiated and power-train 
agnostic offerings focussed on software defined vehicles. 
The company continued to support leading OEMs particularly 
in Europe and North America through high value solutions in 
embedded systems, power electronics, and digital validation.
Looking ahead, Cyient anticipates continued momentum 
in this sector, driven by increasing EV adoption, the rise of 
software-defined vehicles, and the growing emphasis on 
connected mobility solutions. With a clear focus on innovation 
and digital enablement, the company remains well-positioned 
to serve the evolving needs of global automotive clients.
Healthcare and Life Sciences
FY25 marked a significant transformation in Cyient’s healthcare 
and life sciences business, with the organization reorienting its 
core offerings into three strategic pillars: Product to Platform, 
Legacy Product Modernization & Enterprise Solutions, and 
QARA Acceleration. This redefined structure reflects the 
growing need for healthcare clients to simultaneously manage 
new product innovation and modernization of legacy systems.
All three pillars experienced strong growth during the year, as 
clients responded to the increasing complexity of healthcare 
technologies, the surge in smart medical device adoption, and 
the demand for greater digital integration.
Looking ahead to FY26, Cyient expects this momentum to 
continue, fuelled by rising global healthcare needs, expanding 
digital health ecosystems, and ongoing innovation in patient 
centric technologies. As one of the most rapidly evolving 
industries, healthcare is increasingly turning to digital 
transformation to manage costs, improve outcomes, and 
enhance the overall patient journey.
Cyient will continue to drive differentiated value across its 
three strategic pillars, with a strong emphasis on emerging 
technologies including artificial intelligence to develop smarter 
products, streamline operations, and help clients meet the 
next generation of healthcare challenges with confidence.
134  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Key Risks and Mitigation Strategies
Risk
Risk Description
Risk Mitigation
Geo-political Risks
Regional tensions across Europe, Middle 
East and the potential tariff escalations 
continue to pose uncertainties in 
demand cycle, supply chain efficiency 
and capital and infrastructure upgrade 
plans of our customers.  
1.	
Continuous monitoring and evaluation at the Board 
level.
2.	
Cyient’s local leadership and presence across key 
regions lends a good degree of agile and regional 
context for effective decision making to mitigate 
and manage risks  
3.	
Prudent and pragmatic approach adopted by Board 
and Management towards capital allocation and 
investments
Recessionary Pressures
Economic downturns can lead to 
increased interest rates, inflation, 
energy and labor costs, supply chain 
delays, and geopolitical instability, 
adversely affecting operations.
Implementation of Business Continuity Plans, prudence 
in investments and cost allocations, stakeholder 
communications, remote infrastructure, and innovative 
hiring and delivery deployment strategies.
Technology Disruption
Advancements in digital and technology 
areas such as AI solutions could disrupt 
existing service offerings.
1.	
Monitoring by Board and evaluating investments in 
technology/digital related investments
2.	
Dedicated office of CTO to help identify and 
assess such impacts and implement mitigative 
approaches to augment Cyient’s value proposition 
as a technology led engineering partner 
3.	
Focused approach to development of technology 
offerings and solutions in line with market and 
customer requirements and accentuating Cyient’s 
strengths. 
Currency Fluctuations
Exchange rate volatility can materially 
and adversely impact operational results.
Utilization of long-term cash flow hedges and internal 
risk evaluations.
Inflation Risk
Unanticipated inflation can reduce the 
real value of investments, assets, and 
income.
Incorporating inflation premiums and hedges into 
contracts and adjusting for cash flows.
Attrition Risk
Losing talent across various 
organizational levels can impact 
operations.
Focusing on employee engagement, retention, 
development, and compensation strategies.
Customer & Segment 
Concentration
High dependency on specific industries 
and top clients increases vulnerability.
Continuous monitoring of Management and the Board 
on the top customer and industries impact. 
Continuous assessment of risks and identification 
of mitigative actions to enable diversified client and 
industry base.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  135 
Shareholder Value Creation
As a result of our significant growth in revenue and profit over 
the last five years:
•	 The Group has demonstrated significant value creation for 
its investors over the last five years translating to a market 
cap expansion from ₹ 25,216 Mn at end of FY20 to ₹ 140,453 
Mn at the end of FY25.
•	 The dividend payout has substantially improved from 25% 
in FY14 to 45% in FY 25.
•	 The Group has achieved significant growth in the free cash 
flow (FCF) generation capabilities of the business with 
an increased focus on receivables management, working 
capital management, and tax optimization and generated 
the FCF at ₹ 6,878 Mn in FY25 representing a healthy and 
best-in-class conversion of 105% of PAT.
Revenue Growth
The Group revenue has doubled and quadrupled over the last 
7 and 12 years respectively demonstrating the resilient and 
relevant proposition amongst its clients across a wide portfolio 
of segments and geographies. During the year, the Group 
revenue has witnessed a growth of 1.5 % in US $ constant 
currency terms and 3% in rupee terms. 
The Digital, Engineering & Technology (DET) segment has 
witnessed a de-growth of 3% in US $ constant currency terms 
and 1.6% in rupee terms, driven primarily by the prevalent 
geo-political and macro-economic uncertainties. While the 
uncertainties continue to linger for the near term, the gradual 
easing of financial conditions and the increasing momentum 
behind enterprise digital transformation initiatives are 
expected to create favorable conditions for growth. Cyient 
is strategically well-positioned with its diversified portfolio, 
offerings and geographical presence to capitalize on these 
emerging opportunities and drive sustainable growth in the 
medium-long term. 
DLM segment has witnessed a growth of 24.6% in US $ constant 
currency terms and 27.6% in rupee terms. The revenue for the 
Company is driven by a focus on a well-diversified business and 
geography portfolio.
Revenue by Geography
During FY25, the Group delivered a growth of 7% in the North 
America region, a de-growth of  9.4% in the EMEA region, and 
3.5% growth in the Asia Pacific, including the India region in $ 
terms. 
Revenue by Operating Segments
Segment information is presented with the “consolidated 
financial statements” as permitted under the Ind AS 108 
“Operating Segments”. The Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(“CODM”) reviews the business as three operating segments 
- “Digital, Engineering & Technology” (hitherto referred to as 
“Services”), “Design Led Manufacturing” (DLM) and “Others”.
Effective April 1, 2023, considering the IPO of Cyient DLM 
Limited, the Group has reorganized its business units. 
Consequent to such change, the Aerospace Parts division 
of Cyient Defense Services Inc., USA, which hitherto was 
reported in the DLM segment is now included in the Digital, 
Engineering & Technology segment and Cyient Solutions 
and Systems Private Limited and Aerospace Tooling division 
of Cyient Defense Services Inc., USA, which hitherto were 
reported in the DLM segment are now included in the Others, 
consistent to the manner in which the CODM reviews the 
business.
The Digital, Engineering & Technology segment includes 
Transportation, Connectivity, Sustainability and NGA (New 
Growth Areas such as HiTech, Automotive, Semicon and 
Medical Technologies) while the Digital, Embedded Solutions 
are across all the Business Units. 
The DLM segment includes Cyient DLM Limited. The DLM 
segment is engaged in the business of manufacturing and 
providing “Electronic Manufacturing Services”.
Others include Cyient Solutions and Systems Private Limited 
and Aerospace Tooling division of Cyient Defense Services 
Inc., USA.
During the year, the DET segment has witnessed a de-growth 
of 1.6% in rupee terms, and the DLM segment has seen a 
growth of 27.6% in rupee terms.
136  |  Annual Report 2024-25
During the year, the Company has initiated the launch and 
carveout of its semiconductor business as a fully owned 
subsidiary Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited (CSPL), with 
the focused objective to explore and exploit the significant 
opportunities in the semiconductor sector. As approved by 
the Board of Directors on March 31, 2025, the Company has 
commenced carveout of its global semiconductor business 
through the transfer of net assets, contracts and employees 
from the Group companies in India, USA, Germany, Belgium, 
and Taiwan to CSPL and its subsidiaries, with necessary 
agreements to be executed in due course of time. 
Better Customer Mining
The Group continues to stress improving revenue per 
customer by focusing on strategic customers and generating 
more up-sell and cross-sell opportunities. The contribution 
from the top customers in FY25 has been lower than previous 
years given the evolving and variable demand cycles and cash 
spends across Cyient’s key customers at the back of the 
prevalent macro-economic and geo-political uncertainties 
across the segments.
The below chart depicts the contribution of revenue from the 
top 20 customers over the last five financial years in the DET 
segment:
Profits Trend
During the year, profits have decreased due to:
•	
The decrease in DET PAT is driven primarily due to YoY 
drop in revenue, partially mitigated by cost optimization 
and efficiency measures during the year, and YoY 
headwinds in unrealized forex items.
•	
The increase in DLM PAT is driven by volume increase and 
new acquisition.
Note: Profit after tax numbers presented above are before 
share of non-controlling interest.
Note: Profit before tax numbers presented above are post 
share of loss from associate.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  137 
Free Cash Flow (FCF) Generation
The Group has achieved significant improvement in the free 
cash flow (FCF) generation. 
In FY25, the Group generated FCF of ₹ 6,878 Mn as against ₹ 
6,479 Mn in FY 24. The Group’s FCF to PAT conversion is 105% 
in FY 25 to 92% in FY 24, due to its continued focus on efficiency 
of cash collection and prudent working capital management.
Days Sales Outstanding
The Group has delivered Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) of 86 
days as of March 31, 2025 and 83 days as of March 31, 2024, 
primarily driven by increase in DSO in DLM segment .
Tax Rate
The effective tax rate of the Group has increased from 23.5% 
in FY24 to 25.9% in FY25, on account of certain one-time 
tax benefits availed in the previous financial year, change in 
the profit and tax rate of subsidiaries operating in various 
jurisdictions and capital gains tax on account of equity stake 
sale in Cyient DLM Limited in FY 25.
Capital Expenditure
The Group has incurred capital expenditure of ₹ 1,021 Mn in FY 
25 (1.4% of the total revenue), as compared to ₹ 782 Mn in FY 
24. (1.1% of the total revenue).
Net Worth
The net worth of the Group has grown at 17.6% CAGR in the 
last six years from ₹25,577 Mn to ₹57,604 Mn. It is mainly 
attributed to the profitable growth over the years, driven by 
organic and inorganic initiatives.
 
Return to investors
The dividend payment trend of the Group has improved 
substantially in the last five years from ₹ 17 per share in FY 21 
to ₹ 26 per share in FY 25.
The highest-ever dividend of ₹ 30 per share was declared in 
FY24. 
The dividend payout for the Company stands at 45% in FY25 
(FY24: 45%) 
Market Capitalization
The Company’s market capitalization has grown from 
₹ 25,216 Mn in FY20 to ₹ 140,453 Mn in FY25. 
Financial Performance for the Year 2024-25 (Consolidated)
This part of the Management Discussion and Analysis refers 
to the consolidated financial results of Cyient Limited (“the 
Company”) and its subsidiaries, associate and joint venture, 
referred to as “the Group.” The discussion should be read in 
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and 
related notes to the consolidated accounts of Cyient Limited 
for the year ended March 31, 2025. 
138  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Consolidated Financial Results 
Particulars 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
₹ Mn
 % of 
Revenue
₹ Mn
 % of 
Revenue
Income
Revenue from contracts with customers
73,604
100%
71,472
100%
Other income
966
1.3%
659
0.9%
Total income
74,570
72,131
Expenses
Employee benefits expense
36,899
50.1%
35,120
49.1%
Cost of materials consumed
11,357
15.4%
9,893
13.8%
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work 
in progress
33
0.0%
(235)
(0.3%)
Operating, administration and other expenses
13,882
18.9%
14,342
20.1%
Finance costs
928
1.3%
1,160
1.6%
Depreciation and amortisation expense
2,672
3.6%
2,667
3.7%
Total expenses
65,771
89.3%
62,947
88.1%
Profit before tax  
(before share of profit/(loss) from joint venture and associate)
8,799
12.0%
9,184
12.8%
Share of loss from Joint Venture and associate
(49)
(0.1%)
-
-
Profit before tax
8,750
11.9%
9,184
12.8%
Tax expense
2,267
3.1%
2,156
3%
Profit after tax
6,483
8.8%
7,028
9.8%
Share of non-controlling interest
326
0.4%
200
0.2%
Net Profit attributable to the shareholders of the Company
6,157
8.4%
6,828
9.6%
ANALYSIS
Revenue
During FY 25, the Group revenue grew by 3% in rupee terms 
and by 1.5% in US $ constant currency terms as compared to 
FY 24. 
•	
The Digital, Engineering & Technology (DET) segment has 
witnessed a de-growth of 1.6% in rupee terms and 3% in 
US $ constant currency terms. 
•	
The DLM segment has witnessed a growth of 27.5% in 
rupee terms and 24.6% in US $ constant currency terms.
Other income
Other income for FY25 was ₹966 Mn as compared to ₹ 659 Mn 
in FY24. Increase is due to the following reasons: 
•	
Treasury income is higher by ₹ 220 Mn due to efficient and 
effective utilization of surplus cash received on dilution of 
14.5% equity stake in Cyient DLM Limited during August 
2024. 
•	
Increase on account of net movement in fair valuation of 
financial assets and financial liability in FY 25 by ₹ 189 Mn.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  139 
Employee benefits expense
Employee benefits expense includes salaries that have fixed 
and variable components, contributions to retirement and 
other funds, and staff welfare expenses.
Employee benefits expense as a percentage of the revenue 
from operations stands at 50.1% for FY25 compared to 
49.1% in FY24. In value terms, employee benefits expense has 
increased by ₹ 1,779 Mn in FY25 compared to FY24 due to an 
increase in headcount globally (from 15,461 on March 31, 2024, 
to 15,807 on March 31, 2025) and annual salary hikes.
Operating, Administration, and Other Expenses
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
₹ Mn
% of  
reve-
nue
₹ Mn
% of 
revenue
Rent
199
0.3%
189
0.3%
Travelling & 
Conveyance
1,320
1.8%
1,410
2.0%
Subcontracting 
charges
5,216
7.1%
5,668
7.9%
Repairs and 
maintenance
2,379
3.2%
2,458
3.4%
Other expenses
4,768
6.5%
4,617
6.5%
Total
13,882
18.9%
14,342
20.1%
•	
Subcontracting charges marginally decreased as a 
percentage of revenue.
•	
Repairs and maintenance expense and Travel expenses are 
in line with the business requirements.
•	
Other expenses remained constant at 6.5% of revenue. 
Finance costs
Finance costs have marginally decreased from 1.6% in FY 24 
to 1.3% in FY 25 as a percentage of revenue. The Company 
through its efficient cash collection and cash management 
framework, has managed to retire its long-term debts through 
FY25 in DET segment.
Depreciation and amortization expense
During FY 25, depreciation and amortization expense has 
marginally increased by ₹ 5 Mn from ₹ 2,667 Mn (3.7% of 
revenue) in FY 24 to ₹ 2,672 Mn (3.6% of revenue) in FY 25. 
Tax Expense
The Group’s effective tax rate has increased from 23.5% in 
FY24 to 25.9% in FY25 due to certain one-time tax benefits 
availed in the previous financial year change in the profit and 
tax rate of subsidiaries operating in various jurisdictions and 
capital gains tax on account of equity stake sale in Cyient DLM 
Limited in FY 25.
Net profit attributable to the shareholders
The net profit stands at ₹ 6,157 Mn for FY25 as compared to ₹ 
6,828 Mn in FY24. 
Decrease in the net profit of ₹ 671 Mn in FY 25 as compared to 
FY 24 is attributable to the following reasons:
•	
Decrease in DET revenue by 1.6% offset with an increase in 
DLM revenue by 27.5%
•	
Increase in profit attributable to non-controlling interests 
of Cyient DLM Limited due to equity stake sale of 14.5% in 
August 2024.
•	
Share of loss accounted in FY 25 from its investment in 
associate, Azimuth Inc. made in November 2024.
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025
Particulars
₹ Mn
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
 
Shareholders' funds
 
-     Share capital
555
555
-     Reserves and surplus
57,049
45,014
Total - Shareholders' funds (Including non-controlling interest)
57,604
45,569
Non-current liabilities
-     Long-term borrowings 
982
2,783
-     Lease liabilities
2,072
2465
140  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Particulars
₹ Mn
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
-     Other financial liabilities
107
4
-     Long-term provisions
1,746
1,795
-     Deferred tax liabilities (net)
734
839
Total - Non-current liabilities
5,641
7,886
Current liabilities
-     Short-term borrowings
1,156
1,743
-     Lease liabilities
924
885
-     Trade payables
3,934
5,001
-     Other current liabilities
6,332
7,808
-     Short-term provisions
1,355
1,144
Total - Current liabilities
13,701
16,581
TOTAL - EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
76,946
70,036
ASSETS
Non-current assets
-    Property, plant and equipment (including ROU  
       & intangible assets)
12,036
12,146
-    Goodwill 
18,040
16,692
-     Investment accounted for using the equity method
563
-
-     Non-current investments
2,798
3,598
-     Deferred tax assets (net)
861
752
-     Other non-current assets
1,193
1,257
Total - Non-current assets
35,491
34,445
Current assets
-     Inventories
5,766
4,676
-     Current investments
1,654
758
-     Trade receivables
14,067
12,617
-     Cash and bank balances
13,142
9,835
-     Other assets (including contract assets)
6,826
7,705
Total - Current assets
41,455
35,591
 TOTAL ASSETS
76,946
70,036
Share capital
The Company has only one class of shares – equity shares 
with a par value of ₹5 each. The Authorized share capital of the 
Company was 280,000,000 equity shares. 
Reserves and Surplus
Reserves and surplus increased from ₹ 45,014 Mn as of March 
31, 2024, to ₹ 57,049 Mn as of March 31, 2025, primarily due to 
profit generated during FY25 of ₹ 6,483 Mn and DLM stake sale 
proceeds of ₹ 8,739 Mn attributable to the Company and non-
controlling interest.
IPO of Cyient DLM Limited
During the previous year ended March 31, 2024, the Company 
had diluted 33.33% of its stake (i.e., on June 06, 2023 -7.16% 
and July 10, 2023 -26.18%) in Cyient DLM Limited (‘DLM’) 
thereby decreasing its ownership interest from 100.00% to 
66.67%. 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  141 
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Company has 
further diluted 14.50% of its stake (i.e. on August 21, 2024) 
thereby decreasing its ownership interest from 66.67% 
to 52.17% and has opted to measure the non-controlling 
interests at proportionate share of the value in net assets. This 
reduction has not resulted in loss of control for the Group.
Non-controlling interest share in Cyient DLM Limited as at 
March 31, 2025 was ₹ 4,541 Mn (March 31, 2024 - ₹ 3,020 Mn)
Borrowings
The non-current borrowings decreased from ₹ 2,783 Mn as 
of March 31, 2024, to ₹ 982 Mn as of March 31, 2025, due to 
net repayment of ₹1,801 during the year. Repayment includes 
both scheduled repayment and pre-closure of loans. 
The current borrowings decreased from ₹ 1,743 Mn as of 
March 31, 2024, to ₹ 1,156 Mn as of March 31, 2025, due to net 
repayment of ₹ 587 Mn during the year.
Trade payables
Trade payables consist of payables toward the purchase of 
goods and services and stood at ₹ 3,934 Mn as of March 31, 
2025 (₹ 5,001 Mn as of March 31, 2024).
This includes payables to micro and small enterprises of ₹ 84 
Mn as at March 31, 2025 (₹ 106 Mn as of March 31, 2024). 
Property, plant, and equipment (including intangible assets)
₹ Mn
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Property, plant and 
equipment
4,462
4,481
Other intangible assets
3,839
4,632
Intangible assets under 
development
558
418
Right-of-use assets
3,271
2,770
Capital work-in-prog-
ress
16
27
Total 
12,146
12,328
Movement in Property, plant and equipment is explained 
below: 
•	
Additions to property, plant and equipment and other 
intangible assets of ₹ 1,609 Mn towards computers, 
buildings, plant and equipment, computer software and 
others. 
•	
Additions to right-of-use assets by ₹ 825 Mn towards 
buildings, computers and vehicles.
•	
Intangible assets under development (acquired through 
business combination) pertain to the development cost of 
software dedicated to the automation, management, and 
monitoring of mobile networks.
•	
Depreciation and amortization expense for FY 25 was 
₹ 2,672 Mn.
Goodwill 
The increase in Goodwill of ₹ 1,348 Mn during FY25 represents 
goodwill attributable towards Altek Electronics LLC USA 
(‘Altek’) acquisition of ₹ 638 Mn in DLM segment, Abu Dhabi 
& Gulf Computers Establishment (‘ADGCE’) acquisition of ₹ 
86 Mn in DET segment and balance attributable for foreign 
currency translation adjustments. 
Altek is a Connecticut-based electronic manufacturing 
services provider which assembles printed circuit board (PCB) 
and box builds for medical, industrial/commercial, aerospace, 
defense, telecommunications, and transportation industries. 
It offers PCB assembly, SMT assembly, through hole, BGA, 
automated optical inspection, wire and cable harness, selective 
solder, wave soldering, test, leadless device placement, 
conformal coating and potting, burn-in, high voltage soldering, 
traceability, and mechanical assembly solutions.
ADGCE is an Abu Dhabi-based technology consulting 
and digital services company, primarily serving clients in 
the Energy sector. The acquisition aligns with the Group’s 
strategic roadmap to expand its global presence, particularly 
in the Middle East, one of the world’s largest energy markets, 
and to drive growth in the Sustainability business.
The Group tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. 
Based on the evaluation of cash flow projections for DET 
business and market capitalization of DLM, there were no 
indicators for impairment in FY 25.
Non-current investments 
Non-current investments have decreased from ₹3,598 Mn as 
of March 31, 2024, to ₹2,798 Mn as of March 31, 2025, primarily 
due to reclass from non-current to current investments and 
realization on maturity date.
During the year ended March 31, 2025, changes in the 
fair valuation of financial instruments recognized in other 
comprehensive income include a ₹353 million decline in the fair 
value of an investment in an IP-based communications company 
recognized in Cyient DLM Limited, Company’s subsidiary. 
This decrease is mainly attributed to the extended lead time 
in order development and execution. However, management 
anticipates that the investment’s value will recover in the 
coming years as the company launches its products.
142  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Investment in Associate
On November 29, 2024, the Company, through its subsidiary 
Cyient Semiconductors Inc., USA entered into a Share Purchase 
Agreement (‘SPA’) with Azimuth AI Inc., USA (‘Azimuth’) and 
acquired a 27.62% stake, for a consideration of $ 7.25 Mn (₹ 
612 Mn). Azimuth is an Embedded Silicon Product company 
in developing highly differentiated ASICs for Edge Computing 
Applications. Consequent to this acquisition, Azimuth became 
an ‘Associate’ of the Company. The transaction has been 
accounted for using the equity method as per IND AS 28. 
Cash and bank balances
Total cash and bank balances consist of following:
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Cash and cash  
equivalents
10,706
4,848
Bank balances
2,436
4,987
Cash and Bank  
balances
13,142
9,835
During the year, the Group generated free cash flow from 
operations of ₹ 6,879 Mn representing 105% conversion of 
PAT for FY 25. 
Increase in closing balance of cash and bank balances is due 
to proceeds from equity stake sale in Cyient DLM Limited 
and offset by the short term and long-term loan repayments 
during the year. 
The Company deploys its surplus funds in fixed deposits, 
bonds, mutual funds and other approved instruments in line 
with an approved policy.
Trade receivables
The trade receivables have increased from ₹12,617 Mn as of 
March 31, 2024, to ₹ 14,067 Mn as of March 31, 2025. 
The Group DSO (Days sales outstanding) was at 86 days as of 
March 31, 2025 and 83 days at March 31, 2024. {DSO is arrived 
by considering trade receivables and contract assets}
Other current assets (including contract assets)
Other current assets have decreased from ₹7,705 Mn as of 
March 31, 2024, to ₹ 6,826 Mn as of March 31, 2025, primarily 
due to decrease in contract assets by ₹ 444 Mn. 
Financial Ratios
The following are ratios for the current financial year and 
their comparison with the preceding financial year, along with 
explanations where the change has been 25% or more when 
compared to the immediately preceding financial year:
Sl. No
Ratio Description
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Variance
Explanation
1
Debtors turnover (in days)
86
83
(4%)
2
Inventory turnover (in days)
133
138
4%
3
Interest coverage ratio
10.1
8.7
15%
4
Current ratio
3.03
2.15
41%
Note (i)
5
Debt equity ratio
0.04
0.10
60%
Note (ii)
6
Operating margin (%)
15.5%
18.2%
(2.7%)
7
Net profit margin (%)
9.0%
9.6%
(0.6%)
8
Return on net worth (%)
11.9%
17.0%
(5.1%)
(i) 	 Current ratio has increased due to net repayment of short-term borrowings of ₹ 587 Mn during the year and increase in cash 
balance on account of equity stake sale of 14.5% in Cyient DLM Limited.
(ii)	 Decrease in debt-equity ratio is due to net repayment of both short term and long-term borrowings of ₹ 2,388 Mn during the 
year.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  143 
People Function 
At Cyient, our associates remain our greatest strength and the 
foundation of our success. As we advance on our journey of 
transformation and growth, our people strategy continues to 
focus on building a high-performance culture anchored in well-
being, continuous learning, inclusion, and excellence. FY25 
saw us deepen this commitment through multiple strategic 
initiatives that have helped us attract, retain, and develop top 
talent while creating an equitable and engaging workplace.
Managerial and Leadership Development
Our focus on leadership development remained strong in 
FY25. The Global Leadership Programs for Emerging and 
Business Leaders continued to build future-ready capabilities 
across managerial levels, delivered through a mix of hybrid 
workshops, leader talks, and action learning projects. Notably, 
18% of participants in these programs were promoted within 
the year, reflecting the direct impact of these interventions on 
career progression.
The Women in Leadership initiative was expanded further 
to include a larger cohort of participants. The program, 
featuring workshops, mentoring, and speaker sessions with 
accomplished women leaders, reflects our commitment to 
creating a diverse leadership pipeline.
The 
Managing@Cyient 
initiative 
also 
saw 
continued 
implementation, supporting both new and existing managers 
with consistent global frameworks to enhance people 
leadership effectiveness.
Technical Competency Development
FY25 marked significant strides in technical capability-building. 
Anchored in our vision to become a fully digital organization, 
we introduced several high-impact skilling initiatives:
•	
	The Technology Leadership Program (TLP) continues to 
be a cornerstone in shaping senior technical leadership 
and driving innovation across our offerings. In FY25, 
33% of the new graduates were women, reinforcing our 
commitment to developing diverse leadership talent.
•	
	The newly launched Technology Career Path (TCP) 
program delivers deep domain training aligned with four 
critical Megatrends: Digital Healthcare, Industry 4.0 and 
Smart Operations, Intelligent and Meta-Mobility, and 
Sustainability.
•	
	Our Skilling Initiatives have significantly expanded 
associate capabilities across digital and traditional 
technologies, including Generative AI, Automation, 
Telecom 5G, Cloud Computing, and Simulation.
•	
	Through cross-skilling efforts, nearly 25% of new role 
fulfillment has been achieved via internal redeployment, 
strengthening our organizational agility and adaptability.
In addition, our Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) curated 
new digital content to streamline technical onboarding and 
accelerate productivity.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI)
Our DEI agenda advanced with purpose in FY25. Special hiring 
drives and targeted interventions led to an increase in gender 
diversity, particularly in lateral and mid-management hiring. 
Our cross-functional DEI team continues to embed inclusive 
practices across business units, reinforcing our vision of a 
workplace where every associate feels welcomed, valued, 
and empowered to contribute their unique perspective.
Associate Engagement & ASAT
We are proud to report on the continued strength of our 
Associate Satisfaction (ASAT) score, reflecting the positive 
impact of our engagement efforts. Regular feedback 
mechanisms and open communication channels have 
helped us respond to associate needs swiftly and effectively, 
reinforcing trust and transparency across the organization.
Well-being and Total Rewards
Our Total Rewards philosophy continues to deliver a balanced 
approach to compensation, healthcare, benefits, learning, and 
culture. This year, we introduced the Company Co-sponsored 
OPD Plan and Annual Health checkup schemes.
In the US, we introduced two new benefits in 2025 to enhance 
associate support and inclusivity - Touchcare, a personal 
health assistant service, and Domestic Partner Coverage, 
enabling associates to enroll their domestic partners and their 
children in Cyient’s health plans.
Our focus on mental and physical well-being remained strong 
through Wellbeing Wednesdays and employee assistance 
programs. These initiatives continue to foster a healthier, 
happier, and more productive workforce.
This year, we were proud to be recognized with the prestigious 
SHRM HR Excellence Award 2024 in the “Excellence in 
Total Rewards” category. This recognition, awarded at the 
enterprise level across industries, is a testament to our Total 
Rewards philosophy, which emphasizes Compensation & 
Benefits, Career Growth & Learning, and Culture. Our 
framework is rooted in pay equity and inclusivity, ensuring that 
every associate has an equal opportunity to thrive, grow, and 
contribute meaningfully.
144  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure - 5
ANNUAL REPORT ON CSR ACTIVITIES
(Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, 
as amended)
1.	
A BRIEF OUTLINE ON THE COMPANY’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (“CSR”) POLICY OF THE COMPANY:
	
A)	 ABOUT COMPANY’S CSR POLICY:
The CYIENT CSR Policy (herein after referred to as the “CSR Policy”) encompasses the company’s philosophy for 
delineating its responsibilities as a Responsible Corporate Citizen. It lays down the guidelines and mechanism for 
undertaking socially useful program for welfare and sustainable development of the community at large. 
The CSR policy shall apply to all CSR initiatives and activities being undertaken at the various Cyient work-centers 
across all locations in India and activities taken up at the various offices and global locations of Cyient, for the benefit of 
the society—a key stakeholder of the company.
The CSR Policy and the operational guidelines are framed with subject to and pursuant to the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) and the rules and regulations made thereunder.
Cyient’s CSR activities are spearheaded by the Cyient Foundation. Cyient is guided by its CSR committee and CSR 
Policy and vision. The Company has formed a CSR committee (designated as ESG Committee) as per Section 135 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 to formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy which shall 
indicate the activities to be undertaken by the company as specified by law. 
CSR programs are focused under 5 pillars i.e., 
a)	
Education & Digital Literacy
b)	
Women Empowerment & Skill Development
c)	
Preventive Health Care & Rural Development
d)	
Environmental Protection & Conservation
e)	
Innovation and Entrepreneurship
	
B)	 CSR OBJECTIVE, VISION AND MISSION STATEMENTS:
Cyient believes in the philosophy of returning to society as a measure of gratitude for what it has taken from it. In view 
of this, the company’s CSR aims to extend beyond charity and enhance social impact. 
Cyient’s ‘Global Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility’ outlines its philosophy of “Empowering Tomorrow 
Together” Cyient and its subsidiaries’ abiding concern for society and environment. As responsible corporate citizens, 
we undertake several transformational initiatives that contribute towards community empowerment and all-round 
societal development. With strategic social investments in several key areas like Education, Digital Literacy, Healthcare, 
Community Development - Smart Villages, Environmental Protection, Skill development & Employment, and Innovation 
& Entrepreneurship, we foster long-term sustainable community development, and drive growth initiatives that aim to 
make a meaningful impact in people’s lives.
1.b.1.	
The Company’s CSR vision includes the following:
•	
To help underprivileged children to access the quality education;
•	
To upskill the unemployed youth and women for sustainable living.
•	
To participate in projects with business aligned social innovation, healthcare & preventive healthcare and 
responsive to the community needs. 
•	
To extend support to the community development programs by participating in disaster management and 
environmental protection.
•	
To extend support to Innovation and Entrepreneurship.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  145 
	
C)	 THE COMPANY’S CSR MISSION
Achieving long-term, holistic development of the community around us by being committed to create and support 
programs that bring about sustainable changes through education, digital literacy, skill development, environmental 
protection, innovation and entrepreneurship and healthcare systems.
	
D)	 UNDERTAKING CSR ACTIVITIES
CSR programs are aligned to the key focus are implemented through Cyient Foundation
a)	
Education & Digital Literacy – Provide quality education through school adoption, Digital Literacy through Cyient 
Digital Centers;
b)	
Women Empowerment & Skill Development – Operate Rural & Urban Skill Centers to provide skills and employment 
to women
c)	
Preventive Health Care & Rural Development - Preventive health care services, Develop Sanitation & Hygiene 
(WASH) Facilities; 
d)	
Environmental Protection & Conservation – Promotion of Greenery, Water Conservation and Renewable Energy;
e)	
Innovation & Entrepreneurship – School of Innovation and Entrepreneurship;
	
The surplus arising out of the CSR activities, projects or programs shall not form part of the business profit of the 
Company;
2.	
THE COMPOSITION OF THE CSR COMMITTEE: 
The CSR Committee subsumed on constitution of ESG Committee, which currently deals with all matters pertaining to 
Corporate Social Responsibility. Accordingly, the details of ESG Committee have been provided in the report. The ESG 
Committee has been constituted in line with the requirements of provisions of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 are 
as follows: 
Sl. 
No.
Name of the 
Director
Designation /
Nature of Directorship
Number of meetings of CSR 
Committee held during the year
Number of meetings of CSR 
Committee attended during the 
year
1.
Vikas Sehgal
Chairperson, Independent 
Director
1
1
2.
B.V.R. Mohan 
Reddy
Member, Non-Executive 
Director
1
1
3.
Krishna Bodanapu Member, Executive 
Director
1
1
3.	
WEB-LINK(S) WHERE COMPOSITION OF CSR COMMITTEE, CSR POLICY AND CSR PROJECTS APPROVED BY THE 
BOARD ARE DISCLOSED ON THE WEBSITE OF THE COMPANY:
	
The details can be found at the following links:
•	
CSR 
Policy: 
https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/2023/FY23-Financials/Q4/Cyient_CSR_Policy_Document_Revised_
V3.3.pdf 
•	
CSR Global Policy: https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/2023/FY23-Financials/Cyient_CSR_Global_Policy_-_V1.0.pdf 
•	
ESG Factbook: https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/2024/Investors/Corporate%20Governance/ESG_Factbook.pdf
4.	
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ALONG WITH THE DETAILS OF IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF CSR PROJECTS CARRIED OUT 
IN PURSUANCE OF SUB-RULE (3) OF RULE 8 OF THE COMPANIES (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY) 
RULES, 2014:
	
Cyient CSR activities are periodically assessed through Impact assessments, Cyient appoints agencies to perform SIA 
(Social Impact Assessments) through independent assessment agencies, assessments were conducted on Education & 
IT Literacy, Skills & Employment, Community Development and Environmental Initiatives. The same may be accessed 
at 
https://www.cyient.com/about-us/social-responsibility-0?hs_preview=IvHwHYMP-113646554680 
under 
Social 
Responsibility Tab.
146  |  Annual Report 2024-25
5.	
AMOUNTS STATED IN THIS REPORT ARE IN ₹ MILLION, UNLESS OTHERWISE SPECIFIED
(A)	 AVERAGE NET PROFIT OF THE COMPANY AS PER SUB-SECTION (5) OF SECTION 135:
CSR Computation for FY 24 -25
Particulars
FY 2021 - 22
FY 2022 - 2023
FY 2023 - 2024
Net profit for deciding the CSR criteria
4,962
4,412
5,977
Average Profit for preceding 3 years
5,117
CSR @2%
102
(B)	 TWO PERCENT OF AVERAGE NET PROFIT OF THE COMPANY SUB-SECTION (5) OF SECTION 135: ₹102 MILLION
(C)	 SURPLUS ARISING OUT OF THE CSR PROJECTS OR PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES OF THE PREVIOUS FINANCIAL YEARS: NA
(D)	 AMOUNT REQUIRED TO BE SET OFF FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR, IF ANY: ₹30 MILLION
(E)	 TOTAL CSR OBLIGATION FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR (5(B)+5(C)-5(D)): ₹72 MILLION
6.	
(A)	 AMOUNT SPENT ON CSR PROJECTS (BOTH ONGOING PROJECT AND OTHER THAN ONGOING PROJECT):
	
(i)	
Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year: Nil
	
(ii)	 Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year: ₹ 69 Million
(B)	 AMOUNT SPENT IN ADMINISTRATIVE OVERHEADS: ₹ 1 MILLION
(C)	 AMOUNT SPENT ON IMPACT ASSESSMENT, IF APPLICABLE: ₹ 2 MILLION
(D)	 TOTAL AMOUNT SPENT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR (6(A)+6(B)+6(C)): ₹ 72 MILLION
(E)	 CSR AMOUNT SPENT OR UNSPENT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR:
Total Amount Spent 
for the Financial Year 
2024-25
(in ₹ Million)
Amount Unspent (in ₹ Million)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR 
Account as per section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under
Schedule VII as per second proviso to sub-section (5)
of section 135
Amount.
Date of transfer.
Name of the Fund
Amount.
Date of transfer.
72
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
Annual Report 2024-25  |  147 
(F)	 Details of excess amount for set off, if any:
Sl. 
No.
Particulars
Amount (in ₹ Million)
1.
2.
3.
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135
102
(ii)
Total obligation for the Financial Year
102
(iii) Amount setoff in the current financial year
30
(iv) Total Amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(iii)]
72
(v)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programs or Activities of the previous financial year, if 
any
 NA
(v)
Amount available for setoff in succeeding financial year
 NA
7.	
DETAILS OF UNSPENT CSR AMOUNT FOR THE PRECEDING THREE FINANCIAL YEARS: 
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
Sl.
No.
Preceding Financial 
Year
Amount transferred 
to Unspent CSR 
Account under section 
subsection (6) of
section 135 (in ₹)
Balance Amount 
in Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub- section (6) of
section 135 (in ₹)
Amount spent 
in the
Reporting 
Financial Year 
(in ₹)
Amount transferred to any fund 
specified under Schedule VII as per 
second proviso to sub-section (5) of 
section 135, if any
Amount remaining 
to be spent in 
succeeding 
financial years. 
(in ₹)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount (in ₹)
Date of transfer
1.
2023-24
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2.
2022-23
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3.
2021-22
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
TOTAL
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
8.	
WHETHER ANY CAPITAL ASSET(S) HAVE BEEN CREATED OR ACQUIRED THROUGH CSR AMOUNT SPENT IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR:
Yes
No
(a)	 If Yes, enter the number of Capital asset(s) created/ acquired: NA
(b)	 Details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through CSR amount spent in the Financial Year:
Sl. 
No.
Short particulars of the property or 
asset(s), including complete address 
and location of the property
Pin code of 
the property 
or asset(s)
Date of creation
Amount of CSR
Amount spent 
(in ₹)
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
CSR Registration
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
address
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
148  |  Annual Report 2024-25
9.	
SPECIFY THE REASON(S), IF THE COMPANY HAS FAILED TO SPEND TWO PER CENT OF THE AVERAGE NET PROFIT AS PER SUBSECTION (5) OF SECTION 135:
	
Your Directors state that the Company has spent an amount of ₹ 102 Million as against the CSR obligation of ₹ 102 Million. The Company has accordingly spent an 
amount as prescribed CSR expenditure and therefore disclosing the reasons for not spending the prescribed CSR expenditure is not applicable.
Name
Krishna Bodanapu
Vikas Sehgal
Designation
Managing Director
(Chairman-ESG Committee)
DIN
00605187
05218876
Place
Hyderabad
Hyderabad
Date
23 April 2025
23 April 2025
Annual Report 2024-25  |  149 
Annexure - 6
Independent Auditor’s Report on compliance with the conditions 
of Corporate Governance as per provisions of Chapter IV of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended
THE MEMBERS OF CYIENT LIMITED
1.	
The Corporate Governance Report prepared by Cyient Limited (hereinafter the “Company”), contains details as specified in 
regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) [and (t)] of sub – regulation (2) of regulation 46 and para C, D, and E of Schedule V of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended 
(“the Listing Regulations”) (‘Applicable criteria’) for the year ended March 31, 2025 as required by the Company for annual 
submission to the Stock exchange.
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
2.	
The preparation of the Corporate Governance Report is the responsibility of the Management of the Company including 
the preparation and maintenance of all relevant supporting records and documents. This responsibility also includes the 
design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Corporate 
Governance Report.
3.	
The Management along with the Board of Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the Company complies with the 
conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations, issued by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY
4.	
Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, our responsibility is to provide a reasonable assurance in the form 
of an opinion whether, the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as specified in the Listing 
Regulations.
5.	
We conducted our examination of the Corporate Governance Report in accordance with the Guidance Note on Reports 
or Certificates for Special Purposes and the Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance, both issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). The Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes 
requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by ICAI.
6.	
We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality Control 
for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services 
Engagements.
7.	
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks associated in compliance 
of the Corporate Governance Report with the applicable criteria. Summary of procedures performed include:
i.	
Read and understood the information prepared by the Company and included in its Corporate Governance Report;
ii.	
Obtained and verified that the composition of the Board of Directors with respect to executive and non-executive 
directors has been met throughout the reporting period;
iii.	 Obtained and read the Register of Directors as on March 31, 2025 and verified that at least one independent woman 
director was on the Board of Directors throughout the year;
iv.	 Obtained and read the minutes of the following committee meetings / other meetings held April 01, 2024 to March 31, 
2025:
(a)	 Board of Directors;
(b)	 Audit Committee;
150  |  Annual Report 2024-25
(c)	 Annual General Meeting (AGM) / Extra Ordinary General Meeting (EGM);
(d)	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee;
(e)	 Stakeholders Relationship Committee; 
(f)	 Risk Management Committee
v.	
Obtained necessary declarations from the directors of the Company.
vi.	 Obtained and read the policy adopted by the Company for related party transactions. 
vii.	 Obtained the schedule of related party transactions during the year and balances at the year- end. Obtained and read 
the minutes of the audit committee meeting where in such related party transactions have been pre-approved prior by 
the audit committee. 
viii.	 Performed necessary inquiries with the management and also obtained necessary specific representations from 
management.
8.	 The above-mentioned procedures include examining evidence supporting the particulars in the Corporate 
Governance Report on a test basis. Further, our scope of work under this report did not involve us performing 
audit tests for the purposes of expressing an opinion on the fairness or accuracy of any of the financial 
information or the financial statements of the Company taken as a whole. 
OPINION
9.	
Based on the procedures performed by us, as referred in paragraph 7 above, and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, we are of the opinion that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance 
as specified in the Listing Regulations, as applicable for the year ended March 31, 2025, referred to in paragraph 4 above.
OTHER MATTERS AND RESTRICTION ON USE
10.	 This report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with which 
the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
11.	 This report is addressed to and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose of enabling it to comply 
with its obligations under the Listing Regulations with reference to compliance with the relevant regulations of Corporate 
Governance and should not be used by any other person or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept or assume 
any liability or any duty of care or for any other purpose or to any other party to whom it is shown or into whose hands it may 
come without our prior consent in writing. We have no responsibility to update this report for events and circumstances 
occurring after the date of this report.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP 
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004 
per Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership Number: 093649 
UDIN: 25093649BMOISO1438 
Place of Signature: Hyderabad
Date: April 24, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25  |  151 
Annexure - 7 
Report on Corporate Governance
In pursuance of Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a Report on Corporate Governance for the 
FY 25 is presented below: 
1.	
CYIENT PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE:
We at Cyient follow the highest standards of Corporate Governance and best practices by adopting the “Cyient Limited – 
Manual on Corporate Governance” as the norm for all constituent companies in the Group. 
We at Cyient believe that Corporate Governance is about internalizing and manifesting a firm commitment to the adoption 
of ethical Practices across the Company to deliver value in all of its transactions with a wide group of stakeholders 
encompassing of associates, customers, vendors, regulators and shareholders at all times. It is in this background that the 
Company whole heartedly embraces good governance practices. The Company believes that Corporate Governance is an 
integral means for the existence of the Company. It ensures adherence to the moral and ethical values, legal and regulatory 
framework and the adoption of good practices beyond the realms of law. 
Corporate Governance is intertwined with the business of the Company and the principles are dovetailed into its activities.
We at Cyient believe that Corporate Governance is a 
system of structuring, operating, guiding and directing 
a Company; Corporate Governance facilitates effective, 
entrepreneurial and prudent management that can deliver 
the long-term success of the Company. It is a continuous 
process by which the values, principles, management 
policies and procedures of the Company are inculcated 
and manifested. 
Good Corporate Governance is an intrinsic part of the 
Company’s fiduciary responsibility as a responsible citizen. 
Further, the Company believes that good Corporate 
Governance is vital to the developing a healthy and good 
relations with the various stakeholders and deepening the 
trust reposed by them. 
As such, the Company emphasizes on transparency of 
operations. The Company recognizes that to attract, meet 
and surpass the expectations of global investors, statutory 
disclosures and reporting norms are not sufficient and 
voluntary adherence to best international disclosure 
practices is a sine qua non. These practices enable the 
Company to establish enduring relationships with all the 
stakeholders and optimize the growth paradigm.
Corporate Governance in the Company is predicated 
upon an ethos of transparency, accountability, fairness 
and overall sustainability. It aims at the following:
•	 Fulfilling long-term strategic goals
•	 Taking care of the interests of the associates
•	 Maintaining excellent relations with customers and 
suppliers
•	 Complying with all applicable laws and regulatory 
requirements
•	 Caring for the environment and local community
152  |  Annual Report 2024-25
OUR VALUES:
Our Values ‘FIRST’ give us direction and show us how to drive differentiation in all our endeavour. It helps us reinvent with time 
and ensure that our customers succeed. 
This is how we navigate the business landscapes seamlessly. This is how we ‘Design Tomorrow, Together’.
Our Value is the sum of our values and at Cyient, it has been a part of our DNA ever since our journey began in 1991. We identified 
an indisputable value system that would act as a foundation of our culture, behaviour, and actions. The values ‘FIRST’ outline 
a set of characteristics expected not only from Cyient as an entity, but also from every individual – in external interactions and 
internal activities. 
ValuesFIRST stands for
Values always come first at Cyient 
Realistic and 
reliable at all 
times
Unbiased in 
decisions and 
impartial in actions
Objectivity, and 
honesty in every 
transaction
Dignity at all time, 
Recognition  
when it is due
Open to 
suggestions, 
feedback, and ideas
Annual Report 2024-25  |  153 
BEST GOVERNANCE PRACTICES:
We endeavour in further improving and enhancing our good governance practices in the relentless pursuit of corporate and 
business excellence. As such, we adopt, adapt and implement - voluntarily - some of the most robust and laudable good 
governance practices across the Board. 
ANTI CORRUPTION AND ANTI BRIBERY PRACTICES:
We at Cyient have zero tolerance of bribery and this applies to Cyient and its subsidiaries. All our entities observe compliance 
with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the ‘FCPA’), UK Bribery Act of 2010 (‘UK Act’), and other anticorruption 
laws, as amended from time to time.
In line with the said objective, the Company has formulated an Anticorruption Policy to prevent violations of the FCPA, UK Act, 
and other anticorruption laws or appearance of impropriety or corruption, and to satisfy the Company’s obligation to have 
adequate procedures for monitoring, detecting, preventing and punishing any violations of the Anti-Bribery Laws and other 
anticorruption laws, in place. It is an obligation of all the Cyient associates to comply with the Anticorruption Policy of the 
Company.
WEBLINK:
The Anti-Corruption Policy and the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be found at the website of the Company at the 
‘Corporate Governance’ section at the following link:
https://www.cyient.com/investors/corporate-governance/
STRONG GOVERNANCE POLICIES:
The Company constantly strives to conduct its business and strengthen its relationships in a dignified, distinctive and responsible 
manner. Towards this, the Company has adopted several policies and guidelines for ethical and transparent operations. 
 
154  |  Annual Report 2024-25
These include:
WEBLINK:
The details of the policies and documents cited above can be found at the website of the Company at the ‘Corporate Governance’ 
section at the following link:
https://www.cyient.com/investors/corporate-governance/
GLOBAL GOVERNANCE MANUAL:
Your Company values the adoption of high standards of Corporate Governance in all its dealings in India and abroad. The Company 
also recognizes the importance of ensuring uniformity in governance processes and practices across the Group globally.
Given this, the Company has codified the Group’s governance philosophy, approach, and practices and developed a Corporate 
Governance Manual (“Manual”). The Manual is intended to function as a structured framework and guide to the Board, 
management and employees and to enable the Company achieve its vision, mission and attain sustainable growth, in the best 
interest of all stakeholders.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  155 
THE MANUAL:
a.	
Has been prepared in line with the Indian regulatory 
framework i.e., the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations, tax 
laws and other applicable laws and the Memorandum and 
Articles of Association of the Company.
b.	
Incorporates Indian and global Corporate Governance 
best practices and key requirements under the S&P 
Corporate Sustainability Assessment – Dow Jones 
Sustainability Index (“DJSI”).
c.	
Covers key governance aspects including those related to 
the Company’s structure and principles, Environmental, 
Social 
and 
Governance 
(“ESG”) 
agenda, 
Board, 
Committees and management, delegation of authority, 
subsidiaries and code of conduct/ ethics.
d.	
Should be read in tandem with the codes and policies of 
the Company approved by the Board from time to time. 
The links to the codes and policies of the Company are 
also provided in the Manual itself for easy reference.
e.	
Is intended as a ‘living document’ in the context of 
changing regulations and emerging best practices 
towards enhancing the Group’s governance. 
A process has been instituted for ongoing review of the 
Company’s compliance with the guiding principles laid 
down in the Manual.
WEBLINK:
Some of the implemented global governance norms and best 
practices can be found at the website of the Company at the 
‘Corporate Governance’ section at the following link:
https://www.cyient.com/investors/corporate-governance/
A)	 DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY:
In order to meet the requirements of General Data 
Protection Regulations (GDPR), the Company has been 
working diligently to put in place a new data privacy 
framework including: improved procedures, policies, 
communications and training materials in line with the 
guidance received from the regulator and is committed 
to ongoing improvements in the area of data privacy both 
within Europe and its operations globally.
B)	 MODERN SLAVERY:
Cyient prohibits all forms of modern slavery including all 
acts of human trafficking, forced or compulsory labour, 
slavery, forced marriage, servitude, debt bondage, 
deceptive recruiting for labour or services and the worst 
forms of child labour, including situations where children 
are subjected to slavery or similar practices, or engaged in 
hazardous work, in its organisation, business operations, 
and supply chain. The Company has published a Modern 
Slavery Statement outlining the steps that it has taken 
to ensure that there is no modern slavery in its business 
and supply chains. In addition to ensuring compliance 
with the applicable laws, this demonstrates Company’s 
commitment to transparent business practices and to 
protection of workers’ rights.
C)	 AUDITS AND INTERNAL CHECKS:
Besides the external auditors, the Company has its own 
internal check cell that reviews internal controls and 
other operating systems and procedures. A dedicated 
compliance cell is in existence in the Company to review 
and maintain high standards of legal, statutory and 
regulatory compliances. The purview of this system 
includes various statutes such as, industrial and labour 
laws, taxation laws, corporate and securities laws, health, 
safety and environmental laws.
D)	 MANAGEMENT INITIATIVES FOR CONTROLS AND 
COMPLIANCE:
The Company incorporated an integral framework 
for managing risks and internal controls. The internal 
financial controls have been documented, embedded and 
digitalised in the business process. Internal controls are 
regularly tested for design, implementation and operating 
effectiveness.
E)	
COMPLIANCE WITH SEBI LISTING REGULATIONS ON 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE:
The Company complies with the Corporate Governance 
provisions as specified in Chapter IV of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations. The Company lives by the principles of 
Corporate Governance and implements them in a manner 
so as to achieve the following avowed objectives.
F)	
THE RIGHTS OF SHAREHOLDERS:
The Company protects and facilitates the exercise of the 
rights of shareholders:
a)	
Right to participate in, and to be sufficiently informed 
of, decisions concerning fundamental corporate 
changes.
b)	
Opportunity to participate effectively and vote in 
general meetings.
c)	
Being informed of the rules, including voting 
procedures that govern general meetings.
d)	
Opportunity to ask questions to the Board of 
directors, to place items on the agenda of general 
meetings, and to propose resolutions, subject to 
reasonable and statutory limitations.
e)	
Exercise of ownership rights by all shareholders, 
including institutional investors.
f)	
Adequate mechanism to address the grievances of 
the shareholders.
156  |  Annual Report 2024-25
g)	
Protection of minority shareholders from abusive 
actions by, or in the interest of, controlling 
shareholders acting either directly or indirectly, and 
effective means of redress.
G)	 TIMELY INFORMATION:
The Company provides adequate and timely information 
to shareholders, including but not limited to sufficient 
and timely information concerning the date, location 
and agenda of general meetings, as well as full and timely 
information regarding the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.
H)	 EQUITABLE TREATMENT:
The Company ensures equitable treatment of all 
shareholders, including minority and foreign shareholders:
a)	
All shareholders of the same series are treated 
equally.
b)	
Effective shareholder participation in key Corporate 
Governance decisions, such as the nomination 
and election of members of Board of directors, is 
facilitated.
c)	
Exercise of voting rights by foreign shareholders is 
facilitated.
d)	
The Company has devised and implemented a 
framework to avoid insider trading and abusive self-
dealing.
e)	
Processes and procedures for general shareholder 
meetings allow for equitable treatment of all 
shareholders.
f)	
 Procedures adopted by the Company do not make it 
unduly difficult or expensive to cast votes.
I)	
ROLE 
OF 
STAKEHOLDERS 
IN 
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE:
a)	
The 
Company 
recognizes 
the 
rights 
of 
its 
stakeholders and encourages co-operation.
b)	
The Company respects the rights of stakeholders 
that are established by law or through mutual 
agreements. Stakeholders have the opportunity to 
obtain effective redressal for violation of their rights.
c)	
The Company ensures that all the stakeholders have 
access to relevant, sufficient and reliable information 
on a timely and regular basis to enable them to 
participate in Corporate Governance process.
d)	
The Company has devised an effective vigil 
mechanism/whistle blower mechanism enabling 
stakeholders, including individual employees and 
their representative bodies, to freely communicate 
their concerns about illegal or unethical practices.
J)	
DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY:
The Company ensures timely and accurate disclosure 
on all material matters including the financial situation, 
performance, ownership, and governance of the listed entity, 
in the following manner:
a)	
Information is prepared and disclosed in accordance 
with the prescribed standards of accounting, financial 
and non-financial disclosure.
b)	
Channels for disseminating information provide for 
equal, timely and cost-efficient access to relevant 
information by users.
c)	
Minutes of the meeting are maintained explicitly 
recording dissenting opinions, if any.
K)	 AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS:
	
The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) 
has awarded ICSI Life Time Achievement Award for 
Translating Excellence in Corporate Governance into 
Reality to Mr. B.V.R. Mohan Reddy, Founder Chairman of 
the Company.  The award was bestowed in recognition of 
his lifetime commitment and lasting contribution to the 
advancement of Corporate Governance.
2.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS: 
(A)	 BOARD 
COMPOSITION 
AND 
CATEGORY 
OF 
DIRECTORS:
The Company’s policy is to maintain an optimum 
combination of Executive and Non-Executive Directors. 
The Company believes in compliance with the law in letter 
and spirit and as a norm ensured compliance with the 
provisions of Regulation 17(1)(b) and has a diverse Board, 
with Independent Directors forming over half of the total 
Board strength.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  157 
1.	
BOARD DIVERSITY AND WOMEN INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS:
	
The Company has a truly diverse Board that includes and makes good use of diversity in the skills, regional and industry 
experience, background, race, gender, ethnicity and other distinctions among directors. This diversity is considered in 
determining the optimum composition of the Board. All Board appointments are made on merit, in the context of the skills, 
experience, independence and knowledge which the Board as a whole requires to be effective. 
	
Ms. Matangi Gowrishankar and Ms. Debjani Ghosh are appointed as Women Independent Directors of the Company.
2.	
CERTIFICATE BY THE PRACTICING COMPANY SECRETARY:
As required under the SEBI Listing Regulations, Mr. Krishna Mohan, a Practicing Company Secretary (Membership Number: 
46514 and CP Number: 16957) of Krishna Mohan and Associates, has submitted a certificate to the Company that none 
of the directors on the Board of the Company has been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as 
directors of companies by  SEBI/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.
3.	
CHANGES IN THE COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS DURING THE FY 25:
Details of changes in composition of Board of directors is provided in Board’s report.
(B)	 ATTENDANCE OF EACH DIRECTOR AT THE MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE LAST ANNUAL 
GENERAL MEETING:
Details of Board Attendance
Name 
DIN
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Total 
meet-
ings 
held
Attended
AGM 
Atten-
dance  
1 July 24
25 April 
24
11 
July 
24
25 July 
24
20 Au-
gust 24
24 
Octo-
ber24
23 
Jan-
uary 
25
19 
Feb-
ruary 
25
31 
March 
25
BVR Mohan 
Reddy
00058215
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
×
8
7/8
√
MM 
Murugappan
00170478
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
8
8/8
√
Krishna 
Bodanapu
00605187
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
8
8/8
√
Karthikeyan 
Natarajan1
03099771
√
√
√
√
√
×
Ø
Ø
6
5/6
√
Vikas Sehgal
05218876
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
8
8/8
√
Matangi 
Gowrishankar
01518137
√
√
√
√
√
√
×
√
8
7/8
√
Vivek N Gour
00254383
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
8
8/8
√
Ramesh 
Abhishek2
07452293
×
Ø
Ø
Ø
Ø
Ø
Ø
Ø
1
0/1
Ø
Nitin Prasad
05261866
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
8
8/8
√
Debjani 
Ghosh3
07820695
Ø
Ø
Ø
Ø
Ø
√
√
√
3
3/3
Ø
Sukamal 
Banerjee4
10535670
Ø
Ø
Ø
Ø
Ø
Ø
Ø
√
1
1/1
Ø
√: Yes/Attended; ×: No/Not Attended; Ø: Not eligible to attend; 
1Mr. Karthikeyan Natarajan resigned as an Executive Director and CEO of the Company with effect from 23 January 2025.
2Mr. Ramesh Abhishek resigned as an Independent Director of the Company with effect from 22 May 2024.
3Ms. Debjani Ghosh was appointed as an Independent Director of the Company with effect from 23 January 2025.
4Mr. Sukamal Banerjee was appointed as an Executive Director and CEO of the Company for a period of 5 years with effect from 
19 February 2025.
158  |  Annual Report 2024-25
(C)	 THE NUMBER OF DIRECTORSHIPS, COMMITTEE CHAIRMANSHIPS/ MEMBERSHIPS HELD IN OTHER COMPANIES BY 
EACH OF THE DIRECTORS IS TABLED BELOW: 
Sl. 
No
Name of the 
Director*
Number of other Directorship/Committee membership/Chairmanship
Board
Committee***
Chairmanships
Directorships**
Chairman-
ships
Member-
ships
Public 
Companies
Other 
Companies
Public 
Companies
Other 
Companies
1.
MM Murugappan
3
1
2
3
2
1
2.
BVR Mohan Reddy
-
-
2
9
-
1
3.
Krishna Bodanapu
1
-
1
5
-
2
4.
Matangi Gowrishankar
-
-
5
4
1
4
5.
Vivek N Gour
-
-
2
1
3
-
6.
Vikas Sehgal
-
-
1
4
1
-
7.
Nitin Prasad
-
-
-
-
-
1
8.
Debjani Ghosh
-
-
1
4
-
-
9.
Sukamal Banerjee
-
-
-
-
-
-
* The changes in the composition of Board of directors of the Company during the FY 25 is provided elsewhere in this report.
** Other Companies include section 8 companies, private limited companies, LLPs.
*** Chairmanships / memberships of Board Committees include only in Audit and Stakeholders Relationship Committees as 
required under regulation 26(1)(b) of SEBI Listing Regulations.
(D)	 DETAILS OF DIRECTORSHIPS OF DIRECTORS, IN OTHER LISTED ENTITIES ARE GIVEN BELOW:
Sl. No.
Director*
Name of the Listed Entity
Category
1.
MM Murugappan
Cholamandalam Financial Holdings Ltd
Non-executive Non-Independent 
Chairman
Carborundum Universal Ltd
Rane Holdings Ltd
Non-executive Independent 
Director
2.
BVR Mohan Reddy
Cyient DLM Limited
Non-executive Non-Independent 
Director
3.
Krishna Bodanapu
Cyient DLM Limited
Non-executive Non-Independent 
Chairman
4.
Matangi Gowrishankar
Greenlam Industries Ltd
Non-executive Independent 
Director
Akums Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Ltd
Gujarat Pipavav Port Ltd
IDFC First Bank Limited
Suven Pharmaceuticals Ltd
5.
Vivek N Gour
Affle (India) Limited
Independent Director
India MART Inter MESH Ltd
6.
Vikas Sehgal
-
-
7.
Nitin Prasad
-
-
8.
Debjani Ghosh
-
-
9.
Sukamal Banerjee
-
Annual Report 2024-25  |  159 
(E)	 BOARD MEETINGS:
The Board meets regularly to discharge its duties and directors allocate adequate time to Board meeting preparation and 
attendance. Board members are aware of the business, its operations and senior management well enough to contribute 
effectively to board discussions and decisions. The Board demonstrates that it has the necessary governance policies, 
processes and systems in place and as such generates trust and support among its stakeholders. It maintains robust 
governance arrangements to ensure it always acts in a way that will generate sustainable value for the Company.
During the FY 25, the Board met on the following dates. Necessary quorum was present at all the meetings.
(F)	 DISCLOSURE OF RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN DIRECTORS INTER-SE:
•	
Mr. Krishna Bodanapu is the son of Mr. BVR Mohan Reddy. 
•	
None of the other directors are related to any other director on the Board.
(G)	 TENURE AND HOLDINGS OF DIRECTORS:
Sl. No.
Name
Category 
No. of Equity Shares 
held
Tenure in the 
Company (in years)
1.
MM Murugappan
Non-Executive Chairman
30,000
28
2.
BVR Mohan Reddy
Promoter, Non-Executive 
4,02,620
34
3.
Krishna Bodanapu
Promoter, Executive Vice 
Chairman & MD
19,13,260
11
4.
Matangi Gowrishankar
Independent Director
0
6
5.
Vivek N Gour
Independent Director
0
6
6.
Vikas Sehgal
Independent Director
8,42,100
7
7.
Nitin Prasad
Independent Director
0
2
8.
Debjani Ghosh
Independent Director
0
-
9.
Sukamal Banerjee 
Executive Director & CEO
0
-
•	
None of the Non-Executive Directors hold any convertible securities in the Company.
•	
Mr. Sukamal Banerjee and Ms. Debjani Ghosh were appointed as directors during the FY 25.
160  |  Annual Report 2024-25
(H)	 DETAILS OF SKILLS / EXPERTISE / COMPETENCE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
I.	
BOARD SKILL MATRIX:
The Board has identified the following core skills / expertise / competencies fundamental for the effective functioning of the 
Company which are currently available with the Board:
The eligibility of a person to be appointed as a director of the Company depends on whether the person possesses the 
requisite skill sets identified by the Board as above; and whether the person is a proven leader in running a business that is 
relevant to the Company’s business or is a proven academician in the field relevant to the Company’s business. Being an 
Engineering services provider, the Company’s business runs across different business units, geographical markets and is 
global in nature. The directors so appointed are drawn from diverse backgrounds and possess special skills with regard to 
the industries / fields from where they come.
Engineering
Digital
Manufacturing
Semiconductor
Geospatial
OUR CAPABILITIES
Annual Report 2024-25  |  161 
II.	
DIRECTORS AND SKILLS:
(I)	 ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES:
1.	
INFORMATION GIVEN TO THE BOARD:  
	
The Company mandatorily provides the following 
information to the Board and the Board Committees 
as required under regulation 17(7) of SEBI Listing 
Regulations. Such information is submitted as part of 
the agenda papers either in advance of the meetings 
or by way of presentations and discussion materials 
during the meetings
a)	
Annual operating plans and budgets, capital 
budgets, updates and all variances;
b)	
Quarterly, Half yearly, Nine months and Annual 
results of the Company and its subsidiaries;
c)	
Detailed 
presentations 
on 
the 
business 
performance of the Company, its BUs and its 
material subsidiaries;
d)	
Minutes of meetings of the Audit Committee and 
other Committees;
e)	
Contract 
in 
which 
Directors 
and 
Senior 
Management Personnel are interested, if any;
f)	
Update on the significant legal cases of the 
Company;
g)	
Subsidiary 
Companies’ 
minutes, 
financial 
statements and significant investments;
h)	
The compliance reports of all laws applicable to 
the Company;
i)	
Company’s strategic direction, management 
policies, 
performance 
objectives 
and 
effectiveness 
of 
Corporate 
Governance 
practices and evaluations thereof; and 
j)	
Any other matter that requires the attention and 
intervention of the Board.
2.	
CODE OF CONDUCT:
	
The Company has adopted a code of conduct for all 
Board members and Designated Senior Management. 
The duties of Independent Directors as laid down in 
the Companies Act, 2013, are incorporated in the 
Code of Conduct. 
	
All Board members have affirmed compliance with 
the code of conduct.
	
A declaration signed by the CEO to this effect is 
annexed to this report.
	
WEBLINK:
	
The Code of Conduct is available on the website of the 
Company i.e. https://www.cyient.com/investors/
corporate-governance/ 
162  |  Annual Report 2024-25
3.	
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS:
	
An effective Board is a key feature of the governance 
journey to building a successful Company. The duty 
of the Board is to represent and protect the interests 
of all the stakeholders. The Board’s role is to provide 
entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a 
framework of prudent and effective controls which 
enables risks to be assessed and managed. An 
effective Board develops and promotes its collective 
vision of the Company’s purpose, its culture, its 
values and the behavior it wishes to promote in 
conducting its business. In particular, it:
a)	
provides direction for management;
b)	
lays down strategy and vision;
c)	
demonstrates ethical leadership, displaying and 
promoting throughout the Company behaviour 
consistent with the culture and values it has 
defined for the Company;
d)	
creates a performance culture that drives value 
creation without exposing the Company to 
excessive risk of value destruction;
e)	
makes well informed and high-quality decisions 
based on a clear line of sight into the business;
f)	
creates the right framework for helping directors 
meet their statutory duties under the relevant 
statutory and regulatory regimes;
g)	
is accountable, particularly to those that provide 
the Company’s capital; and
h)	
Implements its governance arrangements and 
embraces evaluation of their effectiveness.
	
The Board’s effectiveness is measured by the 
way in which the members of the Board, as a 
whole work together under the chairman, whose 
role in Corporate Governance is fundamental 
and its collective ability to provide both the 
leadership and the checks and balances which 
effective governance demands.
4.	
BOARD ACCOUNTABILITY:
	
This responsibility extends to interim and other price 
sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as 
well as to information required to be presented by 
statutory requirements. The Board is responsible for 
determining the nature and extent of the significant 
risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic 
objectives. The Board also maintains sound risk 
management and internal control systems.
5.	
BOARD MEMBERSHIP CRITERIA:
	
The 
Leadership, 
Nomination 
& 
Remuneration 
Committee reviews and assesses Board composition 
on behalf of the Board and recommends the 
appointment of new directors. The Committee also 
oversees the conduct of the annual review of Board 
effectiveness.
•	
In reviewing Board composition, the Committee 
considers the benefits of all aspects of diversity 
including, differences in the skills, regional and 
industry experience, background, race, gender 
and other distinctions, in order to enable it 
to discharge its duties and responsibilities 
effectively.
•	
In 
identifying 
suitable 
candidates 
for 
appointment to the Board, the Committee 
considers candidates on merit against objective 
criteria and with due regard for the benefits of 
diversity on the Board.
•	
The Board skill matrix is also duly considered.
6.	
TERM OF BOARD MEMBERSHIP:
•	
The 
Company 
ensures 
that 
approval 
of 
shareholders for appointment of a person on the 
Board of Directors is taken at the next general 
meeting or within three months from the date 
of appointment, whichever is earlier. The Board 
members are elected individually. 
•	
The tenure of the executive directors does not 
exceed 5 years at a time.  
•	
An Independent Director (ID) shall hold office 
for a term up to 5 consecutive years and shall be 
eligible for reappointment for another term of up 
to five consecutive years on passing of a special 
resolution.
•	
The age limit for the retirement of Directors shall 
be on attainment of 75 years i.e., his/her office 
shall expire on his/her birthday.
•	
At least two-thirds of the total number of 
directors of the Company (except IDs) shall 
be liable to retirement by rotation. At every 
annual general meeting, one-third of such of the 
directors liable to retire by rotation (rounded 
off to the nearest number) shall retire from 
office. Accordingly, all the directors (except IDs), 
irrespective of their designation retire at each 
AGM of the Company.
•	
The Board may also consider the rotation of 
Committee members at certain set intervals 
periodically.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  163 
7.	
MEMBERSHIPS IN OTHER BOARDS:
	
In its pursuit of good Corporate Governance and 
the ensure greater transparency and accountability, 
the following measures are being proposed to be 
adopted in the following years: 
•	
The Directors of the Company shall comply 
with the requirements of Regulation 17 and 26 
of SEBI Listing Regulations and Section 165 and 
203 of the Act with regard to Board/ Committee 
mandates (including alternate directorships) in 
other organizations. 
•	
The Company’s Director shall not be a Director 
in more than six other equity listed entities and 
shall not serve as an Independent Director in 
more than six other equity listed entities. The 
Whole-Time Director/ Managing Director of the 
Company shall serve as an independent director 
in not more than two other listed entities.
•	
The Directors must ensure that their existing 
and planned future commitments do not 
materially interfere with their quality of service 
on 
the 
Company’s 
Board/ 
Committees/ 
Management. Service on Boards/ Committees 
of other organizations shall be consistent with 
the Company’s Code of Conduct.     
•	
Executive Directors are allowed to serve on 
the Boards of corporate or Government bodies 
whose interests are germane to the future of the 
IT and engineering service business or the key 
economic or academic institutions of the nation, 
or whose prime objective is to benefit society. 
•	
Independent Directors are expected not to serve 
on the Boards of competing companies. There 
are no other limitations except those imposed by 
law and good Corporate Governance practices.
•	
Each Director shall inform the Company on 
an annual basis about the Board and Board 
Committee positions he/she occupies in other 
companies including Chairmanships and shall 
notify changes as and when they occur during the 
term of their directorship in the Company. None 
of the Directors on the Board shall be a member 
of more than ten Committees or Chairperson of 
more than five Committees across all the public 
companies in which they are Directors.
8.	
TRAINING OF BOARD MEMBERS:
	
Non-executive directors who are inducted on the 
Board are given an orientation about the Company, 
its operations, services, details of subsidiaries and 
joint ventures, Board procedures and processes 
and major risks and risk management strategies. 
The Company ensures that directors are inducted 
through 
a 
familiarization 
process 
comprising, 
inter alia;
	
Newly inducted directors spend approximately a 
week at the time of their induction and interact with 
the Chairman, Managing Director, CEO, CFO and 
other members of the senior management. They 
interact with the heads of all business units and other 
functional heads. They are provided a walk through 
among some of the centres of excellence and given 
a detailed understanding of the business and its 
operations.
	
Directors are regularly updated on changes in policies 
and programmes, laws and the general business 
environment.
	
WEBLINK:
	
Details of the familiarization programme for Non-
Executive Directors and their letter of appointment 
are published on the website of the Company 
i.e. 
https://www.cyient.com/investors/corporate-
governance/ 
9.	
BOARD EVALUATION AND ASSESSMENT:
	
The Board of Directors has carried out an annual 
evaluation 
of 
its 
own 
performance, 
Board 
Committees and individual directors pursuant to the 
provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
Board evaluation processes, including in relation to 
the Chairman, Individual Directors and Committees, 
constitute a powerful and valuable feedback 
mechanism 
to 
improve 
Board 
effectiveness, 
maximise 
strengths 
and 
highlight 
areas 
for 
further development. In addition to greater Board 
accountability, evaluation of Board members helps in:
164  |  Annual Report 2024-25
	
By focusing on the Board as a team and on its 
overall performance, the Company ensures that 
communication and overall level of participation and 
engagement improves.
	
The Company has organized the Board Evaluation 
process of the performance of the Board, Board 
Committees, Directors including Executive Directors, 
Independent Directors, and the Chairperson. The 
Board Evaluation process was based on an internal 
questionnaire circulated among the Directors with 
regard to the performance evaluation of the Board, the 
Committees, the Directors as Executive Directors, 
Independent Directors and the Chairperson. The 
Independent Directors have carried the performance 
evaluation of the Chairperson.
	
The responses of the Directors were shared with an 
independent external consultant, Mehta & Mehta, 
Practising Company Secretaries to summarise the 
responses, authenticate the evaluation process 
and to determine the performance rankings. The 
consultants have examined and authenticated the 
evaluation process and have reported that it is 
appropriate and is as per the requirements of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
Pursuant to the recommendations of the Leadership, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the 
continuous attempt by the Company to enhance its 
Corporate Governance practices, the coverage and 
comprehensiveness of the questionnaires circulated 
by the Company has been enhanced as compared to 
the previous year.     
	
The summary of the Board Evaluation Report as 
prepared by the external consultant was tabled before 
the Board and the Board took note of the key areas 
of Strength, areas of attention and recommended 
action points. 
10.	 BOARD 
PROCESSES, 
PROCEDURES 
AND 
PRACTICES:
	
The Company believes that the effectiveness of 
the Board is reinforced by its structures and the 
processes and procedures it follows. It has in place 
robust practices and processes that contribute 
to the effective and efficient performance of the 
Board. The processes facilitate and reinforce the 
roles, responsibilities and authorities of the Board 
in the governance, management and control of the 
Company. Board systems and procedures broadly 
comprise convening the meetings, contents of the 
agenda, conducting the meetings, decision making 
at the meetings, adequacy of minutes and working of 
Board Committees.
	
Decisions relating to the policy and operations of the 
Company are arrived at meetings of the Board held 
periodically. Meetings of the Board enable discussions 
on matters placed before them and facilitate decision 
making based on collective judgment of the Board. 
The Company follows the best practices in convening 
and conducting meetings of the Board and its 
Committees.
11.	 ANNUAL CALENDAR:
	
The annual Board calendar is drawn up 4 to 6 
quarters in advance together with a well thought 
out action planner. All tasks are scheduled in 
advance so that everyone concerned can plan their 
work systematically. This also enables better time 
management of and for the Board besides aiding their 
efficiency.
12.	 BOARD CHARTER:
	
A Board charter is prepared setting out the 
respective roles, responsibilities and authorities of 
the Board, the various Committees and the senior 
management. This helps in better management, 
governance and control within the Board as well as 
within the Company itself. Further, it ensures that the 
Board decisions can be measured against the charter.
13.	 INFORMATION PLACED BEFORE THE BOARD OF 
DIRECTORS:
	
During the FY 25, information as mentioned in 
Schedule II Part A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, has 
been placed before the Board for its consideration.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  165 
14.	 MEETING LOCATION:
	
The meetings of the Board of directors are usually 
held at the registered office in Hyderabad. At 
times, some meetings are also held at the other 
development centres of the Company or through 
video conferencing or other audio-visual means.
15.	 FREQUENCY OF MEETINGS:
	
A minimum of four Board meetings is held each 
year with the time gap between any two successive 
meetings not exceeding four months (120 days). 
Meetings of the Committees are also planned and 
scheduled to be held along with the Board meetings.
16.	 BOARD AGENDA:
	
It strikes a fine balance between the reviews of 
the past performance and forward-looking issues. 
The agenda is structured such that routine and 
administrative matters do not consume too much 
Board time. Those items that are strategic in nature 
are given sufficient time for cogitation and decision 
making. The agenda also shows the amount of time 
allocated for each item. The agenda is made available 
to the directors along with supporting documents 
sufficiently in advance of the meetings.
17.	 BRIEFING PAPERS:
	
Board materials, including the notes on agenda are 
summarized and formatted in such a way that the 
directors can readily grasp and focus on the more 
significant issues in the preparation for the Board 
meetings. Relevant and complete information is 
presented in an orderly manner. The Board papers 
associated with a particular agenda item are set out 
as an executive summary with further details annexed 
thereto. The papers present the issue for discussion, 
offer solutions on how to effectively address the 
issue and provide management’s view on what action 
to take. The briefing papers are crisp and succinct and 
facilitate decision making.
18.	 DECISION MAKING PROCESS:
	
The Board follows a culture of openness and debate 
by facilitating effective contribution of all directors 
and ensuring constructive relations among the 
directors. Constructive discussions are facilitated 
leading to effective decision making. The chairman’s 
role in securing good Corporate Governance is 
crucial. The chairman is responsible for leadership 
of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness. 
The chairman ensures that adequate time is available 
for discussion of all agenda items, in particular, 
strategic issues.
19.	 DIRECTORS’ PARTICIPATION:
	
All the directors participate, discuss and deliberate, 
threadbare the proposals and matters put up to it. 
On some occasions, where a director is not physically 
present, the Company arranges for telecon or WebEx 
to enable remote participation. On matters where a 
director is concerned or interested, he/she does not 
participate.
	
Besides, heads of the business units, geography and 
subsidiary heads, and key executives also participate 
in the Board meetings to provide the business 
perspective.
	
On a case-to-case basis, external experts and 
consultants are also invited to make presentations to 
the Board as required.
20.	 MINIMUM MEETING ATTENDANCE: 
a)	
The Company may require Directors to attend 
a minimum number of Board / Committee / 
general meetings, whether in person or through 
electronic means. 
b)	
Executive Directors shall attend all meetings and 
Non-executive Directors shall attend at least 
75% of the Board and Committee meetings.
c)	
The Company may also set expectations that the 
Directors should be well prepared for meetings, 
read material in advance, communicate any 
concerns or questions on the agenda before the 
meeting, etc. 
21.	 BOARD MINUTES:
	
The minutes of the meetings of the Board and 
Committees are drafted such that they strike 
the right balance between being a bare record of 
decisions and a full account of the discussions. 
They mention the brief background of the proposal, 
summarize the deliberations and the rationale for 
taking the decision. The minutes are drafted in 
unambiguous terms and comprise a fair and correct 
summary of the proceedings conducted thereat. The 
draft minutes are circulated within 15 days from the 
date of the meeting for comments from the directors 
and recorded as per secretarial standards. 
22.	 E-INITIATIVES:
	
The Company leverages technology and synergizes 
it with the green initiatives to the optimum. The 
Company has put in place systems that provide more 
efficient information flow to the Board and leverages 
166  |  Annual Report 2024-25
technology solutions to enhance Board - Committee 
interactions. It uses the world’s most widely used 
digital Board solution.
23.	 AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO THE BOARD:
	
The Board should be supplied in a timely manner with 
information in a form and of a quality appropriate to 
enable it to discharge its duties. Under the advice and 
direction of the chairman, the Company secretary’s 
responsibility includes ensuring good information 
flows within the Board as well as between senior 
management and non-executive directors.
24.	 ACTION TAKEN REPORT:
	
The Company has put in place MIS processes for 
the prompt dissemination of the decisions taken by 
the Board to the various levels in the Company. An 
action taken report on the decisions of the Board at 
its previous meeting is systematically put up to the 
Board at the following meeting for its information.
25.	 ROLE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS: 
	
The Board is accountable to shareholders and other 
stakeholders and is responsible for protecting and 
generating sustainable value over the long term. In 
fulfilling their role effectively, Board of directors of 
the Company:
(a)	 The Board of Directors bears the primary 
responsibility for creating and enhancing the 
long-term shareholder value of the Company 
and ensuring that this objective is achieved in all 
its business activities. 
(b)	 It is responsible for making statutorily identified 
decisions and for conducting oversight of the 
business and affairs of the Company and its 
management. 
(c)	 It must ensure the Company’s ability to satisfy 
the needs of its customers, sustain its leadership 
and competitiveness, and uphold its reputation 
in order to maintain long term success and 
viability as a business entity. 
(d)	 The Board’s mandate consists of setting the 
strategic business directions of the Company, 
appointing 
its 
senior 
executive 
officers, 
confirming 
its 
organizational 
structure, 
approving all major strategies and policies, 
overseeing all major risk-taking activities, 
monitoring the financial results, measuring, and 
rewarding the performance of management, and 
generating a reasonable investment return to 
shareholders. It shall also provide an independent 
check on management. 
(e)	 It is the Board’s responsibility to foster the long-
term success of the Company, and to sustain its 
competitiveness and profitability in a manner 
consistent with its corporate objectives and 
the best interests of its stockholders and other 
stakeholders. 
(f)	 The Board should formulate the Company’s 
vision, mission, strategic objectives, policies, 
and procedures that shall guide its activities, 
including the means to effectively monitor 
Management’s performance.
	
In addition, the Board shall also carry out the functions 
laid down in the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
The role of the board includes responsibilities for 
entrepreneurial 
leadership, 
risk 
management, 
strategy, securing the necessary financial and human 
resources and performance review. The Board also 
sets the Company’s values and standards, and ensures 
it meets its obligations to shareholders and others.
	
The Board’s decisions and actions are aligned with 
the Company’s best interests. It is committed to 
the goal of sustainably elevating the Company’s 
value creation. The Board critically evaluates the 
Company’s strategic direction, management policies 
and their effectiveness. It acts on an informed 
basis and in the best interests of the Company 
with good faith, care and diligence, for the benefit 
of shareholders, while having regard to all relevant 
stakeholders.
26.	 ROLE OF COMMITTEES: 
	
The Board of Directors has established various 
Committees, either mandated under the statutes 
or independently, to assist the Board in achieving 
excellence and to seek advice on its performance. 
These Committees comprise the Board Members 
and cover multiple wings of the Board i.e., Finance, 
Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Stakeholder 
Relationships, Risk Management, Environmental, 
Social & Governance and other Governance matters. 
27.	 ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN: 
	
The chairman is responsible for leadership of the 
Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of 
its role. The chairman lives and upholds the highest 
standards of integrity and probity inside and outside 
the Boardroom, through setting clear expectations in 
terms of culture and values, as well as in terms of the 
style and tone of Board discussions.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  167 
	
The Chairman runs the Board and sets the agenda 
and he is pivotal in creating the conditions for overall 
Board and individual director effectiveness. The role 
includes:
•	
setting a Board agenda which is primarily 
focused on business, strategy, accountability, 
competitive performance and value creation;
•	
ensuring that issues relevant to this objective 
are reserved for Board consideration, including 
determining the nature and extent of the 
significant risks the Board is willing to embrace in 
the implementation of its strategy;
•	
making certain that an effective decision-making 
process is in place in the Board, and that the 
Board’s Committees are properly structured 
with appropriate terms of reference;
•	
encouraging the active engagement of all 
Board members in Board and Committee 
meetings, 
drawing 
fully 
on 
their 
skills, 
experience, knowledge and, where appropriate, 
independence;
•	
building effective relationships founded on 
mutual respect and open communication - both 
inside and outside the Boardroom - between the 
nonexecutive directors and executive team, in 
particular with regard to the identification and 
oversight of significant risks;
•	
developing, in particular, a productive working 
relationship with the CEO, providing support and 
advice while respecting executive responsibility;
•	
consulting the senior independent director on 
Board matters consistent with regulations;
•	
ensuring effective processes are established 
relating 
to 
succession 
planning 
and 
the 
composition of the Board, having regard to the 
benefits of diversity;
•	
taking the lead on issues of director development 
and acting on the results of Board evaluation;
•	
ensuring 
effective 
communication 
with 
shareholders 
and 
other 
stakeholders 
and 
ensuring that all directors are made aware of the 
views of major investors.
28.	 ROLE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: 
	
Non-executive directors constructively challenge and 
help develop proposals on strategy. Non-executive 
directors make sufficient time available to discharge 
their responsibilities effectively. This involves being 
well-informed about the Company, and having a 
strong command of issues relevant to the business. 
Non-executive directors seek constantly to develop 
and refresh their knowledge and skills to ensure that 
their contribution to the Board remains informed and 
relevant.
	
The letter of appointment issued to the non-
executive directors states the time the non-
executive director will be required to spend on the 
Company’s business, and indicates the possibility of 
additional time commitment when the Company is 
undergoing a period of particularly increased activity, 
such as in the case of an acquisition or takeover.
	
As part of the process of learning more about the 
business and of becoming effective Boardroom 
contributors 
in 
the 
Company, 
non-executive 
directors - supported by the chair and CEO - build 
recognition among executive directors of their 
contribution in order to promote mutual respect. 
This, in turn, allows them to support executive 
directors in their management of the business while 
monitoring their conduct.
	
Non-executive directors maintain confidence in 
the governance of the Company by upholding high 
standards of integrity and probity, and supporting 
the chair and executive directors in the embedding of 
the appropriate culture, values and behaviours in the 
Boardroom and beyond.
	
Because of the importance of the process of decision 
making to the work of the Board, non-executive 
directors insist on accurate, clear and comprehensive 
information being provided sufficiently in advance to 
enable thorough consideration of the issues prior 
to, and informed debate and challenge at, Board 
meetings.
	
At Cyient, non-executive directors supplement 
their knowledge of the business with the views of 
shareholders and other stakeholders - either directly 
or as conveyed to them by the chair, CEO or in special 
circumstances, the lead independent director. Such 
opinions and judgments are valuable in providing 
different perspectives of the Company’s progress 
and performance.
29.	 ROLE OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS: 
	
The Independent Directors bring an element of 
objectivity to the Board processes; they bring in 
an objective view in the Board deliberations. They 
provide a valuable outside perspective to the 
deliberations of the Board and contribute significantly 
to the decision-making process. Independent 
168  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Directors play a pivotal role in maintaining a 
transparent working environment in the Company.
30.	 DECLARATION BY INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS:
	
All the Independent Directors have confirmed that 
they meet the criteria as mentioned under Regulation 
16(1)(b) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements), 2015 read with Section 
149(6) of the Act.
	
WEBLINK:
	
The terms and conditions of appointment of the 
Independent Directors are published on the website 
of the Company i.e. https://www.cyient.com/
investors/corporate-governance/ 
31.	 DECLARATION BY BOARD:
	
The Board has confirmed that in the opinion of 
the Board, the Independent Directors fulfill the 
conditions specified in the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and are independent of the management.
32.	 BOARD 
OPINION 
ON 
THE 
INDEPENDENT 
DIRECTOR APPOINTED:
	
The Board declares that in their opinion, all the 
independent directors are persons of integrity and 
possess all the relevant expertise and experience 
(including the proficiency).
33.	 RESIGNATION OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR:
	
During 
the 
FY 
25, 
Mr. 
Ramesh 
Abhishek 
(DIN: 
07452293), 
resigned 
as 
an 
Independent Director of the Company w.e.f. 
22 May 2024. The said director has confirmed that 
he has resigned due to pre-occupation and other 
personal commitments and there are no other 
material reasons for the same.
34.	 SEPARATE MEETINGS OF THE INDEPENDENT 
DIRECTORS:
	
During the year under review, the Independent 
Directors met once on 25 April 2024. The agenda of 
the said meeting was to inter alia:
	
All the Independent Directors were present at the 
Meeting.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  169 
35.	 DECISION MAKING AT THE BOARD:
	
Effective and good decision-making at the Board is 
facilitated by:
•	
ensuring that directors are afforded adequate 
time to prepare for meetings;
•	
allowing time for debate and challenge, especially 
for complex, contentious or business-critical 
issues;
•	
achieving timely closure on decisions taken; and
•	
providing clarity for executives on the actions 
required.
36.	 SUCCESSION PLANNING AT THE BOARD AND 
SENIOR MANAGEMENT LEVELS:
	
The Company uses succession management and 
planning to ensure that it identifies and develops 
future leaders to face the challenges of growth 
effectively and successfully. For a conscious Board, a 
succession plan that provides guidance on identifying 
and sourcing potential Board members who can fulfill 
key requirements is essential. This succession plan 
helps appoint new directors quickly in a structured 
manner, and the Board can continue its business 
without disruption, meeting any business challenges 
that may be encountered. The LNR Committee is 
entrusted with the task of succession planning for the 
Board. This Committee is responsible for:
•	
interviewing potential candidates;
•	
recommending candidates to the Board;
•	
ensuring each new Board member receives 
induction and training; and
•	
developing 
a 
database 
of 
eligible 
Board 
candidates on a continuous basis.
•	
the CEO, along with the head of HR, makes a 
presentation to the LNR Committee about the 
succession plan of senior management on an 
annual basis. The same is updated to the Board.
37.	 INTERNAL AUDIT: 
	
Internal Audit is an integral part of the Company’s 
internal control system which aids the Audit 
Committee 
to 
discharge 
its 
functions 
and 
responsibilities adequately and effectively and also 
ensure that the internal processes and procedures 
are adhered to. The Audit Committee reviews 
audit reports submitted by the internal auditors. 
Suggestions for improvement are considered, 
and the Audit Committee follows up on the 
implementation of corrective actions. The statutory 
auditors also independently audit the internal 
financial controls over financial reporting of each 
financial year. The Company has adopted a co-
sourced model of internal audit. Based on this model, 
KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP 
(‘KPMG’) acted as the co-sourced internal auditor 
of the Company and supported the management in 
performing internal audit of select areas as approved 
by the Audit Committee of the Board and based on 
the engagement letter signed with the Company.
38.	 STATUTORY AUDIT: 
	
The Audit Committee recommends, for approval 
of the Board of Directors (and to be confirmed 
by the shareholders, a duly accredited external 
auditors, known as the Statutory Auditor, who shall 
undertake an independent audit and shall provide an 
objective assurance on the way in which the financial 
statements have been prepared and presented. 
The Statutory Auditors are appointed as per the 
applicable laws and regulations and all applicable 
rules of rotation are to be complied with, by the 
Company. The independence of the external auditors 
is effectively maintained by the Company.
39.	 SECRETARIAL AUDIT: 
	
The Company also appoints an external Secretarial 
Auditor in accordance with the applicable regulations. 
The Secretarial Auditor undertakes Secretarial Audit 
for evaluation, forming an opinion and to report to 
the Shareholders as to whether, the Company has 
complied with the applicable laws comprising various 
statutes, rules, regulations, guidelines, followed the 
board processes and to also report on existence of 
a compliance management system. The Secretarial 
Audit report forms part of the Annual Report of the 
Company.
170  |  Annual Report 2024-25
3.	
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD:
	
The Board Committees play a vital role in strengthening the Corporate Governance practices and focus effectively on the 
issues and ensure expedient resolution of the diverse matters. The Committees also make specific recommendations to 
the Board on various matters when required. All observations, recommendations and decisions of the Committees are 
placed before the Board for information or for approval. The Board of Directors from time to time has constituted the 
following Committees, namely:
	
* The ESG Committee also deals with all matters pertaining to Corporate Social Responsibility and Diversity and inclusion.
	
Changes in Composition of Committees during FY 2024–25:
Committee Name
Name of Director
Nature of Change
Effective Date
Audit Committee
Ramesh Abhishek
Cessation
 22 May 2024
Risk Management Committee
Ramesh Abhishek
Cessation
 22 May 2024
Leadership, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Nitin Prasad
Appointment
 23 April 2024
Leadership, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Debjani Ghosh
Appointment
23 January 2025
Leadership, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
Ramesh Abhishek
Cessation
 22 May 2024
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The management is responsible for the Company’s internal controls and the financial reporting process while the statutory 
auditors are responsible for performing independent audit of the Company’s financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing practices and for issuing report based on such audit. The Board of Directors has constituted and entrusted 
the Audit Committee with the responsibility to supervise these processes and thus ensure accurate and timely disclosures that 
maintain the transparency, integrity and quality of financial control and reporting. 
Audit committee comprises of a healthy blend of Independent Directors who bring to the table immense experience across 
multiple industries. The Committee meets every quarter to review the financials & allied matters of compliance & accounting 
practices.
PRIMARY FOCUS AREAS OF THE COMMITTEE ARE TO ASSIST THE BOARD IN REVIEW & RECOMMENDATION ON:
1.	
Compliance with legal & statutory requirements
2.	
Internal Controls that ensure accurate and timely disclosures that maintain the transparency & integrity and quality financial 
reporting
3.	
Key accounting policies & practices
4.	
Performance of Statutory & Internal Auditors
Annual Report 2024-25  |  171 
CADENCE & REVIEW MECHANISM OF THE COMMITTEE:
1.	
Committee meets once every quarter to review the financial performance along with notes on significant accounting 
matters that impact performance.
2.	
Report of independent audit of Statutory Auditors is presented by the statutory auditors and discussed with management.
3.	
Report of Internal Audit that highlights gaps in processes / controls is presented by Internal auditors and discussed with 
management.
4.	
Committee reviews the scope of Internal Auditors during the start of the year and add/ modify the scope based on any 
requirement that may arise in discussion during the year.
5.	
Committee reviews direct and indirect tax computation, payout, optimisation initiatives & open tax litigation with status 
on yearly basis.
6.	
Committee takes update on open legal cases & global compliance status on quarterly basis.
7.	
Audit Chairperson reviews in-depth the significant items for the quarter along with accounting treatment & impact on 
financial performance to assure / clarify to Board on the robustness of compliance in each matter.
8.	
Audit Chairperson independently reviews with the Statutory Auditors during the quarter on progress of identified items 
from previous quarter and any new items to be reviewed in the current quarter.
9.	
At any point during the quarter there will be a planned review with independent director(s) based on management request 
to take inputs on key changes to accounting policies, internal controls.
ACTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE:
1.	
Accuracy of Financial performance reporting is approved by the Audit Committee & highlights on new items are presented 
for review by Board.
2.	
Specific areas for change over prior period are reviewed and highlighted to Board.
3.	
Recommendations on identified metrics improvement is discussed with management and tracked till such goals are 
achieved.
4.	
Inputs on areas where strengthening internal controls is discussed with management for action.
5.	
Review and inputs on effective DOA matrix implementation to support growing business.
6.	
Suggestions on mitigation plans on open legal / compliance cases for management review
COMPOSITION AND MEETINGS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE:
The constitution of the Audit Committee also meets with the requirements of Section 177 of the Act and SEBI Listing 
Regulations. The Audit Committee comprises entirely of Non-Executive Directors with majority of Independent Directors. 
All members of the Audit Committee are financially literate and bring in expertise in the fields of finance, economics, strategy 
and management.
The Chairman attended the last annual general meeting to answer shareholders’ queries. During the FY 25 the Committee 
met 5 (Five) times. The Particulars of composition of the Audit Committee and the details of attendance are as follows:
Sl. 
No.
Name of the 
Director
Designation 
Attendance in the Meetings held on
Meetings Attendance
24 April 
2024
24 July 
2024
23 October 
2024
22 January 
2025
31 March 
2025
1. Vivek Gour
Chairperson, 
Independent Director
√
√
√
√
√
5
5/5
2. MM Murugappan
Member,
Non-executive 
Director
√
√
√
√
√
5
5/5
3. Ramesh Abhishek Member, Independent 
Director
×
Ø
Ø
Ø
Ø
1
0/1
4. Nitin Prasad
Member, Independent 
Director
√
√
√
√
√
5
5/5
For the purpose of table mentioned above, √: Yes/Attended, ×: No/Not Attended, Ø: Not eligible to attend; 
172  |  Annual Report 2024-25
The specific charter of the Committee is:
AUDIT:
•	
Recommend appointment and remuneration; evaluate performance of the auditors and effectiveness of the audit process.
•	
Evaluate the independence of auditors and their areas of un-resolved concerns if any.
•	
Review effectiveness of internal audit function, reporting structure, scope coverage and frequency of internal audit.
•	
Examine internal audit report to focus on significant findings, follow up actions in place, internal investigations, conclusions 
arrived, failures or irregularities in the internal controls framework and the reports submitted to highlight the same.
•	
Review the statutory audit scope and plan for various locations before commencement of the audit; provide inputs and 
areas of focus if any.
•	
Summarize the findings of statutory audit report; understand process gaps, mitigation plans implemented to address the 
same.
FINANCIAL REVIEW:
•	
Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that the 
financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible;
•	
Reviewing with the management, the annual and quarterly financial statements and auditor’s report thereon before 
submission to the Board for approval;
•	
Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of the Company with related parties;
•	
Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments;
•	
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the Company, wherever it is necessary;
•	
To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in case 
of non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors;
•	
To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower mechanism.
Further, the Committee reviews the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting and the Company-level control 
systems. It reviews the quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results before their submission and adoption by the Board.
The Committee also reviews Corporate Governance, processes and procedures.
The Audit Committee invites such executives, as it considers appropriate, statutory auditors and internal auditors to be present 
at its meetings.
The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Audit Committee.
On an annual basis, the members of the Audit Committee meet and interact independently with both the statutory auditors 
and internal auditors without the presence of the management. Further, on an annual basis, the key stakeholders within the 
Company share their feedback on their interaction with the statutory and internal auditors. The Audit Committee is suitably 
apprised of the same.
Total fees for all services paid by the listed entity and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the statutory auditor and all 
entities in the network firm/network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part is as follows:
Particulars
Amount 
(₹ in Mn)
Fees for audit and related services paid to statutory auditor, S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP and its affiliate 
firms and all entities in the network firm/network entity of which the said statutory auditor is a part
83.69
Other fees paid to statutory auditor, S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP and its affiliate firms and all entities in the 
network firm/network entity of which the said statutory auditor is a part
20.55
Total Fee
104.24
Annual Report 2024-25  |  173 
The management and Board are extremely vigilant and conscious of potential conflicts and all non-audit 
services are reviewed and approved after a detailed evaluation and ensuring that necessary safeguards 
are in place. Such services are fully compliant with the local and global auditor independence regulations. 
WEBLINK:
Financial Information: https://www.cyient.com/investors/financial-information
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Risk Management Committee has primary focus on review of strategic, operational, and market risks for Cyient with 
management. The Committee meets twice in a fiscal year, it focuses on identified risk and mitigating actions are discussed with 
respective owners from Cyient management.
The risks are classified as High- Medium - Low based on impact to Cyient and every potential risk has a concrete plan of action 
agreed with executable timeline. During the meetings, the Committee also provides guidance on additional areas to focus to 
ensure that business is not impacted by any risk.
This Committee also reviews the robustness of Cyber Security measures within the organisation & takes updates on progressive 
measures taken to protect data against evolving threats.
COMPOSITION AND MEETINGS OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:
During the FY 25 the Committee met 2 (Two) times. The Particulars of composition of the Risk Management Committee and 
the details of attendance are as follows: 
Sl. 
No.
Name of the 
Director
Designation
Attendance in the 
Meetings held on
Meetings 
held
Attendance
24 July 
2024
22 January 
2025
1.
Vivek Gour
Chairperson, Independent Director
√
√
2
2/2
2.
MM Murugappan
Member, Non Executive Director
√
√
2
2/2
3.
Nitin Prasad
Member, Independent Director
√
√
2
2/2
For the purpose of table mentioned above, √: Yes/Attended, ×: No/Not Attended, Ø: Not eligible to attend; 
Terms of 
Reference
Particulars
Charter of the 
Committee
•	
To identify and assess all the risks that the organization faces and establish a risk management framework capable of 
addressing those risks.
•	
To oversee in conjunction with the Board risks such as strategic, financial, credit, market, liquidity, security, property, 
IT, legal, regulatory, reputational and other risks.
•	
Approve / Review of the Company’s enterprise-wide risk management framework including cyber security; ESG/
Sustainability parts.
Objective
•	
To provide an oversight for all categories of risk
•	
To promulgate risk culture in the organization
•	
To adopt leading risk management practices in the industry
•	
To manage risk proactively at organization level.
174  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Terms of 
Reference
Particulars
Responsibility
•	
Help to set the tone and develop a culture of the enterprise vis-à-vis risk, promote open discussion regarding risk, 
integrate risk management into the organization’s goals and create a culture that people at all levels understand 
risks.
•	
Provide input to management regarding the enterprise’s risk appetite and tolerance and, ultimately, approve risk 
appetite.
•	
Monitor the organization’s risk - its on-going and potential exposure to risks of various types.
•	
Approve the risk management plan. The risk management plan should include:
√	
The Company’s risk management structure
√	
The risk management framework
√	
The standards and methodology adopted – this refers to the measurable milestones such as tolerances, 
intervals, frequencies, frequency rates etc.,
√	
Risk management guidelines
√	
Details of the assurance and review of the risk management process
•	
Define risk review activities and prioritize them prior to being sent to the Board’s attention.
•	
Review and confirm that all responsibilities outlined in the charter have been carried out.
•	
Oversee the risk framework and interactions with Management Risk Committee.
•	
Periodically review and evaluate the Company’s policies and processes with respect to risk assessment and risk 
management and annually present to the full Board a report summarizing the Committee’s review of the Company’s 
methods for identifying, managing, and reporting risks and risk management deficiencies if any.
•	
Continually, as well as at specific intervals, monitor risks and risk management capabilities within the organization, 
including communication about escalating risk and crisis preparedness and mitigation plans.
•	
Continually obtain reasonable assurance from management that all known and emerging risks have been identified 
and mitigated or managed.
•	
Deliberate with the Management Risk Committee regarding risk governance and oversight. Discuss with the 
Management Risk Committee the Company’s major risk exposures and review the steps management has taken to 
monitor and mitigate such risks.
•	
Review and assess the effectiveness of the Company’s ERM framework and recommend
•	
improvements, where appropriate
LEADERSHIP, NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Leadership, Nomination & Remuneration Committee is duly constituted in accordance with the requirements of the Act 
and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
During the FY 25 the Committee met 4 (Four) times. The Particulars of composition of the Leadership, Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee and the details of attendance are as follows:
Sl. 
No.
Name of the 
Director
Designation
Attendance in the Meetings held on
Meetings
Attendance
24 April 
2024
24 
July 
2024
23
October 
2024
22
January 
2025
1.
Matangi 
Gowrishankar
Chairperson, Independent 
Director
√
√
√
√
4
4/4
2.
Nitin Prasad
Member, Independent 
Director
√
√
√
√
4
4/4
3.
MM Murugappan
Member, Non Executive 
Director
√
√
√
√
4
4/4
4.
Ramesh Abhishek
Member, Independent 
Director
×
Ø
Ø
Ø
1
0/1
5.
Debjani Ghosh
Member, Independent 
Director
Ø
Ø
Ø
Ø
0
NA
For the purpose of table mentioned above, √: Yes/Attended, ×: No/Not Attended, Ø: Not eligible to attend; 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  175 
THE SPECIFIC CHARTER OF THE COMMITTEE IS:
•	
Formulation of the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a director and recommend 
to the Board of directors a policy relating to, the remuneration of the directors, key managerial personnel and other 
employees.
•	
Formulation of criteria for evaluation of performance of Independent Directors and the Board of directors.
•	
Devising a policy on diversity of Board of directors.
•	
Identifying persons who are qualified to become directors and who may be appointed in senior management in accordance 
with the criteria laid down, and recommend to the Board of directors their appointment and removal.
•	
Whether to extend or continue the term of appointment of the independent director, on the basis of the report of 
performance evaluation of Independent Directors.
•	
Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever form, payable to senior management.
THE TERMS OF REFERENCE OF THE COMMITTEE INCLUDE:
•	
Evaluation of compensation and benefits for Executive Director(s), Non-Executive Director(s), Key Managerial Personnel,
•	
Framing of policies and systems of the Employee Stock Option Scheme and
•	
Reviewing and resolving issues relating to major HR policies.
REMUNERATION POLICY:
The Leadership, Nomination and Remuneration Committee has adopted a Charter, which, inter alia, deals with the manner of 
selection of Board of Directors, MD, CEO, CFO & CS and their remuneration.
Criteria of Selection of Non-Executive Directors:
a.	
The Non-Executive Directors shall be of high integrity with relevant expertise and experience so as to have a diverse Board 
with Directors having expertise in the fields of manufacturing, marketing, finance, taxation, law, governance and general 
management.
b.	
In case of appointment of Independent Directors, the Committee shall satisfy itself with regard to the criteria of independence 
of the directors vis-à-vis the Company so as to enable the Board to discharge its function and duties effectively.
c.	
The Committee shall ensure that the candidate identified for appointment as a director is not disqualified for appointment 
under Section 164 of the Act.
d.	
The Committee shall consider the following attributes/criteria, whilst recommending to the Board the candidature for 
appointment as director:
•	
Qualification, expertise and experience of the directors in their respective fields;
•	
Personal, professional or business standing;
•	
Diversity of the Board.
•	
In case of re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors, the Board shall take into consideration the performance 
evaluation of the Director and his engagement level.
Remuneration:
The Non-Executive Directors shall not be entitled to receive remuneration by way of sitting fees, reimbursement of expenses 
for participation in the Board / Committee meetings and commission. The Independent Directors of the Company shall not 
be entitled to participate in the Stock Option Scheme of the Company. The aggregate commission paid to the Non-Executive 
Directors is within the statutory limit of 1% of the stand-alone net profits of the Company.
Criteria for selection/appointment of CEO, MD, Executive Directors and CFO:
For the purpose of selection of the CEO, CFO & MD, the Committee shall identify persons of integrity who possess relevant 
expertise, experience and leadership qualities required for the position and shall take into consideration recommendation, if any, 
received from any member of the Board.
176  |  Annual Report 2024-25
The Committee also ensure that the incumbent fulfils such other criteria with regard to age and other qualifications as laid down 
under the Companies Act, 2013, or other applicable laws.
Remuneration for the MD, CEO and CFO
(i)	
At the time of appointment or re-appointment, the MD and the CEO shall be paid such remuneration as may be mutually 
agreed between the Company (which includes the Committee and the Board of Directors) and the MD and the CEO, within 
the overall limits prescribed under the Act;
(ii)	 The remuneration shall be subject to the approval of the members of the Company in General Meeting;
(iii)	 The remuneration of the MD and the CEO is broadly divided into fixed and variable components. The fixed component 
comprises salary, allowances, perquisites, amenities and retrial benefits. The variable component comprises performance 
bonus; as mutually agreed.
(iv)	 In determining the remuneration (including the fixed increment and performance bonus) the Committee considers the 
relationship of remuneration and performance benchmarks, the balance between fixed and variable pay reflecting short and 
long term performance objectives, appropriate to the working of the Company and its goals; the responsibility required to 
be shouldered by the MD and the CEO, the industry benchmarks and the current trends and Company’s performance vis-à-
vis the annual budget achievement and individual performance vis-à-vis the KRAs / KPIs.
Remuneration Policy for the SMP including CFO
In determining the remuneration of the Senior Management Employees (i.e. KMP and Executive Committee Members) the 
Committee shall ensure / consider the following:
(i)	
clarity on the relationship of remuneration and performance benchmark;
(ii)	 the balance between fixed and variable pay reflecting short- and long-term performance objectives, appropriate to the 
working of the Company and its goals, as mutually agreed;
(iii)	 the remuneration is divided into two components viz. fixed component comprising salaries, perquisites and retirement 
benefits and a variable component comprising performance bonus;
(iv)	 The remuneration including annual increment and performance bonus is decided based on the criticality of the roles and 
responsibilities, the Company’s performance vis-à-vis the annual bud get achievement, individual performance vis-à-vis 
KRAs / KPIs, industry benchmark and current compensation trends in the market as mutually agreed.
WEBLINK:
LNRC Policy: https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/2023/LNRC_Policy.pdf
STAKEHOLDERS’ ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Stakeholders Engagement Committee is empowered to perform the functions of the Board relating to handling of 
stakeholders’ queries and grievances.
COMPOSITION AND MEETINGS OF THE STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE:
The Company has duly constituted a Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee in accordance with the requirements of the Act and 
the SEBI Listing Regulations. The said committee is designated as ‘Stakeholders’ Engagement Committee’.
During the FY 25 the Committee met once. The Particulars of composition of the Stakeholders Engagement Committee and the 
details of attendance are as follows:
Sl. 
No.
Name of the 
Director
Designation
Attendance in the Meeting 
held on 24 April 2024
Meetings held
Attendance
1.
Vikas Sehgal
Chairperson, Independent Director
√
1
1/1
2.
BVR Mohan Reddy
Member, Non-Executive Director
√
1
1/1
3.
Krishna Bodanapu
Member, Executive Director
√
1
1/1
For the purpose of table mentioned above, √: Yes/Attended, ×: No/Not Attended, Ø: Not eligible to attend; 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  177 
THE SPECIFIC CHARTER OF THE COMMITTEE IS:
1.	
Consider and resolve the grievances of shareholders of the Company with respect to transfer of shares, non-receipt of 
annual report, non-receipt of declared dividend and other matters.
2.	
Evaluate performance and service standards of the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the Company.
3.	
Provide guidance and make recommendations to improve investor service levels for the investors.
INVESTOR GRIEVANCE REPORT:
Received from
As at 1 April 2024
Received 
Resolved
Pending
Directly from Investors
0
6
6
0
SEBI (SCORES)
0
0
0
0
Stock Exchanges
0
0
0
0
Other Sources
0
0
0
0
TOTAL:
0
6
6
0
STATUS OF INVESTOR COMPLAINTS AS ON 31 MARCH 2025 IS AS UNDER:
Particulars
As at 1 
April 2024
Received
Resolved 
Not resolved 
Pending on 31 
March 2025
to the satisfaction of Investor
Non-Receipt of dividend warrants
-
6
6
-
-
Non-Receipt of Share Certificate
-
-
-
-
-
Non-Receipt of Annual Report
-
-
-
-
-
Others, if any
-
-
-
-
-
Total
-
6
6
-
-
SCORES:
The Securities Exchange Board of India has initiated a platform for redressing the investor grievances through SCORES, a web-
based complaints redressal system. The system processes complaints in a centralized web-based mechanism. The Company 
is in compliance with this system.
Name, designation and address of Compliance Officer:
Name
Sudheendhra Putty
Designation
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Address:
4th Floor, ‘A’ Wing, Plot No. 11, Software Units Layout, Infocity, Madhapur, Hyderabad-500 081, India
Telephone No:
040-67641322
E-mail
company.secretary@cyient.com
The Compliance officer acts as the Nodal Officer to ensure compliance with the IEPF rules.
INVESTOR ENGAGEMENT:
The Company communicates the business outlook, strategies, and new initiatives to its investors regularly and in a structured 
manner. We believe that periodic communication and engagement with the investor community is as important as timely 
and reliable financial performance. We engage with the investors through multiple communication channels. The Company’s 
dedicated investor relations department and the Company’s senior management team regularly participate in various 
roadshows and investor conferences in India and across the world.
178  |  Annual Report 2024-25
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE (ESG) COMMITTEE
The ESG Committee deals with all matters pertaining to Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social and 
Governance matters . The Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG) Committees’ purpose is to support Cyient’s ongoing 
efforts around environmental, health and safety, corporate social responsibility, inclusion and diversity, sustainability and other 
public policy matters.  The ESG Committee will assist and guide the Company in the following:
COMPOSITION AND MEETINGS OF THE ESG COMMITTEE:
During the FY 25 the Committee met once. The Particulars of composition of the ESG Committee and the details of attendance 
are as follows:
Sl. 
No.
Name of the 
Director
Designation
Attendance in the Meeting 
held on 24 April 2024
Meetings
Attendance
1.
Vikas Sehgal
Chairperson, Independent 
Director
√
1
1/1
2.
BVR Mohan Reddy
Member, Non Executive Director
√
1
1/1
3.
Krishna Bodanapu
Member, Executive Director
√
1
1/1
For the purpose of table mentioned above, √: Yes/Attended, ×: No/Not Attended, Ø: Not eligible to attend; 
CHARTER OF THE COMMITTEE:
•	
Review the strategy for ESG matters.
•	
Review and recommend policies and practices in support of the ESG strategy.
•	
Provide oversight on reporting and disclosure of ESG matters.
•	
Consider current and emerging ESG matters that may affect the business, operations or reputation of Cyient and make 
recommendations on how practices, policies and disclosures can be adjusted.
•	
Review how ESG can be leveraged as part of Cyient’s growth strategy for go to market offerings and internal operations.
•	
Review systems in place to monitor ESG.
•	
Review this charter at periodic intervals and propose any changes for approval.
•	
Matters pertaining to CSR as required under section 135 of the Companies Act.
A detailed overview of the CSR initiatives of the Company is published elsewhere in the Annual Report.
WEBLINK:
•	
CSR Policy: https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/2023/FY23-Financials/Q4/Cyient_CSR_Policy_Document_Revised_V3.3.pdf 
•	
CSR Global Policy: https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/2023/FY23-Financials/Cyient_CSR_Global_Policy_-_V1.0.pdf 
•	
ESG Factbook: https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/2024/Investors/Corporate%20Governance/ESG_Factbook.pdf
10.	 KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL (KMP):
	
Details of KMP are as follows
Sl. 
No.
Name of the KMP
Designation
1.
Bodanapu Ganesh Venkat Krishna
Executive Vice- Chairman & MD
2.
 Sukamal Banerjee
Executive Director and CEO
3.
 Prabhakar Atla
Chief Financial Officer
4.
 Sudheendhra Putty
Company Secretary
	
Details of changes in the office of KMP are provided in the Board’s Report, which forms part of the Annual Report.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  179 
1.	
ROLE OF MD:
	
The MD provides strategic advice and guidance to the Chairman, CEO and members of the Board, to keep them aware of 
developments within the industry and ensure that the appropriate policies are developed to meet the Company’s mission 
and objectives and to comply with all relevant statutory and other regulations. The MD has the following roles and assume 
the following responsibilities:
a) 	 He is vested with the entrusted with substantial powers of management of the affairs of the Company.
b) 	 He shall be responsible for establishing and maintaining effective formal and informal links with all the stakeholders and 
to exchange information and views and to ensure that the Company is providing the appropriate range and quality of 
services.
c) 	 He shall, along with the CEO and other Senior Management, be responsible to develop and maintain research and 
development programmes and to ensure that the Company remains at the forefront in the industry, applies the most 
cost-effective methods and approaches, provides leading-edge products and services and retains its competitive 
edge.
2.	
ROLE OF CEO: 
	
The CEO is vested with operational responsibility for delivering the Company’s strategy. The CEO’s relationship with the 
chair is the key dynamic that underpins the effectiveness of the Board.
	
The CEO, with the support of the executive team, has primary responsibility for communicating to the people working within 
the business the expectations of the Board in relation to the Company’s culture, values and behaviors, and for ensuring that 
the appropriate standards of governance permeate down to all levels of the organization.
	
In particular, the CEO shall:
a)	
Have a comprehensive and granular understanding of the Company and its business. This is evidenced when making 
proposals and exercising judgement, particularly on matters of strategy.
b)	
Appreciate that constructive challenge from Non-Executive Directors is an essential aspect of good governance and 
encourage non-executive colleagues to probe proposals, especially where issues of judgement are concerned.
c)	
Be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company and ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries, are 
managed in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, the Company’s or subsidiaries’ bye-laws and/or Articles 
of Association, as well as any other policies or instructions approved by the Board and relevant Committees.
d)	
Be ultimately accountable for the Company’s organizational and procedural controls.
e)	
Be overall-in-charge for the management of the Company governed by the strategic direction and risk appetite 
approved by the Board of Directors.
f)	
Be primarily accountable to the Board of Directors in championing the desired conduct and behaviour, implementing 
strategies and in promoting the interest of the Company.
g)	
CEO shall also have such other responsibilities as the Board of Directors may impose upon him.
3.	
ROLE OF CFO:
	
The CFO has the following roles and assume the following responsibilities:
a)	
The CFO shall have a fiduciary responsibility for the financial health of the organization.
b)	
Manage the Company’s financial performance by developing forecasts and monitoring ongoing performance against 
plans 
c)	
Provide strong, forward-looking analytical leadership.
d)	
Develop models and conduct analyses that identify critical trends, support strategic decision making and create 
forward visibility.
e)	
Drive change within the organization through robust financial analysis and strong business partnership.
f)	
Manage the production of reporting tools (bridges, scorecards, etc.) and key performance metrics to provide 
management insight into revenue and operating expense trends, track project spending, head count and potential 
risks/opportunities to forecast or plan.
g)	
Oversee the monthly variance analysis of actual operating, capital and project spending Vs plans, forecasts and prior 
year including responsibility for driving cost control.
180  |  Annual Report 2024-25
h)	
Lead the Accounting and Finance teams to ensure both excellence in day-to-day service delivery and future needs.
i)	
Partner with senior leaders to push the boundaries of current and future departmental goals and strategies. 
j)	
Clearly articulate the key drivers of the business.
4.	
ROLE OF COMPANY SECRETARY:
	
The Company Secretary plays a key role  in facilitating the effective functioning of the Board through the timely presentation 
of Board information which - by being accurate, clear and comprehensive - assists high-quality decision making. Under 
the direction of the chairman, the Company secretary’s responsibilities include ensuring good information flows within the 
Board and its Committees, between senior management and non-executive directors, as well as facilitating induction and 
assisting with professional development. All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company secretary 
who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with. In addition, the Company Secretary 
discharges the functions prescribed under the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014. 
11.	 SENIOR MANAGEMENT:
As per the SEBI Listing Regulations, “Senior Management” shall mean the officers and personnel of the listed entity who are 
members of its core management team, excluding the Board of Directors, and shall also comprise all the members of the 
management one level below the Chief Executive Officer or Managing Director or Whole Time Director or Manager (including 
Chief Executive Officer and Manager, in case they are not part of the Board of Directors) and shall specifically include the 
functional heads, by whatever name called and the persons identified and designated as key managerial personnel, other 
than the board of directors.
The details of the senior management, who are designated ‘Key Managerial Personnel’ under the provisions of Section 203 
of the Companies Act, 2013 are provided elsewhere. This section provides disclosures for the remaining personnel, who 
are designated ‘Senior Management’ under the SEBI Listing Regulations. Details of the senior management are as follows:
Sl. No.
Name of the SMP
Designation
Tenure in the 
Company (in years)
1.
PNSV Narasimham
President & Head of Corporate Functions
9
2.
John Renard
President - Europe
30
3.
Katie Cook
President - North America
15
4
K.A. Prabhakaran*
Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer
-
5.
Anand Parameswaran
President and Chief Delivery Officer (CDO)
17
6.
Andrew Smith
Senior Vice President & BU Head - Transport
8
7.
Herman Kleynhans
Senior Vice President &BU Head - MEU
5
8.
Ramanand Puttige
Senior Vice President & Head of Global Human Resources
14
9.
Ramya Mohan
Vice President & and Head of Group Strategy
3
10.
Navroze Palekar
Vice-President & General Counsel
4
11.
Rajaneesh Kini Ramananda*
President & Chief Technology Officer (CTO)
4
Changes in the SMP during the FY 25 are as follows:
*Mr. K.A. Prabhakaran was appointed as Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer effective 10 March 2025 in 
place of Mr. Rajaneesh Kini Ramananda
All the SMP have affirmed compliance with the code of conduct.
	
Code of Conduct for Directors and Senior Management: https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/Statutory_information/ Code_
of_Conduct.pdf
Annual Report 2024-25  |  181 
12.	 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION:
a)	
Non-executive Directors:
(i)	
All pecuniary relationship or transactions of the non-executive directors vis-à-vis the Company:
	
Other than commission as stated in point (ii) below, there is no pecuniary or business relationship between the non-
Executive directors and the Company. A declaration to this effect is also submitted by all the Directors at the beginning 
of each financial year.
	
WEBLINK:
	
Criteria of the payment of remuneration to Non-Executive Directors has been published on the website of the Company 
at the ‘Corporate Governance’ section at the following link:
	
https://www.cyient.com/investors/corporate-governance/ 
(ii)	 Commission paid to non-executive directors:
	
The commission payable to the Non-Executive Directors during the year under review is in conformity with the 
applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, and duly considered and approved by the Board and the shareholders 
(vide postal ballot resolution passed on 30 October 2014).
	
The Company does not pay any sitting fees to its directors.
	
The details of remuneration paid to non-executive directors is as follows:
(Amount in ₹ million)
Sl. No.
Name of the Director
Commission (For FY 25 payable in FY 26)
1.
M.M. Murugappan
2.4
2.
BV R Mohan Reddy
7.2
3.
Matangi Gowrishankar
2.4
4.
Vivek N Gour
2.4
5.
Vikas Sehgal
4.99
6.
Ramesh Abhishek
0.3
7.
Nitin Prasad
2.4
8.
Debjani Ghosh
0.6
b)	
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS:
	
The remuneration paid/payable to the Executive Directors is given below:
(Amount in ₹ million)
Particulars 
Krishna Bodanapu
Karthikeyan Natarajan#
Sukamal Banerjee Mirnal#
1.	
Fixed Component
(i)	
Salary
19.61
27.30
5.51
(ii)	 Superannuation Fund & NPS
2.07
0.60
-
(iii)	 LTA
-
0.10
-
(iv)	 PF
1.66
1.44
-
(v)	 Gratuity/Leave encashment
-
4.26
-
(vi)	 Professional Charges
-
-
-
2.	
Performance linked incentives
(i)	
Commission
175.99
79.48
8.08
3.	
Stock Options
(i)	
ASOP/RSU
-
42.12
-
4.	
Exgratia
-
6.78
-
TOTAL
199.33
162.08
13.59
# Part of the year
182  |  Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES:
1.	
None of the other directors has exercised/ been granted stock options/RSUs during the year. 
2.	
Details of Stock options:
Sl. No.
Particulars
Krishna Bodanapu
Sukamal Banerjee Mirnal
(i)
Number of Stock options granted at a discount
0
200,000
(ii)
period over which the stock options have accrued
0
3 years 
(iii)
period over which the stock options is exercisable
0
3 years
3.	
The above amounts do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity and premium paid for Group Health Insurance 
as separate actuarial valuation/premium paid are not available for the MD and the CEO.
4.	
The percentage of commission (incentive) is linked to the overall performance of the Executive Director and the Company.
	
Service contracts, notice period, severance fees: As per the resolution passed in the Annual General Meeting dated 21 June 
2023 and the postal ballot launched on 15 April 2025
13.	 GENERAL BODY MEETINGS:
(a)	 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING:
AGM
Financial 
Year
Date of
AGM
Time
Venue
No. of special 
resolutions passed
33rd AGM
2023-24
01 July 2024
16:00 IST
through Video Conference (VC) or 
Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM)
-
32nd AGM
2022-23
21 June 2023
16:00 IST
through Video Conference (VC) or 
Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM)
07
31st AGM
2021-22
03 June 2022
16:00 IST
through Video Conference (VC) or 
Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM)
-
(b)	 EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING:
	
No Extra-ordinary General Meeting of the shareholders was held during the FY 25.
(c)	 POSTAL BALLOT:
	
One resolution was passed through postal ballot during the FY 25. 
Date of 
Postal Ballot 
Notice
Date and time of
No. of 
resolutions 
passed 
Details of Resolution thereon
Commencement 
of remote 
e-voting
Conclusion of 
remote e-voting
23 January 
2025
14 February 2025 
at 09:00 A.M (IST)
15 March 2025 at 
05:01 P.M (IST)
01
Appointment of Ms. Debjani Ghosh (DIN: 
07820695) as Non-Executive Independent 
Director
	
The postal ballot process was undertaken through remote e-voting in accordance with the with the applicable 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules made thereunder and applicable regulations of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations.
	
The resolution was approved by the requisite majority as contemplated under the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules 
made thereunder. Of the valid votes received for the said resolution, 99.99% of the valid votes were cast in favour of 
the resolution with 0.01% valid votes cast against the resolution. Mr. Manish Kumar Singhania, a Practicing Company 
Secretary (Membership Number: 22056 and CP Number: 8086) of MKS & Associates, Company Secretaries had been 
appointed as a scrutinizer for the purpose of scrutinizing the remote e-voting process and the report of the scrutinizer 
is available on the website of the Company and has also been submitted to the stock exchanges (viz., BSE and NSE) in 
accordance with the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  183 
(d)	 PROCEDURE FOR POSTAL BALLOT:
	
Company conducts a postal ballot, where required, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the Rules made thereunder and applicable regulations of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
(e)	 SEPARATE RESOLUTIONS:
	
The Company does not follow the practice of clubbing the agendas in the general meetings. It passes separate 
resolutions, wherever required and agendas are separately presented to the shareholders for consideration.
14.	 MEANS OF COMMUNICATION:
(a)	 PUBLICATION OF RESULTS IN NEWSPAPERS:
	
The quarterly, half-yearly & nine months un-audited financial results and annual audited results of the Company 
are generally published in Business Standard, at national level in English language as well as Mana Telangana / Nava 
Telangana at regional level in Telugu language circulating in the state of Telangana.
(b)	 WEBSITE AND NEWS RELEASE:
	
The quarterly, half-yearly & nine months unaudited financial results and annual audited results of the Company are 
available on the website of the Company i.e. www.cyient.com. Official news releases, detailed presentations made to 
media, analysts, institutional investors, etc are available on the website of the Company i.e. www.cyient.com. Official 
media releases are sent to BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited. Your Company also makes timely 
disclosure of necessary information to BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited in terms of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations and other rules and regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India.
	
WEBLINK:
	
The Company has disclosed all the information stipulated under Regulation 46 and other applicable regulations of the 
SEBI Listing regulations.  The same can be accessed at the website of the Company; viz. https://www.cyient.com/
(c)	 CHANNELS OF COMMUNICATION WITH THE INVESTORS:
	
NSE Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS) and BSE Corporate Compliance & Listing Centre (the ‘Listing 
Centre’): All periodical compliance filings like shareholding pattern, Corporate Governance report, media releases, 
among others are also filed electronically.
(d)	 E-VOTING:
	
Pursuant to the requirements of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, Company is providing e-voting facility to its 
shareholders, in respect of all shareholders’ resolutions, to be passed at the General Meetings as also for postal ballot.
(e)	 INVESTORS/ANALYST MEETINGS:
	
Upon approval of the quarterly results, the Company usually organizes an analyst meet/call. Providing a platform for 
the Investors to call upon the management and the management to answer questions and provide clarifications to 
investors and analysts. Calls/meetings with institutional investors are hosted from time to time upon request.
15.	 GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION:
(a)	 ADDITIONAL SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION ON ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING:
Date
16 July, 2025
Time
 3.00 PM
Venue
through Video Conference (VC) or Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM)
(b)	 FINANCIAL CALENDAR:
Financial Year 26: 1 April 2025 to 31 March 2026
184  |  Annual Report 2024-25
(c)	 TENTATIVE CALENDAR FOR DECLARATION OF FINANCIAL RESULTS IN FINANCIAL YEAR 26:
Quarter
Period ended on 
On or before
Q-1
30 June 2025
25 July 2025
Q-2
30 September 2025
19 October 2025
Q-3
31 December 2025
23 January 2025
Q-4
31 March 2026
24 April 2026
(d)	 DATE OF PAYMENT OF DIVIDEND:
Particulars of 
Dividend
Amount of Dividend per 
share (in ₹)
Payout (%)
Payment Date
Interim Dividend FY 25
12
240
21 November 2024
Final Dividend FY 25
14
280
Within 30 days of the conclusion of the AGM 
for the FY 25, Subject to the approval of the 
shareholders
Total
26
520
(e)	 CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PROHIBITION OF INSIDER TRADING:
	
Your Company has adopted a Code of conduct as per Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015 as amended from time to time. All Directors, Senior Management Personnel, person 
forming part of Promoter(s)/Promoter(s) Group(s) and such other Designated Employees who could have access to 
the Unpublished Price Sensitive Information of the Company are governed by this Code. During the year under review, 
the Company had made due compliance with Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015. Company Secretary of the Company is appointed as the Compliance Officer by the Board to ensure 
compliance and effective implementation of the Insider Trading Code.
	
WEBLINK:
	
The code of conduct is available on the website of the Company. The same can be accessed at the following link:
	
https://www.cyient.com/investors/corporate-governance/
(f)	 LISTING ON STOCK EXCHANGES:
Stock Exchange
Address
ISIN
CIN of the 
Company
Scrip Code
Listing Fees 
Paid (Yes/No)
BSE
PJ Towers Dalal Street 
Mumbai- 400001
INE136B01020
L72200TG-
1991PLC013134
532175
Yes
NSE
Exchange Plaza,
Plot no. C/1, G Block,
Bandra-Kurla Complex
Bandra (E)
Mumbai - 400 051
CYIENT/EQ
Yes
(g)	 SECRETARIAL AUDIT:
	
Secretarial audit for the FY 25 was done by Mr. Krishna Mohan, a Practicing Company Secretary (Membership Number: 
46514 and CP Number: 16957) of Krishna Mohan and Associates, Company Secretaries. It, inter alia, includes audit 
of compliances with the Act, and the rules made under the Act, SEBI Listing Regulations and applicable regulations 
prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India and Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and Secretarial 
Standard issued by the Institute of the Company Secretaries of India. The Secretarial Audit forms part of the Annual 
Report.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  185 
(h)	 ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE:
	
i.	
FOR INVESTORS CORRESPONDENCE:
Contact Person
:
Mr. Ravi Kumar Nukala
Designation
:
Dy. Company Secretary
Address
:
4th Floor, ‘A’ Wing, Plot No.11, Software Units Layout, Infocity, Madhapur, Hyderabad - 500 081
Tel
:
040-6764 1696
E-Mail
:
company.secretary@cyient.com
	
ii.	
FOR ANY QUERIES RELATING TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY:
Contact Person
:
Mr. Mayur Maniyar
Designation
:
Manager, Investor Relations
Address
:
4th Floor, ‘A’ Wing, Plot No.11, Software Units Layout, Infocity, Madhapur, Hyderabad - 500 081
Tel
:
040-6764 1537
E-Mail
:
Mayur.Maniyar@cyient.com
(I)	 PLANT LOCATIONS:
	
Details of locations of the Company’s offices are listed elsewhere in the Annual Report.
(j)	 DISCLOSURE OF COMMODITY PRICE RISKS AND COMMODITY HEDGING ACTIVITIES:
	
The Company does not deal in commodities and hence the disclosure pursuant to SEBI Circular dated November 15, 
2018 is not required to be given. For a detailed discussion on foreign exchange risk and hedging activities, please refer 
to Management Discussion and Analysis Report.
(k)	 CREDIT RATINGS OBTAINED BY THE COMPANY FOR DEBT INSTRUMENTS/FIXED DEPOSIT SCHEME/SCHEME 
OR PROPOSAL INVOLVING MOBILIZATION OF FUNDS, IN INDIA OR ABROAD:
	
The Company continues to be a debt free Company. It has accordingly not issued any Debt instruments/fixed deposit 
scheme/scheme or proposal involving mobilization of funds, in India or abroad. Therefore, it was not required to obtain 
any credit rating for any instruments during the FY 25.
16.	 SHARE CAPITAL:
a)	
SUSPENSION IN TRADING OF SECURITIES OF THE COMPANY:
	
No such instances during the FY25.
b)	
REGISTRAR AND SHARE TRANSFER AGENTS:
	
As the Company’s shares are currently traded in dematerialized form, the transfers are processed and approved in the 
electronic form by NSDL / CDSL through their depository participants.
	
Kfin Technologies Limited is the Common R&T Agent for both physical and dematerialised mode.
	
All queries and requests relating to share transfers/ transmissions may be addressed to our Registrar and Transfer 
Agent: 
Name
:
Kfin Technologies Limited
Unit
:
Cyient Limited
Address
:
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31 & 32, Financial District, Gachibowli, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 
500 032, Telangana, India 
Contact Person
:
Mr. Mohd Mohsin Uddin
Designation
:
Manager – Corporate Registry
Tel
:
040- 6716 1562
E-Mail
:
mohsin.mohd@kfintech.com
186  |  Annual Report 2024-25
c)	
RECONCILIATCION OF SHARE CAPITAL:
	
As stipulated by SEBI, a Practicing Company Secretary carries out Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit to reconcile 
the total admitted capital with National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited (CDSL) and the total issued and listed capital. This audit is carried out every quarter and the report thereon are 
submitted to the Stock Exchanges. The audit confirms that the total listed and paid-up capital is in agreement with the 
aggregate of the total number of shares in dematerialized form and in physical form.
d)	
DEMATERIALIZATION OF SHARES AND LIQUIDITY:
	
Dematerialization of shares is done through M/s. Kfin Technologies Limited and on an average the dematerialization 
process is completed within 7 days from the date of receipt of a valid dematerialization request along with the relevant 
documents. As on 31 March 2025, 99.63% of the total shares have been dematerialized.
e)	
SHARE CAPITAL AND DISTRIBUTION:
(i)	
TOTAL EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL IS AS FOLLOWS:
Shareholding as at
Share Capital (in ₹) 
Number of Equity Shares of ₹ 5 each
31 March 2025
555,194,620
111,038,924
31 March 2024
554,449,060
110,889,812
(ii)	 SUMMARY OF SHAREHOLDING AS ON 31 MARCH 2025:
Category
No. of Holders
Total Shares
% Equity
Physical
282
410,940
0.37 
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL)
61,938
102,498,493
92.31
Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL)
127,222
8,129,491
7.32
Total
189,442
111,038,924
100.00
(iii)	 DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE AS ON 31 MARCH 2025:
Category (Amount)
Number
Amount
% of Amount
001-5000
187,247
40,846,845
7.36
5001- 10000
992
6,905,350
1.24
10001- 20000
531
7,518,970
1.36
20001- 30000
175
4,347,070
0.79
30001- 40000
73
2,587,115
0.47
40001- 50000
55
2,553,570
0.46
50001- 100000
106
7,419,455
1.33
100001 & above
263
483,016,245
86.99
Total
189,442
555,194,620
100
Annual Report 2024-25  |  187 
(iv)	 DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING ON THE BASIS OF OWNERSHIP AS ON 31 MARCH 2025:
Category
Number of Holders
Total Shares
% to Equity
Alternative Investment Fund
13
1,717,913
1.55
Bodies Corporates
1,189
1,239,015
1.12
Companies or Bodies Corporate where Central / State Gov-
ernment is a promoter
2
693
0.00
Clearing Members
4
1,264
0.00
Banks 
2
1,585
0.00
Other Financial Institutions
1
10
0.00
Foreign Nationals
46
345,075
0.31
Foreign Institutions (includes Foreign Portfolio Investors 
Category I and Category II, Overseas Depositories, Foreign 
Companies and other foreign investors)
192
26,485,586
23.85
Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF)
1
85,491
0.08
NBFCs registered with RBI
6
6,445
0.00
Mutual Funds
29
31,156,435
28.06
Non-Resident Indians
4,820
4,933,340
4.44
Promoters and Promoter Group
14
25,856,428
23.29
HUF
2,137
258,883
0.23
Resident Individuals
176,885
12,877,264
11.60
Shares held by Employees Trusts
1
886,670
0.80
Trusts
12
181,066
0.16
Insurance Companies 
12
5,005,761
4.51
Total
185,366
111,038,924
100
(v)	 SHAREHOLDERS OF THE COMPANY, HOLDING MORE THAN 1% SHAREHOLDING AS ON 31 MARCH 2025:
Name of the shareholder
 No. of shares 
% of holding
Promoters
Vineyard Point Software Private Limited
14,006,750
12.61
Infocad Enterprises Private Limited
7,051,650
6.35
Krishna Bodanapu
1,913,260
1.72
Bodanapu Sri Vaishnavi
1,793,008
1.61
Mutual Funds
DSP Mutual Fund
6,005,749
5.41
Kotak Small Cap Fund
4,545,365
4.09
Nippon Life India Trustee Ltd-A/C Nippon India Sma
3,606,569
3.25
ICICI Prudential Technology Fund
3,394,261
3.06
Aditya Birla Sun Life Trustee Private Limited A/C
3,099,107
2.79
Hdfc Trustee Company Limited-Hdfc Flexi Cap Fund
3,045,735
2.74
Tata Large Cap Fund
2,255,065
2.03
Mirae Asset Elss Tax Saver Fund
1,240,002
1.12
Foreign Portfolio Investors Category I
Amansa Holdings Private Limited
6,590,807
5.94
RBC Emerging Markets Small-Cap Equity Fund
1,331,181
1.20
188  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Name of the shareholder
 No. of shares 
% of holding
First Sentier Investors ICVC - Stewart Investors I
1,227,389
1.11
Vanguard Total International Stock Index Fund
1,192,643
1.07
Insurance Companies
Life Insurance Corporation of India  
3,447,858
3.11
f)	
OTHER INSTRUMENTS, DIVIDEND AND IEPF:
(i)	
Outstanding GDRs / ADRs / Warrants or any convertible instruments, conversion date and likely impact on equity:
The Company has not issued any GDRs/ADRs/ Warrants/any convertible instruments.
(ii)	 Unclaimed Shares / Dividend:
Unpaid / Unclaimed Dividends in accordance with the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 of Act and Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (IEPF Rules) dividends not 
encashed / claimed within seven years from the date of declaration are to be transferred to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (IEPF) Authority. The IEPF Rules mandate companies to transfer shares of Members whose 
dividends remain unpaid / unclaimed for a continuous period of seven years to the demat account of IEPF Authority. 
The Members whose dividend / shares are transferred to the IEPF Authority can claim their shares / dividend from 
the Authority.
(iii)	 Due dates for transfer of dividend unclaimed to IEPF are as follows: 
Financial Year
Rate of 
Dividend
Date of Declaration 
of Dividend
Last date for claiming  
un-paid dividends by Investors
Due date for 
transfer to IEPF
2017-18 (Final)
80%
12 July 2018
18 August 2025
17 September 2025
2018-19 (Interim)
120%
17 October 2018
20 November 2025
19 December 2025
2018-19 (Final)
180%
6 June 2019
9 July 2026
8 August 2026
2019-20 (1st Interim)
120%
17 October 2019
20 November 2026
19 December 2026
2019-20 (2nd Interim)
180%
12 March 2020
3 April 2027
2 May 2027
2020-21 (Final)
340%
17 June 2021
20 July 2028
19 August 2028
2021-22 (Interim)
200%
14 October 2021
17 November 2028
16 December 2028
2021-22 (Final)
280%
03 June 2022
07 July 2029
06 August 2029
2022-23 (Interim)
200%
13 October 2022
17 November 2029
16 December 2029
2022-23 (Final)
320%
21 June 2023
25 July 2030
24 August 2030
2023-24 (Interim)
240%
19 October 2023
23 November 2030
22 December 2030
2023-24 (Final)
360%
1 July 2024
5 July 2031
3 August 2031
2024-25 (Interim)
240%
24 October 2024
28 October 2031
26 November 2031
The movement of unclaimed shares in the “Cyient Ltd – Unclaimed Suspense Account” during the year as follows:
Particulars
No. of Shareholders
No. of Shares
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying as on 1 April 2024
26
19,443
Shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of shares 
from suspense account during the year
1
750
Shareholders to whom shares were transferred from suspense account 
during the year
-
-
Shareholders whose shares are transferred to the demat account of 
the IEPF authority as per Section 124 of the Act
-
-
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying as on 31 March 2025
25
18,693
Annual Report 2024-25  |  189 
The voting rights on the shares outstanding in the suspense account as on 31 March 2025 shall remain frozen till 
the rightful owner of such shares claims the shares.
The Company sends reminders to the shareholders concerned to claim the unclaimed and unpaid dividends before 
they are transferred to the IEPF.
The shareholders who have a claim on above dividends and shares may claim the same from IEPF Authority by 
submitting an online application in the prescribed Form No. IEPF-5 available on the website www.iepf.gov.in and 
sending a physical copy of the same, duly signed to the Company, along with requisite documents enumerated 
in the Form No. IEPF-5. No claims shall lie against the Company in respect of the dividend/ shares so transferred.
17.	 STATUTORY AND REGULATORY DISCLOSURES:
(a)	 Disclosure on Materially significant Related Party Transactions:
	
The Company’s major related party transactions are generally with its subsidiaries and associates. The related party 
transactions are entered into based on considerations of various business exigencies, such as synergy in operations, 
sectoral specialization and the Company’s long-term strategy for sectoral investments, optimisation of market share, 
profitability, legal requirements, liquidity and capital resources of subsidiaries and associates.
	
All Related Party Transactions shall require prior approval of Audit Committee. Further, all Material Related Party 
Transactions shall require approval of the shareholders through special resolution and the Related Parties shall abstain 
from voting on such resolutions. No transaction shall be entered/proposed to be entered in a manner prejudicial to the 
interests of any shareholder or other stakeholders.
	
All the contracts / arrangements / transactions entered by the Company during the financial year with related parties 
were in its ordinary course of business and on arm’s length basis. 
	
During the year, the Company had not entered into any contract / arrangement / transaction with related parties which 
could be considered material in accordance with the policy of the Company on materiality of related party transactions.
	
None of the transactions with any of related parties were in conflict with the Company’s interest.
	
WEBLINK:
	
The Company’s policy on Materiality of Related Party transactions and on dealing with Related Party Transactions is 
uploaded on the Company’s website and can be accessed at https://cdn2.hubspot.net/hubfs/5724847/FY_19_Revamp_
Assets_Website/Investors%20/Corporate%20Governance/Related%20Party%20Transactions%20Policy.pdf  
(b)	 DETAILS OF NON-COMPLIANCES, PENALTIES, STRICTURES AND ACTIONS TAKEN:
	
The Board considers materially important show cause/demand notices received from statutory authorities and the 
steps/action taken by the Company in this regard. A status report of material legal cases and disputed liabilities pending 
before the various courts/judicial forums is also put up to the Board on a quarterly basis. The status of the same is as 
follows:
(i)	
Details of non-compliance by the listed entity, penalties, strictures imposed on the listed entity by stock 
exchange(s) or the Board or any statutory authority, on any matter related to capital markets, during the last 
three years: NIL
(ii)	 Action(s) taken or orders passed by any regulatory, statutory, enforcement authority or judicial body against 
the Company or its directors, key managerial personnel, senior management, promoter or subsidiary, in 
relation to the Company: NIL
(c)	 Acceptance of recommendations of the Committees of the Company:
	
The Board has accepted all recommendations made by the respective Committees, as applicable.
(d)	 Risk Management:
	
The Board regularly discusses the significant business risks identified by the management and the mitigation process 
being taken up. A detailed note on the risk identification and mitigation is included in the Risk Management Report and 
Management Discussion and Analysis annexed to the Directors’ Report.
190  |  Annual Report 2024-25
(e)	 Vigil Mechanism and Whistle Blower Policy:
	
The Company has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy and has established the necessary vigil mechanism as defined under 
Regulation 22 of SEBI Listing Regulations for directors and employees to report concerns about unethical behaviour. 
	
The Company has complied with all mandatory requirements of SEBI Listing Regulations. The Company implemented 
a web based/online mechanism under the whistle blower policy. This mechanism encompasses the entire trail from the 
login of a complaint to its eventual redressal. The system also affords a dial-in facility to associates in various languages 
across the countries where the Company has its operations.
	
	
Access to Audit Committee: 
	
The Company affirms that no person has been denied access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
	
WEBLINK:
	
Whistle Blower Policy:  
https://www.cyient.com/hubfs/Statutory_information/Whistle_Blower_Policy__Procedure-1.pdf 
(f)	 Details of compliance with mandatory and non-mandatory requirements: 
(i)	
Mandatory:
	
The Company has complied with all mandatory requirements specified in regulation 17 to 27 and clause (b) to (i) of sub 
regulation (2) of regulation 46 of SEBI Listing Regulations.
(ii)	 Non-Mandatory:
i.	
Shareholder Rights:
	
The Company sends a quarterly investor update to the shareholders comprising key financial, business and operations 
update. This is sent in the electronic mode and hosted on the Company’s website.
ii.	
Audit qualification:
	
The Company is in the regime of unmodified audit opinion. None of the Auditors’ Report (Statutory Auditor/Secretarial 
Auditor/ Internal Auditor) have any qualification/ emphasis of any matter/ disclaimers, indicating an issue or the 
inadequacy of any control mechanisms.
iii.	 Reporting of Internal Auditor:
	
The Internal Auditor directly reports to the Audit Committee.
iv.	 CEO and CFO Certification:
	
The CEO and the CFO of the Company have given certification on financial reporting and internal controls for the FY 
25 to the Board of Directors at their meeting held on 24 April 2025 as required under regulation 17(8) of SEBI Listing 
Regulations.
(iii)	 Additional Disclosures:
i.	
There are no materially significant related party transactions. Please refer note No. 24 of the standalone financial 
statements, forming part of this Annual Report.
ii.	
There were no pecuniary transactions with any of the Non-Executive Directors, except payment of commission.
iii.	 A compliance report of all applicable laws and regulations duly signed by the MD, CFO and CS is placed at periodic 
intervals for review by the Board. The Board reviews the compliance of all the applicable laws and gives appropriate 
directions wherever necessary.
iv.	 The Board of directors has laid-down a ‘Code of Conduct’ (Code) for all the Board members and senior management 
personnel of the Company and this Code is posted on the website of the Company. Annual declaration is obtained 
from every associate covered by the Code. The declaration of the CEO, as required under SEBI Listing Regulations, 
is published elsewhere in the Annual Report.
v.	
No penalties or strictures were imposed on the Company by the Stock Exchanges, SEBI or other statutory 
authorities during the last three years.
vi.	 The Company is compliant with the provisions of applicable laws and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
vii.	 The senior management have affirmed to the Board of directors that there are no material, financial and commercial 
transactions, where they have personal interest that may have a potential conflict with the interest of the Company.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  191 
viii.	 Mr. Krishna Bodanapu is the son of Mr. B.V.R. Mohan Reddy. There are no inter-se relationships between and among 
any other directors.
ix.	 The Company is preparing its financial statements in line with the accounting standards prescribed under section 
133 of the Act.
x.	
The Company has not raised any fresh funds from the public or through Rights or Preferential Issue (except ASOPS 
and RSUS).
(g)	 Subsidiary Companies:
	
The Board of directors has reviewed the financial statements and minutes of the Board meetings of all the subsidiary 
companies. According to the policy of the Company and applicable regulations under SEBI Listing Regulations, the 
Company does not have any material unlisted subsidiary Company, except Cyient Inc., and Cyient Europe Limited. The 
Company has a policy for determining’ material subsidiary’ which is disclosed on its website. 
(h)	 Details of Material Subsidiaries and Listed Subsidiary:
Sl. 
No
Name of 
the Material 
Subsidiary
Date of 
Incorporation
Place of Incorporation
Name of the 
Statutory 
Auditors
Date of 
Appointment
1.
Cyient Inc.
19 July 1999
California USA
NA
-
2.
Cyient DLM 
Limited 
(Listed Entity)
30 June 1993
Mysore, Karnataka, (the registered 
office is presently situated in 
Hyderabad)
S. R. Batliboi 
& Associates 
LLP
17 July 2019
3.
Cyient Europe 
Limited
28 August 1992
Reading, England
RG1 1AX United
Kingdom
NA
-
Note: For Cyient Inc. & Cyient Europe Limited audit is not required as per applicable local laws.
	
WEBLINK:
	
Policy 
on 
Material 
Subsidiaries: 
https://cdn2.hubspot.net/hubfs/5724847/FY_19_Revamp_Assets_Website/
Investors%20/Corporate%20Governance/Material%20subsidiaries%20Policy.pdf 
(i)	
Loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/companies in which directors are interested: NIL 
(j)	
Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013:
The Company has complied with provisions relating to the constitution of Internal Complaints Committee under the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 during the FY 25.
The details of the initiatives under POSH for the FY 25:
There are no pending complaints either at the beginning or at end of the financial year. The following is the summary of the 
complaints received and disposed off during the FY 25:
a.
Number of complaints filed during the financial year
3
b.
Number of complaints disposed of during the financial year
3
c.
Number of complaints pending as on end of the financial year
Nil 
(k)	 Disclosure of Agreements Binding Listed Entities under Clause 5A of Paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III:
	
During the FY 2025, no such agreements were entered.
192  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Annexure - 8
CEO’S Declaration
I, Sukamal Banerjee, Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer do hereby declare that pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 
V of the SEBI LODR Regulations, 2015, all the members of the Board and Senior Management Personnel of the Company have 
furnished their affirmation of compliance with the Code of Conduct of the Company, for the financial year ended 31 March 2025.
For Cyient Limited,
Place: Hyderabad 	
Sukamal Banerjee
Date:  21 April 2025 	
Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer
DIN 10535670
Annexure - 9
CEO/CFO CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO REGULATION
17(8) OF SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE
REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
Date: 19 April 2025
The Board of Directors
CYIENT LIMITED,
Hyderabad.
Dear members of the Board,
We, Sukamal Banerjee, Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer and Prabhakar Atla, President & Chief Financial Officer of 
the Company hereby certify that:
1.	
We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year 2024-25 and that to the best of our 
knowledge and belief:
a)	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that 
might be misleading;
b)	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
2.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the company during the year which are 
fraudulent, illegal or violative of the company’s code of conduct.
3.	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that we have evaluated 
the effectiveness of internal control systems of the company pertaining to financial reporting and 
4.	
We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee that:
a)	
there are no significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
b)	
there are no significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the 
notes to the financial statements; and
c)	
there are no instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein.
Name
Sukamal Banerjee
Prabhakar Atla
Designation
Executive Director & Chief Executive Officer
President & Chief Financial Officer
DIN 10535670
Annual Report 2024-25  |  193 
Annexure - 10
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2025
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To
The Members of
CYIENT LIMITED,
4thFloor,’A’ Wing, Plot No.11,
Software Units Layout, Infocity,
Madhapur, Hyderabad - 500081.
I have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate 
practices by Cyient Limited having CIN L72200TG1991PLC013134 (hereinafter called the company). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing my opinion thereon.
Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the company and also the information provided and declarations made by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, I hereby report that in my opinion, the company has, during the audit 
period covering the financial year ended on 31st March, 2025 complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also 
that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to 
the reporting made hereinafter:
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by “the Company” for 
the financial year ended on 31st March, 2025 according to the provisions of:
(i)	 The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made thereunder;
(ii)	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;
(v)	 Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 and Employees’ State Insurance (General) Regulations, 1950;
(vi)	 The Employees” Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and The Employees’ Provident Funds 
Scheme, 1952;
(vii)	The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 and the Payment of Bonus Rules, 1965;
(viii)	The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 and the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Central 
Rules, 1971;
(ix)	 Income Tax Act, 1961 and rules made thereunder;
(x)	 Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 and rules made thereunder;
(xi)	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’):-
(a)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011. 
(Not Applicable to the Company during the Audit Period)
(b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
(c)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009. 
(Not Applicable to the Company during the Audit Period)
194  |  Annual Report 2024-25
(d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2021;
(e)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2015. (Not Applicable 
to the Company during the Audit Period)
(f)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 
regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;
(g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009. (Not Applicable to the 
Company during the Audit Period)
(h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018. (Not Applicable to the 
Company during the Audit Period) and 
(i)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible and Redeemable Preference Shares) 
Regulations,2013. (Not Applicable to the Company during the Audit Period)
I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
(i)	 Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India;
(ii)	 SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015;
(iii)	 Information Technology Act 2000; Information Technology (Amendment) Act 2008 & Rules for the Information 
Technology Act 2000
	
During the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc. mentioned above.
	
I further report that The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, 
Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took 
place during the period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
	
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent 
at least seven days in advance for meetings other than those held at shorter notice, and a system exists for seeking and 
obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at 
the meeting.
	
As per the minutes, the decisions at the Board Meetings were taken unanimously.
	
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size and 
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines etc.
Place: Hyderabad	
Krishna Mohan 
Date: 19.04.2025	
Company Secretary in Practice 
C.P. No.: 16957
UDIN: A046514G000153566
Annual Report 2024-25  |  195 
To
The Members,
CYIENT LIMITED
Hyderabad.
My Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1	
The maintenance of Secretarial records is the responsibility of the Management of the Company. Further, the Company is 
also responsible for devising proper systems and process to ensure the compliance of the various statutory requirements 
and governance systems.
2	
It is the responsibility of the Management of the Company to ensure that the systems and process devised for operating 
effectively and efficiently.
3	
My responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on my audit.
4	
I have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in Secretarial records. I believe that the process and practices followed provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
5	
Wherever required, I have obtained the Management representations about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations 
and happening of events etc.
6	
The Compliance of the provisions of other applicable laws, rules and regulations is the responsibility of the management. My 
examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
7	
The secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Place: Hyderabad	
Krishna Mohan
Date: 19.04.2025	
Company Secretary in Practice 
C.P. No.: 16957
UDIN: A046514G000153566
196  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To
The Members of
CYIENT LIMITED
4thFloor,’A’ Wing, Plot No.11,
Software Units Layout, Infocity,
Madhapur, Hyderabad - 500081.
I have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Cyient Limited 
having CIN L72200TG1991PLC013134 and having registered office at 4th Floor, ‘A’ Wing, Plot No.11, Software Units Layout, 
Infocity,  Madhapur, Hyderabad - 500081 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me by the Company for 
the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the 
Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the verifications (including Director Identification Number 
(DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to me by the Company & its 
officers, I hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ending 
on 31st March, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Director
Designation 
DIN
Date of 
appointment in 
Company
1.
Murugappan Murugappan Muthiah
Non-executive Chairman
00170478
10/08/1997
2.
Venkat Rama Mohan Reddy Bodanapu
Non-executive & Non- independent 
Director
00058215
28/08/1991
3.
Ganesh Venkat Krishna Bodanapu
Vice Chairman & Managing Director 
00605187
24/04/2014
4.
Sukamal Banerjee Mirnal
Executive Director & CEO 
10535670
19/02/2025
5.
Vikas Sehgal
Independent Director
05218876
17/10/2018
6.
Matangi Gowrishankar
Independent Director
01518137
25/04/2019
7.
Vivek Narayan Gour
Independent Director
00254383
25/04/2019
8.
Nitin Prasad
Independent Director
05261866
22/09/2023
9.
Debjani Ghosh
Independent Director
07820695
23/01/2025
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management 
of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has 
conducted the affairs of the Company.
Place: Hyderabad	
Krishna Mohan 
Date: 19.04.2025	
Company Secretary in Practice 
C.P. No.: 16957
UDIN: A046514G000153489
Annual Report 2024-25  |  197 
Annexure - 11
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2025
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To
The Members,
CYIENT DLM LIMITED
Plot No. 5G, Survey No. 99/1, 
GMR Aerospace & Industrial Park, 
GMR Hyderabad Aviation SEZ, 
Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, 
Shamshabad, Mamidipalli Village, 
Rangareddy - 500108.
I have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate 
practices by Cyient DLM Limited having CIN L31909TG1993PLC141346 (hereinafter called the company). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and 
expressing my opinion thereon.
Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained 
by the company and also the information provided and declarations made by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, I hereby report that in my opinion, the company has, during the audit 
period covering the financial year ended on 31st March, 2025 complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also 
that the Company has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to 
the reporting made hereinafter:
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by “the Company” for 
the financial year ended on 31st March, 2025 according to the provisions of:
(i)	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made thereunder;
(ii)	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;
(v)	 Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 and Employees’ State Insurance (General) Regulations, 1950;
(vi)	 The Employees” Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 and The Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme, 
1952;
(vii)	 The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 and the Payment of Bonus Rules, 1965;
(viii)	The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 and the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Central Rules, 
1971;
(ix)	 Income Tax Act, 1961 and rules made thereunder;
(x)	 Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 and rules made thereunder;
(xi)	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):
(a)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
(b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. 
(c)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2009. 
(Not applicable to the Company during the Audit period)
(d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India(Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2021;
198  |  Annual Report 2024-25
(e)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2015. (Not applicable to 
the Company during the Audit period)
(f)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 
regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;
(g)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; (Not applicable to the 
Company during the Audit period)
(h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018. (Not applicable to the Company 
during the Audit period) and
(i)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible and Redeemable Preference Shares) 
Regulations,2013 (Not applicable to the Company during the Audit period)
I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India;
(ii)	 SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015;
(iii)	 Information Technology Act 2000; Information Technology (Amendment) Act 2008 & Rules for the Information Technology 
Act 2000
During the period under review the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc. mentioned above.
I further report that The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-
Executive Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during 
the period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at 
least seven days in advance for meetings other than those held at shorter notice, and a system exists for seeking and obtaining 
further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting.
As per the minutes, the decisions at the Board Meetings were taken unanimously.
We further report that there are adequate systems and processes in the Company commensurate with the size and operations 
of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines etc.
Manish Kumar Singhania
Practicing Company Secretary
ACS No. 22056
C P No: 8068
UDIN: A022056G000155156
Place: Hyderabad	
For MKS and Associates
Date: 19.04.2025	
(Reg. No. S2017TL460500)
Annual Report 2024-25  |  199 
To
The Members,
CYIENT DLM LIMITED
Rangareddy.
My Secretarial Audit Report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1	
The maintenance of Secretarial records is the responsibility of the Management of the Company. Further, the Company is 
also responsible for devising proper systems and process to ensure the compliance of the various statutory requirements 
and governance systems.
2	
It is the responsibility of the Management of the Company to ensure that the systems and process devised for operating 
effectively and efficiently.
3	
My responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on my audit.
4	
I have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in Secretarial records. I believe that the process and practices followed provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
5	
Wherever required, I have obtained the Management representations about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations 
and happening of events etc.
6	
The Compliance of the provisions of other applicable laws, rules and regulations is the responsibility of the management. My 
examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
7	
The secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Manish Kumar Singhania
Practicing Company Secretary
ACS No. 22056
C P No: 8068
UDIN: A022056G000155156
Place: Hyderabad 	
For MKS and Associates
Date: 19.04.2025	
(Reg. No. S2017TL460500)
200  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015)
To
The Members of
CYIENT DLM LIMITED
Plot No. 5G, Survey No. 99/1, 
GMR Aerospace & Industrial Park, 
GMR Hyderabad Aviation SEZ, 
Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, 
Shamshabad, Mamidipalli Village, 
Rangareddy - 500108.
I have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of CYIENT DLM 
LIMITED having CIN L31909TG1993PLC141346 and having registered office at Plot No. 5G, Survey No. 99/1, GMR Aerospace 
& Industrial Park, GMR Hyderabad Aviation SEZ, Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, Mamidipalli Village, 
Rangareddy - 500108 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me by the Company for the purpose of issuing 
this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the verifications (including Director Identification Number 
(DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to me by the Company & its 
officers, I hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for the Financial Year ending 
on 31st March, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other Statutory Authority.
Sl. 
No.
Name of the Director
Designation 
DIN
Date of 
appointment in 
Company
1.
Velagapudi Rajendra
Managing Director
06507627
25/04/2017
2.
Venkat Rama Mohan Reddy Bodanapu
Non-executive & Non independent Di-
rector
00058215
27/12/2022
3.
Ganesh Venkat Krishna Bodanapu
Non-executive & Non independent Di-
rector
00605187
04/02/2025
4.
Vanitha Datla
Independent Director
00480422
13/12/2022
5.
Jehangir Ardeshir
Independent Director
02344835
13/12/2022
6.
Pillutla Madan Mohan
Independent Director
09280818
27/12/2022
7.
Ajay Kumar
Independent Director
01975789
15/11/2023
8.
Yadama Muralidhar
Independent Director
00034952
21/07/2023
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management 
of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has 
conducted the affairs of the Company.
Manish Kumar Singhania
Practicing Company Secretary
ACS No. 22056
C P No: 8068
UDIN: A022056G000155090
Place: Hyderabad	
For MKS and Associates
Date: 19.04.2025	
(Reg. No. S2017TL460500)
Annual Report 2024-25  |  201 
Annexure - 12
PARTICULARS OF CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS & OUTGO:
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY:
Cyient accords highest Priority for Energy Conservation and takes Pro–active measures to implement best optimization 
techniques in the areas of Energy Conservation. As energy conservation is an ongoing process, we at Cyient have been making 
continuous endeavours to implement the best practices in areas of energy conservation. At all our locations we have adopted 
energy conservation initiatives and accordingly, we have implemented energy savings practices across the organization and 
continue to develop and improve on the same on a year-on-year basis. 
We focus on reducing energy consumption and increasing the use of renewable energy sources. We are actively working towards 
minimizing our carbon footprint through sustainable operational practices. Our efforts also extend to achieving water neutrality 
by optimizing water usage, implementing recycling and reuse methods, and significantly reducing our reliance on freshwater. 
We embrace integrated waste management principles, emphasizing the reduction, recycling, and reuse of waste materials to 
lower both hazardous and non-hazardous waste across our operations.
 With this background, in FY25, we prioritized reducing energy consumption and increasing our use of renewable energy sources, 
aligning with our commitment to clean energy. We also focused on targeted waste reduction, recycling, and reuse programs, 
significantly minimizing our environmental impact.
(i)	
Our energy conservation initiatives focus on the following areas:
(ii)	 Energy conservation and management;
(iii)	 Sustainable Energy Solutions and adoption of clean energy; 
ENHANCING THE RESOURCE EFFICIENCY:
We’ve embarked on numerous initiatives to enhance resource efficiency. These measures aim at resource optimization and 
considerably cut down on energy use and carbon emissions, resulting in financial savings. Some of the initiatives adopted include 
reducing maximum demand.
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY SOLUTIONS AND ADOPTION OF CLEAN ENERGY:
(i)	
Renewable energy:
	
We at Cyient embrace renewable energy forms like solar and wind power, to reduce our reliance on non-renewable sources 
such as fossil fuels. This leading to cost reductions and a more reliable energy supply. Renewable energy plays a crucial role 
in substantially lowering our emissions, ultimately leading to a decrease in costs. Our RE share has increased from 46% in 
FY24 to 54% in FY25. Our target is to achieve 77% RE share at own locations by FY40
(ii)	 Installation of rooftop solar panels:
	
We’ve implemented several projects to enhance our use of renewable energy sources. For instance, we’ve installed 
solar panels with capacities of 100 kWp in Kakinada, 240 kWp in Vizag, 100 kWp in Warangal, and 140 kWp in Madhapur. 
We installed roof top solar panels at our Bangalore and Manikonda site which will add 9 Lakh solar units per annum. At our 
Warangal location, 100% of the energy consumed is derived from renewable power. Additionally, we’ve established EV 
charging stations for both two-wheelers and four-wheelers at our Manikonda, Madhapur, and Bangalore sites to encourage 
our associates to use electric vehicles. These initiatives demonstrate our commitment to reducing GHG emissions and 
promoting sustainable practices.  As a result of these initiatives, there has been a substantial decrease in energy expenses, 
a reduction in carbon emissions, and an enhancement in overall environmental efficiency.
(iii)	 Advocating the use of Electric Vehicles:
	
We have established EV charging facilities for both two-wheelers and four-wheelers at our locations in Manikonda, Madhapur, 
and Bangalore. These initiatives underscore our dedication to lowering GHG emissions and endorsing sustainable practices. 
Similar initiatives will be undertaken at other facilities in FY 26.
202  |  Annual Report 2024-25
(iv)	 Ban on Single Use Plastic – As part our commitment to clean and sustainable environment, we have banned use of single 
use plastic across all facilities. 
(v)	 Paperless operations – To encourage reduction in paper use in our day to day operations, we have installed Face Based 
attendance system and RFID based Bus attendance system at our locations thereby saving tons of paper waste annually.
(vi)	 Green Building:
	
In our constants endeavour to responsibly design and operate our office spaces we have adopted the Green Building 
initiative. Accordingly, Tower 2 at the Manikonda office, Phase I of Madhapur office and Bangalore facility has been certified 
GOLD under Indian Green Building Council Leadership in Energy and Environment Design. Our Target is to achieve LEED 
PLATIMUM certificate for our Bangalore facility in FY26. A major share of the materials used in the construction has been 
procured locally, thereby reducing the carbon footprint associated with sourcing. We continue to expand our portfolio of 
facilities that are certified as green buildings. Additionally, Cyient has been recognized with the CMMI-DE certification.
WASTE MANAGEMENT INITIATIVES:
(i)	
Waste management system: 
•	
We’ve implemented a system that uses separate bins for various waste categories, including recyclables, organic 
waste, and non-recyclable materials. We collect and securely store our main waste products, such as electronic waste 
and computer components, for three years before disposing of them through vendors authorized by the Pollution 
Control Board (PCB).
•	
We collaborate with approved vendors for paper waste management and utilize recycled paper for our notepads. We’ve 
also installed Organic Waste Converters (OWCs) to handle food and garden waste, transforming it into compost for 
our gardening and landscaping needs. We regularly send out emails to remind our team members to refrain from using 
hazardous and non-biodegradable items. We have recycled 3.8 tons of wastepaper and got 300 notebooks from the 
service provider. The Notebooks were distributed to the underprivileged children free of charge.
•	
To ensure adherence to our waste management protocols, we’ve put stringent security measures in place at our main 
entrance. Vendors who don’t comply with our waste management guidelines are intercepted, and we promote the use 
of biodegradable products. We also treat the wastewater produced at our facilities through a Sewage Treatment Plant 
(STP) to ensure it meets the required standards before being released.
•	
At Cyient, we strive to limit the use of harmful chemicals, including those used in STP and cleaning processes. We dilute 
these chemicals to lower their concentrations, ensuring they can be handled safely. Moreover, all chemicals used at 
Cyient are certified by authorized agencies, guaranteeing their quality and compliance.
(ii)	 Recycling waste water: the waste water generated at our sites is treated through the sewage treatment plants (STPs) and 
the recycled water is used for sanitation and gardening purposes. We have achieved 100% wastewater recycling at owned 
site much ahead of our FY30 target.
(iii)	 Rainwater Harvesting –We installed state of the art 1.5 lakh litter Rain water harvesting system at Madhapur in Aug 24. This 
system, designed to conserve and recycle rainwater is a testament of our commitment to sustainability and environmental 
stewardship. By capturing and storing rainwater during monsoon season, we aim to reduce our dependence on external 
water sources and contribute towards overall water security of the region.   From its inception, we have recycled more 
than 1 Mn litters of rainwater for domestic purposes at Madhapur.
(iv)	 Organic waste composting units: as a part of our waste management initiatives, we directed our capital investments 
towards the adoption of specific technologies for the establishment of organic waste composting units across our offices. 
We have installed Organic Waste Converter (OWC) at Madhapur, Manikonda and Bangalore sites. We recycle around 132 Kg 
of food waste to produce 25 Kg of organic manure per day. The organic manure is distributed free of cost to our associates. 
(v)	 Tree Plantation Drive at Our Facilities – We have planted more than 750 Trees and have donated more than 60 plants to 
various schools as a CSR activity
(vi)	 Awards and Recognitions – We have received numerous awards and recognitions as a result of our Sustainability initiatives. 
We received “ESG Excellence Award 2024” from KPMG at Mumbai, “ESG- Infra workplace excellence Award, 2024” from 
Infhra at Hyderabad and “Sustainability Excellence Award, 2024” by ELCITA at Bangalore
Annual Report 2024-25  |  203 
TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION, ADAPTATION AND INNOVATION
During FY25, Cyient advanced its Intelligent Engineering offerings to help customers accelerate digital, autonomous, and 
sustainable transformations. Our approach is organized into three solution pillars, powered by four big bet areas — AI 
Applications, Data Engineering, Platform Engineering, and Embedded Solutions. 
1.	
TECHNOLOGY DRIVEN ENGINEERING
	
Our offerings aligned to Technology driven engineering are aimed at accelerating design, , software, and product 
development using AI, Data, and Platform technologies.
	
Key Innovations:
•	
Model-Based Design & Digital Thread Solutions
•	
GenAI-powered Engineering Automation
•	
AI-powered Document Creation and Validation Workflows
•	
2D/3D CAD Data Manipulation and Search
•	
Industry Specific Agentic AI Agents like FDA assist
•	
Platform-X Technology Building Block
•	
EnGENeer CoE – Microsoft GenAI-powered engineering accelerators
2.	
ASSET AND SERVICE LIFECYCLE MANAGEMENT
	
Transforming operational efficiency, service management, and aftermarket excellence aims to boost customer margins, 
revenue and end customer satisfaction leveraging connected digital solutions.
	
Key Innovations:
•	
CyMRO – MRO Work Instruction Management
•	
Parts Forecasting & Vendor Selection Automation
•	
Plant.AI Advisor Copilot
•	
Supply Chain Analysis & Vendor Performance Insight
•	
BIM Model Generation from Drawings
•	
Digital Aftermarket Platforms
•	
AI Assisted Tech Publication Services
•	
CyMedge – Enabling digital transformation of legacy products
•	
VISMON AI Automation – AI for autonomous network management
•	
Perception system for retrofitting off highway machines 
•	
Wireless BMS and Charging Solutions – Supporting electrification and decarbonization goals
3.	
QUALITY AND COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT
	
Driving higher product and process quality through AI, automation, and closed-loop quality systems ensures reduced Non-
Compliance instances and drastically reduces cost of quality
	
Key Innovations:
•	
Quality Notification (QN) Workflow Automation
•	
CAPA Report Generation Automation
•	
Engineering Document Builder
•	
AI-powered Industry-Specific Agentic Bots
•	
CyARC / CyFAST – AI solutions for medical device regulatory compliance
•	
VISMON AI Automation – AI for autonomous network management
204  |  Annual Report 2024-25
	
We continue to invest in Cloud Platforms, Security, Data & AI technologies and embedded solutions as part of this Intelligent 
Engineering journey.  We have also expanded into next-gen digital workflows, Industry specific AI-powered agents, and 
platform offerings to unlock new value streams for customers.
	
We shared our innovation with our customers through 6 CXO events and 7 technology innovation days. During FY’25, we 
deepened our connect with CXOs from KAP accounts through 12 industry-focused newsletters and 4 Analyst editions, 
centered around the themes of Digital, Autonomous, Sustainable transformation, and Intelligent Engineering. These 
newsletters highlighted critical industry trends and spotlighted Cyient’s latest innovations leveraging new-age tech. 
Complementing this, we published over 25 thought leadership articles and 90+ whitepapers and technical blogs. Consistent 
amplification across social media and earned media channels helped grow our follower base from 500,000 to 581,045—
strengthening our digital presence and brand visibility. We continued our investments in upskilling and skilled 5,377 (unique 
reach) associates in digital, emerging technologies, and traditional skills.
	
Achievements:
•	
We have advanced our ranking on the following topics according to Zinnov - Leader for data and AI engineering, Industry 
4.0 Medical Devices, Semiconductors and Telecommunications while continuing to be established player for Digital 
Engineering.
•	
Microsoft has awarded Cyient the Partner Solution status in 2 areas - “Data and AI” and “Digital & App Innovation” 
•	
Our solution on 2D to BIM model solution won an industry award at Gen AI Conclave and Awards for the category 
Outstanding GenAI App 2024
The Company has not imported any technology during the FY 25.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS & OUTGO:
Most of your company’s earnings are from the export of Engineering and Software Services. During the year, export earnings 
accounted for 81.34% of the total income. In order to promote product sales and services, your company participated in various 
exhibitions and carried product promotion activities. Details of Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo are as follows:
(₹ in million)
Particulars
Year ended
31 March 2025
Year ended
31 March 2024
% Increase
(Decrease) 
y-o-y
Foreign Exchange Earnings
19,636
19,675
(0.20)
Foreign Exchange Outgo
1039
932
11.48
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  205 
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Cyient Limited 
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of Cyient Limited (“the Company”), which comprise the 
Balance sheet as at  March 31, 2025, the Statement of Profit and Loss, including the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, 
the Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone financial 
statements, including a summary of material accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as 
the “Standalone Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Standalone Financial 
Statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (“the Act”) in the manner so required and 
give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the 
Company as at March 31, 2025, its profit including other comprehensive income, its cash flows and the changes in equity for the 
year ended on that date. 
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as 
specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Company 
in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) together with the ethical 
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe 
that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Standalone 
Financial Statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. 
We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled 
the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements section of 
our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to 
respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements. The results of our 
audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on 
the accompanying Standalone Financial Statements.
206  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Impairment assessment of non-current investments in subsidiaries carried at cost  
(as described in Note 5B of the Standalone Financial Statements)
As at March 31, 2025, the Company has non- current 
investments in subsidiaries carried at cost of ₹ 12,748 
million. 
The investments in subsidiaries are tested annually 
for impairment using discounted cash-flow models of 
recoverable value compared to the carrying value of the 
assets. A deficit between the recoverable value and carrying 
value would result in impairment.
The inputs to the impairment testing model includes:
•	 Projected revenue growth, operating margins, operating 
cash-flows and capex during the periods relating to 
explicit forecasts.
•	 Stable long-term growth rates beyond explicit forecast 
period and in perpetuity, and
•	 Discount rates that represent the current market 
assessment of the risks specific to the cash generating 
unit, taking into consideration the time value of money.
The financial projections, basis which the future cash flows 
have been estimated consider the impact of the economic 
uncertainties on the discount rates, the projected growth 
rates and terminal values and subjecting these variables to 
sensitivity analysis. 
The annual impairment testing is considered a key audit 
matter because the assumptions on which the tests are 
based are highly judgmental and are affected by future 
market and economic conditions which are inherently 
uncertain, and because of the materiality of the balances to 
the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole.
Our audit procedures included the following:
•	 We tested the design and operative effectiveness of 
management’s key internal controls over impairment 
assessments.
•	 Gained 
an 
understanding 
of 
and 
evaluated 
the 
methodology used by management to prepare its 
cash flow forecasts and the appropriateness of the 
assumptions applied. In making this assessment, we also 
evaluated the competence, professional qualification, 
objectivity and independence of Company’s specialists 
and Company’s personnel involved in the process.
•	 With the assistance of our specialists for select 
impairment assessments, we assessed the assumptions 
on the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts including 
discount rates, expected growth rates and terminal 
growth rates used; in consideration of the current and 
estimated future economic conditions.
•	 We assessed the historical accuracy of management’s 
forecast by comparing actual financial performance to 
management’s previous forecasts.
•	 We have analysed the consistency of cash flow forecasts 
with Management’s latest estimates presented to the 
Board of Directors as part of the budget process.
•	 We assessed the recoverable value headroom by 
performing sensitivity testing of key assumptions used.
•	 We have tested the arithmetical accuracy of the 
impairment assessments models.
•	 We assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures in 
note 5B to the Standalone Financial Statements.
Accuracy of recognition and measurement of Revenues from external customers  
(as described in Note 2 and 17 of the Standalone Financial Statements)
The application of the revenue recognition standard, Ind AS 
115 – “Revenue from contracts with customers” involves 
certain key judgements and principles for evaluating various 
distinctive terms/matters.
Revenue where the performance obligation is satisfied 
over time has been recognised using the percentage 
of completion method. Identification of performance 
obligations involves high degree of judgement and 
assessment of contractual terms. 
Our audit procedures include the following:
•	 We tested the design and operating effectiveness 
of management’s key internal controls over revenue 
recognition.
•	 Tested relevant information technology systems’ controls 
relating to contracts and related information used in 
recording and disclosing revenue.
•	 Substantive testing of sample revenue contracts 
and performed the following procedures to assess 
management analysis of compliance with Ind AS 115:
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  207 
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Use of the percentage-of-completion method requires the 
Company to determine the actual efforts or costs expended 
to date as a proportion of the estimated total efforts or 
costs to be incurred which involves significant judgement 
throughout the period of the contract and is subject to 
revision as the contract progresses is based on the latest 
available information. 
As the revenue recognition involves significant estimates 
and judgments and is material to the Standalone Financial 
Statements, we regard this as a key audit matter.
	-
Read, analyzed and identified the distinct performance 
obligations in these contracts.
	-
Compared these performance obligations with that 
identified and recorded by the Company.
	-
Considered the terms of the contracts and assessed 
the 
transaction 
price 
including 
any 
variable 
consideration to test revenue.
•	 Test checked sample contracts / transactions in respect 
of:
	-
Revenue recorded for time and material contracts were 
tested using a combination of internally approved time 
sheets including customer acceptances and invoices.
	-
Revenue recorded for fixed price contracts is based 
on progress towards completion of performance 
obligation which was verified based on actual cost 
relative to estimated cost from management analysis 
and systems or external evidence of progress. Also, 
reviewed cost incurred with estimated cost to identify 
significant variations and reasons and to verify whether 
those variations have been considered in estimating 
the remaining cost to complete the contract.
•	 Test checked manual journals posted to revenue to 
identify any unusual items and sought explanations from 
Management.
•	 We assessed the adequacy of relevant disclosures made 
within the standalone financial statements.
Allowance for credit losses for trade receivables including contract assets from external customers (as described in note 
2 and 9 of the Standalone Financial Statements)
As at March 31, 2025, the Company has outstanding 
trade receivables and contract assets of ₹ 9,848 Mn and  
₹ 1,610 Mn respectively. The Company has determined the 
allowance for credit losses based on the ageing status and 
historical loss experience adjusted to reflect current and 
estimated future economic conditions. 
In determination of allowance for expected credit loss, 
management’s judgement involves consideration of terms 
of the contract, ageing status, historical payment records, 
evaluation of litigations, and the credit information of its 
customers.
We considered this as key audit matter due to the materiality 
of the amounts and significant estimates and judgements 
as stated above.
Our audit procedures included the following:
•	 We tested the design and operative effectiveness of 
management’s key internal controls over allowance for 
credit losses.
•	 We assessed the completeness and accuracy of the 
information used in the estimation of probability of default 
and tested historical payment records, correspondence 
with 
customers, 
credit 
related 
information 
and 
subsequent collection of the customers balances.
•	 We assessed the allowance for expected credit loss 
made by management and performed analysis of ageing 
of receivables, tested the mathematical accuracy and 
computation of the allowance for credit losses.
208  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Other Information
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information 
included in the Annual report, but does not include the Standalone Financial Statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon. 
In connection with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in 
doing so, consider whether such other information is materially inconsistent with the Standalone Financial Statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to 
report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation 
of these Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance including 
other comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read 
with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. This responsibility also includes maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Standalone Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, Management and Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going 
concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so.
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Standalone Financial Statements as a whole are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect 
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually 
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
Standalone Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout 
the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Standalone Financial Statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of 
internal control. 
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether 
the Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management. 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  209 
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on 
the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw 
attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Standalone Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are 
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. 
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Standalone Financial Statements, including the disclosures, 
and whether the Standalone Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves 
fair presentation. 
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the 
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Standalone Financial Statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 and are therefore the 
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about 
the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such 
communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of India in 
terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
(a)	 We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were 
necessary for the purposes of our audit;
 (b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books except for the matters stated in the paragraph 2(i)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g);
(c)	 The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the 
Cash Flow Statement and Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of 
account;
(d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;
(e)	 On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on March 31, 2025 taken on record by the 
Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from being appointed as a director in terms 
of Section 164 (2) of the Act;
(f)	 With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to these Standalone Financial Statements 
and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure 2” to this report;
(g)	 In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the year ended March 31, 2025 has been paid / provided by the Company 
to its directors in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act;
(h)	 The modification relating to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith are as stated in the 
paragraph 2 (b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 2(i)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g).
(i)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its Standalone Financial 
Statements – Refer Note 23(A)(a) to the Standalone Financial Statements; 
210  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ii.	
The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material 
foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Note 14 to the Standalone 
Financial Statements; 
iii.	 There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Company;
iv.	
a)	
The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in the 
note 33 to the Standalone Financial Statements, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either 
from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other 
persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
b)	 The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in the 
note 33 to the Standalone Financial Statements, no funds have been received by the Company from any person 
or entity, including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or 
otherwise, that the Company shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Parties (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
c)	
Based on such audit procedures performed that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under 
sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any material misstatement.
v.	
a)	
The final dividend paid by the Company during the year in respect of the dividend declared for the previous year 
is in accordance with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividend.
	
b)	 The interim dividend declared and paid by the Company during the year and until the date of this audit report is 
in accordance with section 123 of the Act.
        	 c)	
As stated in note 31 to the Standalone Financial Statements, the Board of Directors of the Company have 
proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to the approval of the members at the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting. The dividend declared is in accordance with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
declaration of dividend.
vi.	 Based on our examination which included test checks, the Company has used accounting software for maintaining 
its books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated 
throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software except for direct changes to data made 
using certain access rights in one accounting software, where the audit trail feature is only enabled from January 
07, 2025 to March 31, 2025 and in respect of other software for maintenance of timesheet records, where audit trail 
feature is only enabled from June 18, 2024 to March 31, 2025, as described in note 35 to the Standalone Financial 
Statements. Further, during the course of our audit we did not come across any instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with, in respect of softwares where the audit trail has been enabled. Additionally, the audit trail of prior 
year has been preserved by the Company as per the statutory requirements for record retention to the extent it 
was enabled and recorded in the prior year.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
per Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership Number: 093649
UDIN: 25093649BMOISN7813 
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Date: April 24, 2025
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  211 
ANNEXURE ‘1’ REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH UNDER THE 
HEADING “REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY 
REQUIREMENTS” OF OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON THE 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CYIENT LIMITED 
(“THE COMPANY”)
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the Company and the books of account and records 
examined by us in the normal course of audit and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that:
(i)	
(a)	 (A)	 The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of 
property, plant and equipment.
	
(a)	 (B)	 The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangibles assets.
	
(b)	 A portion of the Property, Plant and Equipment were physically verified by the management during the year in accordance 
with a planned programme of verifying them once in three years which is reasonable having regard to the size of the 
Company and the nature of its assets. No material discrepancies were identified on such verification.
	
(c)	 The title deeds of immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee) disclosed in note 3A to the Standalone Financial Statements are 
held in the name of the Company except the following:
Particulars of 
freehold land
Gross 
Block as at 
March 31, 
2025 
Held in name of
Whether promoter, 
director or 
their relative or 
employee
Period held 
– indicate 
range, where 
appropriate
Reason for not being held 
in the name of Company
Freehold land located 
at Nanakramguda 
Village, admeasuring 
10 acres.
₹ 4 million Telangana 
State Industrial 
Infrastructure 
Corporation Limited
No
Since 2005
Pending completion of 
legal formalities relating to 
conveyance
	
(d)	 The Company has not revalued its property, plant and equipment (including right of use assets) or intangible assets 
during the year ended March 31, 2025.
	
(e)	 There are no proceedings initiated or are pending against the Company for holding any benami property under the 
Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made thereunder.
(ii)	
(a)	 The Company’s business does not involve inventories. Accordingly, the requirements to report on clause 3(ii)(a) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 As disclosed in note 27 to the financial statements, the Company has been sanctioned working capital limits in excess 
of ₹ 5 crores in aggregate from banks and financial institutions during the year on the basis of security of current assets 
of the Company. Based on the records examined by us in the normal course of audit of the financial statements, the 
quarterly returns/statements filed by the Company with such banks and financial institutions are in agreement with the 
audited books of accounts of the Company. 
(iii)	 (a)	 During the year, the Company has provided loans and stood guarantee to subsidiary / step down subsidiaries as follows:
212  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(₹ in Mn)
Guarantees
Loans
Aggregate amount granted/ provided during the year
638
2,094
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date in respect of subsidiary 
/ step down subsidiary companies 
17,565
2,612
	
	
During the year, the Company has not granted loans or advances in the nature of loans, stood guarantee or provided 
security to any other parties.
	
(b)	 During the year, the investments made, guarantees provided and the terms and conditions of the grant of all loans, 
investments and guarantees to subsidiary companies are not prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
	
(c)	 In respect of loans granted to subsidiaries, the schedule of repayment of principal and payment of interest has been 
stipulated and the repayment or receipts are regular except in the following cases: 
Name of the Entity
Amount
Due date
Date of  
payment
Extent of 
delay
Remarks,  
if any
Cyient Europe 
Limited
₹ 251,928,012
December 20, 2024
December 24, 2024
4 days
Pertains to 
Principal and 
Interest accrued
Cyient Singapore 
Private Limited
₹ 20,806,500
December 20, 2024
January 03, 2025
14 days
Pertains to 
Principal 
Cyient Singapore 
Private Limited 
₹ 1,394,552
December 31, 2024
March 14, 2025
73 days
Pertains to 
Interest accrued
	
(d) 	There are no amounts of loans granted to subsidiary companies, which are overdue for more than ninety days.
	
(e)	 The Company had granted loans to subsidiary companies which had fallen due during the year. The Company has 
extended due date of payment during the year to the subsidiary company to settle the dues which had fallen due for the 
existing loans.
	
	
The aggregate amount of such dues extended and the percentage of the aggregate to the total loans granted during the 
year are as follows:
Name of subsidiary company
Aggregate amount of 
loans granted during 
the year*
Aggregate amount of 
existing loans extended
Percentage of the 
aggregate to the total 
loans granted during 
the year
Cyient DLM Limited
₹ 340 million
₹ 340 million
100%
	
*Represents the loans extended/ renewed during the year.
	
(f)	 The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans, either repayable on demand or without 
specifying any terms or period of repayment to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(iii)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(iv)	 There are no loans, guarantees and security in respect of which provisions of sections 185 of the Act is applicable. Loans, 
investments, guarantees and security in respect of which provisions of section 186 of the Act are applicable, have been 
complied with by the Company.
(v)	
The Company has neither accepted any deposits from the public nor accepted any amount which are deemed to be deposits 
within the meaning of Sections 73 to 76 of the Act and the rules made thereunder, to the extent applicable. Accordingly, the 
requirement to report on clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  213 
(vi)	 The Company is not in the business of sale of any goods or provision of such services as prescribed by the Central 
Government for maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the Act. Accordingly, the requirement to report on 
clause 3(vi) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(vii)	 (a)	 The Company is regular in depositing with appropriate authorities undisputed statutory dues including goods and 
services tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax, duty of customs and other statutory dues 
applicable to it. The provisions relating to sales tax, service tax, value added tax, duty of excise and cess are not 
applicable to the Company. According to the information and explanations given to us, no undisputed amounts payable 
in respect of these statutory dues were outstanding, at the year end, for a period of more than six months from the date 
they became payable.
	
(b)	 There are no dues of goods and services tax, provident fund, employees’ state insurance, customs duty and other 
statutory dues which have not been deposited on account of any dispute. The dues of income-tax, sales-tax, service 
tax and value added tax have not been deposited on account of any dispute, are as follows:  
(₹ in Mn)
Name of the statute
Nature of the 
dues
Period to which the 
 amount relates
Amount involved 
Amount paid 
under protest 
Forum where the 
dispute is pending
Central Sales Tax 
Act, 1956
Sales Tax
2004-05 to 2009-10  
& 2015-16 to Jun-17
17
13
Commissioner of 
Commercial Taxes 
(Appeals)
Andhra Pradesh 
Value Added Tax Act, 
2005
Value added Tax
2005-06 to 2009-10
4
2
Commissioner of 
Commercial Taxes 
(Appeals)
Finance Act, 1994
Service Tax
Apr-10 to Mar-12 and  
Apr-13 to Jun-17
486*
76
Customs, Excise and 
Service Tax Appellate 
Tribunal
Apr-06 to Mar-10
137
0
The Supreme Court 
of India
Goods and Ser-vices 
Tax, 2017
Goods and 
Services Tax
2017-18 to 2020-21
63
6
GST Appellate 
Tribunal
 
 
2017-18 to 2022-23
43
4
Commissioner 
Appeals
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
AY 2017-18 to 2019-20  
and AY 2023-24
59
19
Commissioner  
of Income Tax  
(Appeals)
 
 
AY 2002-03, AY 2004-05  
and AY 2005-06
 39
- 
Andhra Pradesh  
High Court
	
(* including penalty)
(viii)	 The Company has not surrendered or disclosed any transaction, previously unrecorded in the books of account, in the tax 
assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 as income during the year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 
3(viii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(ix)	 (a)	 The Company did not have any outstanding loans or borrowings or interest thereon due to any lender during the year. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause ix(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority.
	
(c)	 The Company did not have any term loans outstanding during the year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 
(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	 On an overall examination of the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company, no funds raised on short-term basis 
have been used for long-term purposes by the Company.
214  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
(e)	 On an overall examination of the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company, the Company has not taken any 
funds from any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries or joint venture entity. The 
Company does not have any associate.  
	
(f)	 The Company has not raised loans during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries or joint venture 
entity. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause (ix)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(x)	
(a)	 The Company has not raised any money during the year by way of public offer (including debt instruments). Accordingly, 
the requirement to report on clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 The Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares /fully or partially or optionally 
convertible debentures during the year under audit. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(x)(b) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xi)	 (a)	 No fraud by the Company or no fraud on the Company has been noticed or reported during the year.
	
(b)	 During the year, no report under sub-section (12) of section 143 of the Act has been filed by secretarial auditor or by us in 
Form ADT – 4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central Government.
	
(c)	 We have taken into consideration the whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the year while 
determining the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures.
(xii)	 The Company is not a Nidhi Company as per the provisions of the Act. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(xii) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xiii)	 Transactions with the related parties are in compliance with sections 177 and 188 of the Act where applicable and the 
details have been disclosed in the notes to the Standalone Financial Statements, as required by the applicable accounting 
standards.
(xiv)	 (a)	 The Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
	
(b)	 The internal audit reports of the Company issued till the date of the audit report, for the period under audit have been 
considered by us.
(xv)	 The Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with directors or persons connected with its directors. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)	 (a)	 The provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, are not applicable to the Company. Accordingly, 
the requirement to report on clause (xvi)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 The Company is not engaged in any Non-Banking Financial or Housing Finance activities. Accordingly, the requirement 
to report on clause (xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(c)	 The Company is not a Core Investment Company as defined in the regulations made by Reserve Bank of India. 
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	 There is no Core Investment Company as a part of the Group. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(xvi)(d) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xvii)	The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current and immediately preceding financial years
(xviii)There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year and accordingly, requirement to report on Clause 
3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xix)	 On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed in note 32 to the Standalone Financial Statements, ageing and expected 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  215 
dates of realization of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the Standalone 
Financial Statements, our knowledge of the Board of Directors’ and management’s plans and based on our examination of 
the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe that any material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date 
of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, however, state that 
this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. We further state that our reporting is based on the facts 
up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.
(xx)	 (a)	 In respect of other than ongoing projects, there are no unspent amounts that are required to be transferred to a fund 
specified in Schedule VII of the Act, in compliance with second proviso to sub section 5 of section 135 of the Act. This 
matter has been disclosed in note 22(1) to the Standalone Financial Statements.
	
(b)	 There are no unspent amounts in respect of ongoing projects, that are required to be transferred to a special account in 
compliance of provision of sub section (6) of section 135 of the Act. This matter has been disclosed in note 22(1) to the 
Standalone Financial Statements.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
______________________________
per Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership Number: 093649
UDIN: 25093649BMOISN7813 
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Date: April 24, 2025
216  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNEXURE ‘2’ TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT OF 
EVEN DATE ON THE STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF 
CYIENT LIMITED (“THE COMPANY”)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 
Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements of Cyient Limited (“the 
Company”) as of March 31, 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company for the 
year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Board of Directors of the Company are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the 
internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct 
of its business, including adherence to the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of 
frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial 
information, as required under the Act. 
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, 
as specified under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both issued 
by ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the 
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to Standalone Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference 
to Standalone Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements.
 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  217 
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to Standalone Financial Statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material 
effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements, including the 
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur 
and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial 
Statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has maintained, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements and such internal financial controls with reference to Standalone Financial Statements were 
operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the 
Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004	
______________________________
per Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership Number: 093649
UDIN: 25093649BMOISN7813 
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Date: April 24, 2025
218  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ Millions, except share and per share data and where otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
 As at  
March 31, 2025 
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3A
 2,332 
 2,409 
Right-of-use assets
3B
 926 
 1,358 
Capital work-in-progress
3C
 16 
 7 
Goodwill
5A
 110 
 110 
Other intangible assets
4
 534 
 657 
Financial assets 
(a) Investments
5B
 14,426 
 13,820 
(b) Loans
6
 1,016 
 747 
(c) Other financial assets
7
 169 
 203 
Deferred tax assets (net)
16B
 322 
 328 
Income tax assets (net)
16C
 375 
 321 
Other non-current assets
8
 18 
 41 
Total non-current assets
 
 20,244 
 20,001 
Current assets 
Contract assets
9
 1,610 
 1,933 
Financial assets
(a) Investments
5B
 1,654 
 668 
(b) Trade receivables
9
 9,848 
 9,398 
(c) Cash and cash equivalents
10A
 6,526 
 1,881 
(d) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
10B
 2 
 2 
(e) Loans 
6
 1,285 
 589 
(f) Other financial assets
7
 306 
 545 
Other current assets
8
 1,335 
 1,350 
Total current assets
 22,566 
 16,366 
TOTAL ASSETS
 42,810 
 36,367 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY 
Equity Share Capital
11A
 555 
 555 
Other equity
11B
 37,114 
 28,788 
Total equity 
 37,669 
 29,343 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  219 
Particulars
Notes
 As at  
March 31, 2025 
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
LIABILITIES 
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(a) Lease liabilities
3C
 538 
 957 
(b) Other financial liabilities
14
 1 
 4 
Provisions
12
 1,368 
 1,209 
Total non-current liabilities
 1,907 
 2,170 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(a) Lease liabilities
3B
 383 
 365 
(b) Trade payables
13
(i)    Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 41 
 27 
(ii)   Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises  and small enterprises
 1,101 
 2,742 
(c) Other financial liabilities
14
 842 
 811 
Income tax liabilities (net)
16C
 22 
 22 
Provisions
12
 373 
 387 
Other current liabilities
15
 472 
 500 
Total current liabilities
 3,234 
 4,854 
Total liabilities
 
 5,141 
 7,024 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
 42,810 
 36,367 
Corporate information and material accounting policies
1 & 2
Accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial 
statements
As per our report of even date
For  S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm registration number: 101049W/
E300004
 For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Cyient Limited
(CIN No.: L72200TG1991PLC013134)
Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership No.: 093649
M.M. Murugappan
Non-Executive 
Chairman
(DIN - 00170478)
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice Chairman 
and Managing Director
(DIN - 00605187)
Sukamal Banerjee
Chief Executive Officer 
and Executive Director
(DIN-10535670)
Prabhakar Atla
Chief Financial Officer
Sudheendhra Putty
Company Secretary
(M.No. - F5689)
Place	: Mumbai
Date	: April 24, 2025
Place	: Hyderabad
Date	: April 24, 2025
220  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended 
March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ Millions, except share and per share data and where otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
INCOME
Revenue from contracts with customers
17
 24,136 
 24,614 
Other income
18
 805 
 751 
Total income
 24,941 
 25,365 
EXPENSES
Employee benefits expense
19
 13,781 
 13,261 
Finance costs
20
 170 
 220 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
21
 891 
 948 
Other expenses
22
 4,656 
 4,386 
Total expenses
 19,498 
 18,815 
Profit before tax and exceptional item
 5,443 
 6,550 
Exceptional item
29
 7,831 
 - 
Profit before tax
 13,274 
 6,550 
Tax expense
Current tax
16A
 2,034 
 1,607 
Deferred tax credit
 (6)
 (30)
Total tax expense
 2,028 
 1,577 
Profit for the year
 11,246 
 4,973 
Other comprehensive income (OCI)
(a)  Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or 
loss in subsequent periods:
(i)    Re-measurement gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans
12
 (12)
 (48)
  Income tax effect on above
16A
 3 
 12 
(ii)   Net gain/(loss) on equity instruments through other com-
prehensive income
11B
 77 
 - 
  Income tax effect on above
 (19)
 - 
Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to 
profit or loss in subsequent periods
 49 
 (36)
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  221 
Particulars
Notes
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
(b)  Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or 
loss in subsequent periods:
(i)  Effective portion of (loss)/gain on designated portion of 
hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge
11B
 (20)
 125 
    Income tax effect on above
16A
 5 
 (31)
Net other comprehensive (loss)/income to be reclassified to 
profit or loss in subsequent periods
 (15)
 94 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 34 
 58 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 11,280 
 5,031 
Earnings per equity share (par value of ₹ 5 each)
25
Basic (₹)
 102.20 
 45.33 
Diluted (₹)
 101.39 
 44.94 
Corporate information and material accounting policies
1 & 2
Accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial 
statements 
As per our report of even date
For  S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm registration number: 101049W/
E300004
 For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Cyient Limited
(CIN No.: L72200TG1991PLC013134)
Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership No.: 093649
M.M. Murugappan
Non-Executive 
Chairman
(DIN - 00170478)
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice 
Chairman and Managing 
Director
(DIN - 00605187)
Sukamal Banerjee
Chief Executive Officer 
and Executive Director
(DIN-10535670)
Prabhakar Atla
Chief Financial Officer
Sudheendhra Putty
Company Secretary
(M.No. - F5689)
Place	: Mumbai
Date	: April 24, 2025
Place	: Hyderabad
Date	: April 24, 2025
222  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Standalone Statement of changes in equity for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ Millions, except share and per share data and where otherwise stated)
a.	
Equity share capital ( Note 11A)
Equity shares of ₹ 5 each issued, subscribed and fully paid
Number of Shares
Amount
As at April 1, 2024
 110,889,812 
 555 
Issue of share capital#
 149,112 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 111,038,924 
 555 
As at April 1, 2023
 110,575,006 
 553 
Issue of share capital#
 314,806 
 2 
As at March 31, 2024
 110,889,812 
 555 
 
# During the year, the Company allotted 149,112 (March 31, 2024 : 314,806 ) equity shares of  ₹ 5 each valuing ₹ 0.74 (March 31, 2024 : ₹ 1.57), consequent to the 
exercise of the stock options by the associates of the Company under the Associate Stock Option Plan.
		
b.	
Other equity
Particulars
Notes
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment #
Reserves and surplus
Items of other 
comprehensive income
Total other 
equity
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve #
Securities 
premium#
General 
reserve#
Share-based 
payments 
reserve #
Special Economic 
Zone ("SEZ")  
Reinvestment 
Reserve #
Retained 
earnings#
Treasury 
Shares# 
Capital 
Reserve#
Cash flow 
hedge 
reserve#
Equity 
instruments 
through OCI#
Balance as at April 1, 2024
 1 
 16 
 2,639 
 5,273 
 523 
 65 
 21,114 
 (861)
 1 
 13 
 4 
 28,788 
Profit for the year
11B
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11,246 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11,246 
Other comprehensive income 
for the year
11B
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (9)
 - 
 - 
 (15)
 58 
 34 
Total comprehensive income 
for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 11,237 
 - 
 - 
 (15)
 58 
 11,280 
Issue of shares on exercise of 
associate stock options
11B
 - 
 - 
 119 
 - 
 (139)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (20)
Share-based payments 
expense
11B
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 285 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 285 
Share application money 
received during the year
11B
 1 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
Dividend on equity shares
31
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,300)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,300)
Re-issuance of treasury 
shares
11B
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 80 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 80 
SEZ re-investment reserve 
utilisation
11B
 - 
 - 
 - 
 65 
 - 
 (65)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance as at March 31, 2025
 2 
 16 
 2,758 
 5,338 
 669 
 - 
 29,051 
 (781)
 1 
 (2)
 62 
 37,114 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  223 
# Refer note 11B for nature of reserves.
Accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements
As per our report of even date
For  S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm registration number: 101049W/E300004
 For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Cyient Limited
(CIN No.: L72200TG1991PLC013134)
Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership No.: 093649
M.M. Murugappan
Non-Executive Chairman
(DIN - 00170478)
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice Chairman and 
Managing Director
(DIN - 00605187)
Sukamal Banerjee
Chief Executive Officer 
and Executive Director
(DIN-10535670)
Prabhakar Atla
Chief Financial Officer
Sudheendhra Putty
Company Secretary
(M.No. - F5689)
Place	: Mumbai
Date	: April 24, 2025
Place	: Hyderabad
Date	: April 24, 2025
Particulars
Notes
Share 
application 
money 
pending 
allotment #
Reserves and surplus
Items of other 
comprehensive income
Total other 
equity
Capital 
Redemption 
Reserve #
Securities 
premium#
General 
reserve#
Share-based 
payments 
reserve #
Special Economic 
Zone ("SEZ")  
Reinvestment 
Reserve #
Retained 
earnings#
Treasury 
Shares# 
Capital 
Reserve#
Cash flow 
hedge 
reserve#
Equity 
instruments 
through OCI#
Balance as at April 1, 2023
 - 
 16 
 2,427 
 5,273 
 485 
 65 
 19,237 
 (950)
 - 
 (81)
 4 
 26,476 
Profit for the year
11B
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,973 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,973 
Other Comprehensive 
income for the year
11B
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (36)
 - 
 - 
 94 
-
 58 
Total comprehensive income 
for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 4,937 
 - 
 - 
 94 
 - 
 5,031 
Issue of shares on exercise of 
associate stock options 
11B
 - 
 - 
 212 
 - 
 (159)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 53 
Share-based payments 
expense
11B
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 197 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 197 
Share application money 
received during the year
11B
 1 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
Dividend on equity shares
31
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,060)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,060)
Re-issuance of treasury 
shares
11B
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 89 
 1 
 - 
 - 
 90 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 1 
 16 
 2,639 
 5,273 
 523 
 65 
 21,114 
 (861)
 1 
 13 
 4 
 28,788 
224  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended  
March 31, 2025  
(All amounts in ₹ Millions, except share and per share data and where otherwise stated)
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
A. OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year
 11,246 
 4,973 
Adjustments to reconcile profit to net cash flows:
Tax expense 
 2,028 
 1,577 
Dividend from subsidiaries 
 - 
 (223)
Depreciation and amortisation expense 
 891 
 948 
(Profit)/Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (net) 
 (14)
 2 
Gain on termination of leases (net) 
 (8)
 (24)
Finance costs 
 170 
 220 
Interest income 
 (523)
 (300)
Profit on sale of mutual funds 
 (43)
 (49)
(Gain)/Loss on fair valuation of financial assets 
 (41)
 2 
Share-based payments to employees 
 204 
 118 
(Reversal)/Provision for expected credit loss (net of write-off) 
 (82)
 13 
Gain on sale of equity investment 
 (7,831)
 - 
Unrealised forex (gain)/loss, net 
 (78)
 43 
Operating profit before working capital changes 
5,919 
 
7,300
Changes in operating assets and liabilities: 
Adjustments for (increase)/ decrease in operating assets:
Trade receivables 
 (349)
 (2,462)
Other financial assets 
 145 
 (400)
Contract assets 
 323 
 275 
Other assets 
 39 
 (116)
Adjustments for increase / (decrease) in operating liabilities:
Trade payables
 (1,551)
 239 
Other liabilities
 (23)
 (168)
Other financial liabilities
 45 
 64 
Provisions
 133 
 135 
Cash generated from operations
 4,681 
 4,867 
Net income taxes paid
 (1,448)
 (1,780)
Net cash flows from operating activities (A)
 3,233 
 3,087 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  225 
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
B. INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Payment towards purchase of property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets 
 (296)
 (301)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 
 18 
 51 
Investments in
-  subsidiaries 
 (1,968)
 - 
-  mutual funds 
 (10,231)
 (8,500)
-  bonds 
 - 
 (3,555)
-  commercial paper 
 (245)
 (250)
Proceeds from sale of investments in 
-  mutual funds 
 9,479 
 9,221 
-  bonds 
 248 
 3,656 
-  commercial paper 
 490 
 300 
Proceeds from sale of equity investment 
 8,739 
 (219)
Income tax paid on gain on sale of investment 
 (640)
 - 
Loans given to subsidiaries 
 (2,094)
 (210)
Loans repaid by subsidiaries 
 1,106 
 610 
Interest received  
 650 
 198 
Dividend received from subsidiaries 
 - 
 223 
Movement in other bank balances (net) 
 - 
 1 
Net cash flows generated from investing activities (B) 
 5,256 
 1,225 
C. FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from shares issued on exercise of associate stock 
options (includes share application money) 
 62 
 146 
Interest paid 
 (74)
 (93)
Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities 
 (415)
 (455)
Payment of interest portion of lease liabilities
 (97)
 (126)
Repayment of sale and leaseback of assets 
 (13)
 (12)
Proceeds from factoring arrangements (on behalf of banks) 
 (12)
 13 
Dividends paid to equity share holders (includes transfer to investor 
education and protection fund) 
 (3,297)
 (3,058)
Net cash flows used in financing activities (C)
 (3,846)
 (3,585)
226  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Refer note 10 for changes in liabilities arising from financing activities and for non-cash financing activities and investing activities.
	
Accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements  	
As per our report of even date
For  S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm registration number: 101049W/
E300004
 For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Cyient Limited
(CIN No.: L72200TG1991PLC013134)
Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership No.: 093649
M.M. Murugappan
Non-Executive 
Chairman
(DIN - 00170478)
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice Chairman 
and Managing Director
(DIN - 00605187)
Sukamal Banerjee
Chief Executive Officer 
and Executive Director
(DIN-10535670)
Prabhakar Atla
Chief Financial Officer
Sudheendhra Putty
Company Secretary
(M.No. - F5689)
Place	: Mumbai
Date	: April 24, 2025
Place	: Hyderabad
Date	: April 24, 2025
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C) 
 4,643 
 727 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 
 1,881 
 1,152 
Effect of exchange differences on translation of foreign currency cash 
and cash equivalents 
 2 
 2 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (Note 10A) 
 6,526 
 1,881 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  227 
Notes forming part of the standalone financial statements  
for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ millions, except share and per share data and where otherwise stated)
1.	
	Corporate information
	
	Cyient 
Limited 
(‘Cyient’ 
or 
‘the 
Company’) 
is 
engaged in providing global technology services and 
solutions specialising in utilities & spatial intelligence, 
communications, 
healthcare 
& 
life 
sciences, 
semiconductors, energy, rail transportation, engineering 
design, IT solutions and data analytics. The Company is 
a public limited Company incorporated in India and has 
its headquarters and development facilities in India and 
serves a global customer base through its subsidiaries 
in the United States of America (‘USA’), United Kingdom 
(‘UK’), United Arab Emirates (‘UAE’), , Germany, Japan, 
Australia,  Taiwan, Malaysia, Belgium, Netherlands, 
Switzerland, Sweden, Norway,  France, Canada,  Czech 
Republic, Chile, Spain, Brazil,  Singapore, Portugal and 
Finland. The Company’s range of services include 
digitisation of drawings and maps, photogrammetry, 
computer 
aided 
design/engineering 
(‘CAD/CAE’), 
design and modelling, repair development engineering, 
reverse engineering application software development, 
software products development, consulting, analytics 
and implementation. Cyient specialises in software 
services and solutions for the manufacturing, utilities, 
telecommunications, transportation & logistics, local 
government and financial services markets.  
	
	The Company’s shares are listed on the BSE Limited and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited. The registered 
office of the Company is located at 4th Floor, “A” Wing, 
Plot No. 11, Software Units Layout, Infocity, Madhapur, 
Hyderabad 500 081, India.
	
The financial statements were approved for issue in 
accordance with a resolution of the directors on April 24, 
2025.
2.	
Material accounting policies
2.1	 Statement of compliance
	
The financial statements of the Company have been 
prepared 
in 
accordance 
with 
Indian 
Accounting 
Standards (‘Ind AS’) notified under the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended 
from time to time) and presentation requirements of 
Division II of Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, 
(Ind AS compliant Schedule III), as applicable to the 
financial statements.
2.2	 	Basis of measurement
	
	These financial statements have been prepared on a 
historical cost basis except for the following material 
items in the balance sheet which are measured on the 
basis stated below and in accordance with the applicable 
accounting policies:
Item Basis
Measurement
Derivative financial 
instruments
Fair Value
Equity settled  
share-based payment 
arrangement
Fair Value
Net defined benefit 
(asset)/ liability
Fair Value of plan assets 
less the present value 
of the defined benefit 
obligations at the end of 
the reporting period.
	
	The  financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees 
(‘₹’) and all values are rounded to the nearest millions, 
except when otherwise indicated.
2.3	 	Current and non-current classification
	
	The Company presents assets and liabilities in 
the balance sheet based on current/ non-current 
classification. An asset is classified as current when it is:
•	
Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or 
consumed in the normal operating cycle;
•	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading.
•	
Expected to be realised within twelve months after 
the reporting period; or
•	
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being 
exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 
twelve months after the reporting date.
	
	All other assets are classified as non-current.
A liability is current when:
•	
It is expected to be settled in the normal operating 
cycle;
•	
It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
•	
It is due to be settled within twelve months after the 
reporting period; or 
•	
It does not have an unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve months 
after the reporting date.
228  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company classifies all other liabilities as non-current.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-
current in accordance with Ind AS 12 – “Income Taxes.”
The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition 
of assets for processing and their realisation in cash or 
cash equivalents. The Company has identified twelve 
months as its operating cycle.
2.4	 Critical estimates and judgements
The preparation of the financial statements, in 
conformity with Ind AS, requires the management to 
make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affects the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses, the accompanying disclosures, 
and the disclosure of contingent liabilities as at the date 
of the financial statements. 
Future results could differ from these estimates. 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. The effects of changes in accounting 
estimates are reflected in the financial statements in the 
period in which estimates are revised and, if material, are 
disclosed in the financial statements.
Significant areas of estimation of uncertainty and critical 
judgments in applying accounting policies that have the 
most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the 
financial statements, are:
•	
Impairment 
assessment 
of 
investments 
and 
goodwill, and evaluation of cash-generating units 
(refer note 2.23) ;
•	
Revenue recognition and related cost estimation; 
(refer note 2.15)
•	
Share-based payments; (refer note 2.18)
•	
Provision for income tax and recoverability of 
deferred tax assets; (refer note 2.10)
•	
Fair Value measurement of financial instruments; 
and (refer note. 2.21)
•	
Allowance for expected credit losses on trade 
receivables and unbilled revenue. (refer note 2.23)
2.5	 Business combinations and goodwill
The Company accounts for its business combinations 
under the acquisition method of accounting as 
prescribed under Ind As 103. The consideration 
transferred in a business combination is measured at fair 
value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition 
date fair value of the assets transferred by the Company, 
liabilities incurred by the Company to the former 
owners of the acquiree and the equity interest issued 
by the Company in exchange for control of the acquiree. 
Acquisition related costs are generally recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss as incurred.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the 
consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition 
date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the 
liabilities assumed.
When the consideration transferred by the Company in 
the business combination includes assets or liabilities 
resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, 
the contingent consideration is measured at its 
acquisition date fair value and included as part of the 
consideration transferred in business combination. 
Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration 
that qualify as measurement period adjustments 
are 
adjusted 
retrospectively, 
with 
corresponding 
adjustments against goodwill or capital reserve, as the 
case may be. Measurement period adjustments are 
adjustments that arise from the additional information 
obtained during the ‘measurement period’ (which 
cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) 
about facts and circumstances that existed as on the 
acquisition date. 
The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value 
of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as 
measurement period adjustments and are classified as 
an asset or liability and are remeasured at fair value at 
subsequent reporting dates with the corresponding gain 
or loss being recognised in the statement of profit and 
loss. 
Where settlement of any part of cash consideration 
is deferred, the amounts payable in the future are 
discounted to their present value as at the acquisition 
date. The discount rate used generally reflects weighted 
average cost of capital, adjusted for risks specific to the 
liability where appropriate.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost 
less any accumulated impairment losses. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, a cash generating unit 
(‘CGU’) to which goodwill has been allocated is tested 
for impairment annually or more frequently if there is an 
indication that the unit may be impaired. Any impairment 
loss for goodwill is recognised directly in the statement 
of profit and loss. An impairment loss recognised for 
goodwill is not reversed in the subsequent periods. 
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is 
allocated to each of the Company’s cash generating 
units that is expected to benefit from the synergies of 
the combination. 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  229 
2.6	 	Foreign currency translation
i)	
Functional and presentation currency
	
These financial statements are presented in Indian 
Rupees (“₹”), which is both the functional and 
presentation currency of the Company.
ii)	 Transactions and balances
	
Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and 
liabilities are translated into the relevant functional 
currency at exchange rates prevailing at the balance 
sheet date. The gains or losses resulting from such 
translations are included in the  statement of profit and 
loss. Non-monetary assets and non-monetary liabilities 
denominated in a foreign currency and measured at fair 
value are translated at the exchange rate prevalent at the 
date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary 
assets and non-monetary liabilities denominated in a 
foreign currency and measured at historical cost are 
translated at the exchange rate prevalent at the date of 
the transaction.
Exchange differences on settlement or translation of 
monetary items are recognised in profit or loss in the 
period in which they arise.
2.7	 	Property, plant and equipment
	
	Initial recognition and measurement
The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment 
shall be recognised as an asset if, and only if it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with the item 
will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be 
measured reliably.
Items of Property, plant and equipment (including 
capital work-in-progress) are measured at cost, less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, if any. 
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. 
Cost of an item of property, plant and equipment 
comprises its purchase price, including import duties 
and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting 
trade discounts and rebates, and any directly attributable 
costs of bringing the asset to the location and condition 
necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner 
intended by management, and estimated costs of 
dismantling and removing the asset and restoring the 
site on which it is located.
	
	Subsequent measurement
Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only if it meets 
the above initial recognition criteria as an asset.
	
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated on the cost of items of 
property, plant and equipment less their estimated 
residual values using the straight-line method over the 
useful lives prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies 
Act, 2013 except in respect of the following categories 
of assets, in whose case the life of the assets has been 
assessed based on technical advice, taking into account 
the nature of the asset, the estimated usage of the 
asset, the operating conditions of the asset, past history 
of replacement, anticipated technological changes, 
manufacturers’ warranties and maintenance support. 
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Type of asset
Useful lives
Buildings
28 -50 years
Leasehold 
improvements
Shorter of lease term or 
estimated useful life
Computers
3-5 years
Plant and equipment
10 years
Office equipment
5 years
Furniture and fixtures
10 years
Electrical installations
10 years
Vehicles
4 years
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. 
Any gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of 
an item of property, plant and equipment is determined 
as the difference between the sales proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in ‘other 
income’ in the statement of profit and loss.
The residual values, useful lives and methods of 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted 
prospectively, if appropriate.
2.8	 	Intangible assets
Initial recognition and measurement:
Intangible assets are measured at cost. 
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business 
combination, is initially recognised at their fair value at 
230  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
the date of acquisition. An intangible asset is recognised 
only if it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Company and 
the cost of the item can be measured reliably. 
Subsequent  measurement:
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets are 
measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only if it meets 
the above initial recognition criteria.
 
Amortisation: Intangible assets are amortised over their 
estimated useful life on a straight-line basis as follows. 
Goodwill is not amortised.
Type of asset
Useful lives
Computer software
3 years/ Over the period of 
the respective project
Customer contracts
10 years
Other intangible 
assets
Over the period of the 
respective project
	
An intangible asset is de-recognised on disposal, or 
when no future economic benefits are expected from 
use. Amortisation methods and useful lives are reviewed 
at each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if 
appropriate.
Research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development 
costs are expensed as incurred unless technical and 
commercial feasibility of the project is demonstrated, 
future economic benefits are probable, availability of 
resources to complete the asset is established, the 
Company has intention and ability to complete and 
use the asset and the costs are reliably measured, in 
which case such expenditure is capitalised. The amount 
capitalised comprises expenditure that can be directly 
attributed or allocated on a reasonable and consistent 
basis for creating, producing and making the asset ready 
for its intended use.
2.9	 	Leases 
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys 
the right to control the use of an identified asset for 
a period of time in exchange for consideration. The 
Company assesses whether a contract contains a lease, 
at inception of a contract. 
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Company recognises a right of use asset (‘ROU’) and a 
corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements in 
which it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve 
months or less (short-term leases) and low value leases. 
For these short-term and low value leases, the Company 
recognises the lease payments as an operating expense 
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
The Company has several lease contracts that include 
extension and termination options. Management 
exercises significant judgement in determining whether 
these extension and termination options are reasonably 
certain to be exercised.   
i)	 	Right-of-use assets
The right of use assets are initially recognised at cost, 
which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the 
commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct 
costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses, if any and adjusted for any 
remeasurement of lease liabilities.
Right of use assets are depreciated from the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis over the 
shorter of the lease term and useful life of the underlying 
asset. Right of use assets are evaluated for recoverability 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. 
The right of use assets are also subject to impairment. 
Refer to the accounting policies in note 2.23. 
ROU asset
Useful lives
Leasehold land
15-33 years
Buildings
3-15 years
Computers
2-5 years
	
ii)	 	Lease liabilities
The lease liability is initially measured at amortised cost, 
being  the present value of the future lease payments. 
The lease payments are discounted using the interest 
rate implicit in the lease or, the Company’s incremental 
borrowing rate in the country of domicile of the leases 
at the lease commencement date if the interest rate 
implicit is not readily determinable. 
Lease payments are allocated between the principal 
and the interest cost. The interest cost is charged to 
the statement of profit and loss over the lease period. 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  231 
After the commencement date, the amount of the lease 
liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest 
and reduced by the lease payments made and any change 
in the assessment of extension or termination options. 
Lease liabilities are remeasured with a corresponding 
adjustment to the related right of use asset if there is 
a modification, a change in the lease term, a change in 
the lease payments (e.g., changes to future payments 
resulting from a change in an index or rate used to 
determine such lease payments).
Lease liability and ROU assets have been separately 
presented in the balance sheet and lease payments have 
been classified as financing cash flows.
Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
The Company applies the short-term lease recognition 
exemption to leases that have a lease term of 12 months 
or less from the commencement date and do not contain 
a purchase option. It also applies the low-value lease 
recognition exemption to leases of office equipment and 
other items that are considered to be of low value. Lease 
payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value 
assets are recognised as expense on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term.
Lease and non-lease component
As per Ind AS - 116, “As a practical expedient, a lessee may 
elect, by class of underlying asset, not to separate non-
lease components from lease components, and instead 
account for each lease component and any associated 
non-lease components as a single lease component”. 
The Company has not opted for this practical expedient 
and have accounted for Lease component only.
2.10		Income taxes
The income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax 
payable on the taxable income based on the applicable 
income tax rate adjusted by changes in deferred 
tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary 
differences and to unused tax losses.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss, except to the extent that it relates 
to items recognised in other comprehensive income 
or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is  recognised 
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, 
respectively.
The current tax and deferred tax is calculated on the 
basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted 
at the end of the reporting period where the Company 
operates and generate taxable income. 
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet 
method, on temporary differences arising between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the financial statements. However, deferred 
tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the 
initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred tax is also not 
accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an 
asset or liability in a transaction other than a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting profit nor taxable profit/loss. 
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not recognised for 
temporary differences between the carrying amount 
and tax bases of investments in subsidiaries, branches 
and interest in joint arrangements where the Company is 
able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary 
differences and it is probable that the differences will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is 
probable that future taxable amounts will be available to 
utilise those temporary differences and losses. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate 
to the same taxation authority. Current tax assets and 
tax liabilities are offset where the entity has a legally 
enforceable right to offset and intends either to settle on 
a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously.
In the situations where one or more units in the 
Company are entitled to a tax holiday under the Income-
tax Act, 1961 enacted in India or tax laws prevailing in 
the respective tax jurisdictions where they operate, no 
deferred tax (asset or liability) is recognised in respect 
of temporary differences which reverse during the tax 
holiday period, to the extent the concerned unit’s gross 
total income is subject to the deduction during the tax 
holiday period. Deferred tax in respect of temporary 
differences which reverse after the tax holiday period is 
recognised in the year in which the temporary differences 
originate. However, the Company restricts recognition 
of deferred tax assets to the extent it is probable that 
sufficient future taxable income will be available against 
which such deferred tax assets can be realized. For 
recognition of deferred taxes, the temporary differences 
which originate first are considered to reverse first.
2.11		Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash on hand, cash in banks, demand 
deposits with banks and with financial institutions. The 
Company considers all highly liquid financial instruments, 
which are readily convertible into cash and have original 
232  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
maturities of three months or less from the date of 
purchase, to be cash equivalents. Such cash equivalents 
are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Cash flows are reported using indirect method, whereby 
profit / (loss) after tax is adjusted for the effects of 
transaction of non- cash nature and any deferrals or 
accruals of past or future cash receipts or payments for 
the year. Cash flows arising from taxes on income shall 
be classified as cash flows from operating activities 
unless they can be specifically identified with financing 
and investing activities
2.12		Equity share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. No gain or 
loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
on purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity 
instruments, except in case of employee stock options. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of 
equity shares or buyback of equity shares are recognised 
as a deduction from equity, net of taxes.
2.13		Treasury shares
The Company has created an Employee Benefit Trust 
(‘Trust’) for providing share-based payment to its 
employees. The Company uses Trust as a vehicle for 
distributing shares to employees under the employee 
remuneration schemes. The Trust buys shares of the 
Parent from the market, for giving shares to employees. 
The Company treats Trust as its extension and shares 
held by Trust are treated as treasury shares.
Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury 
shares) are recognised at cost and deducted from 
equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on 
the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the own 
equity instruments. Any difference between the carrying 
amount and the consideration, if reissued, is recognised 
in capital reserve. Share options exercised during the 
reporting period are satisfied with treasury shares.
2.14		Provisions and contingent liabilities
	
	Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a 
present legal or constructive obligation as a result of 
past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation and the amount 
can be reliably estimated. 
Provisions are measured at the present value of 
management’s best estimate of the expenditure 
required to settle the present obligation at the end of the 
reporting period. The discount rate used to determine 
the present value is a pre-tax rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and the 
risks specific to the liability. The increase in the provision 
due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest 
expense. Provisions are not recognised for future 
operating losses. 
Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when 
the expected benefits to be desired by the Company 
from a contract are lower than unavoidable costs of 
meeting to future obligations under the contract and are 
measured at the present value of lower than expected 
net cost of fulfilling the contract and expected cost of 
terminating the contract.
	
	Contingent liabilities
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises 
from past events, the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of which is dependent on the happening of one or more 
uncertain future events not wholly within the control 
of the entity; or a present obligation arising from past 
events with no probability of future outflow of economic 
benefits or the outflow cannot be estimated reliably. 
Contingent liabilities do not warrant provisions, but are 
disclosed unless the possibility of outflow of resources 
is remote.
Provisions and Contingent liabilities are reviewed at each 
reporting date.
2.15		Revenue
Revenue from contract with customers is recognised by 
applying revenue recognition criteria specified in Ind AS 
115 ‘Revenue from Contracts with customers’ for each 
distinct performance obligation. The arrangement with 
customers specifies services to be rendered which meet 
criteria of performance obligations. Revenue towards 
satisfaction of a performance obligation is measured 
at the amount of transaction price (net of variable 
consideration) allocated to that performance obligation. 
The method for recognising revenues and costs depends 
on the nature of services rendered as mentioned below:
a)	 	Time and material: Revenue from time and material 
contracts are recognised as the related services are 
performed, which is pursued based on the efforts spent 
and agreed rate with the customer. Revenue from the end 
of the last invoicing to the reporting date is recognised 
as unbilled revenue.
b)	 	Fixed price contracts: Revenue from fixed price 
contracts is recognised as per the ‘percentage-of-
completion’ method, where the performance obligations 
are satisfied over time and when there is no uncertainty 
as to measurement or collectability of consideration. 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  233 
When there is uncertainty as to measurement or 
ultimate collectability, revenue recognition is postponed 
until such uncertainty is resolved. Percentage of 
completion is determined based on the project costs 
incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated 
project costs required to complete the project. The input 
method has been used to measure the progress towards 
completion as there is direct relationship between input 
and productivity. In certain projects, a fixed quantum of 
service or output units is agreed at a fixed price. In such 
contracts, revenue is recognised with respect to the 
actual output achieved till date as a percentage of total 
contractual output.
c)	 	Maintenance contracts: Revenue from fixed price 
maintenance contracts are recognised pro-rata over the 
term of the maintenance arrangement.
Contract modifications are accounted for when 
additions, deletions or changes are approved either to 
the contract scope or contract price. The accounting for 
modifications of contracts involves assessing whether 
the services added to an existing contract are distinct 
and whether the pricing is at the standalone selling 
price. Services that are not distinct are accounted for on 
a cumulative catchup basis, while those that are distinct 
are accounted for prospective, either as a separate 
contract, if the additional services are priced at the 
standalone selling price, or as a termination of existing 
contract and creation of a new contract if not priced at 
the standalone selling price.
The Company accounts for volume discounts and pricing 
incentives to customers as a reduction of revenue based 
on the ratable allocation of discounts/incentives to 
each of the underlying performance obligations that 
corresponds to the progress by the customer towards 
earning the discount/incentive.
The Company presents revenues net of indirect taxes in 
the statement of profit and loss.
Trade receivables and contract balances:
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash 
collections results in receivables, contract assets, and 
unearned revenue on the  Balance Sheet. Amounts are 
billed as work progresses in accordance with agreed-
upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals  or 
upon achievement of contractual milestones.
The Company classifies the right to consideration in 
exchange for deliverables as either a receivable or as 
contract assets. A receivable is a right to consideration 
that is unconditional upon passage of time. Revenue 
recognised in excess of invoicing are classified as 
contract assets while invoicing in excess of revenue are 
classified as contract liabilities. Trade receivables and 
contract assets are presented net of impairment in the 
Balance Sheet.
The Company accounts for the deferred contract costs, 
upfront costs incurred for the contract, on a systematic 
amortisation that is consistent with the transfer to the 
customer of the goods or services to which the asset 
relates.
2.16		Other income
Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when 
it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the 
Company and the amount of income can be measured 
reliably.
Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis 
considering the amount outstanding and rate applicable 
in the transaction.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on net 
basis. This includes the changes in the fair value of 
foreign exchange derivative instruments, which are 
accounted at fair value through the statement of profit 
and loss.
Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s 
right to receive dividend is established.
2.17		Employee benefits 
Short-term employee benefits:
Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the 
related service is provided. A liability is recognised 
for the amount expected to be paid if the Company 
has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay 
this amount as a result of past service provided by the 
employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
The Company’s contributions to defined contribution 
plans are charged to the statement of profit and 
loss as and when the services are received from the 
employees. Employee benefits include provident 
fund, 
superannuation 
fund, 
employee’s 
state 
insurance scheme, gratuity fund, pension and deferred 
compensation, compensated absences and other short-
term benefits.
Long term employee benefit obligations
Compensated absences
The employees of the Company are entitled to 
compensated 
absences. 
The 
employees 
can 
carry-forward a portion of the unutilised accrued 
compensated absence and utilise it in future periods or 
receive cash compensation at retirement or termination 
of employment. The Company records an obligation 
234  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for compensated absences in the period in which 
the employee renders the services that increase this 
entitlement. The Company measures the expected cost 
of compensated absence based on actuarial valuation 
made by an independent actuary as at the balance sheet 
date on projected unit credit method.
Post-employment obligations
The Company operates the following post-
employment schemes:
(A)	 Defined benefit plans
Gratuity and pension 
The Company accounts for its liability towards gratuity 
and pension  (‘post- employment benefits plan’) based 
on actuarial valuation made by an independent actuary 
as at the balance sheet date using projected unit credit 
method. The liability recognised in the balance sheet in 
respect of the post- employment benefits plan is the 
present value of the defined benefit obligation at the 
end of the reporting period less the fair value of the plan 
assets.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is 
determined by discounting the estimated future cash 
outflows by reference to market yields at the end of the 
reporting period on government bonds that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related obligation. 
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net balance of the defined obligation 
and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included 
in the employee benefit expense in the statement of 
profit and loss. Remeasurement gains and losses arising 
from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognised in the period in which they 
occur, directly in other comprehensive income.  Changes 
in the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
resulting from plan amendments or curtailments are 
recognised immediately in the statement of profit and 
loss as past service cost.
Defined contribution plans
Contributions in respect of provident fund and pension 
fund which are defined contribution schemes, are made 
to a fund administered and managed by the Government 
of India and are charged as an expense based on the 
amount of contribution required to be made and when 
service are rendered by the employees.
Contributions under the superannuation plan which 
is a defined contribution scheme, are made to a fund 
administered and managed by the Life Insurance 
Corporation of India and are charged as an expense 
based on the amount of contribution required to be 
made and when services are rendered by the employees.
Other short-term employee benefits
Other 
short-term 
employee 
benefits, 
including 
overseas social security contributions and performance 
incentives expected to be paid in exchange for the 
services rendered by employees are recognised during 
the period when the employee renders service.
2.18		Share-based payments
Certain 
employees 
of 
the 
Company 
receive 
remuneration in the form of share-based payments, 
whereby employees render services as consideration for 
equity instruments.
Equity settled share-based payment transactions:
The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined by 
the fair value at the date when the grant is made using a 
Black Scholes model.
That cost is recognised, together with a corresponding 
increase in employees stock option reserves in equity, 
over the period in which the performance and/or service 
conditions are fulfilled in employee benefits expense. 
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled 
transactions at each reporting date until the vesting 
date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has 
expired and the Company’s best estimate of the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The 
expense or credit in the statement of profit and loss for a 
period represents the movement in cumulative expense 
recognised as at the beginning and end of that period 
and is recognised in employee benefits expense.
Service and non-market performance conditions are 
not taken into account when determining the grant date 
fair value of awards, but the likelihood of the conditions 
being met is assessed as part of the Company’s best 
estimate of the number of equity instruments that 
will ultimately vest. Market performance conditions 
are reflected within the grant date fair value. Any 
other conditions attached to an award, but without an 
associated service requirement, are considered to be 
non-vesting conditions. Non-vesting conditions are 
reflected in the fair value of an award and lead to an 
immediate expensing of an award unless there are also 
service and/or performance conditions.
At the end of each reporting period, the Company 
revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments 
expected to vest. The impact of the original estimates, 
if any, is recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
statement such that the cumulative expense reflects 
the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment 
to the share-based payments reserve in equity. Equity 
settlement component is not remeasured at each 
reporting date. 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  235 
The dilutive effect of outstanding options if any is 
reflected as additional share dilution in the computation 
of diluted earnings per share.
2.19		Earnings per share
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit 
attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 
by the weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the year excluding treasury shares.
Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting the net profit 
attributable to equity shareholders and the weighted 
average number of shares outstanding during the 
year are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential 
equity shares, which includes all stock options granted 
to employees and Restricted Share Units (‘RSU’s’) 
outstanding.
2.20		Operating segments
The Company’s Chief Operating Decision maker is 
the Executive Vice Chairman and Managing Director 
who evaluates Company’s performance and allocates 
resources based on analysis of various performance 
indicators by business verticals and geographical 
segmentation of customers. The Company has only 
one reportable business segment, which is rendering 
of Services. Segment information has been presented 
in the consolidated financial statements in accordance 
with Ind AS 108 ‘Operating Segments’ notified under the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015.
2.21		Financial instruments
(A)	Initial recognition
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised 
when a Company becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instruments. Financial assets and 
financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value 
through other comprehensive income (‘FVTOCI’) and fair 
value through profit or loss (‘FVTPL’). The classification 
of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the 
financial asset’s contractual cash flow characteristics 
and the Company’s business model for managing them. 
With the exception of trade receivables that do not 
contain a significant financing component or for which 
the Company has applied the practical expedient, the 
Company initially measures a financial asset at its fair 
value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at fair value 
through profit or loss, transaction costs. Transaction 
costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial 
assets or financial liabilities at FVTPL are recognised 
immediately in the statement of profit and loss. Trade 
receivables that do not contain a significant financing 
component or for which the Company has applied the 
practical expedient are measured at the transaction price 
determined under Ind AS 115. Refer to the accounting 
policies for revenue in note 2.16.
(B)	Subsequent measurement
a.	 Non-derivative financial instruments
i)	 Financial assets carried at amortised cost: 
A financial asset is subsequently measured at 
amortised cost if it is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold the asset in order to 
collect contractual cash flows and the contractual 
terms of the financial asset give rise on specified 
dates to cash flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding.
ii)	 Financial assets at FVTOCI: A financial asset is 
subsequently measured at FVTOCI if it is held within 
a business model whose objective is achieved by 
both collecting contractual cash flows and selling 
financial assets and the contractual terms of the 
financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash 
flows that are solely payments of principal and 
interest on the principal amount outstanding. 
The Company has made an irrevocable election 
for its investments which are classified as equity 
instruments to present the subsequent changes 
in fair value in other comprehensive income based 
on its business model. 
iii)	Financial assets at FVTPL: Financial assets which 
are not classified in any of the above categories are 
subsequently fair valued through profit or loss.
iv)	Financial 
liabilities: 
Financial 
liabilities 
are 
subsequently carried at amortised cost using 
the 
effective 
interest 
method, 
except 
for 
contingent consideration recognised in a business 
combination which is subsequently measured at 
fair value through  statement of profit and loss. For 
trade and other payables maturing within one year 
from the balance sheet date, the carrying amounts 
approximate fair value due to the short maturity of 
these instruments.
b.	 Derivative financial instruments
The Company enters into derivative financial 
instruments to manage its exposure to foreign 
exchange rate risks, including foreign exchange 
forward contracts.
236  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at 
the date the derivative contracts are entered into 
and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value 
at the end of each reporting period. The resulting 
gain or loss is recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss immediately unless the derivative is 
designated and effective as a hedging instrument, 
in which event the timing of the recognition in the 
statement of profit and loss depends on the nature 
of the hedging relationship and the nature of the 
hedged item.
Effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of 
calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument 
and of allocating interest  income/expense over 
the relevant period. The effective interest rate is 
the rate that exactly discounts estimated future 
cash receipts (including all fees and points paid or 
received that form an integral part of the effective 
interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums 
or discounts) through the expected life of the debt 
instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, 
to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis 
for debt instruments other than those financial 
assets classified as at FVTPL. Interest income is 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss and is 
included in ‘Other income’.
c.	 Hedge accounting
The Company designates derivative contracts in 
a cash flow hedging relationship by applying the 
hedge accounting principles designated in a hedging 
relationship, used to hedge its risks associated with 
foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain 
highly probable forecast transactions.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the 
Company documents the relationship between the 
hedging instrument and the hedged item, along 
with its risk management objectives and its strategy 
for 
undertaking 
various 
hedge 
transactions. 
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and 
on an ongoing basis, the Company documents 
whether the hedging instrument is highly effective 
in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of 
the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
These derivative contracts are stated at the fair 
value at each reporting date.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of 
derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash 
flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive 
income and accumulated under cash flow hedge 
reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective 
portion is recognised immediately in the statement 
of profit and loss.
Amounts 
previously 
recognised 
in 
other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in equity 
relating to effective portion (as described above) are 
reclassified to the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss in the periods when the hedged item affects 
profit or loss. 
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging 
instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or 
exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge 
accounting. Any gain or loss recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in equity at 
that time remains in equity and is recognised when 
the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss. When a forecast 
transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or 
loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately 
in the  statement of profit and loss.
d.	 De-recognition of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets
The Group de-recognises a financial asset when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset 
expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
of the asset to another party. If the Company retains 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of 
a transferred financial asset, the Company continues 
to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a 
collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
On de-recognition of a financial asset in its entirety, 
the difference between the asset’s carrying amount 
and the sum of the consideration received and 
receivable and the cumulative gain or loss that had 
been recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity is recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss if such gain or loss would have 
otherwise been recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss on disposal of that financial asset.
Financial liabilities
The Company de-recognises financial liabilities 
when, and only when, the Company’s obligations are 
discharged, cancelled or have expired. The difference 
between the carrying amount of the financial liability 
de-recognised and the consideration paid and 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  237 
payable is recognised in the statement of profit and 
loss.
e.	 Foreign exchange gains and losses
For foreign currency denominated financial assets 
measured at amortised cost and FVTPL, the exchange 
differences are recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss except for those which are designated as 
hedging instruments in a hedging relationship.
Changes in the carrying amount of investments in 
equity instruments at FVTOCI relating to changes 
in foreign currency rates are recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
For financial liabilities that are denominated in a 
foreign currency and are measured at amortised 
cost at the end of each reporting period, the foreign 
exchange gains and losses are determined based 
on the amortised cost of the instruments and are 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
The fair value of financial liabilities denominated 
in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign 
currency and translated at the spot rate at the end 
of the reporting period. For financial liabilities that 
are measured as at FVTPL, the foreign exchange 
component forms part of the fair value gains or losses 
and is recognised in the statement of profit and loss
2.22		Fair value measurement
In determining the fair value of its financial instruments, 
the Company uses a variety of methods and assumptions 
that are based on market conditions and risks existing at 
each reporting date. The methods used to determine 
fair value include discounted cash flow analysis, available 
quoted market prices and dealer quotes. All methods of 
assessing fair value result in general approximation of 
value, and such value may never actually be realised.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date, 
regardless of whether that price is directly observable 
or estimated using another valuation technique. In 
estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the 
Company takes into account the characteristics of asset 
or liability of market participants when pricing the asset 
or liability at the measurement date. 
Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes 
in these financial statements is determined on such a 
basis, except for share-based payment transactions that 
are within the scope of Ind AS 102, leasing transactions 
that are within the scope of Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’, and 
measurements that have some similarities to fair value 
but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in Ind 
AS 2 ‘Inventories’ or value in use in Ind AS 36 ‘ Impairment 
of Assets’.
In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value 
measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2, or 3 
based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value 
measurements are observable and the significance of 
the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, 
which are described as follows:
•	 Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities that the 
entity can access at the measurement date;
•	 Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices 
included within Level 1, that are observable for the 
asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and
•	 Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset 
or liability.
2.23		Impairment of assets
a.	Financial assets
The Company recognises loss allowances using the 
expected credit loss (‘ECL’) model for the financial 
assets which are not fair valued through statement of 
profit and loss. Loss allowance for trade receivables 
with no significant financing component is measured at 
an amount equal to lifetime ECL. For all other financial 
assets, expected credit losses are measured at an 
amount equal to the 12 months ECL, unless there has 
been a significant increase in credit risk from initial 
recognition in which case those are measured at 
lifetime ECL. The amount of expected credit losses (or 
reversal) that is required to adjust the loss allowance 
at the reporting date to the amount that is required 
to be recognised as an impairment gain or loss in the 
statement of profit and loss.
For trade receivables, the Company applies the 
simplified approach permitted by Ind AS 109 ‘Financial 
Instruments’, 
which 
requires 
expected 
lifetime 
losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the 
receivables. As a practical expedient, the Company uses 
a provision matrix to determine impairment loss of its 
trade receivables. The provision matrix is based on its 
historically observed default rates over the expected 
life of the trade receivable and is adjusted for forward 
looking estimates. The ECL loss allowance (or reversal) 
during the year is recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss.
238  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
b.	Non-financial assets
Other intangible assets, intangible assets under 
development, property, plant and equipment, capital 
work-in-progress and ROU assets are evaluated 
for recoverability whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts 
may not be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the fair 
value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined 
on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are largely independent of 
those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable 
amount is determined for the cash generating unit 
(‘CGU’) to which the asset belongs. Intangible assets 
under development are tested for impairment annually. 
The Company bases its impairment calculation on 
detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are 
prepared separately for each of the Company’s CGUs to 
which the individual assets are allocated.
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the 
impairment to be recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss is measured by the amount by which the 
carrying value of the assets exceeds the estimated 
recoverable amount of the asset. An impairment loss 
is reversed in the statement of profit and loss if there 
has been a change in the estimates used to determine 
the recoverable amount. The carrying amount of the 
asset is increased to its revised recoverable amount, 
provided that this amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined (net of any 
accumulated amortisation or depreciation) had no 
impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior 
years.
2.24		Dividend to equity holders
The Company recognises a liability to pay a dividend 
when the distribution is authorised and the distribution 
is no longer at the discretion of the Company.
The final dividend on shares is recorded as a liability on 
the date of approval by the shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting and interim dividends are recorded as 
a liability on the date of declaration by the Company’s 
Board of Directors. Dividend payments are accounted as 
an appropriation, presented as part of the other equity.
The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian 
rupees. Companies are required to pay / distribute 
dividend 
after 
deducting 
applicable 
taxes. 
The 
remittance of dividends outside India is governed by 
Indian law on foreign exchange and is also subject to 
withholding tax at applicable rates.
2.25	 	New and amended standards
The Company applied for the first-time certain standards 
and amendments, which are effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 April 2024. The Company has not 
early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment 
that has been issued but is not yet effective.
(i)	 Amendments to Ind AS 116 Leases – Lease Liability in a 
Sale and Leaseback
The MCA notified the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Second Amendment Rules, 2024, which 
amend Ind AS 116, Leases, with respect to Lease Liability 
in a Sale and Leaseback.
The amendment specifies the requirements that a seller-
lessee uses in measuring the lease liability arising in a sale 
and leaseback transaction, to ensure the seller-lessee 
does not recognise any amount of the gain or loss that 
relates to the right of use it retains.
The amendment is effective for annual reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1 April 2024 and must be applied 
retrospectively to sale and leaseback transactions entered 
into after the date of initial application of Ind AS 116. 
The amendments do not have a material impact on the 
Company’s financial statements.
(ii)	Ind AS 117 Insurance Contracts
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) notified the Ind 
AS 117, Insurance Contracts, vide notification dated 12 
August 2024, under the Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Amendment Rules, 2024, which is effective 
from annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 
April 2024.
Ind AS 117 Insurance Contracts is a comprehensive new 
accounting standard for insurance contracts covering 
recognition and measurement, presentation and 
disclosure. Ind AS 117 replaces Ind AS 104 Insurance 
Contracts. Ind AS 117 applies to all types of insurance 
contracts, regardless of the type of entities that issue 
them as well as to certain guarantees and financial 
instruments with discretionary participation features; a 
few scope exceptions will apply. Ind AS 117 is based on a 
general model, supplemented by:
•	 A specific adaptation for contracts with direct 
participation features (the variable fee approach)
•	 A simplified approach (the premium allocation 
approach) mainly for short-duration contracts)
The application of Ind AS 117 is not applicable to the 
Company’s financial statements as it has not entered 
into any contracts in the nature of insurance contracts 
covered under Ind AS 117
Standards notified but not yet effective:
There are no standards that are notified and not yet 
effective as on the date.
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  239 
3A. Property, plant and equipment
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at  
March 31, 2024
Asset class wise net book values:
Freehold land 
 16 
 16 
Buildings 
 1,372 
 1,384 
Computers 
 276 
 273 
Plant and equipment
 351 
 367 
Office equipment
 108 
 117 
Furniture and fixtures
 88 
 97 
Electrical installations
 95 
 104 
Vehicles
 26 
 51 
Total
 2,332 
 2,409 
240  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes: 
a. Movement in the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment is as below:
Particulars 
Freehold land #4      
Buildings #1
Computers #2
 Plant and 
equipment 
 Office 
equipment 
 Furniture 
and fixtures 
 Electrical 
installations 
 Vehicles  
 Total 
I. Cost or deemed cost #3
Balance as at April 1, 2023 
16 
 2,354 
 1,832 
 1,303 
 516 
 615 
 567 
 96 
 7,299 
Additions 
- 
 97 
 103 
 52 
 66 
 10 
 2 
 17 
 347 
Disposals 
- 
 (7)
 (844)
 (18)
 (15)
 (63)
 (22)
 (10)
 (979)
Balance as at March 31, 2024 
16 
 2,444 
 1,091 
 1,337 
 567 
 562 
 547 
 103 
 6,667 
Additions 
- 
 42 
 111 
 49 
 19 
 11 
 9 
 - 
 241 
Disposals 
- 
 - 
 (222)
 (61)
 (40)
 (92)
 (18)
 - 
 (433)
Balance as at March 31, 2025 
16 
 2,486 
 980 
 1,325 
 546 
 481 
 538 
 103 
 6,475 
II.  Accumulated depreciation
Balance as at April 1, 2023 
 - 
 982 
 1,551 
 920 
 435 
 490 
 439 
 29 
 4,846 
Depreciation charge for the year 
 - 
 85 
 85 
 65 
 30 
 23 
 21 
 28 
 337 
Disposals 
 - 
 (7)
 (818)
 (15)
 (15)
 (48)
 (17)
 (5)
 (925)
Balance as at March 31, 2024 
 - 
 1,060 
 818 
 970 
 450 
 465 
 443 
 52 
 4,258 
Depreciation charge for the year 
 - 
 54 
 104 
 65 
 28 
 20 
 18 
 25 
 314 
Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 (218)
 (61)
 (40)
 (92)
 (18)
 - 
 (429)
 Balance as at March 31, 2025 
 - 
 1,114 
 704 
 974 
 438 
 393 
 443 
 77 
 4,143 
Net book value (I-II) 
As at March 31, 2024 
 16 
 1,384 
 273 
 367 
 117 
 97 
 104 
 51 
 2,409 
As at March 31, 2025 
 16 
 1,372 
 276 
 351 
 108 
 88 
 95 
 26 
 2,332 
Particulars of freehold land
Title deeds held in the 
name of 
Whether title deed holder is promoter, director or relative 
of promoter/director or employee of director/promoter
Property is held since 
which date
Reason for not being held in 
the name of the company
Gross block as at 
March 31, 2025
Freehold land located at Nanakramguda 
Village, admeasuring 10 acres.
Telangana State 
Industrial Infrastructure 
Corporation Limited
No
Since 2005
Pending completion of 
legal formalities relating to 
conveyance
 4 
#1.	Includes ₹ 555 (March 31, 2024 - ₹ 581) relating to buildings constructed on leasehold land.
#2.During the earlier periods, the Company has entered into sale and leaseback transaction for sale of computers, as the transaction has not met conditions specified 
under Ind AS 115, these assets continued to be recognised under property, plant and equipment and financial liability equivalent to the sale consideration has been 
recognised in other financial liabilities. As at March 31, 2025, closing balance of the financial liabilities, net of repayment is ₹ 9 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 22)(refer note 14).
#3.On April 01, 2016 i.e. the date of transition to IND AS, the Company has opted to continue with carrying value of all Property, plant and equipment measured as per the 
previous GAAP and use that carrying value as the deemed cost of Property, plant and equipment.
#4.Includes ₹ 4 (March 31, 2024 - ₹ 4) in respect of which land allocation letters have been received, pending completion of legal formalities relating to conveyance. Details 
are given below.
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  241 
3B. Leases	
	
	
(a) Right-of-use assets:
Carrying amounts of right-of-use (‘ROU’) assets recognised and the movements during the year
Particulars
Leasehold land
Buildings 
Computers
Total
Balance as at April 1, 2023
 31 
 331 
 1,043 
 1,405 
Additions
 - 
 421 
 68 
 489 
Deletions
 - 
 (51)
 - 
 (51)
Depreciation charge for the year
 (4)
 (157)
 (324)
 (485)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 27 
 544 
 787 
 1,358 
Additions
 - 
 47 
 11 
 58 
Deletions
 - 
 (36)
 - 
 (36)
Depreciation charge for the year
 (4)
 (164)
 (286)
 (454)
Balance as at March 31, 2025
 23 
 391 
 512 
 926 
(b) Current and non-current lease liabilities:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Current lease liabilities
 383 
 365 
Non-current lease liabilities
 538 
 957 
Total
 921 
 1,322 
(c) Carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements during the period:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,322 
 1,363 
Additions
 58 
 489 
Deletions
 (44)
 (75)
Finance cost (Note 20)
 97 
 126 
Payment of lease liabilities
 (512)
 (581)
Balance at the end of the year
 921 
 1,322 
(d) The table below provides details regarding contractual maturities of lease liabilities on an undiscounted basis:	
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Less than one year
 517 
 527 
One to five years
 579 
 999 
Total
 1,096 
 1,526 
The Company does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities, as the current assets are sufficient to meet 
the obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.	
	
242  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following are the amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss:	
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets (Note 21)
 454 
 485 
Interest expense on lease liabilities (Note 20)
 97 
 126 
Expense relating to short-term leases (lease term less than 12 months) 
and low value assets (included in other expenses) (Note 22)
 28 
 30 
3C. Capital work-in-progress (CWIP):
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Capital work-in-progress
 16 
 7 
(a) Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) Ageing:
Particulars
Less than 1 year
1 - 2 years
Total
Balance as at March 31, 2025
Projects in progress
 16 
 - 
 16 
Total
 16 
 - 
 16 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
Projects in progress
 5 
 2 
 7 
Total
 5 
 2 
 7 
(b) Movement in carrying amount of capital work-in-progress:
Particulars
Amount
Balance as at April 1, 2023
 2 
Additions
 352 
Transferred to Property, plant and equipment
 (347)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 7 
Additions
 250 
Transferred to Property, plant and equipment
 (241)
Balance as at March 31, 2025 
 16 
	
4. Other intangible assets	 	
	
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Asset class wise net book values:
Computer software
 13 
 61 
Customer Contracts
 521 
 594 
Other intangible assets
 - 
 2 
Total
 534 
 657 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  243 
Movement in the carrying amount of other intangible assets is as below:
Particulars
Computer 
Software
Customer 
Contracts
Other Intangible 
assets
Total
I. Cost or deemed cost:
Balance as at April 1, 2023
 3,057 
 734 
 153 
 3,944 
Additions
 8 
 - 
 - 
 8 
Disposals 
 - 
 (15)
 - 
 (15)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 3,065 
 719 
 153 
 3,937 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disposals#
 (2,743)
 - 
 (122)
 (2,865)
Balance as at March 31, 2025
 322 
 719 
 31 
 1,072 
II.  Accumulated amortisation:
Balance as at April 1, 2023
 2,953 
 67 
 149 
 3,169 
Amortisation for the year
 51 
 73 
 2 
 126 
Disposals
 - 
 (15)
 - 
 (15)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 3,004 
 125 
 151 
 3,280 
Amortisation for the year
 48 
 73 
 2 
 123 
Disposals#
 (2,743)
 - 
 (122)
 (2,865)
Balance as at March 31, 2025
 309 
 198 
 31 
 538 
Net book value (I-II)
As at March 31, 2024
 61 
 594 
 2 
 657 
As at March 31, 2025
 13 
 521 
 - 
 534 
# During the year, certain obsolete or non-operational computer softwares and other intangibles which were fully amortised and 
had a net book value of ₹ Nil, were disposed of from the intangible assets register.
5A. Goodwill	
	
	
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Opening and closing balance
 110 
 110 
Note:	
Impairment testing of Goodwill:	
	
In an earlier year, the Company had acquired a specified business undertaking of Klaus IT Solutions Private Limited (“Klaus IT”), 
which is engaged in providing professional services in the areas of engineering, software, and information technology. As part of 
this acquisition, goodwill amounting to ₹110 was recognised.
The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. The recoverable value of Klaus IT is determined based on value-
in-use calculation using the cash flow projections prepared by the management covering 5 year period.	
The estimated value-in-use of Klaus IT is based on the future cash flows using annual growth rate of 4% and discount rate of 
22% for periods subsequent to the forecast period of 5 years. An analysis of the sensitivity to a change in key parameters (i.e. 
operating margin, discount rates and long term average growth rate), based on reasonably probable assumptions, did not identify 
any probable scenario in which the recoverable amount of  Klaus IT would decrease below its carrying amount.
244  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5B. Investments	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Non-current
Investment carried at cost (refer note (a) below):
(i)	 Equity instruments of subsidiary companies (unquoted)
 8,357 
 6,389 
(ii)	 Equity instruments of subsidiary company (quoted)
 3,267 
 4,175 
(iii)	Equity instruments of joint venture company (unquoted)
 - 
 - 
(iv)	Compulsorily convertible debentures of subsidiary (unquoted)
 1,124 
 1,124 
 12,748 
 11,688 
Investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income 
(‘FVTOCI’) (refer note (a) below):
(i)	 Equity instruments of other entities (unquoted)
 160 
 37 
Investment carried at amortised cost
(i)	 Investment in tax free bonds (quoted)
 1,035 
 1,614 
(ii)	 Investment in perpetual bonds (quoted)
 483 
 471 
Investment carried at fair value through profit and loss (‘FVTPL’) (refer note (a) 
below)
(i)	 Equity instruments of other entities (unquoted)
 - 
 10 
Total Non-current investments
 14,426 
 13,820 
Current
Investment carried at amortised cost
(i)	 Investment in tax free bonds (quoted)
 534 
 - 
(ii)	 Investment in perpetual bonds (quoted)
 - 
 102 
(iii)	Investment in commercial paper (quoted)
 - 
 245 
Investment carried at fair value through profit and loss
(i)	 Investments in mutual funds (quoted)
 1,120 
 321 
Total Current investments
 1,654 
 668 
Total investments
 16,080 
 14,488 
Aggregate book value of quoted investments
 6,439 
 6,928 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 22,098 
 40,704 
Aggregate book value of unquoted investments
 9,641 
 7,560 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  245 
Note (a): Details of investments	
	
	
Particulars
 As at March 31, 2025
 As at March 31, 2024
 Number of 
shares
 Amount 
 Number of 
shares
 Amount 
Investment carried at cost:
Equity instruments of subsidiary companies (fully paid-up):
Cyient Inc., USA
 500,500 
 993 
 500,500 
 993 
Cyient Europe Limited, UK
 377,380,952 
 4,276 
 377,380,952 
 4,276 
Cyient GmbH, Germany
 12,000 
 71 
 12,000 
 71 
Cyient KK,  Japan
 900 
 5 
 900 
 5 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited,  Singapore# 6
 21,705,328 
 1,358 
 19,833,744 
 890 
Cyient Australia Pty Limited, Australia # 1
 1,000 
 - 
 1,000 
 - 
Cyient Insights Private Limited, India
 1,999,478 
 122 
 1,999,478 
 122 
Cyient DLM Limited, India #7
 41,366,502 
 3,267 
 52,866,000 
 4,175 
Cyient Israel India Limited, Israel
 1,817,100 
 32 
 1,817,100 
 32 
Cyient Solutions and Systems Private Limited, India # 2
 10,200 
 - 
 10,200 
 - 
Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited, India # 8
 149,999,999 
 1,500 
 - 
 - 
Cyient Global Captive Solutions Private Limited, India # 5
 9,999 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Compulsorily convertible debentures of subsidiary:
Cyient Insights Private Limited, India # 4
 11,240,000 
 1,124 
 11,240,000 
 1,124 
 12,748 
 11,688 
Equity instruments of joint venture company (fully paid-up):
Infotech HAL Limited, India (under liquidation) #3 
 2,000,000 
 - 
 2,000,000 
 - 
Investment carried at fair value through other comprehensive 
income:
Equity instruments of other entities (fully paid-up):
Cardiac Design Labs Private Limited, India
 9,084 
 136 
 6,036 
 16 
Qunu Labs Private Limited, India
 67,437 
 24 
 67,437 
 21 
 160 
 37 
Investment carried at fair value through profit and loss:
Equity instruments of other entities (fully paid-up):
Cardiac Design Labs Private Limited, India
 - 
 - 
 3,048 
 10 
Total
 12,908 
 11,735 
#1. Investment value is ₹ 0.05 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 0.05), rounded off.	
	
#2. Investment value is ₹ 0.1 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 0.1), rounded off.	
#3.  In the year 2020-21, the Company has impaired the carrying value of its investment in joint venture company, Infotech HAL 
Limited, India of  ₹ 20, based on the long term outlook of the business. 
#4. The Company had subscribed to 11,240,000 Compulsorily convertible debentures @ face value of ₹ 100 each in the 
financial year ended March 31, 2024.
#5. The Company has  Subscribed to 9,999 fully paid up equity shares of Cyient Global Captive Solutions Private Limited @ face 
value of ₹ 10 each in the year ended March 31, 2025. Investment value is ₹ 0.1 rounded off.
#6. Subscribed to 1,871,584 fully paid up equity shares of Cyient Singapore Pte Limited @ face value of SGD 3.83 each.
#7. The Company sold 11,499,498 equity shares @ 760 per share resulting in a gain of ₹ 7,831 (refer note 29).
#8. Subscribed to 149,999,999 fully paid up equity shares of Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited @10 each.
246  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note (b):  Gain/ (loss) on fair valuation of investments:
Particulars 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
Cardiac Design Labs Private Limited, India
 36 
 - 
 36 
 - 
Measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
Cardiac Design Labs Private Limited, India
 74 
 - 
Qunu Labs Private Limited, India
 3 
 - 
 
 77 
 - 
Note (c): Carrying values:
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Aggregate amount of Investments carried at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
 160 
 37 
Aggregate Investment carried at cost (non-current)
 12,748 
 11,688 
Aggregate Investment carried at amortised cost (current and non-current)
 2,052 
 2,432 
Aggregate amount of Investments carried at fair value through profit and 
loss (current and non-current)
 1,120 
 331 
6. Loans 
Particulars 
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Measured at amortised cost:  
Non-current: 
Loans to subsidiaries #1&2
Considered good 
 1,016 
 747 
Considered doubtful 
 311 
 311 
Less: Impairment #3
 (311)
 (311)
Total Non-current loans 
 1,016 
 747 
Current: 
Loans to subsidiaries #1&2
 1,285 
 589 
Total Current loans 
 1,285 
 589 
Total Loans 
 2,301 
 1,336 
Notes:	
	
#1. Intercompany loans are disclosed below as required by section 186(4) of the Companies Act 2013.
#2. Includes amounts from related parties (refer note 24).
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  247 
Name of the loanee
Rate of interest
Secured/ 
unsecured
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Cyient DLM Limited
7.80%
Unsecured
 747 
 1,336 
Cyient Solutions and Systems Private Limited#3
6.00%
Unsecured
 311 
 311 
Cyient Europe Limited
SONIA quarterly rate
Unsecured
 1,430 
 - 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
SORA quarterly rate
Unsecured
 124 
 - 
#3. In the year ended March 31, 2020, Company’s subsidiary, Cyient Solutions and Systems Private Limited (‘CSS’) has recognised 
one-time charge of  ₹ 222 relating to costs incurred on development of UAV systems in view of the potential delays in 
materialization of orders. Accordingly, a corresponding provision for impairment of the loan given to CSS of ₹ 311 has been 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the year ended March 31, 2020.
7. Other financial assets 	
	
	
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Non-current: 
Measured at amortised cost 
Security deposits 
Considered good 
 169 
 203 
Considered doubtful 
 16 
 16 
Less : Allowance for doubtful deposits 
 (16)
 (16)
Total Other Non-current financial assets 
 169 
 203 
Current: 
Measured at amortised cost 
Interest accrued on loan given to subsidiaries (Note 24)
 3 
 338 
Other receivables #1
 251 
 186 
Measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) 
Derivative instruments designated in a hedging relationship
 52 
 21 
Total Other current financial assets 
 306 
 545 
Total Other financial assets 
 475 
 748 
Note:	
	
#1. Includes amounts from related parties (Note 24).	
8. Other assets 	
 Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Non-current: 
Capital advances 
 2 
 1 
Pre-payments 
 16 
 40 
Total Other non-current assets
 18 
 41 
Current: 
Pre-payments
 567 
 665 
Deferred contract costs 
 - 
 21 
248  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Advances to suppliers and service providers#1
 501 
 425 
Balance with government authorities  
 267 
 239 
Total Other current assets 
 1,335 
 1,350 
Total Other assets 
 1,353 
 1,391 
Note:	
	
#1. Includes amounts from related parties (Note 24)
9. Trade receivables and contract assets
Trade receivables
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Trade receivables (at amortised cost)
Unsecured, considered good #
 9,924 
 9,627 
Less: Allowance for expected credit loss
 (76)
 (229)
 9,848 
 9,398 
Unsecured, considered good - credit impaired
 - 
 - 
Less: Impairment allowance
 - 
 - 
Total
 9,848 
 9,398 
# Includes dues from related parties (Note 24)
Note:	
	
Expected credit loss (ECL):		
The Company’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. Credit risk is 
managed through credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously monitoring the creditworthiness of customers 
to which the Company grants credit terms in the normal course of business. The credit period is ranges between 30- 120 days. 
Before accepting any new customer, the Company uses an internal credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s 
credit quality and defines credit limits for each customer. Limits and scoring attributed to customers are reviewed once a 
year.	
As a practical expedient, the Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss of its trade receivables. The 
provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the trade receivable and is adjusted 
for forward looking estimates. The ECL allowance (or reversal) during the year is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  249 
Ageing of trade receivables
As at March 31, 2025 
Not Due
Less than  
6 months
6 months  
to 1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Undisputed Trade Receivables
Considered good
 5,747 
 3,748 
 302 
 77 
 34 
 16 
 9,924 
Credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed Trade Receivables
Considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 5,747 
 3,748 
 302 
 77 
 34 
 16 
 9,924 
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss
 (76)
Balance at the end of the year
 9,848 
Ageing of trade receivables
As at March 31, 2024
Not Due
Less than  
6 months
6 months  
to 1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Undisputed Trade Receivables
Considered good
 5,122 
 3,817 
 387 
 278 
 13 
 10 
 9,627 
Credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed Trade Receivables
Considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 5,122 
 3,817 
 387 
 278 
 13 
 10 
 9,627 
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss
 (229)
Balance at the end of the year
 9,398 
Contract Assets: 
As at March 31, 2025, the Company has contract assets of  ₹ 1,610 (March 31, 2024:  ₹ 1,933) net of allowance for expected 
credit losses of  ₹ 33 (March 31, 2024:  ₹ 17)
Movement in the allowance for expected credit losses of trade receivables and contract assets:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Balance at beginning of the year
 246 
 246 
Provision made during the year (net of reversals)
 (82)
 13 
Bad debts written-off
 (55)
 (13)
Balance at the end of the year
 109 
 246 
250  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10. Cash and Bank Balances
10 A. Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Balances with banks:
- in current accounts
 512 
 1,601 
- in deposits#
 5,981 
 250 
- in unclaimed dividend accounts
 33 
 30 
Total
 6,526 
 1,881 
Restricted cash balances included above
Balance in unclaimed dividend account
 33 
 30 
# The deposits held by the Company with banks and financial institutions comprise time deposits, which can be withdrawn at any 
point without prior notice or penalty on the principal.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
10B. Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Deposits held as margin money/security for bank guarantees
 2 
 2 
Total
 2 
 2 
(i) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities for the year end March 31, 2025:	
	
	
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2024
 Additions/ 
deletions 
 Repayments
As at  
March 31, 2025
Lease liabilities
 1,322 
 111 
 (512)
 921 
Sale and Lease back liability
 22 
 - 
 (13)
 9 
Total liabilities from financing activities
 1,344 
 111 
 (525)
 930 
	
	
	
	
	
	
Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities for the year end March 31, 2024:
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2023
 Additions/ 
deletions 
 Repayments 
As at  
March 31, 2024
Lease liabilities
 1,363 
 540 
 (581)
 1,322 
Sale and Lease back liability
 34 
 - 
 (12)
 22 
Total liabilities from financing activities
 1,397 
 540 
 (593)
 1,344 
(ii) Non-cash investing activities:	
	
	
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Acquisition of Right-of-use assets
58
489
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  251 
11A. Equity share capital
Authorised share capital, equity shares of ₹ 5 each
Particulars 
 Number of Shares
Amount
As at April 1, 2023
 280,000,000 
 1,400 
Increase/(decrease) during the year
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 280,000,000 
 1,400 
Increase/(decrease) during the year
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 280,000,000 
 1,400 
	
	
	
	
(a) Issued, subscribed and fully paid up capital:
 Particulars 
  As at March 31, 2025
 As at March 31, 2024 
 Number of shares 
 Amount 
 Number of shares  Amount 
 Opening balance 
 110,889,812 
 555 
 110,575,006 
 553 
Add: Issue of shares during the year#
 149,112 
 - 
 314,806 
 2 
 Closing balance 
 111,038,924 
 555 
 110,889,812 
 555 
# During the year, the Company allotted 149,112 (March 31, 2024 : 314,806 ) equity shares of  ₹ 5 each valuing ₹ 0.74 (March 31, 
2024 : ₹ 1.57), consequent to the exercise of the stock options by the associates of the Company under the Associate Stock 
Option Plan.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(b) Details of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares:
Name of shareholder 
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Number of 
shares held 
% holding of 
equity shares 
Number of 
shares held 
 % holding of 
equity shares 
Fully paid up equity shares 
Vineyard Point Software Private Limited 
14,006,750 
12.61%
14,000,000 
12.63%
Infocad Enterprises Private Limited 
7,051,650 
6.35%
7,000,000 
6.31%
Amansa Holdings Private Limited 
6,590,807 
5.94%
7,850,873 
7.08%
DSP Mutual Fund                                                                                                                                     
6,005,749 
5.41%
4,979,137 
4.49%
(c) Details of Shares held by promoters at the end of the year  
Name of the promoter
Number of shares 
% holding 
of equity 
shares 
% Change 
during the 
Year 
As at  
March 31, 2024 
Change 
As at  
March 31, 2025 
Vineyard Point Software Private Limited  
14,000,000 
6,750 
 14,006,750 
12.61%
0.05%
Infocad Enterprises Private Limited  
 7,000,000 
 51,650 
 7,051,650 
6.35%
0.74%
Bodanapu Ganesh Venkat Krishna 
 1,913,260 
 - 
 1,913,260 
1.72%
 - 
Bodanapu Sri Vaishnavi 
 1,793,008 
 - 
 1,793,008 
1.61%
 - 
Venkat Rama Mohan Reddy Bodanapu 
 373,820 
 28,800 
 402,620 
0.36%
7.70%
Sucharitha Bodanapu  
 373,820 
 - 
 373,820 
0.34%
 - 
D. Nageswara Reddy 
 172,800 
 - 
 172,800 
0.16%
 - 
Bodanapu Avanti Reddy 
 2,502 
 82,038 
 84,540 
0.08%
3,278.90%
Carol Ann Reddy  
 38,400 
 - 
 38,400 
0.03%
 - 
B V S Ratna Kumari 
 15,600 
 - 
 15,600 
0.01%
 - 
252  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Name of the promoter
Number of shares 
% holding 
of equity 
shares 
% Change 
during the 
Year 
As at  
March 31, 2024 
Change 
As at  
March 31, 2025 
 A Amala Reddy  
 3,680 
 - 
 3,680 
0.00%
 - 
 B Ashok Reddy 
 300 
 - 
 300 
0.00%
 - 
	
	
  Name of the promoter
 Number of shares 
 % holding 
of equity 
shares 
 % Change 
during the 
Year 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
 Change 
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
Vineyard Point Software Private Limited
 14,000,000 
 - 
 14,000,000 
12.63%
 - 
Infocad Enterprises Private Limited  
 7,000,000 
 - 
 7,000,000 
6.31%
 - 
Krishna Bodanapu 
 1,913,260 
 - 
 1,913,260 
1.73%
 - 
Bodanapu Sri Vaishnavi 
 1,793,008 
 - 
 1,793,008 
1.62%
 - 
BVR Mohan Reddy
 373,820 
 - 
 373,820 
0.34%
 - 
Sucharitha Bodanapu  
 373,820 
 - 
 373,820 
0.34%
 - 
D. Nageswara Reddy 
 172,800 
 - 
 172,800 
0.16%
 - 
Bodanapu Avanti Reddy 
 137,500 
 (134,998)
 2,502 
0.00%
-98.18%
Carol Ann Reddy  
 38,400 
 - 
 38,400 
0.03%
 - 
B V S Ratna Kumari 
 15,600 
 - 
 15,600 
0.01%
 - 
A Amala Reddy  
 3,680 
 - 
 3,680 
0.00%
 - 
B Ashok Reddy 
 300 
 - 
 300 
0.00%
 - 
	
	
	
	
(d) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to equity shares:	
	
	
	
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ₹ 5 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one 
vote per share. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the 
remaining assets of the Company in proportion to their shareholding.	
	
	
	
(e) Purchase of treasury shares:	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company has constituted a ‘Cyient Associate Stock Option Plan 2021 Trust (‘Trust’), to grant, offer and issue options to the 
employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. During the year 2021-22, the Trust has acquired 1,079,000 equity shares from 
the secondary market amounting to ₹ 950 based on the loan received from the Company. The Company has treated the Trust as 
its direct extension, such that the assets and liabilities of the Trust are included in the standalone financial statements and the 
shares acquired/held by the Trust are classified as “Treasury Shares”.
The Trust has re-issued 90,716 shares during the year ended March 31, 2025 ( March 31, 2024: 101,614) under the ASOP 2021 
scheme to the associates, shares held by Trust as at March 31, 2025: 886,670 (March 31, 2024: 977,386).	
	
	
	
	
	
(f) (i) Associate Stock Option Plans: (equity settled)	
	
	
	
	
	
Associate Stock Option Plan – 2008 (ASOP 2008):	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company has instituted ASOP 2008 in July 2008 and earmarked 1,000,000 equity shares of ₹ 5 each for issue to the employees 
under ASOP. The Company modified ASOP 2008 and adjusted the number of options and exercise price on account of bonus 
issue 1:1 during financial year 2010-11. Under ASOP 2008, options will be issued to employees at an exercise price, which shall 
not be less than the market price on the date of grant. These options vest over a period ranging from one to three years from the 
date of grant, starting with 10% at the end of first year, 15% at the end of one and half years, 20% after two years, 25% at the end 
of two and half years and 30% at the end of third year.  
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  253 
Associate Stock Option Plan – 2015 (ASOP 2015):	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company has instituted ASOP 2015 in July 2015 and earmarked 1,200,000 equity shares of ₹ 5 each for issue to the employees 
under ASOP. Under ASOP 2015, options will be issued to employees at an exercise price, which shall not be less than the market 
price on the date of grant. These options vest over a period ranging from one to three years from the date of grant, starting with 
10% at the end of first year, 15% at the end of one and half years, 20% after two years, 25% at the end of two and half years and 
30% at the end of third year.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Associate Restricted Stock Units Scheme 2020 (ARSU 2020):	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company has instituted the  ARSU’s 2020 plan earmarking 1,050,000 shares of ₹ 5 each which provided for grant of Restricted 
Stock Units (‘RSUs’) to eligible associates of the Company and its subsidiaries.  The Exercise price shall be ₹ 5 each. The Board of 
Directors recommended the establishment of the plan on January 16, 2020 and the shareholders approved the recommendation 
of Board of Directors on March 5, 2020 through a postal ballot. The RSUs will vest over a period of three years from the date of 
grant. These options vest over a period ranging from one to three years from the date of grant, starting with 30% at the end of 
first year, 50 % after two years, 20% at the end of third year	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Associate Stock Option Scheme 2021  (ASOP 2021):	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company has instituted the ASOP 2021 scheme and also incorporated  ‘Cyient Associate Stock Option Scheme 2021 
Trust’ (Trust), whereunder shares were purchased from the stock exchanges through the Trust. KP Corporate Solutions Limited, 
Corporate Trustee, has been appointed as trustee for this Trust. Shareholders of the Company have approved the Scheme and 
the formation of Trust through postal ballot on February 23, 2021.
During the year ended March 31, 2022, Trust purchased 1,079,000 shares. The Exercise price shall be ₹ 5 each. The options will 
vest over a period of 3 years equally from the grant date.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Associate Stock Option Plan – 2023 (ASOP 2023):	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company has instituted ASOP 2023 in June 2023 and earmarked 1,200,000 equity shares of ₹ 5 each for issue to the 
employees under ASOP. Under ASOP 2023, options will be issued to employees at an exercise price, which shall not be less than 
the market price on the date of grant. These options vest over a period ranging from one to three years from the date of grant, 
starting with 33% at the end of first year, 33% at the end of second year and 34% at the end of third year.	
	
	
	
	
	
Movements in stock options during the year:		
	
	
Particulars
For the year ended March 31, 2025
For the year ended March 31, 2024
Number of 
Options
Weighted average 
exercise price / 
range
Number of 
Options
Weighted average 
exercise price / 
range
ASOP 2008
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 - 
 - 
 25,000 
 518 
Granted
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Forfeited / expired
 - 
 - 
 (25,000)
 518 
Exercised
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Options outstanding at the end of year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ASOP 2015
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 194,805 
 222 - 1,011 
 491,481 
 222 - 1,011 
Granted
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Forfeited / expired
 (2,000)
 - 
 (41,290)
 618 
Exercised
 (105,692)
 450-1,011 
 (255,386)
 565 
Options outstanding at the end of year
 87,113 
 269 - 1,011 
 194,805 
 222 - 1,011 
254  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Particulars
For the year ended March 31, 2025
For the year ended March 31, 2024
Number of 
Options
Weighted average 
exercise price / 
range
Number of 
Options
Weighted average 
exercise price / 
range
ARSU 2020
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 141,693 
 5 
 97,143 
 5 
Granted
 61,210 
 5 
 116,938 
 5 
Forfeited / expired
 (18,953)
 5 
 (12,968)
 5 
Exercised
 (43,420)
 5 
 (59,420)
 5 
Options outstanding at the end of year
 140,530 
 5 
 141,693 
 5 
ASOP 2021
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 977,386 
 5 
 1,009,100 
 5 
Granted
 - 
 - 
 69,900 
 5 
Forfeited / expired
 (79,647)
 5 
 - 
 - 
Exercised
 (90,716)
 5 
 (101,614)
 - 
Options outstanding at the end of year
 807,023 
 5 
 977,386 
 5 
ASOP 2023
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 10,000 
 1,778 
 - 
 - 
Granted
 - 
-
 10,000 
 1,778 
Forfeited / expired
 (10,000)
 1,778 
 - 
 - 
Exercised
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Options outstanding at the end of year
 - 
-
 10,000 
 1,778 
(f) (ii) Fair value of stock options granted during the year:	
	
	
	
	
The weighted average fair value of the share options granted during the year is  ₹ 1,555 - ₹ 1,750 (March 31, 2024: ₹424 - ₹1,892). 
Options were priced using Black Scholes pricing model. Where relevant, the expected life used in the model has been adjusted 
based on management’s best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. 
Expected volatility is based on the historical share price volatility over the past years.	
	
	
	
The following assumptions were used for calculation of fair value of grants: 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
ASOP 2008
ASOP 2015
ARSU 2020
ASOP 2021
ASOP 2023
Exercise price (₹)
-
222.00 - 1,011.00
5.00
5.00
1,778.00
Grant date share price (₹) 
-
234.80 - 986.00
284.15 - 2,044.00
805.65 - 982.90
1,680.00
Dividend yield (%)
-
1.70 - 2.90
2.50 - 2.90
2.60 - 2.90
2.50
Expected volatility (%)
-
 29.80 - 41.82 
 30.00 - 42.00 
 36.00 - 41.80 
35.00
Risk-free interest (%)
-
 4.49 - 7.90 
 4.49 - 7.28 
 5.10 - 6.30 
 7.25 - 7.28 
Expected term (in years)
-
 3 - 4 
 3 - 4 
3 - 4
3 - 4
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
ASOP 2008
ASOP 2015
ARSU 2020
ASOP 2021
ASOP 2023
Exercise price (₹)
184.00 - 559.00
222.00 - 1,011.00
5.00
5.00
1,778.00
Grant date share price (₹) 
185.00 - 531.50
234.80 - 986.00
284.15 - 2,044.00
805.65 - 982.90
1,680.00
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  255 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
ASOP 2008
ASOP 2015
ARSU 2020
ASOP 2021
ASOP 2023
Dividend yield (%)
1.53 - 2.64
1.70 - 2.90
2.50 - 2.90
2.60 - 2.90
2.50
Expected volatility (%)
28.66 - 65.53
 29.80 - 41.82 
 30.00 - 41.90 
 36.00 - 41.8 
35.00
Risk-free interest (%)
6.41 - 8.40
 4.49 - 7.90 
 4.49 - 7.28 
 5.10 - 6.30 
 7.25 - 7.28 
Expected term (in years)
3 - 4
 3 - 4 
 3 - 4 
3 - 4
3 - 4
(f) (iii) Details of Share options exercised:
Schemes
Year
Number of 
options exercised
Exercise date#
Share price (₹) on 
exercise date
Associate Stock Option Plan – 2015  
(ASOP 2015)
2024-25
105,692
April 24, 2024 to 
February 28, 2025
1,267.15 - 1,959.35
Associate Restricted Stock option plan - 2020 
(ARSU 2020)
2024-25
43,420
July 10, 2024 to 
March 04, 2025
1,211.50 - 1,959.35
Associate Stock Option Scheme 2021   
(ASOP 2021)
2024-25
90,716
May 16, 2024 to 
March 21, 2025
1,211.50 - 2,001.35
Associate Stock Option Plan – 2015  
(ASOP 2015)
2023-24
255,386
June 02, 2023 to 
March 15, 2024
1,459.00 - 2,223.90
Associate Restricted Stock option plan - 2020 
(ARSU 2020)
2023-24
59,420
August 28, 2023 to 
March 15, 2024
1,574.45 - 2,067.10
Associate Stock Option Scheme 2021   
(ASOP 2021)
2023-24
101,614
June 02, 2023 to 
March 21, 2024
1,459.00 - 2,293.15
# Allotment happened at various dates during that period
11B. Other equity	
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
(a)   Share application money pending allotment
Opening balance
 1 
 - 
Share application money received during the year
 1 
 1 
 2 
1 
(b)   Capital redemption reserve 
Opening and closing balance
 16 
 16 
 16 
 16 
(c)   Securities premium
Opening balance
 2,639 
 2,427 
Exercise of share options
 59 
 69 
Premium received on allotment of shares 
 60 
 143 
 2,758 
 2,639 
(d)   General reserve
Opening balance
 5,273 
 5,273 
SEZ re-investment reserve utilisation
 65 
 - 
 5,338 
 5,273 
256  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
(e)   Share-based payments reserve
Opening balance
 523 
 485 
Share-based payments expense (Note 19)
 285 
 197 
Options exercised
 (139)
 (159)
 669 
 523 
(f) Special Economic Zone (‘SEZ’) re-investment reserve
Opening balance
 65 
 65 
SEZ re-investment reserve utilisation
 (65)
 - 
 - 
 65 
(g)   Retained earnings
Opening balance
 21,114 
 19,237 
Profit for the year
 11,246 
 4,973 
Other comprehensive income arising out of remeasurement of defined  benefit 
obligation (net of taxes)
 (9)
 (36)
 32,351 
 24,174 
Less: Appropriations
Dividend on equity shares (Note 31)
 3,300 
 3,060 
 29,051 
 21,114 
(h)   Capital Reserve
Opening balance
 1 
 - 
Gain on re-issuance of treasury shares
 - 
 1 
 1 
 1 
(i)    Treasury shares
Opening balance
 (861)
 (950)
Re-issuance of treasury shares
 80 
 89 
 (781)
 (861)
(j)    Cash flow hedge reserve
Opening balance
 13 
 (81)
Effective portion of (loss)/gain on designated portion of hedging instruments (net 
of tax)
 (15)
 94 
 (2)
 13 
(k)   Equity instrument through other comprehensive income
Opening balance
 4 
 4 
Increase in fair value of equity instruments (net of tax) (Note 5B)
 58 
 - 
 62 
 4 
Total
 37,114 
 28,788 
	
	
	
Nature of reserves:
(a)	 Capital redemption reserve	
	
	
Represents 
the 
nominal 
value 
of 
equity 
shares 
bought back pursuant to Buyback in accordance 
with 
Section 
69 
of 
the 
Companies 
Act, 
2013. 
	
	 	
(b)	 Securities premium	
	
	
Amounts received on issue of shares in excess of the 
par value has been classified as securities premium. The 
reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  257 
(c)	 General reserve	
	
	
This represents appropriation of profit by the Company. 
General reserve is appropriated for the creation of capital 
redemption reserve upon Buyback of equity shares 
pursuant to section 69 of the Companies Act, 2013.	
(d)	 Share based payments reserve	 	
	
The Share based payments reserve is used to record the 
value of equity-settled share based payment transactions 
with employees. The amounts recorded in this account are 
transferred to securities premium upon exercise of stock 
options by employees.	 	
(e)	 Cash flow hedge reserve	
	
	
Represents effective portion of gains and loss on 
designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow 
hedge, net of tax.	
	
(f) 	Special Economic Zone (‘SEZ’) re-investment reserve
	
Represents 
the 
amount 
transferred 
to 
the 
SEZ 
Reinvestment Reserve in earlier years. The reserve was 
created out of the profits of eligible SEZ units in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 10AA(1)(ii) of the Income-
tax Act, 1961, and was utilized by the Company for the 
acquisition of new plant and machinery for the purposes 
of its business, in compliance with the requirements of 
Section 10AA(2) of the Income-tax Act, 1961. Accordingly, 
during the year, the balance has been transferred to the 
General Reserve
	
(g)	 Retained earnings	
	
(i)	 Retained 
earnings 
comprises 
of 
prior 
years’ 
undistributed earnings after taxes along with current 
year profit, net of dividends declared.
(ii)	 Remeasurement gains and losses arising from 
experience adjustments and changes in actuarial 
assumptions are recognised in the year in which they 
occur, directly in other comprehensive income. These 
are presented within retained earnings.
(h)	 Treasury shares
	
The Company has constituted a ‘Cyient Associate 
Stock Option Plan 2021 Trust (‘Trust’), to grant, offer 
and issue options to the employees of the Company and 
its subsidiaries. During the year 2021-22, the Trust has 
acquired 1,079,000 equity shares from the secondary 
market amounting to ₹ 950 based on the loan received from 
the Company. The Company has treated the Trust as its 
direct extension, such that the assets and liabilities of the 
Trust are included in the standalone financial statements 
and the shares acquired/held by the Trust are classified as 
“Treasury Shares”.
	
The Trust has re-issued 90,716 shares during the year 
ended March 31, 2025 ( March 31, 2024: 101,614) under the 
ASOP 2021 scheme to the associates, shares held by Trust 
as at March 31, 2025: 886,670 (March 31, 2024: 977,386).	
	
(i)	 Equity instruments through OCI  	
	
	
Represents the cumulative gains and loss arising from fair 
valuation of the equity instruments measured at the fair value 
through OCI, net of amounts reclassified to retained earnings 
when the investments have been disposed off.	
	
	 	
(j)	 Share application money pending for allotment	
	
Represents amount received from associates on exercise 
of stock options, pending allotment.	
	
	
	 	
(k)	 Capital Reserve	
	
	
Represents the difference between the carrying amount 
and the consideration received upon reissuance of 
Treasury Shares.	
	
12. Provisions
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Gratuity [refer note (i) below]
 1,348 
 1,202 
Compensated absences [refer note (ii) below]
 386 
389
Other provisions 
7
5
Total 
 1,741 
 1,596 
Non-current:
Gratuity
 1,091 
 966 
Compensated absences
 277 
 243 
Total Non current provisions
 1,368 
 1,209 
258  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Current:
Gratuity
 257 
 236 
Compensated absences
 109 
 146 
Other provisions 
 7 
 5 
Total current provisions
 373 
 387 
Total 
1,741
1,596
Notes:	
	
	
	
	
	
i. 	 Defined Benefit Plans - Gratuity	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
In accordance with the ‘Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972’ of India, the Company provides for gratuity, a defined retirement 
benefit plan (the ‘Gratuity Plan’) covering eligible employees. Liabilities with regard to such gratuity plan are determined by 
an independent actuarial valuation and are charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss in the year determined. The gratuity 
plan is administered by the Company’s own trust which has subscribed to the “Group Gratuity Scheme” of Life Insurance 
Corporation of India.
	
The present value of the defined benefit obligation (DBO), and the related current service cost and past service cost, were 
measured using the projected unit credit method.	
	
	
	
	
	
Principal assumptions used for the purposes of the 
actuarial valuation
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Discount rate (%)
6.58%
7.18%
Salary increase rate (%)
8% for 2 years, there after 7%
9% for 2 years, there after 7%
Attrition (%)
25%
25%
Mortality table
IALM (2012-14) Ultimate
IALM (2012-14) Ultimate
Retirement age
60 years
60 years
The following table sets out the defined benefit costs as per actuarial valuation:	 	
	
	
	
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss in respect of these defined 
benefit plans
Current service cost
 154 
 130 
Total service cost (A)
154
 130 
Interest expense on defined benefit obligation
80
 70 
Interest income on plan assets
(5)
 (3)
Net interest cost (B)
75
 67 
Defined benefit cost recognised in statement of profit and loss (A) + (B)
229
 197 
Re-measurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income
Actuarial (gain) / loss due to demographic assumptions change in defined benefit 
obligation
-
 19
Actuarial (gain) /loss due to financial assumptions change in defined benefit 
obligation
6
(16) 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  259 
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Actuarial (gain) /loss due to experience on defined benefit obligation
6
 42 
Return on plan assets less than discount rate
-
3
Components of defined benefit costs recognised in other comprehensive 
income
12
48 
Total
241
245 
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the entity’s obligation in respect of its defined benefit plans is as 
follows:	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation
 1,420 
 1,267 
Fair value of plan assets
 (72)
 (65)
Net liability arising from defined benefit obligation
 1,348 
 1,202 
Movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation	
	
	
	
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Projected benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 
 1,267 
 1,123 
Current service cost
 154 
 130 
Interest cost
 80 
 70 
Actuarial (gain)/loss on change in experience and financial assumptions
 12 
 45 
Payments
 (93)
 (101)
Defined benefit obligation at the end of the year
 1,420 
 1,267 
Change in plan assets	
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Plan assets at the beginning of the year
 65 
 36 
Return on plan assets                                                            
5
 3 
Employer contribution
95
 130 
Payments
 (93)
 (101)
Actuarial loss on plan assets
-
 (3)
Plan assets at the end of the year
72
 65 
The average rate of increase in compensation levels is determined by the Company, considering factors such as, the Company’s 
past compensation revision trends and management’s estimate of future salary increases. The discount rate is based on the 
prevailing market yields of Government of India securities as at the Balance Sheet date for the estimated term of the obligation.
Sensitivity analysis:	
	
	
	
	
	
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions 
constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below:
260  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Discount rate (1% movement)
 (46)
 49 
 (41)
 43 
Future salary growth (1% movement)
 52 
 (50)
 45 
 (44)
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Within 1 year
 325 
 300 
1-2 year 
276
 247 
2-3 year 
242
 213 
3-4 year 
205
 185 
4-5 year 
165
 155 
5-10 year 
446
 411 
Above 10 years
160
 154 
The expected contribution to the plan is ₹ 325 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 300)
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 3.95 years 
(March 31, 2024: 3.96 years).	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Composition of plan assets:	
	
	
	
	
	
Plan assets comprise of 100% insurer managed funds. Fund is managed by Life Insurance Corporation as per Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority of India (IRDA) guidelines, category wise composition of the plan assets is not available.
ii. Assumptions for compensated absences	
	
	
	
	
	
a) Compensated absences – India:	
	
	
	
Actuarial assumptions for  
long-term compensated absences
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Discount rate (%)
6.58%
7.18%
Salary escalation (%)
8% for 2 years, there after 7%
9% for 2 years, there after 7%
Attrition (%)
25.00%
25.00%
Mortality table
IALM (2012-14) Ultimate
IALM (2012-14) Ultimate
Retirement age
60 years
60 years
	
	
b) Compensated absences – Overseas branches:	
Actuarial assumptions for  
long-term compensated absences
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Discount rate (%)
2.59% - 3.98%
3.07%-3.79%
Salary escalation (%)
3.00%
3.00%-3.30%
Attrition (%)
17.10%
13.60%
Mortality table
IALM (2012-14) Ultimate
IALM (2012-14) Ultimate
Retirement age
60 years
60 years
The accrual for unutilised leave is determined for the entire available leave balance standing to the credit of the employees at 
year-end as per Company’s policy. The value of such leave balance eligible for carry forward, is determined by an independent 
actuarial valuation and charged to statement of profit and loss in the year determined.	
	
	
	
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  261 
The average rate of increase in compensation levels is determined by the Company, considering factors such as, the Company’s 
past compensation revision trends and management’s estimate of future salary increases. The discount rate is based on the 
prevailing market yields of Government of India securities as at the Balance Sheet date for the estimated term of the obligation.
c) Long Service Leave – Australia:	
	
	
	
	
	
The regulations of long service leave are applicable to the associates of the Company employed at its Australia Branch. The 
accrual of long service leave is in addition to the compensated absences to which the associates are entitled to. These long 
service leaves are dependent on the tenure of the employee with the same employer and are regulated by respective state laws. 
	
13. Trade payables
13A. Trade payables carried at amortised cost
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Current
(i) 	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises (‘MSME’) 
(refer note 13B for details of dues to MSME)
 41 
 27 
(ii) 	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises #
 1,101 
 2,742 
Total 
 1,142 
 2,769 
Includes dues to related parties (Note 24)
 461 
 1,931 
Note:
# Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 to 60 days terms.
As at  March 31, 2025
Ageing of trade payables
Outstanding for the following periods from the due date of payment
Unbilled
Not Due
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
MSME
 - 
 41 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 41 
Others
 419 
 273 
 392 
 5 
 12 
-
 1,101 
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance at the end of the year
 419 
 314 
 392 
 5 
 12 
 - 
 1,142 
	
As at March 31, 2024
Ageing of trade payables
  Outstanding for the following periods from the due date of payment  
Unbilled
Not Due
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
MSME
 - 
 18 
 9 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 27 
Others
 470 
 239 
 713 
 1,310 
 10 
 - 
 2,742 
Disputed dues - MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance at the end of the year
 470 
 257 
 722 
 1,310 
 10 
 - 
 2,769 
	
	
262  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13B. Disclosures required under Section 22 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
(i)	 The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any 
supplier as at the end of the accounting year
-	
Principal amount due to MSME
 41 
 27 
-	
Interest due on above
 - 
 - 
(ii)	 The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED 
Act, 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond 
the appointed day during each accounting year
 - 
 - 
(iii)	The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which has been paid but beyond appointed day during the year) but 
without adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006
 - 
 - 
(iv)	The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each 
accounting year
 - 
 - 
(v)	 The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the 
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually 
paid to the small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible 
expenditure under Section 23 of the MSMED Act, 2006
 - 
 - 
The disclosures in respect of the amounts payable to such enterprises as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 has been made 
in the financial statements based on information received and available with the Company. Further in view of the Management, 
the impact of interest, if any, that may be payable in accordance with the provisions of the Act is not expected to be material. The 
Company has not received any claim for interest from any supplier as at the balance sheet date.
14. Other financial liabilities
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Non current:
(Measured at amortised cost)
Sale and lease back liability (Note 3A)
 1 
 4 
Total other non-current financial liabilities
 1 
 4 
Current:
(Measured at amortised cost)
Unclaimed dividend
 33 
 30 
Capital creditors
 17 
 62 
Factoring payable
 1 
 13 
Sale and lease back liability (Note 3A)
 8 
 18 
Accrued salaries & wages (Note 26)
 728 
 683 
Others
 - 
 1 
(Measured at Fair value through other comprehensive income)
Derivative instruments designated in a hedging relationship
 55 
 4 
Total other current financial liabilities
 842 
 811 
Total financial liabilities
 843 
 815 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  263 
15. Other current liabilities
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Unearned revenue #
 133 
 188 
Advance from customers #
 87 
 4 
Statutory remittances
 252 
 294 
Others
- 
 14 
Total 
 472 
 500 
# Includes amount from related parties (Note 24)
16. Income taxes
16A.  Tax expense
a. Income tax expense recognised in statement of profit and loss
Particulars 
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Current income tax:
Current Income tax charge
 2,034 
 1,607 
 2,034 
 1,607 
Deferred tax credit:
In respect of the current year
 (6)
 (8)
In respect of earlier years
-
(22)
 (6)
 (30)
Total
2,028
 1,577 
b. Income tax (expense)/benefit recognised directly in other comprehensive income
Particulars 
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Income tax effect
On effective portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge
5
 (31)
On re-measurement loss on defined benefit plans
3
12
On unrealised gain on financial instruments
(19)
-
Total
(11)
 (19)
Bifurcation of the income tax recognized in other comprehensive income into:
Items that will not be reclassified to statement of profit and loss
(16)
 12 
Items that will be reclassified to statement of profit and loss
5
 (31)
Total
 (11)
 (19)
264  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
c. Reconciliation of tax expense and tax based on accounting profit:
The following is the reconciliation of effective tax rate for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024:
Particulars 
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Profit before Income tax expense
 13,274 
 6,550 
At India's Statutory income tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
Income tax expense
3,341
 1,649 
Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile expected tax expense:
Exemptions / deductions for tax purposes
 (13)
 (18)
Exempted income of dividend received from subsidiary (refer note 18)
-
(56)
Expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit
26
 29 
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years
-
 (22)
Impact of special tax rates applicable on long term Capital gains (refer note 29)
(1,331)
-
Others
5
 (5)
Total income tax expense
2,028
 1,577 
Effective tax rate
15.28%
24.08%
The Company has opted for the application of lower tax rate of 22% (excluding surcharge and cess thereon) under the provisions 
of the section 115BAA of Income Tax Act, 1961.
16B.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities
a. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The following is the analysis of deferred tax assets/(liabilities) presented in the balance sheet	 	
	
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax assets
 706 
 785 
Deferred tax liabilities
 (384)
 (457)
Deferred tax assets (net)
 322 
 328 
b. Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
2024-25
Opening 
Balance
 Recognised in 
the statement of 
profit and loss
 Recognised in other 
comprehensive 
income
Closing 
balance
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) in relation to:
Cash flow hedges 
 (4)
 - 
 5 
 1 
Property, plant and equipment and Other intangible assets
 (111)
 (11)
 - 
 (123)
Provision for employee benefits and other current liabilities
 385 
 55 
 3 
 443 
Right of use assets
 (342)
 109 
 - 
 (233)
Lease liabilities
 338 
 (104)
 - 
 234 
Fair value changes
 - 
 (9)
 (19)
 (28)
Provision for doubtful debts
 62 
 (34)
 - 
 28 
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
 328 
 6 
 (11)
 322 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  265 
2023-24
Opening 
Balance
 Recognised in 
the statement of 
profit and loss 
 Recognised in other 
comprehensive 
income 
MAT credit 
utilisation
Closing 
balance
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)  
in relation to :
Cash flow hedges 
 27 
 - 
 (31)
 - 
 (4)
Property, plant and equipment and 
Other intangible assets
 (91)
 (20)
 - 
 - 
 (111)
Provision for employee benefits and 
other current liabilities
 342 
 31 
 12 
 - 
 385 
Right-of-use assets
 (354)
 12 
 - 
 - 
 (342)
Lease liabilities
 352 
 (14)
-
 - 
 338 
MAT credit entitlement
 - 
 22 
 - 
 (22)
 - 
Provision for doubtful debts
 63 
 (1)
 - 
 - 
 62 
Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
 339 
 30 
 (19)
 (22)
 328 
16 C. Income tax assets and liabilities	
	
	
The following is the analysis of income tax assets/(liabilities) presented in the balance sheet:	
	
	
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Income tax assets (net)
 375 
 321 
Income tax liabilities (net)
 22 
 22 
17. Revenue from contracts with customers
Particulars 
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Revenue from services
 24,131 
 24,613 
Revenue from products
 5 
 1 
Total
 24,136 
 24,614 
The Company presents revenues net of indirect taxes in the statement of profit and loss.	
	
	
17A. Disaggregated revenue information
The table below presents disaggregated revenues from contracts with customers by contract type and geography. The Company 
believes that this disaggregation best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows are 
affected.
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Revenues by contract type
Fixed-price
 7,276 
 8,411 
Time and material
 16,855 
 16,202 
Product sale
 5 
 1 
Total
 24,136 
 24,614 
266  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Revenues by Geography
North America
 14,010 
 12,394 
Europe
 4,602 
 6,015 
Asia Pacific (including India)
 5,524 
 6,205 
Total
 24,136 
 24,614 
Revenues by time of recognition
Goods and services transferred
-  At a point in time
 5 
 1 
-  Over time
 24,131 
 24,613 
Total
 24,136 
 24,614 
17B. Trade receivables and contract balances
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Trade receivables
 9,848 
 9,398 
Contract assets
 1,610 
 1,933 
Unearned revenue
 133 
 188 
Advance from customers
 87 
 4 
Contract assets: 
During the year ended March 31, 2025, ₹ 1,884 of contract assets as at March 31, 2024 has been reclassified to receivables on 
completion of performance obligation. During the year ended March 31, 2024, ₹ 1,634 of contract assets as at March 31, 2023 
has been reclassified to receivables on completion of performance obligation. 	
	
	
	
Contract liabilities: 	
	
a)	 Unearned revenue: During the year ended March 31, 2025 the Company has recognized revenue of ₹ 184 arising from 
contract liabilities as at March 31, 2024. During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Company recognized revenue of ₹ 142 
arising from opening unearned revenue as at March 31, 2023.	 	
b)	 Advance from customers: During the year ended March 31, 2025 the Company recognised revenue of ₹ 4 arising from 
advance from customers as at March 31, 2024. During the year ended March 31, 2024 the Company recognised revenue of ₹ 
270 arising from advance from customers as at March 31, 2023.	
	
	
	
The Company has applied practical expedient and has not disclosed information about remaining performance obligations 
in contracts, where the original contract duration is one year or less or where the entity has the right to consideration that 
corresponds directly with the value of entity’s performance completed to date. Consequently, disclosure related to transaction 
price allocated to remaining performance obligation is not material.	
	
	
	
	
	
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  267 
17C. Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the statement of profit and loss with the contracted price
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Revenue as per Contract
 24,170 
 24,661 
Adjustments:
Reduction towards variable consideration components#1
 (34)
 (47)
Revenue from contracts with customers
 24,136 
 24,614 
#1. Comprises of volume discounts, service level credit etc.	
18. Other income
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Interest income on financial assets carried at amortised cost:
Deposits with banks and financial institutions
 275 
 12 
Investments in bonds and commercial papers
 124 
 158 
Interest on loan to subsidiaries (Note 24)
 124 
 130 
 523 
 300 
Dividend income
Dividend from subsidiaries (Note 24)
 - 
 223 
 - 
 223 
Other non-operating income 
Gain on termination of leases
 8 
 24 
Miscellaneous income
 77 
 66 
 85 
 90 
Other gains and (losses)
Gain /(loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment (net)
 14 
 (2)
Foreign exchange gain (net)
 115 
 101 
Gain / (loss) on fair valuation of financial assets
 41 
 (2)
Exchange loss on foreign currency forward contracts (net)
 (16)
 (8)
Profit on sale of mutual funds
 43 
 49 
 197 
 138 
Total
 805 
 751 
19. Employee benefits expense
Particulars 
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Salaries and wages
 12,068 
 11,903 
Contribution to provident and other funds#1
 898 
 847 
Social security and other benefits to overseas employees#2
 4 
 4 
Employee stock option expense (Note 11A)
 204 
 118 
Staff welfare expenses
 607 
 389 
Total 
 13,781 
 13,261 
268  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes:	
	
	
#1.	Contribution to provident fund and other funds	
	
	
Provident fund:	
	
	
The Company makes provident fund contributions which are defined contribution plans for qualifying employees. Under 
the scheme, the Company is required to contribute a specified percentage of the payroll costs to fund the benefits. These 
contributions are made to the Fund administered and managed by the Government of India. The Company’s monthly 
contributions are charged to the statement of profit and loss in the year they are incurred. Total expense recognised during 
the year aggregated ₹ 599 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 587).	 	
	
Gratuity (funded):	
	
	
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss in respect of gratuity: ₹ 229 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 197). [refer note 12 (i)].
National Pension Scheme:	
	
	
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss in respect of national pension scheme ₹ 35 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 26).	
Superannuation fund - India:	
	
	
The employees receive benefit under a Superannuation scheme which is a defined contribution scheme wherein the 
employee has an option to choose the percentage of contribution between 5% to 15% of the basic salary of the covered 
employee. These contributions are made to a fund administrated by Life Insurance Corporation of India. The Company’s 
monthly contributions are charged to the statement of profit and loss in the year they are incurred. Total expense recognised 
during the year aggregated ₹ 27 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 24).	
	
	
Employees’ State Insurance Scheme:	
	
	
Amount recognised in the statement of profit and loss in respect of Company’s contribution to employees’ state insurance 
scheme ₹ 8 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 13).	
	
	
#2.	Superannuation fund - Australia		
	
The employees at the Australia branch of the Company are also covered under a superannuation scheme. The Company 
contributes 9.5% of the basic salary of the employee. The Company’s monthly contributions are charged to the statement 
of profit and loss in the year they are incurred. Total expense recognised during the year aggregated ₹ 4 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 4).
20. Finance cost
Particulars 
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Interest on lease liabilities (refer note 3C)
 97 
 126 
Other interest expense
 73 
 94 
Total
 170 
 220 
21. Depreciation and amortisation expense
Particulars 
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Note 3A)
 314 
 337 
Depreciation on right of use assets (Note 3C)
 454 
 485 
Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 4)
 123 
 126 
Total 
 891 
 948 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  269 
22. Other expenses	
	
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Rent including lease rentals (Note 3C)
 28 
 30 
Rates and taxes
 41 
 27 
Insurance
 25 
 38 
Travelling and conveyance
 342 
 401 
Sub-contracting charges
 1,188 
 592 
Communication
 87 
 82 
Printing and stationery
 4 
 7 
Power and fuel
 161 
 172 
Marketing and advertising expenses
 37 
 35 
Repairs and maintenance
-  Buildings
 7 
 9 
-  Hardware & software maintenance
 1,441 
 1,346 
-  Others
 177 
 171 
Non - executive directors' commission
 23 
 23 
Legal and professional charges
 510 
 685 
Expenditure for corporate social responsibility#1
 72 
 115 
Provision for expected credit loss for trade receivables and contract assets, net
 (82)
 13 
Payment to auditors#2
 60 
 59 
Recruitment expenses
 128 
 168 
Training and development
 30 
 57 
Software charges
 189 
 157 
Miscellaneous expenses#3
 188 
 199 
Total 
 4,656 
 4,386 
	
	
Notes:	
	
#1. 	Expenditure for Corporate Social Responsibility:	 	
	
The Company contributes towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities through Cyient Foundation and Cyient 
Urban Micro Skill Centre Foundation (refer note 24).  The Company has formed CSR committee as per Section 135 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 to formulate and recommend to the Board, a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy which shall indicate 
the activities to be undertaken by the company as speciﬁed by law. The areas for CSR activities are promoting education, 
adoption of schools, facilitating skill development, medical and other social projects. Expenses incurred on CSR activities 
through Cyient Foundation and contributions towards other charitable institutions are charged to the statement of profit 
and loss under ‘Other Expenses’: ₹ 72 (March 31, 2024 - ₹ 115).	
	
	
270  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
(a)  Gross amount required to be spent by the Company
102 
 85 
(b) Actual amount spent
 i)  Construction / acquisition of any asset
-
-
 ii) On purposes other than (1) above (in cash)
72 
115
(c)  Shortfall at end of the year
-
-
Total Shortfall
-
-
Note:
During the previous year the Company had spent an excess amount of  ₹ 30 over and above the requirement, which has been set 
off against the obligation for the current year, in accordance with Rule 7(3) of the Companies(CSR Policy) Rules, 2014.
Nature of CSR activities:
Quality of Education, IT / Digital Literacy, Skill Development and Employment, Women Empowerment and Sustainable Livelihood, 
Community Development and Environmental Protection, Preventive Healthcare and Innovation and Entrepreneurship.
#2. 	Payment to Auditors:
Particulars
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
(a) Audit and limited review fees
 57 
 56 
(b) Certification fees
 2 
 2 
(c) Reimbursement of expenses
 1 
 1 
Total
 60 
 59 
#3.	 Includes political contributions amounting to ₹ 30 to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Telugu Desam Party 
(March 31, 2024: ₹ 100 to BJP).
23. Contingent liabilities and commitments
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(A) Contingent liabilities:
(a) Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debt (refer note (i) to 
(v) below)
 779 
 759 
Total
 779 
 759 
Notes:	
	
(i)	 The Company disputed various demands raised by the service tax authorities for the financial years 2006-07 to 2009-10, 
2013-14 to 2017-18 (till June 2017) (March 31, 2024: 2006-07 to 2009-10, 2013-14 to 2017-18 (till June 2017)). The Company 
filed appeals, which are pending with the appropriate authorities. The aggregate amount of disputed tax not provided for is 
₹ 548 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 548). The Company is confident that these appeals will be decided in its favour. The above does not 
include show cause notices received by the Company.
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  271 
(ii)	 The Company is contesting certain pending service tax refunds amounting to ₹ 29 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 29) at various appellate 
authorities. The Company is confident that these appeals will be decided in its favour.	
(iii)	The Company disputed demands raised by the GST authority for the financial years 2017-18 to 2022-23 (March 31, 2024: 
2017-18 to 2020-21)  The company is yet to file an appeal with the appropriate authorities. The aggregate amount of disputed 
tax not provided is ₹ 107 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 87). The Company is confident that these appeals will be decided in its favour. The 
above does not include show-cause notices received by the Company.
(iv)	During the financial year 2015-16, the Government of India notified an amendment to the Payment of Bonus Act, 1961 
whereby the applicable slabs as well as coverage limit was enhanced. The said amendment was made effective April 1, 2014. 
The Company is contesting the retrospective applicability of the amendment for the financial year 2014-15 in the High Court 
of Judicature at Hyderabad for the states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The aggregate amount of liability pertaining to 
the financial year 2014-15, not provided for is ₹ 92 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 92).
(v)	 The Company has disputed various demands raised by income tax authorities for the assessment year 2017-18 (March 31, 
2024: 2013-14, 2017-18) which are pending at various stages of appeals. The aggregate amount of disputed tax not provided 
for is ₹ 3 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 3). The Group is confident that these appeals will be decided in its favour.
(B) Commitments: 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for 
(net of capital advances)
 86 
 77 
(C) The Company has certain outstanding commitments as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024. Further, the Company has 
certain commitments to bankers relating to receivable factoring arrangements entered with them in respect of receivables from 
few customers. These factoring arrangements are without recourse to the Company and in the normal course of business. The 
Company is confident of meeting these commitments arising from such arrangements.
24. Related Party Transactions
(A) List of related Parties
Sl. 
No.
Name of the  
Company
Parent  
Company
Country of 
Incorporation
Percentage of Direct/ 
Indirect ownership interest 
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Subsidiaries
1
Cyient Europe Limited 
Cyient Limited
UK
100%
100%
2
Cyient Benelux BV 
Cyient Europe Limited 
Netherlands
100%
100%
3
Cyient Schweiz GmbH 
Cyient Europe Limited 
Switzerland
100%
100%
4
Cyient SRO 
Cyient Europe Limited 
Czech 
Republic
100%
100%
5
Cyient Semiconductors NV 
(formerly Cyient NV w.e.f 
February 03, 2025)
Cyient Europe Limited 
Belgium
100%
100%
6
Cyient Inc.
Cyient Limited
USA
100%
100%
7
Cyient Canada Inc.
Cyient Inc.
Canada
100%
100%
8
Cyient Defense Services Inc. 
Cyient Inc.
USA
100%
100%
9
Cyient GmbH 
Cyient Limited
Germany
100%
100%
272  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sl. 
No.
Name of the  
Company
Parent  
Company
Country of 
Incorporation
Percentage of Direct/ 
Indirect ownership interest 
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
10
Cyient AB
Cyient GmbH 
Sweden
100%
100%
11
Cyient KK #1
Cyient Limited
Japan
100%
100%
12
Cyient Insights Private Limited 
Cyient Limited
India
100%
100%
13
Cyient DLM Limited (Refer note 
29)
Cyient Limited
India
52.17%
66.67%
14
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
Cyient Limited
Australia
100%
100%
15
Integrated Global Partners Pty 
Limited
Cyient Australia Pty 
Limited
Australia
100%
100%
16
Integrated Global Partners Pte. 
Limited
Integrated Global Partners 
Pty Limited
Singapore
100%
100%
17
Integrated Global Partners SpA
Integrated Global Partners 
Pty Limited
Chile
100%
100%
18
IG Partners South Africa Pty Ltd
Integrated Global Partners 
Pty Limited
South Africa
100%
100%
19
Workforce Delta Pty Limited
Cyient Australia Pty 
Limited
Australia
100%
100%
20
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
Cyient Limited
Singapore
100%
100%
21
Cyient Israel India Limited #3
Cyient Limited
Israel
100%
100%
22
Cyient Solutions and Systems 
Private Limited 
Cyient Limited
India
51%
51%
23
Grit Consulting Pte Ltd
Cyient Singapore Private 
Limited
Singapore
100%
100%
24
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Cyient Europe Limited
Portugal
100%
100%
25
Metemesonip, Unipessoal Lda
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Portugal
100%
100%
26
Celfinet UK Telecommunications 
Consulting Services Ltd
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
UK
100%
100%
27
Celfinet España - Consultoria en 
Telecomunicaciones, SL
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Spain
100%
100%
28
Celfinet (Brasil) - Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, Ltda.
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Brazil
100%
100%
29
Celfinet Mozambique 
– Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, Limitada
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Mozambique
100%
100%
30
Celfinet Mexico - Consultoria de 
Telecomunicaciones AS
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Mexico
100%
100%
31
Celfinet Germany - 
Telecommunications Consulting 
Services GmbH
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Germany
100%
100%
32
Sentiec Oyj
Cyient Europe Limited
Finland
100%
100%
33
Citec Group Oy Ab
Sentiec Oyj
Finland
100%
100%
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  273 
Sl. 
No.
Name of the  
Company
Parent  
Company
Country of 
Incorporation
Percentage of Direct/ 
Indirect ownership interest 
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
34
Cyient Oy Ab
Citec Group Oy Ab
Finland
100%
100%
35
Citec Engineering France Sarl
Cyient Oy Ab
France
100%
100%
36
Cyient Engineering AB
Cyient Oy Ab
Sweden
100%
100%
37
Cyient Engineering & Information 
GmbH
Citec Group Oy Ab
Germany
100%
100%
38
Cyient Group France SAS
Citec Group Oy Ab
France
100%
100%
39
Akilea Overseas Ltd
Cyient Group France SAS
UK
100%
100%
40
Cyient Norway AS
Citec Group Oy Ab
Norway
100%
100%
41
Citec Engineering India Private 
Limited #4
Cyient Insights Private 
Limited 
India
0%
100%
42
Cyient Global Captive Solutions 
Private Limited #6
Cyient Limited
India
100%
100%
43
Cyient DLM Inc., #2
Cyient DLM Limited
USA
100%
100%
44
Altek Electronics LLC #13
Cyient DLM Inc.
USA
100%
-
45
Cyient Semiconductors Private 
Limited #7
Cyient Limited
India
100%
-
46
Cyient Semiconductors Inc., #8
Cyient Semiconductors 
Private Limited
USA
100%
-
47
Cyient Semiconductors Europe 
Private Limited #9
Cyient Semiconductors 
Private Limited
UK
100%
-
48
Cyient Project Management 
Consultancy - L.L.C - S.P.C#10
Cyient Limited
UAE
100%
-
49
Abu Dhabi & Gulf Computers 
Establishment #12
Cyient Project 
Management Consultancy 
- L.L.C
UAE
100%
-
50
Joint venture 
Infotech HAL Limited (Under 
liquidation)
-
India
50%
50%
51
Associate 
Azimuth AI Inc., #11
Cyient Semiconductors 
Inc.,
USA
27.62%
-
52
Section 8 Company 
Cyient Urban Micro Skill Centre 
Foundation #5
-
India
-
-
	
	
Notes:	
	
#1. 	 	Cyient Australia Pty Limited holds 86% of shareholding in Cyient KK and Cyient Limited holds the remaining 14% 
shareholding.	
	
	
	
	
#2. 	 	On March 05, 2024, Cyient DLM Limited incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in United States of America namely Cyient 
DLM Inc,		
	
	
	
#3. 	 	The Board of Directors of the Parent at their meeting held on October 14, 2021 have approved the closure of its wholly 
owned subsidiary, Cyient Israel India Limited (‘CIIL’) in line with its strategy of simplification of legal entity structure. CIIL 
did not have any operations and the financial results of CIIL are not material to the Group. This has no impact on business 
as the same is serviced by the existing legal entities. 	
274  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
#4. 	 	Cyient Limited had acquired 100% of equity shares of Citec Engineering India Private Limited (‘Citec India’) on September 
1, 2022.  Thereafter, on October 19, 2023, Cyient Limited had transferred 100% of shareholding to Cyient Insights private 
Limited (‘Insights’) as part of strategic business consolidation. Thus, Citec India has become a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Insights. Further, on November 01, 2023 Citec India has been merged with Insights vide order dated July 07, 2024.	
#5. 	 	On October 10, 2018, the Company incorporated Cyient Urban Micro Skill Centre Foundation (‘Cyient Urban’), a wholly 
owned Section 8 Company under the Companies Act, 2013, to further the CSR activities of the Company. The objective 
is not to obtain economic benefits through the activities of Cyient Urban and accordingly it has been excluded for the 
purpose of preparation of financial statements.	
	
	
	
	
#6. 	 	On February 27, 2024, Cyient Limited incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in India namely Cyient Global Captive 
Solutions Private Limited.	
	
	
#7. 	 	On August 23, 2024, Cyient Limited incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in India namely Cyient Semiconductors Private 
Limited.	 	
	
	
#8. 	 	On October 16, 2024, Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in United States of 
America namely Cyient Semiconductors Inc.,	
	
	
	
	
#9. 	 	On January 15, 2025, Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in United Kingdom 
namely Cyient Semiconductors Europe Private Limited.	
	
	
	
	
#10. 	On September 23, 2024, Cyient Limited incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in India namely Cyient Project Management 
Consultancy - L.L.C - S.P.C.
#11. 	On November 29, 2024, Cyient Semiconductors Inc., acquired 27.62% stake in Azimuth AI Inc., and became its 
Associate.	
#12. 	 On November 15, 2024, Cyient Project Management LLC (CPM LLC) entered into  Share Purchase Agreement(‘SPA’) with 
Abu Dhabi & Gulf Computers Establishment (ADGCE) and acquired 100% stake. Consequent to this acquisition, ADGCE 
became a subsidiary of CPM LLC with effect from December 24, 2024.
#13. 	On October 04, 2024, Cyient DLM Inc., acquired 100% stake in Altek Electronics Inc., USA (‘Altek’) and became its wholly 
owned subsidiary.
Other related party:
Entity
Country of 
incorporation
Nature of relationship
Cyient Foundation
India
Entity with common KMP
Infotech ESOP Trust
India
Entity with common KMP
Cyient Associate stock option scheme 2021 Trust
India
Entity with common KMP
	
	
	
	
	
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP):
Name
Designation
M.M. Murugappan
Non-Executive Chairman
B.V.R Mohan Reddy 
Founder Chairman; Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice Chairman and Managing Director (from April 3, 2023); 
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (till April 2, 2023)
Prabhakar Atla
President and Chief Financial Officer ( w.e.f April 20, 2023)
Sukamal Banerjee
Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (w.e.f February 19, 2025)
Debjani Gosh
Independent Director (w.e.f January 23, 2025)
Nitin Prasad
Independent Director
Vikas Sehgal
Independent Director
Vivek Gour 
Independent Director
Matangi Gowrishankar 
Independent Director
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  275 
Name
Designation
Sudheendhra Putty
Company Secretary
Retired KMP's:
Karthikeyan Natarajan 
Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (retired w.e.f January 23, 2025);
Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (from April 3, 2023); 
Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer (till April 2, 2023)
Ajay Aggarwal
Chief Financial Officer (retired w.e.f. April 20, 2023)
Ramesh Abhishek
Independent Director (retired w.e.f May 22, 2024)
(B) Summary of the transactions and balances with the above related parties:
(a) Transactions during the year:  
Name of the Party
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Revenue from contracts with customers:
Cyient Inc.
 6,758 
 5,255 
Cyient Europe Limited
 1,146 
 1,546 
Cyient Benelux BV
 373 
 505 
Integrated Global Partners Pty Limited#
 (246)
 (368)
Cyient Schweiz GmbH
 482 
 480 
Cyient S.R.O.#
 (2)
 17 
Cyient GmbH
 527 
 669 
Cyient AB
 13 
 21 
Citec Engineering India Private Limited
 - 
 6 
Cyient Oy Ab
 26 
 27 
Cyient Engineering AB
 - 
 1 
Cyient Norway AS
 1 
 6 
Cyient Canada Inc.
 396 
 634 
Cyient KK
 750 
 825 
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
 326 
 1,330 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited#
 (64)
 (2)
Cyient DLM Limited
 62 
 16 
Cyient Semiconductors NV (formerly Cyient NV)
 72 
 382 
WorkForce Delta Pty. Ltd
 79 
 49 
Cyient Insights Private Limited
 91 
-
Celfinet UK Telecommunications Consulting Services Ltd
 1 
 - 
Cyient Semiconductors Inc.
 198 
 - 
 10,989 
 11,399 
276  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Name of the Party
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Sub-contracting charges:
Cyient Inc.
 408 
 252 
Integrated Global Partners Pty Limited
 9 
 - 
Cyient Europe Ltd
 (1)
 12 
Cyient GmbH
 72 
 17 
Cyient Canada Inc.
 24 
 10 
Cyient Insights Private Limited
 106 
 11 
Citec Engineering India Private Limited
 - 
 53 
Cyient Benelux BV
 (12)
 - 
Cyient N.V
 - 
 6 
Cyient Oy Ab
 1 
 4 
Cyient S.R.O.
 (2)
 - 
Cyient DLM Limited
 5 
 4 
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
 51 
 - 
Grit Consulting Pte Ltd
 19 
 - 
Cyient KK
 13 
 - 
Cyient Norway AS
 30 
 - 
 723 
 369 
# Net of revenue and subcontract provision reversal during the year.
Reimbursement of expenses (to)/from (net):
Cyient Inc.
 80 
 (11)
Cyient Europe Limited
 93 
 24 
Cyient Benelux BV
 8 
 15 
Cyient S.R.O.
 3 
 (1)
Cyient GmbH
 16 
 21 
Cyient Canada Inc.
 33 
 14 
Cyient KK
 11 
 (2)
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
 (17)
 (5)
Cyient Insights Private Limited
 147 
 4 
Cyient DLM Limited
 29 
 14 
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
 (81)
 (65)
Cyient Engineering & Information GmbH
 - 
 1 
Cyient Defence Services Inc
 2 
 4 
Cyient Semiconductors NV (formerly Cyient NV)
 4 
 6 
Cyient Solutions and Systems Private Limited
 1 
 - 
Grit Consulting Pte Ltd
 21 
 4 
Cyient Norway AS
 8 
 (10)
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  277 
Name of the Party
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Sentiec Oyj
 18 
 7 
Citec Engineering India Private Limited
 - 
 31 
Cyient AB
 - 
 1 
Celfinet S.A.
 (19)
 8 
Celfinet UK Telecommunications Consulting Services Ltd
 1 
 2 
Cyient Oy Ab
 16 
 33 
Cyient Engineering AB
 4 
 6 
Integrated Global Partners Pty Limited
 - 
 (3)
WorkForce Delta Pty. Ltd
 1 
 1 
Cyient Schweiz GmbH
 1 
 2 
 380 
 101 
Financial guarantees given to subsidiary’s bankers:
Cyient Europe Limited
 - 
 1,052 
Sentiec Oyj
 - 
 766 
Cyient Inc.
 - 
 708 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
 632 
 - 
 632 
 2,526 
Financial guarantees given to subsidiary’s bankers liquidated:
Cyient Europe Limited
 1,496 
 315 
Cyient GmbH
 - 
 412 
Cyient Inc.
 - 
 1,190 
 1,496 
 1,917 
Other income on Financial guarantees given to subsidiary’s bankers:
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
 3 
 3 
Cyient Europe Limited
 53 
 51 
Cyient GmbH
 - 
 2 
Cyient Inc.
 4 
 4 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
 9 
 6 
Sentiec Oyj
 5 
 - 
 74 
 66 
Loans given:
Cyient DLM Limited
 - 
 210 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
 170 
 - 
Cyient Europe Limited
 1,924 
 - 
278  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Name of the Party
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
 2,094 
 210 
Loans recovered:
Cyient DLM Limited
 589 
 410 
Cyient Insights Private Limited
 - 
 200 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
 41 
 - 
Cyient Europe Limited
 476 
 - 
 1,106 
 610 
Advances given:
Cyient Insights Private Limited
 - 
 46 
 - 
 46 
Interest on loans given:
Cyient Insights Private Limited
 - 
 7 
Cyient DLM Limited
 75 
 123 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
 3 
 - 
Cyient Europe Limited
 47 
 - 
 124 
 130 
Dividend from subsidiaries:
Cyient KK
 - 
 23 
Citec Engineering India Private Limited
 - 
 200 
 - 
 223 
Investments in Compulsorily convertible debentures of subsidiary:
Cyient Insights Private Limited
 - 
 1,124 
 - 
 1,124 
Sale of investment in Subsidiary:
Cyient Insights Private Limited
 - 
 905 
 - 
 905 
Investments in subsidiaries:
Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited
 1,500 
 - 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
 468 
 - 
 1,968 
 - 
CSR expenditure
Cyient Foundation
 72 
 115 
72
115
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  279 
Compensation to Key Managerial Personnel is as follows:
Nature of the transaction
For the year ended
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Short-term benefits 
Executive Vice Chairman & Managing Director and Executive officers#1&2
420 
478 
Dividend paid during the year 
Non-Executive and Non-independent/ Independent Director, Executive Vice 
Chairman, Managing Director and Executive officers
98 
92 
Commission and other benefits 
Non-executive and Non-independent/ Independent directors
23 
23 
	
	 	
	
#1 Executive officers include Prabhakar Atla, Krishna Bodanapu, Ajay Aggarwal, Karthikeyan Natarajan, Sukamal Benarjee and 
Sudheendhra Putty.
#2 The above figures do not include provisions for compensated absences, gratuity and premium paid for group health insurance, 
as separate actuarial valuation / premium paid are not available.
	
	 	
(b) Balances at the year-end:
Name of the Party
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Trade receivables:
Cyient Inc.
 1,389 
 868 
Cyient Europe Limited
 2,259 
 1,506 
Cyient Benelux BV
 229 
 82 
Cyient Schweiz GmbH
 207 
 63 
Cyient GmbH
 107 
 124 
Cyient Canada Inc.
 488 
 757 
Cyient KK
 154 
 117 
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
 1,599 
 2,099 
Cyient Insights Private Limited
 81 
 31 
Cyient DLM Limited
 62 
 395 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
 17 
 91 
Cyient Israel Limited
 11 
 11 
Cyient Defense Services Inc.
 13 
 11 
Cyient Solutions and Systems Private Limited
 15 
 14 
WorkForce Delta Pty. Ltd
 -   
 133 
Citec Engineering India Private Limited
 -   
 19 
Cyient S.R.O.
 164 
 161 
Cyient Semiconductors NV (formerly Cyient NV)*
 414 
 363 
Celfinet S.A.
 16 
 8 
Cyient Oy Ab
 7 
 16 
Cyient Engineering AB
 -   
 1 
280  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Name of the Party
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Celfinet UK Telecommunications Consulting Services Ltd
 4 
 2 
GRIT Consulting Pte.Ltd
 6 
 4 
Cyient Semiconductors Inc
 198 
 -   
Cyient Norway AS
 5 
 -   
Sentiec Oyj
 1 
 -   
 7,446 
 6,876 
Contract assets:
Cyient Inc.
 312 
 339 
Cyient Canada Inc.
 59 
 191 
Cyient Europe Limited
 64 
 91 
Cyient Benelux BV
 25 
 24 
Cyient GmbH
 204 
 147 
Cyient Schweiz GmbH
 16 
 31 
Cyient AB
 1 
 1 
Cyient KK
 1 
 38 
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
 59 
 53 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
 6 
 5 
Cyient Oy Ab
 -   
 27 
Cyient Engineering AB
 -   
 1 
Citec Engineering India Private Limited
 -   
 6 
Cyient Semiconductors NV (formerly Cyient NV)
 28 
 6 
WorkForce Delta Pty. Ltd
 2 
-
Cyient Insights Private Limited
 38 
 10 
 815 
 970 
Advance from Subsidiaries:
Cyient Semiconductors NV (formerly Cyient NV)
 47 
 -   
Cyient Schweiz GmbH
 33 
 -   
Cyient Insights Private Limited
 7 
 -   
 87 
 -   
Trade payables:
Cyient Inc.
 91 
 805 
Cyient Benelux BV
 7 
 52 
Cyient AB
 35 
 34 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
 2 
 62 
Cyient S.R.O.
 10 
 13 
Cyient GmbH
 84 
 77 
Cyient KK
 48 
 36 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  281 
Name of the Party
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Integrated Global Partners Pty Limited
 35 
 387 
Cyient Insights Private Limited
 76 
 20 
Cyient Defense Services Inc.
 -   
 5 
Cyient DLM Limited
 -   
 35 
Citec Engineering India Pvt Ltd
 -   
 6 
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
 16 
 318 
Sentiec Oyj
 -   
 8 
Cyient Engineering & Information GmbH
 -   
 2 
Cyient Semiconductors NV (formerly Cyient NV)
 -   
 17 
Citec Engineering India Private Limited
 -   
 54 
WorkForce Delta Pty. Ltd
 12 
 -   
Celfinet – Consultoria em Telecomunicações, S.A.
 30 
 -   
Cyient Canada, Inc.
 13 
 -   
Cyient Oy Ab
 2 
 -   
 461 
 1,931 
Other receivables:
Cyient Inc.
 14 
 -   
Cyient Canada Inc.
 3 
 3 
Cyient Semiconductors NV (formerly Cyient NV)
 8 
 8 
Cyient DLM Limited
 7 
 12 
Cyient Defense Services Inc.
 3 
 2 
Cyient KK
 -   
 1 
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
 -   
 16 
Integrated Global Partners Pty Limited
 -   
 8 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
 4 
 4 
WorkForce Delta Pty. Ltd
 2 
 2 
Cyient Norway AS
 9 
 10  
Cyient Oy Ab
 - 
24   
Cyient Engineering AB
 4 
8
Citec Engineering India Private Limited
-
4
Cyient Europe Ltd
17
18
Cyient Benelux BV
 -   
 2 
Cyient GmbH
 1 
 7 
Celfinet – Consultoria em Telecomunicações, S.A.
 3 
 -   
Sentiec Oyj
 1 
 -   
Cyient Insights Private Limited
 3 
 -   
 79 
 129 
282  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Name of the Party
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Unearned revenue:
Cyient Inc.
 72 
 71 
Cyient Schweiz GmbH
 -   
 3 
Cyient Europe Limited
 7 
 2 
Cyient Benelux BV
 2 
 -   
Cyient GmbH
 20 
 97 
Cyient Canada Inc.
 3 
 3 
WorkForce Delta Pty. Ltd
 -   
 1 
Cyient Semiconductors NV (formerly Cyient NV)
 5 
 -   
 109 
 177 
Financial guarantees given to subsidiary’s bankers #2:
Cyient Inc.
 727 
 708 
Cyient Europe Limited
 9,007 
 10,170 
Cyient S.R.O
 93 
 89 
Cyient DLM Limited
 4,470 
 4,470 
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
 645 
 653 
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
 1,835 
 1,167 
Sentiec Oyj
 788 
 766 
 17,565 
 18,023 
Advances to suppliers and service providers:
Cyient KK
 6 
 6 
Cyient Insight Private Limited
 40 
 61 
 46 
 67 
Loans outstanding:
Cyient DLM Limited
 747 
 1,336 
Cyient Solutions and Systems Private Limited#1
 311 
 311 
Cyient Europe Limited
 1,430 
 -   
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
 124 
 -   
 2,612 
 1,647 
Interest on loans outstanding:
Cyient DLM Limited
 -   
 338 
Cyient Europe Limited
 3 
 -   
 3 
 338 
Short-term benefits payable:
Executive Vice Chairman & Managing Director and Executive officers
 258 
 249 
Commission and other benefits payable:
Non-executive and Non-independent/independent directors
 23 
 23 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  283 
Notes:	
	
	
	
#1.	 	During the year 2020-21, the Company has impaired the carrying value of its investment in joint venture company, which is 
currently under liquidation.
#2.	 Foreign exchange restatements have not been disclosed as transactions during the year.
#3.	 The Company’s related party transactions during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 and outstanding 
balances as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 are with its subsidiaries with whom the Company generally enters into 
transactions which are at arms length and in the ordinary course of business.
25. Earnings per share (EPS)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Profit after tax attributable to the equity holders of the Company for basic & 
diluted EPS
  11,246 
  4,973 
Basic EPS:
Number of shares outstanding at the year end
111,038,924
110,889,812 
Less: treasury shares
886,670 
977,386 
Number of shares for earnings per share
110,152,254 
109,912,426 
Weighted average number of equity shares 
110,042,228 
109,705,624 
Earnings per share (₹)
102.20
45.33
Diluted EPS:
Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding  
110,042,228 
110,653,781
Effect of potential equity shares on ASOPs and ARSUs outstanding
880,603
948,157
Weighted average number of equity shares adjusted for effect of dilution 
110,922,831 
111,601,938 
Earnings per share (₹)
101.39
44.94
	
	
26. During the year, in view of improved presentation, the Company has reassessed presentation of following:
(i)	 Accrued salaries and wages to employees have been reclassified under “Other financial liabilities” which were hitherto 
included in trade payables amounting to ₹ 728 as at March 31, 2025 (₹ 683 as at March 31, 2024).
(ii)	 Unbilled revenue has been classified as “Contract Assets” as a separate line on the face of Balance sheet  which was hitherto 
included in other current financial assets amounting to ₹ 1,610 as at March 31, 2025 (₹ 1,933 as at March 31, 2024).
	
The above changes do not impact recognition and measurement of items in the financial statements and consequentially, 
there is no impact on total equity and/ or profit (loss) for the current or any of the earlier periods. Considering the nature of 
changes, the management believes that they do not have any material impact on the balance sheet at the beginning of the 
comparative period and, therefore, this does not require presentation of a third balance sheet.	
	
	
	
	
27. Financial Instruments
27.1 Capital management
For the purpose of the Company’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital, securities premium and all other 
equity reserves. The primary objective of the Company’s capital management is to maintain a strong capital base to ensure 
sustained growth in business and to maximize the shareholders value. The capital management focuses to maintain an optimal 
structure that balances growth and maximizes shareholder value.		
	
	
The Company manages its capital to ensure that it maximises the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the capital 
structure. The Company monitors the return on capital as well as the level of dividends on its equity shares. The Company is 
predominantly equity financed which is evident from the capital structure. Further the Company has always been positive on its 
net cash position with cash and bank balances along with other treasury investments.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended March 31, 2025.
284  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27.2 Fair Value Measurement
a) The Carrying Value of Financial Assets by Categories is as follows:	
	
	
 Particulars 
Carrying value as at
March 31, 2025
Carrying value as at
March 31, 2024
Measured at amortised cost
Loans
 2,301 
 1,336 
Trade receivables
 9,848 
 9,398 
Cash and cash equivalents
 6,526 
 1,881 
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
 2 
 2 
Other financial assets 
 423 
 727 
Investment in
(i)	 Tax free bonds (quoted)#
 1,569 
 1,614 
(ii)	 Perpetual bonds (quoted)#
 483 
 573 
(iii)	Commercial papers (quoted)#
 - 
 245 
(iv)	Compulsorily convertible debentures of subsidiary (unquoted)
 - 
Total financial assets measured at amortised cost
 21,152 
 15,776 
Measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
Investments in other equity instruments (unquoted)
 160 
 37 
Derivative instruments designated in a hedging relationship
 52 
 21 
Total financial assets measured at FVTOCI
 212 
 58 
Measured at fair value through statement of profit and loss (FVTPL)
Investments in mutual funds
 1,120 
 321 
Investment in Compulsorily convertible preference shares (CCPS) (unquoted)
 - 
 10 
Total financial assets measured at FVTPL
 1,120 
 331 
Total financial assets 
 22,484 
 16,165 
# Fair value of the investments in tax free and perpetual bonds is ₹ 2,047 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 2,050) and Commercial paper is ₹ Nil 
(March 31, 2024: ₹ 249).
b) The Carrying Value of Financial Liabilities by Categories is as follows:	 	
	
 Particulars 
Carrying value as at
March 31, 2025
Carrying value as at
March 31, 2024
Measured at amortised cost
Trade payables
 1,142 
 2,769 
Other financial liabilities (refer note 26)
 788 
 811 
Lease liabilities
 921 
 1,322 
Total financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
 2,851 
 4,902 
Measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
Derivative instruments designated in a hedging relationship
 55 
 4 
Total financial liabilities measured at FVOCI
 55 
 4 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  285 
 Particulars 
Carrying value as at
March 31, 2025
Carrying value as at
March 31, 2024
Measured at fair value through statement of profit and loss (FVTPL)
Financial guarantees (refer note 27.4B)
 - 
 - 
Total financial liabilities measured at FVTPL
 - 
 - 
Total financial liabilities 
 2,906 
 4,906 
	
	
	
	
	
	
The management assessed that fair value of cash & cash equivalents and Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents, 
trade receivables, other financial assets, loans, trade payables, lease liabilities and other financial liabilities approximate their 
carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments, and hence these are carried at amortised cost.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a 
current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Investment in unquoted equity shares are measured at fair value through initial designation in accordance with Ind-AS 109.
Investments in mutual funds and derivative assets/ (liabilities) are mandatorily measured at fair value.	 	
	
27.3 Fair value hierarchy	
	
	
	
	
	
Valuation technique and key inputs	 	
	
	
	
	
Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in an active markets for identical assets or liabilities.	
Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. 
as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). 	
	
	
	
	
Level 3 - Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).	 	
	
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial instruments as at March 31, 2025:
 Particulars 
Date of 
valuation
As at  
March 31, 2025
Fair value measurement using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Financial Assets:
Measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI)
Investment in unquoted equity 
shares #1
March 31, 2025
 160 
 - 
 - 
 160 
Derivative instruments designated 
in a hedging relationship#2
March 31, 2025
 52 
 - 
 52 
 - 
Measured at fair value through 
statement of profit and loss 
(FVTPL)
Investment in mutual funds
March 31, 2025
 1,120 
 1,120 
 - 
 - 
Total financial asset measured at 
fair value
 1,332 
 1,120 
 52 
 160 
Measured at amortised cost
Investment in tax free and 
perpetual bonds (quoted)
March 31, 2025
 2,047 
 2,047
 - 
 - 
Total financial asset measured at 
amortised cost
 2,047 
 2,047
 - 
 - 
286  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Particulars 
Date of 
valuation
As at  
March 31, 2025
Fair value measurement using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Financial Liabilities:
Measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI)
Derivative instruments designated 
in a hedging relationship#2
March 31, 2025
 55 
 - 
 55 
 - 
Measured at fair value through 
statement of profit and loss 
(FVTPL)
Financial guarantees (Level 3)
March 31, 2025
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
There have been no transfers among Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the year ended March 31, 2025
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy for financial instruments as at March 31, 2024:
 Particulars 
Date of 
valuation
As at  
March 31, 2024
Fair value measurement using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Financial Assets:
Measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI)
Investment in unquoted equity 
shares#1
March 31, 2024
 37 
 - 
 - 
 37 
Derivative instruments designated 
in a hedging relationship#2
March 31, 2024
 21 
 - 
 21 
 - 
Measured at fair value through 
statement of profit and loss 
(FVTPL)
Investment in unquoted CCPS#1
March 31, 2024
 10 
 - 
 - 
 10 
Investment in mutual funds
March 31, 2024
 321 
 321 
 - 
 - 
Total financial asset measured at 
fair value
 389 
 321 
 21 
 47 
Measured at amortised cost
Investment in tax free and 
perpetual bonds (quoted)
March 31, 2024
 2,050 
 2,050 
 - 
 - 
Investment in commercial paper 
(quoted)
March 31, 2024
 249 
 249 
 - 
 - 
Total financial asset measured at 
amortised cost
 2,299 
 2,299 
 - 
 - 
Financial Liabilities:
Measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI)
Derivative instruments designated 
in a hedging relationship#2
March 31, 2024
 4 
 - 
 4 
 - 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  287 
 Particulars 
Date of 
valuation
As at  
March 31, 2024
Fair value measurement using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Measured at fair value through 
statement of profit and loss 
(FVTPL)
Financial guarantees (Level 3)
March 31, 2024
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
There have been no transfers among Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the year ended March 31, 2024	 	
	
	
	
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:	
	
	
	
	
#1. The fair values of the unquoted equity shares and CCPS have been estimated using a DCF model. The valuation requires 
management to make certain assumptions about the model inputs, including forecast cash flows, earnings growth, discount 
rate, and probabilities of the various estimates within the range used in management’s estimate of fair value for these 
unquoted equity investments.	
#2. The Company enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with 
investment grade credit ratings. Foreign exchange forward contracts are valued using valuation techniques, which employs 
the use of market observable inputs. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing using present 
value calculations. The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange 
spot and forward rates, yield curves of the respective currencies, etc.  As at March 31, 2025 the marked-to-market value 
of derivative asset positions is net of a credit valuation adjustment attributable to derivative counterparty default risk. 
The changes in counterparty credit risk had insignificant impact on the hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives 
designated in hedge relationships.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (level 3)	 	
	
The following table presents changes in level 3 items for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024:
Investment in equity and preferred instruments (unquoted)	
	
Particulars
Investment in unquoted  
equity shares
Investment in 
unquoted CCPS
Total
As at March 31, 2023
 37 
 10 
 47 
As at March 31, 2024
 37 
 10 
 47 
Gain recognised in the statement of 
profit and loss
 - 
 36 
 36 
Fair value change on financial 
instruments recognised through OCI
 77 
 - 
 77 
Conversion of CCPS to equity shares
 46 
 (46)
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 160 
 - 
 160 
Note: Refer note 24 for movements in financial guarantees to subsidiary’s bankers.
Valuation inputs and relationships to fair value:	
	
	
	
	
	
The following table summarises the quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used in level 3 fair value 
measurements.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
288  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Particulars
Fair value as 
at March 31, 
2025 
Fair value as 
at March 31, 
2024
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
Valuation process
 Sensitivity of the 
inputs to fair value
Investment 
in unquoted 
equity 
shares and 
compulsorily 
convertible 
preference 
shares 
(CCPS)
 160 
 47 Earnings 
growth rate
i)	 Earnings 
growth 
factor 
for 
unquoted equity shares and CCPS 
are estimated based on the market 
information of similar type of 
companies and also considering 
the economic environment impact.
a)	Any 
increase 
in the earnings 
growth rate would 
result in a increase 
in fair value.
Discount rate
ii) 	Discount rates are determined 
using 
a 
capital 
asset 
pricing 
model to calculate a pre-tax 
rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of 
money and risk specific to that 
asset. 
b)	Any increase in 
the discount rate 
would result in a 
decrease in the 
fair value.
Financial 
guarantees
 - 
 - Discount 
for counter 
party non-
performing 
risks
The counter party non-performing 
risk is assessed based on the credit 
worthiness 
of 
the 
subsidiaries, 
probability of default and internal risk 
management.
Any 
increase 
/ 
decrease 
in 
key 
inputs 
would 
not 
significantly impact 
the fair valuation of 
financial liability
27.4 Financial risk management	
	
	
	
	
	
Objectives and policies
Financial risk factors	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives,  comprise of lease obligation, trade and other payables. 
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s operations. The Company’s principal financial assets 
include security deposits, investments, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents that is derived directly from its 
operations. The Company also holds FVTOCI investments and enters into derivative transactions for hedging purpose.
The Company is exposed to market risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and other price risks. The Company risk management is carried out 
by the management which helps in identification, measurement, mitigation and reporting all risks associated with the activities 
of the Company. These risks are identified on a continuous basis and assessed for the impact on the financial performance. All 
derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the appropriate skills, experience 
and supervision. It is the Company’s policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes will be undertaken. The Board 
of Directors reviews policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.	 	
	
	
	
	
A. Market Risk		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and equity price risk. Financial instruments 
affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, investments, and derivative financial instruments.
The Company’s primary focus is to foresee the unpredictability of financial markets and seek to minimize potential adverse 
effects on its financial performance. The primary market risk to the Company is foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk. The 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  289 
Company uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate foreign exchange related risk exposures. The Company’s exposure to 
credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristic of each customer and the concentration of risk from the top few 
customers.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
i. Foreign currency risk	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company operates internationally and a major portion of the business is dominated in foreign currency predominantly US 
Dollar, Pound Sterling, Australian Dollar and Euro currencies. Consequently the Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk 
through its services and purchases / import of services from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies. The Company 
holds derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the risk of changes in exchange 
rates on foreign currency exposures. The exchange rate between the rupee and foreign currencies has changed substantially in 
recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. Consequently, the results of the Company’s operations are affected as 
the rupee appreciates/ depreciates against these currencies.
The Company monitors and manages its financial risks by analysing its foreign exchange exposures.
The Company, in accordance with its Board approved risk management policies and procedures, enters into foreign exchange 
forward contracts to manage its exposure in foreign exchange rates.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company has applied the hedge accounting principles set out in Indian Accounting Standard – 109 “Financial Instruments” 
(Ind AS - 109) in respect of such derivative contracts, designated in a hedging relationship, used to hedge its risks associated 
with foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain highly probable forecast transactions. Accordingly, in respect of all such 
outstanding contracts as at March 31, 2025 that were designated as effective hedges of highly probable forecast transactions, 
(loss)/ gain, net of tax aggregating ₹ (2) (net of taxes) (March 31, 2024: ₹ 13 (net of taxes) have been recognised under the cash 
flow hedge reserve.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
a. Derivative financial instruments:	 	
	
	
	
	
Outstanding forward exchange contracts as on March 31, 2025:	 	
	
	
	
	
Currency
No. of contracts
Amount in foreign currency
Amount in ₹
Buy/Sell
Cross currency
AUD
6
5,000,000
278
Sell
INR
CAD
14
11,380,000
713
Sell
INR
EUR
15
12,150,000
1,158
Sell
INR
GBP
9
7,070,000
778
Sell
INR
USD
63
61,800,000
5,334
Sell
INR
Outstanding forward exchange contracts as on March 31, 2024:	 	
	
	
	
Currency
No. of contracts
Amount in foreign currency
Amount in ₹
Buy/Sell
Cross currency
EUR
18
14,400,000
1,329
Sell
INR
GBP
5
4,000,000
428
Sell
INR
USD
59
56,400,000
4,754
Sell
INR
All outstanding forward exchange contracts as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 have maturity period of less than one year. 
Sensitivity analysis:	
	
	
	
	
	
In respect of the Company’s forward exchange contracts, a 5% increase/decrease in the respective exchange rates of each of 
the currencies underlying such contracts would have resulted in:
1. an approximately ₹ (413)/ 413 (decrease)/increase in the Company’s other comprehensive income as at March 31, 2025.
2. an approximately ₹  (326)/ 326 (decrease)/increase in the Company’s other comprehensive income as at March 31, 2024.	
	
290  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Unhedged foreign currency exposure 	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the volatility of the Company’s net 
monetary assets (viz. which includes cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other financial assets, trade payables, other 
financial liabilities), which are denominated in various foreign currencies (USD, Euro, UK pound sterling, Aus $, SGD, CAD, Yen 
etc.)		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Sensitivity analysis:	
	
	
	
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 , every 5% increase / decrease of the respective foreign currencies 
compared to functional currency of the Company would impact profit before tax by ₹ 559 / ( ₹ 559) and  ₹ 668 / ( ₹ 668) respectively.
	
B. Credit risk	 	
	
	
	
	
Credit risk is the risk that counter party will not meet its obligations under a financial instruments or customer contract leading to 
a financial loss. Credit risk arises from cash held with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposure to clients, including 
outstanding accounts receivable. Credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously 
monitoring the creditworthiness of customers to which the Company grants credit terms in the normal course of business. The 
Company establishes an allowance for expected credit losses and impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in 
respect of trade receivables and contract assets.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Financial guarantee contracts	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company is exposed to credit risk concerning financial guarantees provided to the subsidiary’s banks. The Company’s 
exposure is limited to the maximum amount it might need to pay if the guarantee is invoked. The Company charges the subsidiary 
a fee at fair value for these guarantees. As of the balance sheet date Company does not believe there are any counterparty 
non-performing risks (refer note 24).		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Trade and other receivables:	
	
	
	
	
	
The following table gives details in respect of percentage of total receivables and contract assets from top customer and top five 
customers (excluding related parties):
(in %)
Particulars
Year ended
March 31, 2025
Year ended
March 31, 2024
Receivables from top customer 
 9.27 
 15.77 
Receivables from top five customers 
 41.08 
 46.48 
Investments:	 	
	
	
	
	
The Company limits its exposure to credit risk by generally investing in liquid securities and only with counterparties that have 
a good credit rating. The Company does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counter-parties, and does not 
have any significant concentration of exposures to specific industry sectors or specific country risks.	
	
	
	
	
	
C. Liquidity risk	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are cash and bank balances, investments in mutual funds and cash generated from 
operations. The Company believes that working capital is sufficient to meet its current requirements. Accordingly, no liquidity 
risk is perceived.	 	
	
	
	
	
As of March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024,  the Company had unutilized credit limits from banks of ₹ 2,854 and ₹ 2,897, 
respectively.	
	
	
	
	
	
As of March 31, 2025, the Company had working capital of ₹ 19,332 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 11,512)  including cash and bank balances 
of ₹ 6,528  (March 31, 2024: ₹ 1,883).
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  291 
The Company has not defaulted in any financial loan covenants.
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities (excluding lease liabilities) 
as at March 31, 2025:
Particulars
On demand
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2 years and above
Trade payables
 - 
 1,142 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities
 - 
 787 
 1 
 - 
Financial guarantees#
 17,565 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 17,565 
 1,929 
 1 
 - 
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities (excluding lease liabilities) 
as at March 31, 2024: 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
On demand
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2 years and above
Trade payables
 - 
 2,769 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities
 - 
 807 
 4 
 - 
Financial guarantees#
 18,023 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 18,023 
 3,576 
 4 
 - 
Note: The Company’s obligation towards payment of lease liabilities has been included in note 3C.
# Based on the maximum amount than can be called for under the financial guarantee contracts.	
	
	
	
	
	
D. Other price risks	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company is exposed to equity price risks arising from equity investments. Company’s equity investments are held for 
strategic rather than trading purposes.
28. Segment information
Segment information has been presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with Ind AS 108 notified under 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
29. Exceptional item
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Company has recorded a gain of ₹ 7,831 as an exceptional item on account of sale 
of 14.5% stake in Cyient DLM Limited. Pursuant to the sale, the Company’s shareholding in Cyient DLM Limited is currently at 
52.17% of the total issued and paid-up equity share capital. Tax expense for the year ended March 31, 2025 includes an amount 
of ₹ 640 towards capital gains on this transaction.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
292  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30. The details of loans and advances to subsidiaries are given below (refer note 24)
Particulars
Relationship
Nature
Purpose
As at
Maximum amount 
outstanding at any time 
during the year ended
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
Cyient KK 
Subsidiary
Advance to 
Suppliers
 6 
 6 
 6 
 6 
Cyient DLM Limited
Subsidiary
Advance to 
Suppliers
 - 
 - 
 2 
 2 
Cyient Insights 
Private Limited 
Subsidiary
Advance to 
Suppliers
 40 
 61 
 96
61
Cyient DLM Limited
Subsidiary
Loan
To fund Capital 
expenditure
 747 
 1,336 
 1,336 
 1,746 
Cyient Solutions 
and Systems Private 
Limited (refer note 6)
Subsidiary
Loan
To fund Capital 
expenditure
 311 
 311 
311
311
Cyient Singapore 
Private Limited
Subsidiary
Loan
Working 
Capital loan
 124 
 - 
170
 - 
Cyient Europe 
Limited
Subsidiary
Loan
Working 
Capital loan
 1,430 
 - 
 1,924 
 - 
Total
 2,658 
 1,714 
31. Distribution made and proposed	
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Cash dividends on equity shares declared and paid:
Final dividend for the year ended on March 31, 2024 : ₹ 18 per share (March 31, 
2023 : ₹ 16 per share) #2
 1,980 
 1,743 
Interim dividend for the year ended on March 31, 2025 : ₹ 12 per share (March 31, 
2024 : ₹ 12 per share) #2
 1,320
 1,317 
Total #1
 3,300 
 3,060 
Proposed dividends on equity shares:
Final dividend for the year ended on March 31, 2025 : ₹ 14 per share ( March 31, 
2024: ₹ 18 per share)
 1,555 
 1,996 
 1,555 
 1,996 
Notes: 
#1 Includes unclaimed dividend amount of ₹ 3 (net) (March 31, 2024: ₹ 5).
#2 Numbers are net-off dividend on treasury shares.
Proposed final dividend on equity shares for the year ended March 31, 2025 is subject to approval at the annual general meeting 
and is not recognised as a liability as at March 31, 2025. The dividend declared/paid and proposed is in accordance with Section 
123 of the Companies Act, 2013.
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  293 
*Debt represents lease liabilities and sale and lease back liability		
	
	
# Mutual funds, Tax free bonds, perpetual bonds and commercial paper are considered for the purpose of computing return on investments.	
	
	
Explanations have been given where the change in the ratio is more than 25% as compared to the preceding year.	
	
	
	
	
Note1: Variance in the ratios is due to below reasons:	
	
	
	
a)	 During the year end March 31, 2025, the Company recorded a gain of ₹ 7,831 as an exceptional item on account of sale of 14.5% stake in Cyient DLM Ltd which results 
in increase in profit of the Company and corresponding cash & bank balances.
b)	 Decrease in trade payables, due to higher payments made on account of higher cash generation during the year.
32. Ratios
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
% 
Variance
Reason for 
variance
(a)	 Current Ratio (in 
times)
Current Asset
Current Liabilities
 6.98 
 3.37 
107%
Note 1(a)
(b)	 Debt-Equity Ratio (in 
times)
Total Debt*
Shareholder’s Equity
 0.02 
 0.05 
-60%
Note 1(a)
(c)	 Debt Service 
Coverage Ratio (in 
times)
Earnings for debt service = Net profit after 
taxes + Non-cash operating expenses+ 
finance cost
Debt service = Interest & 
Lease Payments + Principal 
Repayments
 23.10 
 10.41 
122%
Note 1(a)
(d)	 Return on Equity Ratio 
(in %)
Net Profits after taxes
Average Shareholder’s Equity
34%
18%
89%
Note 1(a)
(e)	 Trade Receivables 
turnover ratio (in 
times)
Net credit sales = Gross credit sales - sales 
return
Average Trade Receivable
 2.51 
 2.99 
-16%
-
(f)	 Trade payables 
turnover ratio (in 
times)
Other expenses
Average Trade Payable
 2.41 
 1.64 
47%
Note 1(b)
(g)	 Net capital turnover 
ratio (in times)
Net sales = Total sales - sales return
Working capital = Current assets 
– Current liabilities
 1.25 
 2.14 
-42%
Note 1(a)
(h)	 Net profit ratio (in %)
Net profit after taxes
Net sales = Total sales - sales 
return
47%
20%
135%
Note 1(a)
(i)	 Return on Capital 
employed (in %)
Earnings before interest and taxes
Capital Employed = Tangible Net 
Worth + Total debt* 
35%
23%
57%
Note 1(a)
(j)	 Return on 
investment# (in %)
Finance Income
Time weighted average 
Investment
5.66%
6.49%
-13%
-
294  |  Annual Report 2024-25
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
33. Other statutory information	
	
	
	
(i) 	 The Company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Company 
for holding any Benami property.
(ii) 	 The Company does not have any transactions with companies which are struck off.
(iii) 	 The Company does not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.
(iv) 	 The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
(v) 	 The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority.
(vi) 	 Other than disclosed below, the Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly lend 
or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate 
Beneficiaries) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Name of the 
intermediary to 
which the funds 
are advanced 
or loaned or 
invested
Nature of 
transaction
Date on 
which funds 
are advanced 
or loaned or 
invested
Amount 
of funds 
advanced 
or loaned or 
invested
Parties to which these 
funds are ultimately 
advanced or loaned or 
invested
Date on which 
funds are further 
advanced 
or loaned or 
invested
Amount 
of funds 
further 
advanced 
or loaned or 
invested
Cyient 
Semiconductors 
Private Limited
Investment 
in equity 
shares 
October 
28, 2024
 672 
Azimuth AI Inc.
November 29, 
2024#
612
# Funds were first invested by the intermediaries by utilising bridge loan facilities which were repaid using the funds invested in the 
intermediary. Funds amounting to 664 were transferred from Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited to Cyient Semiconductors 
Inc. on December 19, 2024, which were invested in Azimuth AI Inc.
For the year ended March 31, 2024
Name of the 
intermediary to 
which the funds 
are advanced 
or loaned or 
invested
Nature of transaction
Date on 
which 
funds are 
advanced 
or loaned 
or invested
Amount 
of funds 
advanced 
or 
loaned or 
invested
Parties to which 
these funds 
are ultimately 
advanced 
or loaned or 
invested
Date on 
which funds 
are further 
advanced 
or loaned or 
invested
Amount 
of funds 
further 
advanced 
or loaned or 
invested
Cyient Insights 
Private Limited 
Investment in 
compulsorily 
convertible debentures 
October 
19, 2023
905
Cyient Limited
October 20, 
2023
905
The Company has complied with the relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and the 
Companies Act for the above transactions and the transactions are not violative of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 
2002 (15 of 2003).
Complete details of intermediaries	 	
	
	
	
Name
Registered address
Government  
Identification
Relationship with 
the Company
Cyient Insights Private 
Limited 
Tower 2 4B, Plot no. 2, Infotech IT Park, 
Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad, 
Telangana, India 500032.
CIN: 
U72200TG2013PTC087527
Subsidiary
Cyient Semiconductors 
Private Limited
2nd Floor, Cyient Limited, Plot No. 11, 
Infocity, Madhapur, Hyderabad, Shaikpet, 
Telangana, India, 500081
CIN: 
U46521TS2024PTC188699
Subsidiary
Cyient Semiconductors Inc.
131 Continental Dr, Suite 305, Newark, 
Delaware, United States of America
EIN: 33-1622621
Subsidiary
Azimuth AI Inc.
131 Continental Dr, Suite 305, Newark, 
Delaware, United States of America
EIN: 88-1363299
Associate
	
	
	
	
	
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  295 
(vii)	 The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) with 
the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:	
	
	
(a) 	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or  
(b) 	 provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries	
(viii)	 The Company does not have any such transaction which is  not recorded in the books of accounts that has been 
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, 
search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
34. 	Research & Development:
	
Revenue expenditure pertaining to research and development charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss aggregated to ₹ 
396 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 414).	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
35. Audit Trail:
	
The Company has used accounting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording audit 
trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software 
except for direct changes to data made using certain access rights in one accounting software, where the audit trail feature 
is enabled from January 07, 2025 to March 31, 2025 and in respect of other software for maintenance of timesheet records, 
audit trail feature is enabled from June 18, 2024 to March 31, 2025. Further, no instance of audit trail feature being tampered 
with was noted in respect of softwares where the audit trail has been enabled. Additionally, the audit trail of prior year has 
been preserved by the Company as per the statutory requirements for record retention to the extent it was enabled and 
recorded in the prior year.
36. Semiconductors Business:
	
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Company has initiated the launch and carveout of its semiconductors business 
as a fully owned subsidiary Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited (CSPL), with the focused objective to explore and exploit 
the significant opportunities in the semiconductor sector. As approved by the Board of Directors on March 31, 2025, the 
Company has commenced carveout of its global semiconductors business through the transfer of net assets, contracts 
and employees from the Group companies in India, USA, Germany, Belgium, and Taiwan to CSPL and its subsidiaries, with 
necessary agreements to be executed in due course of time. Accordingly, no adjustments are required in the standalone 
financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2025.
37. The code on Social Security, 2020:
	
The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post employment benefits 
received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Certain sections of 
the Code came into effect on 3 May 2023. However, the final rules/interpretation have not yet been issued. The Company will 
assess and record the impact of the Code, once it is effective.	
As per our report of even date
For  S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm registration number: 101049W/
E300004
 For and on behalf of the Board of Directors 
Cyient Limited
(CIN No.: L72200TG1991PLC013134)
Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership No.: 093649
M.M. Murugappan
Non-Executive 
Chairman
(DIN - 00170478)
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice Chairman 
and Managing Director
(DIN - 00605187)
Sukamal Banerjee
Chief Executive Officer 
and Executive Director
(DIN-10535670)
Place	: Mumbai
Date	: April 24, 2025
Place	: Hyderabad
Date	: April 24, 2025
Prabhakar Atla
Chief Financial Officer
Sudheendhra Putty
Company Secretary
(M.No. - F5689)
296  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of Cyient Limited 
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Cyient Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding 
Company”), its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), its associate and 
joint venture comprising of the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, 
including other comprehensive income, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in 
Equity for the year then ended, and notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, including a summary of material accounting 
policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the Consolidated Financial Statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial 
Statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended (“the Act”) in the manner so required and 
give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the Consolidated state of 
affairs of the Group, its associate and joint venture as at March 31, 2025, their Consolidated profit including other comprehensive 
income, their consolidated cash flows and the Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended on that date.  
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as 
specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further described in the ‘Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the Group, 
the associate and the joint venture in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (‘ICAI’) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements under the provisions 
of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
our audit opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of 
the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. 
We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We have fulfilled 
the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of 
our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to 
respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The results of audit 
procedures performed by us including those procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit 
opinion on the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  297 
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Valuation of non-current investment at fair value and impairment assessment of Goodwill (as described in Note 4, Note 6 
and Note 34 of the Consolidated Financial Statements)
As at March 31, 2025, the Group has goodwill of   Rs. 18,040 
million on consolidation pertaining to acquisitions and Rs. 
1,280 million of non-current investments carried at fair 
value through profit and loss (‘FVTPL’) and fair value through 
other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’).
The Goodwill and fair valuation of such non-current 
investments carried at FVOCI and FVTPL are tested annually 
for impairment/ fair value changes using discounted cash-
flow models of recoverable value compared to the carrying 
value of the assets. A deficit between the recoverable value 
and carrying value would result in impairment/ fair value 
change.
The inputs to the impairment/ fair valuation testing model 
includes:
•	
Projected revenue growth, operating margins, operating 
cash-flows and capex during the periods relating to 
explicit forecasts. 
•	
Stable long-term growth rates beyond explicit forecast 
period and in perpetuity; and
•	
Discount rates that represent the current market 
assessment of the risks specific to the cash generating 
unit, taking into consideration the time value of money.
•	
Recent observable transactions (if any)
The financial projections basis which the future cash flows 
have been estimated, consider the impact of the economic 
uncertainties on the discount rates, the projected growth 
rates and terminal values and subjecting these variables to 
sensitivity analysis.
The annual impairment/ fair valuation testing is considered 
a key audit matter because the assumptions on which the 
tests are based are highly judgmental and are affected by 
future market and economic conditions which are inherently 
uncertain, and because of the materiality of the balances to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole.
Our audit procedures included the following:
•	
We tested the design and operative effectiveness of 
management’s key internal controls over valuation of 
non-current investments at fair value and impairment 
assessments of goodwill.
•	
Gained an understanding of and evaluated the 
methodology used by management to prepare its 
cash flow forecasts and the appropriateness of the 
assumptions applied. In making this assessment, we also 
evaluated the competence, professional qualification, 
objectivity and independence of Group’s specialists and 
Group’s personnel involved in the process.
•	
With the assistance of our specialists for select 
impairment assessments, we assessed the assumptions 
on the key drivers of the cash flow forecasts including 
discount rates, expected growth rates and terminal 
growth rates used in consideration of the current and 
estimated future economic conditions.
•	
We assessed the historical accuracy of management’s 
forecast by comparing actual financial performance to 
management’s previous forecasts. 
•	
We have analysed the consistency of cash flow forecasts 
with Management’s latest estimates presented to 
the Board of Directors as part of the budget process; 
and confirmation from investee that no events or 
transactions, other than those already considered for 
fair valuation of significant investments, would impact 
the fair value of these non-current investments.
•	
We assessed the recoverable value headroom by 
performing sensitivity testing of key assumptions used.
•	
We have tested the arithmetical accuracy of the models 
and basis of recent observable transactions. 
•	
We assessed the adequacy of the related disclosures in 
Note 4, Note 6 and Note 34 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements.
298  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Accuracy of recognition and measurement of Revenues (as described in Note 2 and 21 of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements)
The application of the revenue recognition standard Ind AS 
115 – “Revenue from contracts with customers” involves 
certain key judgements and principles for evaluating various 
distinctive terms/matters.
Revenue where the performance obligation is satisfied over 
time has been recognised using the percentage of completion 
method. Identification of performance obligations involves 
high degree of judgement and assessment of contractual 
terms. 
Use of the percentage-of-completion method requires the 
Group to determine the actual efforts or costs expended to 
date as a proportion of the estimated total efforts or costs to 
be incurred which involves significant judgement throughout 
the period of the contract and is subject to revision as 
the contract progresses is based on the latest available 
information. 
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised at the point in time 
when control of the goods is transferred to the customer. The 
terms of sales arrangements including the timing of transfer 
of risk and rewards and delivery speciﬁcations including 
incoterms, which may affect the timing of transfer of risk & 
rewards and may lead to recognition of revenue in incorrect 
period.
As the revenue recognition involves significant estimates 
and judgments and is material to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, we regard this as a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures include the following:
•	
We tested the design and operative effectiveness 
of management’s key internal controls over revenue 
recognition.
•	
Tested relevant information technology systems’ controls 
relating to contracts and related information used in 
recording and disclosing revenue.
•	
Substantive testing of sample revenue contracts 
and performed the following procedures to assess 
management analysis and impact of Ind AS 115:
-	
Read, analyzed and identified the distinct performance 
obligations in these contracts.
-	
Compared these performance obligations with that 
identified and recorded by the Group.
-	
Considered the terms of the contracts and assessed 
the 
transaction 
price 
including 
any 
variable 
consideration to test revenue.
•	
Test checked sample contracts / transactions in respect 
of:
-	
Revenue recorded for time and material contracts 
using a combination of internally approved time 
sheets or customer acceptances or subsequent 
invoicing.
-	
Revenue recorded for fixed price contracts, is based 
on progress towards completion of performance 
obligation which was verified based on actual cost 
relative to estimated cost from management analysis 
and systems or external evidence of progress. 
Also, reviewed cost incurred with estimated cost 
to identify significant variations and reasons and to 
verify whether those variations have been considered 
in estimating the remaining cost to complete the 
contract.
-	
Sale of goods, near to year-end, post year-end and 
credit notes issued post year-end to determine 
whether the revenue recognition during the year is 
appropriate.
•	
Test checked significant manual journals posted to revenue 
to identify any unusual items and sought explanations 
from Management.
•	
We assessed the adequacy of relevant disclosures made 
within the Consolidated Financial Statements.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  299 
Allowance for credit losses for trade receivables including contract assets (as described in Note 2 and 10 of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements)
As at March 31, 2025, the Group has outstanding trade 
receivables and contract assets of Rs. 14,067 Mn and Rs. 
3,918 Mn respectively. The Group has determined the 
allowance for credit losses based on the ageing status and 
historical loss experience adjusted to reflect current and 
estimated future economic conditions. 
In determination of allowance for expected credit loss, 
management’s judgement involves consideration of terms 
of the contract, ageing status, historical payment records, 
evaluation of litigations and the credit information of its 
customers.
We considered this as key audit matter due to the materiality 
of the amounts and significant estimates and judgements as 
stated above.
Our audit procedures included the following:
•	
We tested the design and operative effectiveness of 
management’s key internal controls over allowance for 
credit losses.
•	
We assessed the completeness and accuracy of the 
information used in the estimation of probability 
of default and tested historical payment records, 
correspondence 
with 
customers, 
credit 
related 
information and subsequent collection of the customers’ 
balances.
•	
We assessed the allowance for expected credit loss 
made by management and performed analysis of ageing 
of receivables, tested the mathematical accuracy and 
computation of the allowance for credit losses.
Inventory-obsolescence (as described in Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements)
The Group holds an inventory balance of Rs. 5,766 million as 
at March 31, 2025. 
Inventory obsolescence allowance is determined using 
policies/ methodologies that the Group deems appropriate 
to the business. Significant judgement is exercised by 
the management in identifying the slow-moving and 
obsolete inventories and in assessing whether provision for 
obsolescence for slow moving, excess or obsolete inventory 
items should be recognized considering the production plan, 
forecast inventory usage, committed and expected orders, 
alternative usage, etc. Considering that the aforesaid 
assessment process is complex and involves significant 
estimates and judgements and the balance of inventory is 
material, we have identified this as a key audit matter.
Our audit procedures included the following:
•	
We tested the design and operative effectiveness of 
management’s key internal controls over the allowance 
for inventory obsolescence.
•	
We obtained an understanding of how the management 
identifies the slow-moving and obsolete inventories and 
assesses the amount of allowance for inventories.
•	
We observed the inventory count performed by 
management and assessed the physical condition of the 
inventories on sample basis.
•	
Evaluated the inventories against future usage based 
on the expected orders on hand and other contractual 
terms agreed with customers and tested the same on a 
sample basis. 
•	
We further tested the ageing of the inventories and the 
computation of the obsolescence level on a sample 
basis.
•	
We have tested sample of inventory items for significant 
components to assess the cost and tested the basis of 
determination of net realizable/ value of inventory.
•	
We assessed the Group’s disclosures concerning 
this in Note 2 on significant accounting estimates 
and judgements and Note 9 on inventories to the 
consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
Key audit matters
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
300  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Other Information
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Annual report, but does not include the Consolidated Financial Statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. 
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon. 
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in 
doing so, consider whether such other information is materially inconsistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to 
report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these Consolidated Financial 
Statements in terms of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position, consolidated 
financial performance including other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows and consolidated statement of changes 
in equity of the Group including its associate and joint venture in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted 
in India, including the Indian Accounting  Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the 
Group,  its associate and  joint venture are responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of their respective companies and for preventing and detecting frauds 
and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements by 
the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group, its 
associate and joint venture are responsible for assessing the ability of their respective companies to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management 
either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group, its associate and joint venture are also responsible 
for overseeing the financial reporting process of their respective companies.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Consolidated Financial Statements as a whole are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect 
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually 
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  301 
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout 
the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether due to fraud 
or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, 
or the override of internal control. 
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate 
in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the 
Holding Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related 
disclosures made by management. 
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit 
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt 
on the ability of the Group, its associate and joint venture to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group, its 
associate and joint venture to cease to continue as a going concern. 
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the disclosures, 
and whether the Consolidated Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that 
achieves fair presentation. 
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within 
the Group of which we are the independent auditors and whose financial information we have audited, to express an opinion 
on the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of 
the financial statements of such entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the independent 
auditors. 
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope 
and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to 
bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 and are therefore 
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our 
report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of 
such communication.
 
302  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Other Matter
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Group’s share of net loss of Rs. 49 million for the year ended March 31, 2025, as 
considered in the Consolidated Financial Statements, in respect of an associate and a joint venture, whose financial statements 
and other financial information have not been audited and whose unaudited financial statements and other unaudited financial 
information have been furnished to us by the Management. Our opinion, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures 
included in respect of an associate and a joint venture, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so 
far as it relates to the aforesaid joint venture, is based solely on such unaudited financial statements and other unaudited financial 
information. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, these financial 
statements and other financial information are not material to the Group.
Our opinion above on the Consolidated Financial Statements is not modified in respect of this matter and the financial statements 
and other financial information certified by the Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of India in 
terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other 
auditors on separate financial statements and the other financial information of the subsidiary companies, incorporated in 
India, we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the matters specified in paragraph 3(xxi) of the Order.
2.  As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report of the other auditors on 
separate financial statements and the other financial information of subsidiaries, we report, to the extent applicable, that:
(a)	 We/the other auditors whose report we have relied upon have sought and obtained all the information and explanations 
which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid Consolidated 
Financial Statements;
 
(b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidation of the 
financial statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and reports of the other 
auditors except for the matters stated in the paragraph 2(i)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g);
(c)	 The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss including the Statement of Other 
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements;
(d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements comply with the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;
(e)	 On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on  March 31, 2025 
taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory auditors who are 
appointed under Section 139 of the Act, of its subsidiary companies , none of the directors of the Group’s companies , 
incorporated in India, is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) 
of the Act;
(f)	 With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, incorporated in India, and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure 2” to this report;
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  303 
(g)	 In our opinion and based on the consideration of report of other statutory auditor of  subsidiaries, incorporated in India, 
the managerial remuneration for the year ended March 31, 2025 has been paid / provided by the Holding Company 
and its subsidiaries incorporated in India to their directors in accordance with the provisions of section 197 read with 
Schedule V to the Act;
(h)	 The modification relating to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith are as stated in the 
paragraph 2(b) above on reporting under Section 143(3)(b) and paragraph 2(i)(vi) below on reporting under under Rule 
11(g).
(i)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us and based on the consideration of the report of the other auditors on separate financial 
statements and also the other financial information of the subsidiaries:
i.		
The Consolidated Financial Statements disclose the impact of pending litigations on its consolidated financial 
position of the Group in its Consolidated Financial Statements – Refer Note 35 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements; 
ii.	
Provision has been made in the Consolidated Financial Statements, as required under the applicable law or 
accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts 
– Refer Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in respect of such items as it relates to the Group and (b) 
the Group’s share of net profit/loss in respect of its associate and joint venture; 
iii.	 There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Holding Company and its subsidiaries incorporated in India during the year ended March 31, 
2025.
iv.	
a) The respective managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in 
India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act have represented to us that, to the best of its 
knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in note 40 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, no funds have 
been advanced or loaned or invested either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds by the Holding Company or its subsidiaries to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediaries shall, 
whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or 
on behalf of the respective Holding Company or  its subsidiaries (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
      	 b) The respective managements of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries which are companies incorporated 
in India whose financial statements have been audited  under the Act have represented to us and the other auditor 
of such subsidiaries, that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in the note 40 to the 
consolidated financial statements, no funds have been received by the respective Holding Company or any of 
such  subsidiaries from any person or entity, including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Holding Company or any of such subsidiaries shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other person or entity identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries; and
     	
c)  Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances 
performed by us and that performed by the auditors of the subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India 
whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, nothing has come to our or other auditor’s notice 
that has caused us or the other auditors to believe that the representations under sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any 
material mis-statement.
304  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
v)    	 a) The final dividend paid by the Holding Company during the year in respect of the dividend declared for the 
previous year is in accordance with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividend.
	  	
b) The interim dividend declared and paid during the year by the Holding Company until the date of this audit report 
of such Holding Company is in accordance with section 123 of the Act.
 	 	
c) The Board of Directors of the Holding Company have proposed final dividend for the year which is subject to 
the approval of the members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The dividend declared is in accordance with 
section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of dividend
vi.	 Based on our examination which included test checks and that performed by the respective auditors of the 
subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the 
Act, the Holding Company and above referred subsidiaries have used accounting software for maintaining its books 
of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated throughout the 
year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software except for direct changes to data made using certain 
access rights in one software, where the audit trail feature is only enabled from January 07, 2025 to March 31, 2025 
and in respect of other software for maintenance of timesheet records, where audit trail feature is only enabled 
from June 18, 2024 to March 31, 2025, as described in note 41 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Further, 
during the course of audit, we and respective auditors of the above referred subsidiaries did not come across any 
instance of audit trail feature being tampered with, in respect of softwares where the audit trail has been enabled. 
Additionally, the audit trail of prior year has been preserved by the Holding Company and the above referred 
subsidiaries as per the statutory requirements for record retention to the extent it was enabled and recorded in the 
prior year.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
______________________________
per Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership Number: 093649
UDIN: 25093649BMOISM4101 
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Date: April 24, 2025
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  305 
ANNEXURE ‘1’ REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH UNDER THE 
HEADING “REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY 
REQUIREMENTS” OF OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE ON THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CYIENT LIMITED 
(“THE HOLDING COMPANY”)
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the Company and to the best of our knowledge and 
belief, we state that:
3 (xxi) There are no qualifications or adverse remarks by the respective auditors in the Companies (Auditors Report) Order 
(CARO) reports of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, the requirement to 
report on clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not applicable to the Holding Company. The report of a joint venture included in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements has not been issued by its auditor till the date of our auditor’s report.
S.No
Name of the joint venture company
Corporate Identification Number 
1
Infotech HAL Limited
U29200KA2007PLC043691
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
______________________________
per Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership Number: 093649
UDIN: 25093649BMOISM4101
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Date: April 24, 2025
306  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNEXURE ‘2’ REFERRED TO IN OUR REPORT OF EVEN DATE 
ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CYIENT 
LIMITED (“THE HOLDING COMPANY”) 
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 
Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding Company 
and its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), which are companies 
incorporated in India, as of March 31, 2025, in conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding 
Company for the year ended on that date.  
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls 
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group, which are companies incorporated in India, are 
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Holding Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the ‘Guidance Note’) issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (‘ICAI’). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including 
adherence to the respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and 
errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as 
required under the Act. 
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Holding Company’s internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on 
Auditing, specified under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both, issued 
by ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the 
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design 
and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or 
error. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements is a process designed to provide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls with reference 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  307 
to Consolidated Financial Statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records 
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material 
effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements, including 
the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may 
occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated 
Financial Statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Holding Company and its subsidiaries, which are companies incorporated in India, have maintained in all 
material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements and such internal 
financial controls with reference to Consolidated Financial Statements were operating effectively as at March 31,2025, based on 
the internal control over financial reporting criteria established by the Holding Company considering the essential components 
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI. 
Other Matters
Our report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Holding Company, in so far as it relates to two subsidiaries, which are 
companies incorporated in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such subsidiaries incorporated in India.
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 101049W/E300004
______________________________
per Vikas Pansari 
Partner
Membership Number: 093649 
UDIN: 25093649BMOISM4101
Place of Signature: Mumbai
Date: April 24, 2025
308  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ millions, except share and per share data and where otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
 As at  
March 31, 2025 
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3A
 4,745 
 4,462 
Right-of-use assets
3B
 2,824 
 3,271 
Capital work-in-progress
3C
 75 
 16 
Goodwill
4
 18,040 
 16,692 
Other intangible assets
5A
 3,678 
 3,839 
Intangible assets under development
5B
 714 
 558 
Investment accounted for using the equity method
6(v)
 563 
 - 
Financial assets 
(a) Investments
6
 2,798 
 3,598 
(b) Other financial assets
7
 318 
 347 
Deferred tax assets (net)
18B
 861 
 752 
Income tax assets (net)
18C
 707 
 732 
Other non-current assets
8
 168 
 178 
Total non-current assets
 
 35,491 
 34,445 
Current assets 
Inventories
9
 5,766 
 4,676 
Contract assets
10
 3,918 
 4,362 
Financial assets
 (a) Investments
6
 1,654 
 758 
 (b) Trade receivables
10
 14,067 
 12,617 
 (c) Cash and cash equivalents
11A
 10,706 
 4,848 
 (d) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
11B
 2,436 
 4,987 
 (e) Other financial assets 
7
 427 
 413 
Other current assets
8
 2,481 
 2,930 
Total current assets
 41,455 
 35,591 
TOTAL ASSETS
 76,946 
 70,036 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY 
Equity share capital
12
 555 
 555 
Other equity
13
 52,540 
 42,026 
Equity attributable to owners of the Parent
 53,095 
 42,581 
Non-controlling interests
14
 4,509 
 2,988 
Total equity 
 57,604 
 45,569 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  309 
Particulars
Notes
 As at  
March 31, 2025
 As at  
March 31, 2024
LIABILITIES 
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(a) Borrowings
15
 982 
 2,783 
(b) Lease liabilities
3B
 2,072 
 2,465 
(c) Other financial liabilities 
16
 107 
 4 
Provisions
17
 1,746 
 1,795 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
18B
 734 
 839 
Total non-current liabilities
 5,641 
 7,886 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(a) Borrowings
15
 1,156 
 1,743 
(b) Lease liabilities
3B
 924 
 885 
(c) Trade payables
20
(i)  Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 84 
 106 
(ii)  Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 3,850 
 4,895 
(d) Other financial liabilities
16
 3,040 
 4,445 
Income tax liabilities (net)
18C
 523 
 562 
Provisions
17
 1,355 
 1,144 
Other current liabilities
19
 2,769 
 2,801 
Total current liabilities
 13,701 
 16,581 
Total liabilities
 
 19,342 
 24,467 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
 76,946 
 70,036 
Corporate information and material accounting policies
1 & 2
Accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated 
financial statements
As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm registration number:  
101049W/E300004
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Cyient Limited
 
                        
Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership No.: 093649
M.M. Murugappan
Non-Executive Chairman
(DIN - 00170478)
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice Chairman 
and Managing Director
(DIN - 00605187)
Sukamal Banerjee
Chief Executive Officer 
and Executive Director
(DIN-10535670)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Prabhakar Atla
 Sudheendhra Putty 
Date : April 24, 2025
Date : April 24, 2025
Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary 
 (M.No. - F5689) 
310  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended 
March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ millions, except share and per share data and where otherwise stated)
Particulars
Notes
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
INCOME
Revenue from contracts with customers
21
 73,604 
 71,472 
Other income
22
 966 
 659 
Total income
 74,570 
 72,131 
EXPENSES
Employee benefits expense
23
 36,899 
 35,120 
Cost of materials consumed
24
 11,357 
 9,893 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories of finished goods,  
stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
25
 33 
 (235)
Finance costs
26
 928 
 1,160 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
27
 2,672 
 2,667 
Other expenses
28
 13,882 
 13,666 
Total expenses
 65,771 
 62,271 
Profit before share of profit/(loss) from investment  
in associate/ joint venture, exceptional items and tax
 8,799 
 9,860 
Share of loss of an associate and a joint venture
6
 (49)
 - 
Profit before exceptional items and tax
 8,750 
 9,860 
Exceptional items
28A
 - 
 (676)
Profit before tax 
 8,750 
 9,184 
Tax expense
  Current tax
18A
 2,518 
 2,390 
  Deferred tax credit
18A
 (251)
 (234)
Total tax expense
 2,267 
 2,156 
Profit for the year
 6,483 
 7,028 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI)
(a)  Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified  
to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
(i)  Re-measurement gain/(loss) on defined benefit plans
17(a)
 12 
 (52)
Income tax effect on above
18A(b)
 (3)
 14 
(ii) Fair value change on financial instruments
6
 (271)
 (233)
Income tax effect on above
18A(b)
 (21)
 - 
Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to 
profit or loss in subsequent periods
 (283)
 (271)
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  311 
Particulars
Notes
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
(b)  Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or 
loss in subsequent periods:
(i) Exchange differences in translating the financial statements 
of foreign operations
13
 597 
 65 
    Income tax effect on above
 - 
 - 
(ii) Effective portion of (loss)/gain on designated portion of 
hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge
13
 (20)
 125 
Income tax effect on above
18A(b)
 5 
 (31)
Net other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or 
loss in subsequent periods
 582 
 159 
Other comprehensive income/ (loss) for the year, net of tax
 299 
 (112)
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 6,782 
 6,916 
Profit for the year 
 6,483 
 7,028 
Attributable to:
- Owners of the Parent
 6,157 
 6,828 
- Non-controlling interests
14
 326 
 200 
 6,483 
 7,028 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
 299 
 (112)
Attributable to:
- Owners of the Parent
 455 
 (33)
- Non-controlling interests
14
 (156)
 (79)
 299 
 (112)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 6,782 
 6,916 
Attributable to:
- Owners of the Parent
 6,612 
 6,795 
- Non-controlling interests
14
 170 
 121 
 6,782 
 6,916 
Earnings per equity share (par value of ₹ 5 each)
29
Basic (₹)
 55.95 
 62.24 
Diluted (₹)
 55.51 
 61.71 
Corporate information and material accounting policies
1 & 2
Accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated 
financial statements 
As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm registration number:  
101049W/E300004
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Cyient Limited
 
                        
Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership No.: 093649
M.M. Murugappan
Non-Executive Chairman
(DIN - 00170478)
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice Chairman 
and Managing Director
(DIN - 00605187)
Sukamal Banerjee
Chief Executive Officer 
and Executive Director
(DIN-10535670)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Prabhakar Atla
 Sudheendhra Putty 
Date : April 24, 2025
Date : April 24, 2025
Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary 
 (M.No. - F5689) 
312  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended March 31, 2025
(All amounts in ₹ millions, except share and per share data and where otherwise stated)
a.	
Equity share capital (refer note 12(A))
Equity shares of ₹ 5 each issued, subscribed and fully paid
No of Shares
Amount
As at April 1, 2024
 110,889,812 
 555 
Issue of share capital#
 149,112 
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 111,038,924 
 555 
As at April 1, 2023
 110,575,006 
 553 
Issue of share capital#
 314,806 
 2 
As at March 31, 2024
 110,889,812 
 555 
 #During the year, the Parent has allotted 149,112 (March 31, 2024: 314,806) equity shares of  ₹ 5 each valuing ₹ 0.74 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 1.57),  
  consequent to the exercise of the stock options by the associates of the Group under the Associate Stock Option Plan.	
b.	
Other equity
Particulars
Notes
Share 
application 
money pending 
allotment #
Reserves and surplus
Items of other comprehensive income
Attributable 
to owners of 
the Parent
Non-
controlling 
Interests 
(NCI)
Total 
other 
equity
Capital 
redemption 
reserve #
Securities 
premium #
General 
reserve #
Share 
based 
payments 
reserve #
Special 
economic 
zone (SEZ) 
re-investment 
reserve #
Other 
reserve #
Retained 
earnings #
Treasury 
shares #
Capital 
reserve #
Cash 
flow 
hedge 
reserve #
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve #
Equity 
instruments 
through 
OCI #
Balance as at  
April 1, 2024
 1 
 16 
 2,639 
 5,139 
 571 
 65 
 3,792 
 28,575 
 (861)
 35 
 13 
 2,192 
 (151)
 42,026 
 2,988 45,014 
 Profit for the year 
13 & 
14
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,157 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,157 
 326 
 6,483 
 Other 
comprehensive 
income for the year 
13 & 
14
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9 
 - 
 - 
 (15)
 584 
 (123)
 455 
 (156)
 299 
 Total 
comprehensive 
income for the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,166 
 - 
 - 
 (15)
 584 
 (123)
 6,612 
 170 
 6,782 
Gain on stake 
dilution in subsidiary
13 & 
14
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,834 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,834 
 - 
 6,834 
Adjustment for non 
controlling interests
14
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,300 
 1,300
Issue of shares 
on exercise of 
associate stock 
options
13
 - 
 - 
 119 
 - 
 (126)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (7)
 - 
 (7)
Re-issuance of 
treasury shares
13
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 80 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 80 
 - 
 80 
Share-based 
payment expense
13
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 294 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 294 
 51
 345 
Share application 
money received 
during the year
13
 1 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 - 
 1 
Dividend on equity 
shares
37
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,300)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,300)
 - 
 
(3,300)
SEZ re-investment 
reserve utilisation
13
 - 
 - 
 - 
 65 
 - 
 (65)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance as at  
March 31, 2025
 2 
 16 
 2,758 
 5,204 
 739 
 - 
 10,626 
 31,441 
 (781)
 35 
 (2)
 2,776 
 (274)
 52,540 
 4,509 57,049 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  313 
#Refer note 13A for nature of reserves.
Accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
Particulars
Notes
Share 
application 
money pending 
allotment #
Reserves and surplus
Items of other comprehensive income
Attributable 
to owners of 
the Parent
Non-
controlling 
Interests 
(NCI)
Total 
other 
equity
Capital 
redemption 
reserve #
Securities 
premium #
General 
reserve #
Share 
based 
payments 
reserve #
Special 
economic 
zone (SEZ) 
re-investment 
reserve #
Other 
reserve #
Retained 
earnings #
Treasury 
shares #
Capital 
reserve #
Cash 
flow 
hedge 
reserve #
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve #
Equity 
instruments 
through 
OCI #
Balance as at  
April 1, 2023
 - 
 16 
 2,427 
 5,139 
 488 
 65 
 - 
 24,845 
 (950)
 35 
 (81)
 2,127 
 3 
 34,114 
 (32)
34,082 
Profit for the year
13 & 
14
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,828 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,828 
 200 
 7,028 
Other 
comprehensive 
income for the year
13 & 
14
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (38)
 - 
 - 
 94 
 65 
 (154)
 (33)
 (79)
 (112)
Total 
comprehensive 
income for the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,790 
 - 
 - 
 94 
 65 
 (154)
 6,795 
 121 
 6,916 
Gain on stake 
dilution in subsidiary
13
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,792 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3,792 
 - 
 3,792 
Adjustment for non 
controlling interests
14
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,899 
 2,899 
Issue of shares 
on exercise of 
associate stock 
options
13
 - 
 - 
 212 
 - 
 (158)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 54 
 - 
 54 
Re-issuance of 
treasury shares
13
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 89 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 89 
 - 
 89 
Share-based 
payment expense
13
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 241 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 241 
 - 
 241 
Share application 
money received 
during the year
13
 1 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 - 
 1 
Dividend on equity 
shares
37
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,060)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (3,060)
 - (3,060)
Balance as at  
March 31, 2024
 1 
 16 
 2,639 
 5,139 
 571 
 65 
 3,792 
 28,575 
 (861)
 35 
 13 
 2,192 
 (151)
 42,026 
 2,988 45,014 
As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm registration number:  
101049W/E300004
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Cyient Limited
 
                        
Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership No.: 093649
M.M. Murugappan
Non-Executive Chairman
(DIN - 00170478)
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice Chairman 
and Managing Director
(DIN - 00605187)
Sukamal Banerjee
Chief Executive Officer 
and Executive Director
(DIN-10535670)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Prabhakar Atla
 Sudheendhra Putty 
Date : April 24, 2025
Date : April 24, 2025
Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary 
 (M.No. - F5689) 
314  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended  
March 31, 2025 
(All amounts in ₹ millions, except share and per share data and where otherwise stated)
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
A. OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year
 6,483 
  7,028 
Adjustments to reconcile profit to net cash flows:
Tax expense
 2,267 
 2,156 
Share of loss of an associate
 49 
 - 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 2,672 
 2,667 
(Profit)/Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (net)
 (11)
 6 
Gain on termination of leases (net)
 (25)
 (15)
Finance costs
 928 
 1,160 
Interest income
 (742)
 (522)
Profit on sale of mutual funds
 (44)
 (50)
Liabilities no longer required written back
 (19)
 - 
(Gain)/Loss on fair valuation of financial assets and financial 
liabilities
 (54)
 135 
Share-based payments to employees
 345 
 241 
Provision for expected credit loss (net of write-off)
 289 
 7 
Unrealised forex gain (net)
 (103)
 (171)
Operating profit before working capital changes
 12,035 
 12,642 
Working capital adjustments:
Adjustments for (increase) / decrease in operating assets:
Trade receivables
 (1,143)
 (1,187)
Other financial assets
 64 
 (64)
Inventories
 (127)
 (317)
Contract assets
 444 
 (239)
Other assets
 605 
 140 
Adjustments for increase / (decrease) in operating liabilities:
Trade payables
 (1,451)
 (315)
Other financial liabilities
 178 
 522 
Other liabilities
 (224)
 (1,274)
Provisions
 72 
 128 
Cash generated from operations
 10,453 
 10,036 
Net income taxes paid
 (2,554)
 (2,775)
Net cash flows from operating activities (A)
 7,899 
 7,261 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  315 
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
B. INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Payment towards purchase of property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets
 (1,039)
 (853)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment
 18 
 71 
 Investments in 
 - mutual funds 
 (10,232)
 (8,583)
 - bonds 
 - 
 (3,555)
 - commercial paper 
 (245)
 (250)
 - associate 
 (612)
 - 
 - others 
 (24)
 (128)
 Proceeds from sale of investments in 
 - mutual funds 
 9,571 
 9,221 
 - bonds 
 253 
 3,656 
 - commercial paper 
 490 
 300 
Interest received 
 662 
 352 
Payment towards acquisition of business including prior year 
acquisitions (refer note (i) below)
 (2,844)
 (1,550)
Investment in other bank balances
 (2,957)
 (4,579)
Proceeds from other bank balances
 5,508 
 571 
Net cash flows used in investing activities (B)
 (1,451)
 (5,327)
C. FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Proceeds from shares issued on exercise of associate stock 
options (includes share application money)
 62 
 146 
Proceeds from sale/issue of shares to Non-controlling interests
 8,739 
 7,000 
Transaction cost on issue of  shares to Non-controlling interests
 (3)
 (306)
Income tax paid on proceeds from sale of shares to Non-controlling 
interests
 (605)
 - 
(Repayments)/proceeds from factoring arrangements (on behalf of 
banks)
 (185)
 201 
Interest paid
 (699)
 (930)
Proceeds from non-current borrowings
 1,028 
 - 
Repayment of non-current borrowings
 (4,888)
 (1,724)
Movement in current borrowings (net)
 419 
 (2,734)
Payment of principal portion of lease liabilities
 (925)
 (1,025)
Payment of interest portion of lease liabilities
 (215)
 (219)
Repayment of sale and leaseback of assets
 (13)
 (13)
Dividends paid to equity share holders of the Parent (includes 
transfer to investor education and protection fund)
 (3,297)
 (3,058)
Net cash flows used in financing activities (C)
 (582)
 (2,662)
316  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes:
(i) Net cash outflow on acquisition of business:
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Consideration paid in cash (including contingent consideration for 
prior year acquisitions)
 2,992 
 1,550 
Less: Cash and cash equivalent balances acquired on the acquisition
 (148) 
-
Net cash outflow on acquisition of business
 2,844 
 1,550 
    
Refer note 11 for changes in liabilities arising from financing activities (cash and non-cash) and investing activities (non-cash).
Accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 5,866 
 (728)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 4,730 
 5,502 
Effect of exchange differences on translation of foreign currency 
cash and cash equivalents
 110 
 (44)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (refer note 11A)
 10,706 
 4,730 
As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm registration number:  
101049W/E300004
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Cyient Limited
 
                        
Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership No.: 093649
M.M. Murugappan
Non-Executive Chairman
(DIN - 00170478)
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice Chairman  
and Managing Director
(DIN - 00605187)
Sukamal Banerjee
Chief Executive Officer 
and Executive Director
(DIN-10535670)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Prabhakar Atla
 Sudheendhra Putty 
Date : April 24, 2025
Date : April 24, 2025
Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary 
 (M.No. - F5689) 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  317 
Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated Financial Statements  
for the Year Ended March 31, 2025
All amounts in ₹ millions, except share and per share data and 
where otherwise stated
1.	
	Corporate information
	
	Cyient Limited (‘Cyient’ or ‘the Company’ or ‘the Parent’) 
and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as ‘the Group’), 
its joint venture and associate is engaged in providing 
global technology services and solutions specialising 
in utilities & spatial intelligence, communications, 
healthcare & life sciences, semiconductors, energy, rail 
transportation, engineering design, IT solutions and 
data analytics. 
	
	The Company’s subsidiary, Cyient DLM Limited 
specialises in the areas of total electronics manufacturing 
solutions in the fields of medical, industrial, automotive 
& mobility, telecommunications, defense and aerospace 
applications, including manufacturing and machining of 
components for aerospace, automotive and defense 
industries.
	
	The Parent is a public limited Company incorporated 
in India and has its headquarters and development 
facilities in India and serves a global customer base 
through its subsidiaries, joint venture and associate in 
the United States of America (‘USA’), United Kingdom 
(‘UK’), United Arab Emirates (‘UAE’), Germany, Japan, 
Australia, Taiwan, Malaysia, Belgium, Netherlands, 
Switzerland, Sweden, Norway,  France, Canada, Czech 
Republic, Spain, Brazil, Singapore, Portugal and Finland. 
The Group’s range of services include digitization of 
drawings and maps, photogrammetry, computer aided 
design/engineering (‘CAD/CAE’), design and modelling, 
repair development engineering, reverse engineering 
application software development, software products 
development, consulting, analytics and implementation. 
The Group specialises in software services and solutions 
for the manufacturing, utilities, telecommunications, 
transportation & logistics, local government and financial 
services markets. Further, the Group is also engaged in 
the business of manufacturing, assembling, integrating, 
testing and sale of unmanned aerial systems.
	
	The Parent’s shares are listed on the BSE Limited 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited. The 
registered office of the Parent is located at 4th Floor, 
“A” Wing, Plot No. 11, Software Units Layout, Infocity, 
Madhapur, Hyderabad 500 081, India. 
	
	Cyient DLM Limited (‘DLM’), subsidiary of Cyient 
Limited is also listed on the above-mentioned stock 
exchanges. The registered office of DLM is located at 
Plot No.5G, Survey No.99/1, Mamidipalli Village, GMR 
Aerospace & Industrial Park, GMR Hyderabad Aviation 
SEZ Limited, Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, 
Shamshabad, Hyderabad-500 108.
	
	The consolidated financial statements were approved 
for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors 
on April 24, 2025.
2.	
	Material Accounting Policies
	
	
	
	Basis of preparation of consolidated financial 
statements:
2.1	 	Statement of compliance
	
	These consolidated financial statements of the 
Group have been prepared in accordance with Indian 
Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) notified under the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 
(as amended from time to time) and presentation 
requirements of Division II of Schedule III to the 
Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS compliant Schedule III), 
as applicable to the consolidated financial statements.
2.2	 	Basis of measurement
	
	These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the 
following material items in the balance sheet, which are 
measured on the basis stated below and in accordance 
with the applicable accounting policies: 
318  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Item Basis
 Measurement basis
Derivative financial 
instruments
Measured at fair Value
Contingent consideration 
arising out of business 
combination 
Measured at fair Value 
Assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed as part of business 
combinations
Measured at fair value on 
the date of acquisition  
Equity settled share-based 
payment arrangement 
Fair Value 
Net defined benefit (asset)/ 
liability
Fair Value of plan assets 
less the present value of 
the defined benefit obli-
gations at the end of the 
reporting period 
The consolidated financial statements are presented 
in Indian Rupees (‘₹’), which is the functional and 
presentation currency of the Group. All values are 
rounded to the nearest millions, except when otherwise 
indicated.
2.3	 	Current and non-current classification
	
	The Group presents assets and liabilities in the balance 
sheet based on current/ non-current classification. An 
asset is classified as current when it is:
•	
	 Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or 
consumed in the Group’s normal operating cycle.
•	
	 Held primarily for the purpose of trading.
•	
	 Expected to be realised within twelve months 
after the reporting period; or
•	
	 Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at 
least twelve months after the reporting date.
	
	All other assets are classified as non-current.
	
	A liability is current when:
•	
	 It is expected to be settled in the Group’s normal 
operating cycle;
•	
	 It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
•	
	 It is due to be settled within twelve months after 
the reporting period; or 
•	
	 It does not have an unconditional right to defer 
the settlement of the liability for at least twelve 
months after the reporting date.
	
	The Group classifies all other liabilities as non-current.
	
	
	
	Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-
current in accordance with Ind AS 12 – Income Taxes.
	
	
	
	The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition 
of assets for processing and their realisation in cash 
or cash equivalents. The Group has identified twelve 
months as its operating cycle.
2.4	 	Basis of consolidation
 	
	Subsidiaries
	
	The consolidated financial statements comprise 
the financial statements of the Parent and entities 
controlled by the Parent and their subsidiaries. Control is 
achieved when the Parent, has power over the investee; 
is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the investee; and has the ability to use 
its power to affect its returns.
	
	The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an 
investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there 
are changes to one or more of the three elements of 
control. The consolidation of subsidiaries begins from 
the date when the Group obtains control and continues 
until the date that control ceases. 
	
	Non-Controlling Interests (NCI):
	
	NCI are measured initially at their proportionate share 
of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the date of 
acquisition. 
	
	Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in 
subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are 
accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying 
amounts of the Group’s interests and the non-
controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the 
changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. 
Any difference between the amount by which the non-
controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of 
the consideration paid or received is recognised directly 
in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
	
	Cash flows arising from changes in ownership interests 
in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  319 
classified as cash flows from financing activities in the 
consolidated statement of cash flows, in accordance 
with Ind AS 7. Any related income tax paid on such 
transactions is also classified under financing activities, 
as the underlying transaction is a financing activity. 
	
	Profit or loss and each component of other 
comprehensive income (OCI) are attributed to the 
owners of the Parent and to the NCI.
	
	Associates (equity accounted investees)
	
	An associate is an entity over which the Parent has 
significant influence. Significant influence is the power 
to participate in the financial and operating policy 
decisions of the investee but is not control or joint 
control over those policies. The Group accounts for 
interest in Associates using the equity method.
	
	The investment in an associate is initially recognised at 
cost. The carrying amount is increased or decreased to 
recognize the Group’s share of the profit or loss of the 
associate after the date of acquisition. The Group’s 
share of profit or loss of the associate is recognised in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss. Adjustments 
are made for any unrealized gains or losses arising from 
transactions between the Group and the associate 
to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associate. 
The amortisation of intangible assets identified as part 
of the purchase price allocation, but not recognised 
in the associate’s standalone financial statements, is 
adjusted against the Group’s share of profit or loss from 
the associate in the consolidated financial statements, 
in order to reflect the fair value adjustments arising on 
initial recognition of the investment.
	
	In respect of equity accounted investees, the carrying 
amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount 
of the investment, and any impairment loss on such 
an investment is not allocated to any asset, including 
goodwill, that forms part of the carrying value of the 
equity accounted investee.
	
	Consolidation procedures:
•	
	 Line-by-line aggregation of assets, liabilities, 
equity, income, expenses and cash flows of the 
Parent and its subsidiaries.
•	
	 Elimination of the carrying amount of the Parent’s 
investment in each subsidiary and the Parent’s 
portion of equity of each subsidiary.
•	
	 Elimination in full of all intra-group assets, 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows 
relating to transactions between members of the 
Group are eliminated in full on consolidation. 
•	
	 For the purpose of preparing these consolidated 
financial statements, the accounting policies 
of subsidiaries, joint venture and associate are 
aligned wherever necessary with the policies 
adopted by the company. Furthermore, the 
consolidated financial statements of subsidiaries, 
joint venture and associate are prepared for the 
same reporting period as of the Company. 
2.5	 	Critical estimates and judgements
	
	The 
preparation 
of 
the 
consolidated 
financial 
statements, in conformity with Ind AS, requires the 
management to make judgements, estimates and 
assumptions that affects the reported amounts 
of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, the 
accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of 
contingent liabilities as at the date of the consolidated 
financial statements. 
	
	Future results could differ from these estimates. 
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. The effects of changes in accounting 
estimates are reflected in the consolidated financial 
statements in the period in which estimates are revised 
and, if material, are disclosed in the consolidated 
financial statements.
	
	Significant areas of estimation of uncertainty and critical 
judgments in applying accounting policies that have the 
most significant effect on the amounts recognised in 
the consolidated financial statements, are:
•	
	 Impairment assessment of goodwill, including 
the assessment of Cash Generating Units and 
intangible assets under development (Refer note 
2.6);
•	
	 Revenue recognition and related cost estimation 
(Refer note 2.17);
•	
	 Share-based payments (Refer note 2.21);
•	
	 Provision for income tax and recoverability of 
deferred tax assets (Refer note 2.11);
•	
	 Fair Value measurement of financial instruments 
(Refer note 2.24); and
•	
	 Allowance for expected credit losses on trade 
receivables and unbilled revenue (Refer note 2.25).
320  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2.6	 	Business combinations and goodwill
	
	The Parent accounts for its business combinations under 
the acquisition method of accounting as prescribed 
under Ind As 103. The consideration transferred in a 
business combination is measured at fair value, which is 
calculated as the sum of the acquisition date fair value of 
the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred 
by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and 
the equity interest issued by the Group in exchange for 
control of the acquiree. Acquisition related costs are 
generally recognised in the consolidated statement of 
profit and loss as incurred.
	
	Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the 
consideration transferred, the amount of any non-
controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value 
of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the 
acquiree, if any, over the net of the acquisition date 
amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the 
liabilities assumed.
	
	When the consideration transferred by the Group in 
the business combination includes assets or liabilities 
resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, 
the contingent consideration is measured at its 
acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the 
consideration transferred in business combination. 
Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration 
that qualify as measurement period adjustments 
are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding 
adjustments against goodwill or capital reserve, as the 
case may be. Measurement period adjustments are 
adjustments that arise from the additional information 
obtained during the ‘measurement period’ (which 
cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) 
about facts and circumstances that existed as on the 
acquisition date. 
	
	The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value 
of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as 
measurement period adjustments and are classified 
as an asset or liability and are remeasured at fair value 
at subsequent reporting dates with the corresponding 
gain or loss being recognised in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss. 
	
	Where settlement of any part of cash consideration 
is deferred, the amounts payable in the future are 
discounted to their present value as at the acquisition 
date. The discount rate used generally reflects Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for risks 
specific to the liability where appropriate.
	
	After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost 
less any accumulated impairment losses. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, a cash-generating 
unit (‘CGU’) to which goodwill has been allocated is 
tested for impairment annually or more frequently if 
there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. 
Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly 
in the consolidated statement of profit and loss. 
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not 
reversed in the subsequent periods. For the purposes 
of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of 
the Group’s cash generating units that is expected to 
benefit from the synergies of the combination. 
2.7	 	Foreign currency translation
	
	Functional and presentation currency
	
	These consolidated financial statements are presented 
in “₹”, which is both the functional and presentation 
currency of the parent. For each entity in the Group, 
the Parent determines the functional currency. Items 
included in the financial statements of each entity are 
measured using that functional currency.
	
	Transactions and balances
	
	Foreign currency denominated monetary assets and 
liabilities are translated into the relevant functional 
currency at exchange rates prevailing at the balance 
sheet date. The gains or losses resulting from 
such translations are included in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss. Non-monetary assets 
and non-monetary liabilities denominated in a foreign 
currency and measured at fair value are translated at 
the exchange rate prevalent at the date when the fair 
value was determined. Non-monetary assets and non-
monetary liabilities denominated in a foreign currency 
and measured at historical cost are translated at the 
exchange rate prevalent at the date of the transaction.
	
	Exchange differences on settlement or translation of 
monetary items are recognised in profit or loss in the 
period in which they arise.
	
	Group companies
	
	The results and financial position of foreign operations 
(none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary 
economy) that have a functional currency different 
from the presentation currency are translated into the 
presentation currency as follows:
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  321 
•	
	 Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing 
rate at the date of balance sheet;
•	
	 Income and expenses are translated at average 
exchange rates;
•	
	 All resulting exchange differences are recognised 
in other comprehensive income and accumulated 
in the foreign currency translation reserve (FCTR) 
within other equity;
2.8	 	Property, plant and equipment
	
	Initial recognition and measurement
	
	The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment is 
recognised as an asset if, and only if, it is probable that 
future economic benefits associated with the item 
will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be 
measured reliably.
	
	Items of Property, plant and equipment (including 
capital work-in-progress) are measured at cost, less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, if 
any. Freehold land is carried at historical cost.
 
	
	Cost of an item of property, plant and equipment 
comprises its purchase price, including import duties 
and non-refundable purchase taxes, after deducting 
trade discounts and rebates, and any directly 
attributable costs of bringing the asset to the location 
and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating 
in the manner intended by management, and estimated 
costs of dismantling and removing the asset and 
restoring the site on which it is located.
	
	Subsequent measurement
	
	Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only if it meets 
the above initial recognition criteria as an asset.
	
	Depreciation
	
	Depreciation is calculated on the cost of items of 
property, plant and equipment less their estimated 
residual values using the straight-line method over the 
useful lives prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies 
Act, 2013 except in respect of the following categories 
of assets, in whose case the life of the assets has 
been assessed based on technical advice, taking into 
account the nature of the asset, the estimated usage 
of the asset, the operating conditions of the asset, 
past history of replacement, anticipated technological 
changes, manufacturers warranties and maintenance 
support. Freehold land is not depreciated.
Type of asset
Useful lives
Buildings
28 -50 years
Leasehold 
improvements
Shorter of lease term or 
estimated useful lives
Computers
3-5 years
Plant and equipment
10 years
Office equipment
3-5 years
Furniture and fixtures
3-10 years
Electrical installations
3-10 years
Vehicles
4-8 years
Tools and equipment
5 years
	
	An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are 
expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. 
Any gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of 
an item of property, plant and equipment is determined 
as the difference between the sales proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in ‘other 
income’ in the consolidated statement of profit and 
loss.
	
	The residual values, useful lives and methods of 
depreciation of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted 
prospectively, if appropriate.
2.9	 	Intangible assets
	
	Initial recognition and measurement:
	
	Intangible assets are measured at cost. 
	
	The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business 
combination, is initially recognised at their fair value at 
the date of acquisition. An intangible asset is recognised 
only if it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Group and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. 
	
	Subsequent measurement:
	
	Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets are 
measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
	
	Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only if it meets 
the above initial recognition criteria.
322  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
	Amortisation: Intangible assets are amortised over 
their estimated useful life on a straight-line basis as 
follows. Goodwill is not amortised.
Type of asset
Useful lives
Computer software
3 years/ Over the period of 
the respective project
Technology/
Intellectual property
2-6 years
Customer contracts
2-10 years
Other intangible 
assets
Over the period of the 
respective project
	
	An intangible asset is de-recognised on disposal, or 
when no future economic benefits are expected from 
use.
	
	Expenditure incurred towards development, if eligible 
for capitalisation, is carried as ‘intangible assets under 
development’ where such assets are not yet ready for 
their intended use.
	
	Amortisation methods and useful lives are reviewed at 
each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if 
appropriate
	
	Research and development costs
	
	Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development 
costs are expensed as incurred unless technical and 
commercial feasibility of the project is demonstrated, 
future economic benefits are probable, availability of 
resources to complete the asset is established, the 
Group has intention and ability to complete and use the 
asset and the costs are reliably measured, in which case 
such expenditure is capitalised. The amount capitalised 
comprises expenditure that can be directly attributed 
or allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis for 
creating, producing and making the asset ready for its 
intended use.
	
	Amortisation and impairment of development cost
	
	Following initial recognition of the development 
expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost 
less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses. Amortisation of the asset begins 
when development is complete, and the asset is 
available for use. It is amortised over the period of 
expected future benefit on a straight-line basis. 
Amortisation expense is recognised in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss unless such expenditure 
forms part of carrying value of another asset.
	
	During the period of development, the asset is tested 
for impairment annually or more frequently if indicators 
of impairment exist, in accordance with Ind AS 36.
2.10		Leases 
	
	A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys 
the right to control the use of an identified asset for a 
period of time in exchange for consideration. The Group 
assesses whether a contract contains a lease, at the 
inception of a contract. 
	
	At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Group recognises a right of use asset (‘ROU’) and a 
corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements 
in which it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of 
twelve months or less (short-term leases) and low value 
leases. For these short-term and low value leases, the 
Group recognises the lease payments as an operating 
expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
lease. 
	
	The Group has several lease contracts that include 
extension and termination options. Management 
exercises significant judgement in determining whether 
these extension and termination options are reasonably 
certain to be exercised. 
i)	
	 Right-of-use assets
	
	 The right-of-use assets are initially recognised at 
cost, which comprises the initial amount of the 
lease liability adjusted for any lease payments 
made at or prior to the commencement date of 
the lease plus any initial direct costs, and less any 
lease incentives received. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses, if any and adjusted for any 
remeasurement of lease liabilities.
	
	 Right of use assets are depreciated from the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and useful life 
of the underlying asset. Right of use assets are 
evaluated for recoverability whenever events 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  323 
or changes in circumstances indicate that their 
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The 
right of use assets are also subject to impairment. 
Refer to the accounting policies in note 2.26.
 
ROU asset
Useful lives
Leasehold land
15-33 years
Buildings
2-15 years
Computers
2-5 years
Vehicles
3 years
ii)	
	 Lease liabilities
	
	 The lease liability is initially measured at amortised 
cost, being the present value of the future lease 
payments. The lease payments are discounted 
using the interest rate implicit in the lease or the 
Company’s incremental borrowing rate in the 
country of domicile of the leases at the lease 
commencement date if the interest rate implicit 
is not readily determinable. 
	
	
	
	 Lease payments are allocated between the 
principal and the interest cost. The interest cost 
is charged to the consolidated statement of 
profit and loss over the lease period. After the 
commencement date, the amount of the lease 
liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of 
interest and reduced by the lease payments made 
and any change in the assessment of extension 
or termination options. Lease liabilities are 
remeasured with a corresponding adjustment 
to the related right-of-use asset if there is a 
modification, a change in the lease term, a change 
in the lease payments (e.g., changes to future 
payments resulting from a change in an index or 
rate used to determine such lease payments).
	
	 Lease liability and ROU assets have been 
separately presented in the consolidated balance 
sheet and lease payments have been classified as 
financing cash flows.
	
	 Short-term leases and leases of low-value 
assets
	
	 The 
Group 
applies 
the 
short-term 
lease 
recognition exemption to leases that have 
a lease term of 12 months or less from the 
commencement date and do not contain a 
purchase option. It also applies the low-value 
lease recognition exemption to leases of office 
equipment and other items that are considered 
to be of low value. Lease payments on short-
term leases and leases of low-value assets are 
recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term.
	
	 Lease and non-lease component
	
	 As per Ind AS 116, “As a practical expedient, a 
lessee may elect, by class of underlying asset, 
not to separate non-lease components from 
lease components, and instead account for each 
lease component and any associated non-lease 
components as a single lease component. The 
Group has not opted for this practical expedient 
and has accounted for Lease component only.
2.11		Income taxes
	
	The income tax expense or credit for the period 
is the tax payable on the taxable income based on 
the applicable income tax rate for each jurisdiction 
adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities 
attributable to temporary differences and to unused tax 
losses.
	
	Current and deferred tax is recognised in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss, except to 
the extent that it relates to items recognised in other 
comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case, 
the tax is recognised in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity, respectively.
	
	The current tax and deferred tax is calculated on the 
basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted 
at the end of the reporting period in the countries where 
the Parent and its subsidiaries operate and generate 
taxable income.
	
	Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet 
method, on temporary differences arising between 
the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the consolidated financial statements. 
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised 
if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill. 
Deferred tax is also not accounted for if it arises from 
324  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
initial recognition of an asset or liability, in a transaction 
other than a business combination that at the time of 
the transaction affects neither accounting profit nor 
taxable profit/loss. 
	
	Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not recognised for 
temporary differences between the carrying amount 
and tax bases of investments in subsidiaries, branches 
and associates and interest in joint arrangements where 
the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of 
the temporary differences and it is probable that the 
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
	
	Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences and unused tax losses, only if, it 
is probable that future taxable amounts will be available 
to utilise those temporary differences and losses. 
	
	Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate 
to the same taxation authority. Current tax assets and 
tax liabilities are offset where the entity has a legally 
enforceable right to offset and intends either to settle 
on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the 
liability simultaneously.
	
	In the situations where one or more entities in the 
Group are entitled to a tax holiday under the Income 
tax Act, 1961 enacted in India or tax laws prevailing in 
the respective tax jurisdictions where they operate, 
no deferred tax (asset or liability) is recognised in 
respect of temporary differences which reverse during 
the tax holiday period, to the extent the concerned 
entity’s gross total income is subject to the deduction 
during the tax holiday period. Deferred tax in respect 
of temporary differences which reverse after the 
tax holiday period is recognised in the year in which 
the temporary differences originate. However, the 
Group restricts recognition of deferred tax assets to 
the extent it is probable that sufficient future taxable 
income will be available against which such deferred 
tax assets can be realized. For recognition of deferred 
taxes, the temporary differences which originate first 
are considered to reverse first.
2.12		Inventories
	
	Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. 
	
	
	
	Costs of inventories are determined on a weighted 
average basis. Net realisable value represents the 
estimated selling price for inventories less all estimated 
costs of completion and costs necessary to make the 
sale.
	
	Inventories are valued in accordance with the below 
method of valuation.
i)	
	 Raw materials and consumables: Valued at cost 
or net realisable value whichever is less. Cost 
includes purchase costs and other costs incurred 
in bringing the inventories to their present 
location and condition.
ii)	
	 Stores and spares: Valued at cost. Cost includes 
purchase costs and other costs incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition.
iii)	 	 Work-in-progress and finished Goods: Valued 
at cost or net realisable value whichever is less. 
Costs includes direct material costs, wages and 
applicable overheads.
2.13		Cash and cash equivalents
	
	Cash comprises cash on hand, cash in banks, demand 
deposits with banks and with financial institutions. The 
Group considers all highly liquid financial instruments, 
which are readily convertible into cash and have original 
maturities of three months or less from the date of 
purchase, to be cash equivalents. Such cash equivalents 
are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
	
	For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement, Cash flows are reported using indirect 
method, whereby profit / (loss) after tax is adjusted for 
the effects of transaction of non- cash nature and any 
deferrals or accruals of past or future cash receipts or 
payments for the year. 
2.14		Equity share capital
	
	Ordinary shares are classified as equity. No gain or loss 
is recognised in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss on purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of 
equity instruments, except in case of employee stock 
options. Incremental costs directly attributable to the 
issuance of equity shares or buyback of equity shares 
are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of taxes.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  325 
2.15		Treasury shares
	
	The Group has created an Employee Benefit Trust 
(‘Trust’) for providing share-based payment to its 
employees. The Group uses Trust as a vehicle for 
distributing shares to employees under the employee 
remuneration schemes. The Trust buys shares of the 
Parent from the market, for giving shares to employees. 
The Group treats Trust as its extension and shares held 
by Trust are treated as treasury shares.
	
	Own equity instruments that are reacquired (treasury 
shares) are recognised at cost and deducted from 
equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on 
the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Parent’s 
own equity instruments. Any difference between the 
carrying amount and the consideration, if reissued, is 
recognised in capital reserve. Share options exercised 
during the reporting period are satisfied with treasury 
shares.
2.16		Provisions and contingent liabilities
	
	Provisions
	
	Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
legal or constructive obligation as a result of past 
events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be 
required to settle the obligation, and the amount can be 
reliably estimated. 
	
	Provisions are measured at the present value of 
management’s best estimate of the expenditure 
required to settle the present obligation at the end of the 
reporting period. The discount rate used to determine 
the present value is a pre-tax rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the liability. The increase in the 
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as 
an interest expense. Provisions are not recognised for 
future operating losses.
	
	Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when 
the expected benefits to be desired by the Group from a 
contract are lower than unavoidable costs of meeting to 
future obligations under the contract and are measured 
at the present value of lower than expected net cost of 
fulfilling the contract and expected cost of terminating 
the contract.
	
	Contingent liabilities
	
	A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises 
from past events, the occurrence or non-occurrence of 
which is dependent on the happening of one or more 
uncertain future events not wholly within the control 
of the entity; or a present obligation arising from past 
events with no probability of future outflow of economic 
benefits or the outflow cannot be estimated reliably.
	
	Contingent liabilities do not warrant provisions but are 
disclosed unless the possibility of outflow of resources 
is remote.
	
	Provisions and Contingent liabilities are reviewed at 
each reporting date.
2.17		Revenue recognition
	
	Revenue from contract with customers is recognised 
by applying revenue recognition criteria specified in Ind 
AS 115 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” for 
each distinct performance obligation. The arrangement 
with customers specifies services to be rendered which 
meet criteria of performance obligations. Revenue 
towards satisfaction of a performance obligation is 
measured at the amount of transaction price (net of 
variable consideration) allocated to that performance 
obligation. The method for recognising revenues and 
costs depends on the nature of services rendered as 
mentioned below:
i)	
	 Time and material: Revenue from time and 
material contracts are recognised as the related 
services are performed, which is pursued based 
on the efforts spent and agreed rate with the 
customer. Revenue from the end of the last 
invoicing to the reporting date is recognised as 
unbilled revenue.
ii)	
	 Fixed price contracts: Revenue from fixed price 
contracts is recognised as per the ‘percentage-
of-completion’ method, where the performance 
obligations are satisfied over time and when 
there is no uncertainty as to measurement or 
collectability of consideration. When there is 
uncertainty as to measurement or ultimate 
collectability, revenue recognition is postponed 
326  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
until such uncertainty is resolved. Percentage of 
completion is determined based on the project 
costs incurred to date as a percentage of total 
estimated project costs required to complete 
the project. The input method has been used to 
measure the progress towards completion as 
there is direct relationship between input and 
productivity. In certain projects, a fixed quantum 
of service or output units is agreed at a fixed price. 
In such contracts, revenue is recognised with 
respect to the actual output achieved till date as 
a percentage of total contractual output.
iii)	 	 Maintenance contracts: Revenue from fixed price 
maintenance contracts are recognised pro-rata 
over the term of the maintenance arrangement.
iv)	 	 Sale of products: Revenue from sale of products 
is recognised at the point in time when control of 
the asset is transferred to the customer, generally 
on delivery of the products.
	
	 Contract modifications are accounted for when 
additions, deletions or changes are approved 
either to the contract scope or contract price. 
The accounting for modifications of contracts 
involves assessing whether the services added 
to an existing contract are distinct and whether 
the pricing is at the standalone selling price. 
Services that are not distinct are accounted for 
on a cumulative catchup basis, while those that 
are distinct are accounted for prospective, either 
as a separate contract, if the additional services 
are priced at the standalone selling price, or as 
a termination of existing contract and creation 
of a new contract if not priced at the standalone 
selling price.
	
	
	 The Group accounts for volume discounts and 
pricing incentives to customers as a reduction 
of revenue based on the ratable allocation of 
discounts/incentives to each of the underlying 
performance obligations that corresponds to the 
progress by the customer towards earning the 
discount/incentive.
	
	 The Group presents revenues net of indirect taxes 
in the consolidated statement of profit and loss.
	
	 Trade receivables and contract balances:
	
	 The timing of revenue recognition, billings and 
cash collections results in receivables, contract 
assets, and unearned revenue on the Group’s 
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Amounts are billed 
as work-in-progress in accordance with agreed-
upon contractual terms, either at periodic 
intervals or upon achievement of contractual 
milestones.
	
	 The Group classifies the right to consideration in 
exchange for deliverables as either a receivable 
or as contract assets. A receivable is a right to 
consideration that is unconditional upon passage 
of time. Revenue recognized in excess of invoicing 
are classified as contract assets while invoicing 
in excess of revenue are classified as contract 
liabilities.
	
	 Trade receivables and contract assets are 
presented net of impairment in the consolidated 
Balance Sheet.
	
	 The Group accounts for the deferred contract 
costs, upfront costs incurred for the contract, 
on a systematic amortisation that is consistent 
with the transfer to the customer of the goods or 
services to which the asset relates.
2.18		Other income
	
	Interest income from a financial asset is recognised 
when it is probable that the economic benefits will 
flow to the Group and the amount of income can be 
measured reliably.
	
	Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis 
considering the amount outstanding and rate applicable 
in the transaction.
	
	Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on net 
basis. This includes the changes in the fair value of 
foreign exchange derivative instruments, which are 
accounted at fair value through consolidated statement 
of profit and loss.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  327 
2.19		Government grants/incentives
	
	Government grants are recognised when there is a 
reasonable assurance that, the conditions attached to 
it shall be complied with; and the grant will be received.
	
	Export entitlements from government authorities are 
recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and 
loss when the right to receive credit as per the terms 
of the scheme is established in respect of the exports 
made by the Group, and where there is no significant 
uncertainty regarding the ultimate collection of the 
relevant export proceeds. Grants are recognised net of 
attributable expenses.
2.20		Employee benefits 
	
	Short-term employee benefits:
	
	Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the 
related service is provided. A liability is recognised for 
the amount expected to be paid if the Company has 
a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this 
amount as a result of past service provided by the 
employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
	
	The Company’s contributions to defined contribution 
plans are charged to the consolidated statement of 
profit and loss as and when the services are received 
from the employees. Employee benefits include 
provident fund, superannuation fund, employee’s state 
insurance scheme, gratuity fund, pension and deferred 
compensation, compensated absences and other 
short-term benefits.
	
	Long term employee benefit obligations:
	
	Compensated absences
	
	The employees of the Group are entitled to 
compensated 
absences. 
The 
employees 
can 
carry-forward a portion of the unutilised accrued 
compensated absence and utilise it in future periods or 
receive cash compensation at retirement or termination 
of employment. The Group records an obligation for 
compensated absences in the period in which the 
employee renders the services that increase this 
entitlement. The Group measures the expected cost 
of compensated absence based on actuarial valuation 
made by an independent actuary as at the balance sheet 
date on projected unit credit method.
	
	Post-employment obligations
	
	The Group operates the following post-employment 
schemes:
i)	
	 Defined benefit plans
	
	 Gratuity, pension and deferred compensation
	
	 The Group accounts for its liability towards 
gratuity, pension and deferred compensation 
(‘post- employment benefits plan’) based on 
actuarial valuation made by an independent 
actuary as at the balance sheet date using 
projected unit credit method. The liability 
recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the 
post- employment benefits plan is the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation at the end 
of the reporting period less the fair value of the 
plan assets.
	
	 The present value of the defined benefit 
obligation is determined by discounting the 
estimated future cash outflows by reference 
to market yields at the end of the reporting 
period on government bonds that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related 
obligation.  The net interest cost is calculated by 
applying the discount rate to the net balance of 
the defined obligation and the fair value of plan 
assets. This cost is included in the employee 
benefit expense in the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss. Remeasurement gains and 
losses arising from experience adjustments and 
changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised 
in the period in which they occur, directly in 
other comprehensive income.  Changes in the 
present value of the defined benefit obligation 
resulting from plan amendments or curtailments 
are recognised immediately in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss as past service cost.
ii)	
	 Defined contribution plans
	
	 Contributions in respect of provident fund and 
pension fund which are defined contribution 
schemes, are made to a fund administered and 
managed by the Government of India and are 
charged as an expense based on the amount 
of contribution required to be made and when 
service are rendered by the employees.
328  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
	 Contributions under the superannuation plan 
which is a defined contribution scheme, are made 
to a fund administered and managed by the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India and are charged as 
an expense based on the amount of contribution 
required to be made and when services are 
rendered by the employees.
	
	 The Group provides a defined contribution 
plan benefit such as 401(K) benefit plan to all 
of its eligible employees of subsidiaries and are 
charged as an expense based on the amount 
of contribution required to be made and when 
services are rendered by the employees.
	
	 Medical insurance plan
	
	 In Cyient Inc., medical insurance plan is offered 
to the associates on self-insured basis which 
consists of fixed costs of administration charges 
and stop loss insurance that are charged on a per 
associate basis and monthly claims being settled 
from consolidated fund maintained by third party 
insurance fund. At the end of every calendar year, 
the insurance agency provides an estimate of 
“Claims Not Yet Received” computed on actuarial 
valuation based on number of associates and 
claims received over the last 12 months. This 
estimate is extrapolated on the basis of the closing 
enrolments as of March 31 and the management 
creates a liability for medical expenses.
2.21		Share-based payments
	
	Certain employees of the Group receive remuneration in 
the form of share-based payments, whereby employees 
render services as consideration for equity instruments.
	
	Equity settled share-based payment transactions:
	
	The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined 
by the fair value at the date when the grant is made 
using a Black Scholes model.
	
	That cost is recognised, together with a corresponding 
increase in employees stock option reserves in equity, 
over the period in which the performance and/or service 
conditions are fulfilled in employee benefits expense. 
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled 
transactions at each reporting date until the vesting 
date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has 
expired and the Group’s best estimate of the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The 
expense or credit in the consolidated statement of 
profit and loss for a period represents the movement 
in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning 
and end of that period and is recognised in employee 
benefits expense.
	
	Service and non-market performance conditions are 
not taken into account when determining the grant 
date fair value of awards, but the likelihood of the 
conditions being met is assessed as part of the Group’s 
best estimate of the number of equity instruments that 
will ultimately vest. Market performance conditions 
are reflected within the grant date fair value. Any 
other conditions attached to an award, but without an 
associated service requirement, are considered to be 
non-vesting conditions. Non-vesting conditions are 
reflected in the fair value of an award and lead to an 
immediate expensing of an award unless there are also 
service and/or performance conditions.
	
	At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its 
estimate of the number of equity instruments expected 
to vest. The impact of the original estimates, if any, 
is recognised in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss statement such that the cumulative expense 
reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding 
adjustment to the share-based payments reserve in 
equity. Equity settlement component is not remeasured 
at each reporting date.
	
	The dilutive effect of outstanding options if any is 
reflected as additional share dilution in the computation 
of diluted earnings per share.
2.22		Earnings per share
	
	Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the consolidated net 
profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Group 
by the weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the year excluding treasury shares.
	
	Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting the consolidated 
net profit attributable to equity shareholders and 
the weighted average number of shares outstanding 
during the year are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive 
potential equity shares, which includes all stock options 
granted to employees and Restricted Share Units 
(‘RSU’s’) outstanding.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  329 
2.23		Operating segments
	
	Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the 
chief operating decision maker (CODM).
	
	The Group’s CODM is the Executive Vice Chairman and 
Managing Director who evaluates Group’s performance 
and allocates resources based on analysis of various 
performance indicators by business verticals and 
geographical segmentation of customers. Refer note 
30 for segment information.
2.24		Financial instruments
i)	
	 Initial recognition
	
	 Financial assets and financial liabilities are 
recognised when a Group becomes a party to 
the contractual provisions of the instruments. 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially 
measured at fair value and subsequently measured 
at amortised cost, fair value through other 
comprehensive income (‘FVTOCI’) and fair value 
through profit or loss (‘FVTPL’). The classification 
of financial assets at initial recognition depends 
on the financial asset’s contractual cash flow 
characteristics and the Group’s business model 
for managing them. With the exception of trade 
receivables that do not contain a significant 
financing component or for which the Group 
has applied the practical expedient, the Group 
initially measures a financial asset at its fair 
value plus, in the case of a financial asset not 
at fair value through profit or loss, transaction 
costs. Transaction costs directly attributable 
to the acquisition of financial assets or financial 
liabilities at FVTPL are recognised immediately 
in the consolidated statement of profit and loss. 
Trade receivables that do not contain a significant 
financing component or for which the Group has 
applied the practical expedient are measured at 
the transaction price determined under Ind AS 
115. Refer to the accounting policies for revenue 
in note 2.16.
ii)	
	 Subsequent measurement
a.	 	 Non-derivative financial instruments
•	
Financial assets carried at amortised 
cost: A financial asset is subsequently 
measured at amortised cost if it is 
held within a business model whose 
objective is to hold the asset in order 
to collect contractual cash flows and 
the contractual terms of the financial 
asset give rise on specified dates to 
cash flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding.
•	
Financial assets at FVTOCI:  A 
financial 
asset 
is 
subsequently 
measured at FVTOCI if it is held within 
a business model whose objective 
is 
achieved 
by 
both 
collecting 
contractual cash flows and selling 
financial assets and the contractual 
terms of the financial asset give 
rise on specified dates to cash 
flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding. The Group has 
made an irrevocable election for its 
investments which are classified as 
equity instruments to present the 
subsequent changes in fair value in 
other comprehensive income based 
on its business model.
•	
Financial assets at FVTPL: Financial 
assets which are not classified in 
any of the above categories are 
subsequently fair valued through 
profit or loss.
•	
Financial 
liabilities: 
Financial 
liabilities are subsequently carried at 
amortised cost using the effective 
interest 
method, 
except 
for 
contingent consideration recognised 
in a business combination which is 
subsequently measured at fair value 
through consolidated statement of 
profit and loss. For trade and other 
payables maturing within one year 
from the balance sheet date, the 
carrying amounts approximate fair 
value due to the short maturity of 
these instruments.   
330  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
b.	 	 Derivative financial instruments
	
	 The Group enters into a variety of 
derivative financial instruments to manage 
its exposure to interest rate and foreign 
exchange rate risks, including foreign 
exchange forward contracts.
	
	 Derivatives are initially recognised at fair 
value at the date the derivative contracts 
are entered into and are subsequently 
remeasured to their fair value at the end of 
each reporting period. The resulting gain 
or loss is recognised in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss immediately 
unless the derivative is designated and 
effective as a hedging instrument, in which 
event the timing of the recognition in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss 
depends on the nature of the hedging 
relationship and the nature of the hedged 
item.
	
	 Effective interest method
	
	 The effective interest method is a method 
of calculating the amortised cost of a 
debt instrument and of allocating interest 
income/expense over the relevant period. 
The effective interest rate is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts (including all fees and points paid 
or received that form an integral part of the 
effective interest rate, transaction costs 
and other premiums or discounts) through 
the expected life of the debt instrument, or, 
where appropriate, a shorter period, to the 
net carrying amount on initial recognition.
	
	 Income is recognised on an effective 
interest basis for debt instruments other 
than those financial assets classified as at 
FVTPL. Interest income is recognised in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss 
and is included in ‘Other income’.
c.	 	 Hedge accounting
	
	 The Group designates derivative contracts 
in a cash flow hedging relationship by 
applying the hedge accounting principles 
designated in a hedging relationship, used 
to hedge its risks associated with foreign 
currency fluctuations relating to certain 
highly probable forecast transactions.
	
	 At the inception of the hedge relationship, 
the Group documents the relationship 
between the hedging instrument and the 
hedged item, along with its risk management 
objectives and its strategy for undertaking 
various hedge transactions. Furthermore, 
at the inception of the hedge and on an 
ongoing basis, the Group documents 
whether the hedging instrument is highly 
effective in offsetting changes in fair 
values or cash flows of the hedged item 
attributable to the hedged risk.
	
	 These derivative contracts are stated at the 
fair value at each reporting date.
	
	 The effective portion of changes in the fair 
value of derivatives that are designated and 
qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised 
in 
other 
comprehensive 
income 
and 
accumulated under cash flow hedge reserve. 
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective 
portion is recognised immediately in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss.
	
	 Amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated 
in equity relating to effective portion (as 
described above) are reclassified to the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss in 
the periods when the hedged item affects 
profit or loss. 
	
	 Hedge accounting is discontinued when 
the hedging instrument expires or is sold, 
terminated, or exercised, or when it no 
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. 
Any gain or loss recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in 
equity at that time remains in equity and is 
recognised when the forecast transaction 
is ultimately recognised in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss. When a 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  331 
forecast transaction is no longer expected 
to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in 
equity is recognised immediately in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss.
d.	 	 De-recognition of financial assets and 
liabilities
	
	 Financial assets
	
	 The 
Group 
de-recognises 
a 
financial 
asset when the contractual rights to 
the cash flows from the asset expire, or 
when it transfers the financial asset and 
substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of the asset to another party. If 
the Group retains substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership of a transferred 
financial asset, the Group continues to 
recognise the financial asset and also 
recognises a collateralised borrowing for 
the proceeds received.
	
	 On de-recognition of a financial asset in 
its entirety, the difference between the 
asset’s carrying amount and the sum of 
the consideration received and receivable 
and the cumulative gain or loss that had 
been recognised in other comprehensive 
income and accumulated in equity is 
recognised in the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss if such gain or loss would 
have otherwise been recognised in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss 
on disposal of that financial asset.
	
	 Financial liabilities
	
	 The 
Group 
de-recognises 
financial 
liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s 
obligations are discharged, cancelled or 
have expired. The difference between the 
carrying amount of the financial liability de-
recognised and the consideration paid and 
payable is recognised in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss.
e.	 	 Foreign exchange gains and losses
•	
For foreign currency denominated 
financial 
assets 
measured 
at 
amortised cost and FVTPL, the 
exchange differences are recognised 
in the consolidated statement of 
profit and loss except for those 
which are designated as hedging 
instruments in a hedging relationship.
•	
Changes in the carrying amount of 
investments in equity instruments at 
FVTOCI relating to changes in foreign 
currency rates are recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
•	
For 
financial 
liabilities 
that 
are 
denominated in a foreign currency 
and are measured at amortised cost 
at the end of each reporting period, 
the foreign exchange gains and 
losses are determined based on the 
amortised cost of the instruments 
and are recognised in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss.
•	
The fair value of financial liabilities 
denominated in a foreign currency is 
determined in that foreign currency 
and translated at the spot rate at 
the end of the reporting period. For 
financial liabilities that are measured 
as at FVTPL, the foreign exchange 
component forms part of the fair 
value gains or losses and is recognised 
in the consolidated statement of 
profit and loss.
2.25		Determination of fair values
	
	In 
determining 
the 
fair 
value 
of 
its 
financial 
instruments, the Group uses a variety of methods and 
assumptions that are based on market conditions and 
risks existing at each reporting date. The methods 
used to determine fair value include discounted cash 
flow analysis, available quoted market prices and dealer 
quotes. All methods of assessing fair value result in 
general approximation of value, and such value may 
never actually be realised.
	
	Fair value is the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date, regardless of whether that price is 
332  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
directly observable or estimated using another valuation 
technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a 
liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics 
of asset or liability of market participants when pricing 
the asset or liability at the measurement date. 
	
	Fair 
value 
for 
measurement 
and/or 
disclosure 
purposes in these consolidated financial statements 
is determined on such a basis, except for share-
based payment transactions that are within the scope 
of Ind AS 102, leasing transactions that are within 
the scope of Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’, and measurements 
that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair 
value, such as net realisable value in Ind AS 2 ‘Inventories’ 
or value in use in Ind AS 36 ‘ Impairment of Assets’.
	
	In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value 
measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2, or 3 
based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value 
measurements are observable and the significance of 
the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, 
which are described as follows:
•	
	 Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
that the entity can access at the measurement 
date.
•	
	 Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices 
included within Level 1, that are observable for the 
asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and
•	
Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset 
or liability.
2.26		Impairment of assets
i)	
	 Financial assets
	
	 The Group recognises loss allowances using 
the expected credit loss (‘ECL’) model for the 
financial assets which are not fair valued through 
consolidated statement of profit and loss. Loss 
allowance for trade receivables with no significant 
financing component is measured at an amount 
equal to lifetime ECL. For all other financial assets, 
expected credit losses are measured at an amount 
equal to the 12 months ECL, unless there has 
been a significant increase in credit risk from initial 
recognition in which case those are measured 
at lifetime ECL. The amount of expected credit 
losses (or reversal) that is required to adjust the 
loss allowance at the reporting date to the amount 
that is required to be recognised as an impairment 
gain or loss in the consolidated statement of 
profit and loss.
	
	 For trade receivables, the Group applies the 
simplified approach permitted by Ind AS 109 
‘Financial Instruments’, which requires expected 
lifetime losses to be recognised from initial 
recognition of the receivables. As a practical 
expedient, the Group uses a provision matrix 
to determine impairment loss of its trade 
receivables. The provision matrix is based on 
its historically observed default rates over the 
expected life of the trade receivable and is 
adjusted for forward looking estimates. The 
ECL loss allowance (or reversal) during the year 
is recognised in the consolidated statement of 
profit and loss.
ii)	
	 Non-financial assets
	
	 Other intangible assets, intangible assets under 
development, property, plant and equipment, 
capital work-in-progress and ROU assets are 
evaluated for recoverability whenever events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that their 
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable 
amount (i.e. the higher of the fair value less cost 
to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an 
individual asset basis unless the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are largely independent 
of those from other assets. In such cases, the 
recoverable amount is determined for the cash 
generating unit (‘CGU’) to which the asset 
belongs. Intangible assets under development are 
tested for impairment annually. The Group bases 
its impairment calculation on detailed budgets 
and forecast calculations, which are prepared 
separately for each of the Group’s CGUs to which 
the individual assets are allocated.
	
	 If such assets are considered to be impaired, the 
impairment to be recognised in the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss is measured by the 
amount by which the carrying value of the assets 
exceeds the estimated recoverable amount 
of the asset. An impairment loss is reversed in 
the consolidated statement of profit and loss if 
there has been a change in the estimates used to 
determine the recoverable amount. The carrying 
amount of the asset is increased to its revised 
recoverable amount, provided that this amount 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  333 
does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined (net of any accumulated 
amortisation or depreciation) had no impairment 
loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
2.27		Fair value measurement
	
	In determining the fair value of its financial instruments, 
the Group uses a variety of methods and assumptions 
that are based on market conditions and risks 
existing at each reporting date. The methods used 
to determine fair value include discounted cash flow 
analysis, available quoted market prices and dealer 
quotes. All methods of assessing fair value result in 
general approximation of value, and such value may 
never actually be realised.
	
	Fair value’ is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date in the principal or, in its absence, 
the most advantageous market to which the Group 
has access at that date. The fair value of a liability 
reflects its non-performance risk. All assets and 
liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed 
in the financial statements are categorised within the 
fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole:
Level 1 - 		 Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in 
active markets for identical assets or 
liabilities.
Level 2 - 		 Valuation techniques for which the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement is directly or indirectly 
observable.
Level 3 - 		 Valuation techniques for which the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement is unobservable.
	
	
	Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure 
purposes in these consolidated financial statements 
is determined on such a basis, except for share-based 
payment transactions that are within the scope of Ind 
AS 102, leasing transactions that are within the scope 
of Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’, and measurements that have 
some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, 
such as net realisable value in Ind AS 2 ‘Inventories’ or 
value in use in Ind AS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’.
	
	For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the 
financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group 
determines whether transfers have occurred between 
levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each 
reporting period.
2.28		Dividend to equity holders
	
	The Group recognises a liability to pay a dividend when 
the distribution is authorised and the distribution is no 
longer at the discretion of the Group.
	
	The final dividend on shares is recorded as a liability on 
the date of approval by the shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting and interim dividends are recorded as 
a liability on the date of declaration by the Company’s 
Board of Directors. Dividend payments are accounted as 
an appropriation, presented as part of the other equity.
	
	The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian 
rupees. Companies are required to pay / distribute 
dividend 
after 
deducting 
applicable 
taxes. 
The 
remittance of dividends outside India is governed by 
Indian law on foreign exchange and is also subject to 
withholding tax at applicable rates.
2.29		New and amended standards
	
	The Company applied for the first-time certain 
standards and amendments, which are effective for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 April 2024. 
The Company has not early adopted any standard, 
interpretation or amendment that has been issued but 
is not yet effective.
i.	
	 Amendments to Ind AS 116 Leases – Lease 
Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
	
	 The MCA notified the Companies (Indian 
Accounting 
Standards) 
Second 
Amendment 
Rules, 2024, which amend Ind AS 116, Leases, with 
respect to Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback.
	
	 The amendment specifies the requirements that 
a seller-lessee uses in measuring the lease liability 
arising in a sale and leaseback transaction, to 
ensure the seller-lessee does not recognise any 
amount of the gain or loss that relates to the right 
of use it retains.
334  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3A. Property, plant and equipment
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at  
March 31, 2024
Asset class wise net book values:
Freehold land
 16 
 16 
Buildings
 2,031 
 2,067 
Leasehold improvements
 93 
 53 
Computers
 539 
 550 
Plant and equipments
 1,339 
 1,042 
Office equipments
 175 
 165 
Furniture and fixtures
 248 
 256 
Electrical installations
 187 
 153 
Vehicles 
 40 
 65 
Tools and equipments
 77 
 95 
Total
 4,745 
 4,462 
	
	 The amendment is effective for annual reporting 
periods beginning on or after 1 April 2024 and 
must be applied retrospectively to sale and 
leaseback transactions entered into after the date 
of initial application of Ind AS 116.
	
	 The amendments do not have a material impact 
on the Group’s financial statements.
ii.	
 	 Ind AS 117 Insurance Contracts
	
	 The 
Ministry 
of 
Corporate 
Affairs 
(MCA) 
notified the Ind AS 117, Insurance Contracts, 
vide notification dated 12 August 2024, under 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Amendment Rules, 2024, which is effective from 
annual reporting periods beginning on or after 
1 April 2024.
	
	 Ind AS 117 Insurance Contracts is a comprehensive 
new accounting standard for insurance contracts 
covering 
recognition 
and 
measurement, 
presentation and disclosure. Ind AS 117 replaces 
Ind AS 104 Insurance Contracts. Ind AS 117 applies 
to all types of insurance contracts, regardless of 
the type of entities that issue them as well as to 
certain guarantees and financial instruments with 
discretionary participation features; a few scope 
exceptions will apply. Ind AS 117 is based on a 
general model, supplemented by:
•  	 	 A specific adaptation for contracts with 
direct participation features (the variable fee 
approach)
•  	 	 A 
simplified 
approach 
(the 
premium 
allocation approach) mainly for short-
duration contracts
	
	 The application of Ind AS 117 is not applicable 
to the Group’s financial statements as it has 
not entered into any contracts in the nature of 
insurance contracts covered under Ind AS 117.
	
	 Standards notified but not yet effective:
	
	 There are no standards that are notified and not 
yet effective as on the date.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  335 
Notes: 
(a) Movement in the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is as below:
Particulars
Freehold 
land #1
Buildings#2
Leasehold 
improvements
Computers #3
Plant and 
equipments
Office 
equipments
Furniture and 
fixtures
Electrical 
installations
Vehicles
Tools and 
equipments
Total
I. Cost or deemed cost #4
 Balance as at April 1, 2023 
 16 
 3,235 
 225 
 2,667 
 2,605 
 898 
 1,025 
 662 
 121 
 210 
 11,664 
 Additions 
 - 
 104 
 3 
 196 
 257 
 80 
 54 
 13 
 23 
 29 
 759 
 Disposals 
 - 
 (8)
 (16)
 (892)
 (33)
 (48)
 (115)
 (23)
 (45)
 - 
 (1,180)
 Foreign currency translation 
adjustments 
 - 
 (2)
 2 
 4 
 9 
 4 
 4 
 1 
 - 
 - 
 22 
 Balance as at March 31, 2024 
 16 
 3,329 
 214 
 1,975 
 2,838 
 934 
 968 
 653 
 99 
 239 
 11,265 
 Additions 
 - 
 75 
 12 
 179 
 325 
 36 
 45 
 63 
 4 
 4 
 743 
 Additions through business 
combinations (refer note 33) 
 - 
 - 
 39 
 1 
 179 
 15 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 234 
 Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (253)
 (61)
 (46)
 (102)
 (18)
 (1)
 - 
 (481)
 Foreign currency translation 
adjustments 
 - 
 1 
 5 
 20 
 33 
 9 
 11 
 1 
 (2)
 - 
 78 
 Balance as at March 31, 2025 
 16 
 3,405 
 270 
 1,922 
 3,314 
 948 
 922 
 699 
 100 
 243 
 11,839 
II.  Accumulated depreciation
 Balance as at April 1, 2023 
 - 
 1,135 
 151 
 2,125 
 1,612 
 767 
 739 
 491 
 35 
 128 
 7,183 
 Depreciation charge for the year  
 - 
 135 
 24 
 166 
 202 
 45 
 62 
 28 
 31 
 16 
 709 
 Disposals 
 - 
 (8)
 (16)
 (864)
 (27)
 (47)
 (91)
 (17)
 (32)
 - 
 (1,102)
 Foreign currency translation 
adjustments 
 - 
 - 
 2 
 (2)
 9 
 4 
 2 
 (2)
 - 
 - 
 13 
 Balance as at March 31, 2024 
 - 
 1,262 
 161 
 1,425 
 1,796 
 769 
 712 
 500 
 34 
 144 
 6,803 
 Depreciation charge for the year  
 - 
 114 
 13 
 191 
 217 
 43 
 53 
 29 
 28 
 22 
 710 
 Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (249)
 (61)
 (46)
 (100)
 (18)
 (1)
 - 
 (475)
 Foreign currency translation 
adjustments 
 - 
 (2)
 3 
 16 
 23 
 7 
 9 
 1 
 (1)
 - 
 56 
 Balance as at March 31, 2025 
 - 
 1,374 
 177 
 1,383 
 1,975 
 773 
 674 
 512 
 60 
 166 
 7,094 
III.  Net book value (I-II)
As at March 31, 2024
 16 
 2,067 
 53 
 550 
 1,042 
 165 
 256 
 153 
 65 
 95 
 4,462 
 As at March 31, 2025 
 16 
 2,031 
 93 
 539 
 1,339 
 175 
 248 
 187 
 40 
 77 
 4,745 
#1. 	Includes ₹ 4 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 4) in respect of which land allocation letters have been received, pending completion of legal formalities relating to conveyance.	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
#2. 	Includes ₹ 1,241 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 1,290) relating to building constructed on leasehold land.
#3. 	During the earlier financial years, the Parent had entered into sale and leaseback transaction for sale of computers, as the transaction has not met conditions specified under Ind AS 115, these assets continued to 
be recognised under property, plant and equipment and financial liability equivalent to the sale consideration has been recognised in other financial liabilities. As at March 31, 2025, closing balance of the financial 
liabilities, net of repayment is ₹ 9 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 22) (refer note 16).
 	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
#4. 	On April 01, 2016 i.e. the date of transition to IND AS, the Group has opted to continue with carrying value of all Property, plant and equipment measured as per the previous GAAP and use that carrying value as the 
deemed cost of Property, plant and equipment.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
336  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3B. Leases
(a) 	 Right-of-use assets: 
	
Carrying amounts of right-of-use (‘ROU’) assets recognised and the movements during the year:
Particulars
Leasehold land
Buildings 
Computers
Vehicles
Total
Balance as at April 1, 2023
 370 
 1,101 
 1,293 
 6 
 2,770 
Additions
 - 
 1,575 
 83 
 3 
 1,661 
Deletions
 - 
 (123)
 - 
 (2)
 (125)
Depreciation charge for the year 
 (26)
 (661)
 (358)
 (4)
 (1,049)
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 - 
 14 
 1 
 (1)
 14 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 344 
 1,906 
 1,019 
 2 
 3,271 
Additions
 - 
 721 
 73 
 2 
 796 
Additions through business combinations 
(refer note 33)
 - 
 29 
 - 
 - 
 29 
Deletions
 - 
 (140)
 (136)
 - 
 (276)
Depreciation charge for the year 
 (26)
 (669)
 (334)
 (2)
 (1,031)
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 - 
 32 
 3 
 - 
 35 
Balance as at March 31, 2025
 318 
 1,879 
 625 
 2 
 2,824 
(b) 	 Current and non-current lease liabilities:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Current lease liabilities
 924 
 885 
Non-current lease liabilities
 2,072 
 2,465 
Total
 2,996 
 3,350 
(c) 	 Carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements during the year:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 3,350 
 2,842 
Additions
 796 
 1,661 
Additions through business combinations (refer note 33)
 41 
 - 
Deletions
 (301)
 (138)
Finance cost (refer note 26)
 215 
 219 
Payment of lease liabilities
 (1,140)
 (1,244)
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 35 
 10 
Balance at the end of the year
 2,996 
 3,350 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  337 
(d) 	 The table below provides details regarding contractual maturities of lease liabilities on an undiscounted basis:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Less than one year
 1,132 
 1,129 
One to five years
 1,894 
 2,406 
More than five years
 653 
 534 
Total
 3,679 
 4,069 
The Group does not face significant liquidity risk with regard to its lease liabilities, as the current assets are sufficient to meet the 
obligations related to lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
(e) 	 The following are the amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss:
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets (refer note 27)
 1,031 
 1,049 
Interest expense on lease liabilities (refer note 26)
 215 
 219 
Expense relating to short-term leases (lease term less than 12 months) 
and low value assets (included in other expenses) (refer note 28)
 199 
 189 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
3C. Capital work-in-progress (CWIP)
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Capital work-in-progress
 75 
 16 
(a) 	 Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) Ageing:
Particulars
Less than 1 year
1 - 2 years
Total
Balance as at March 31, 2025
Projects in progress
 67 
 8 
 75 
Total
 67 
 8 
 75 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
Projects in progress
 12 
 4 
 16 
Total
 12 
 4 
 16 
338  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(b) 	 Movement in carrying amount of capital work-in-progress:
Particulars
Amount
Balance as at April 1, 2023
 27 
Additions
 782 
Transferred to Property, plant & equipment
 (759)
Transferred to Computer software
 (34)
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 16 
Additions
 804 
Transferred to Property, plant & equipment
 (743)
Transferred to Computer software
 (2)
Balance as at March 31, 2025
 75 
	
	
	
4. Goodwill	
	
	
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Balance at beginning of the year
 16,692 
 16,363 
Additions through business combinations (refer note 33)
 724 
 - 
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 624 
 329 
Balance at end of the year
 18,040 
 16,692 
	
	
	
	
Impairment testing of Goodwill:	
	
	
	
	
	
In accordance with Ind AS 36 – Impairment of Assets, the Group tests goodwill for impairment annually and whenever there is 
an indication of impairment. Goodwill arising on acquisition is tested separately for impairment until the transition/integrations 
of operations is completed. Thereafter, it is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit (CGU) under the Group’s reportable 
segments which derives the benefit and represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management 
purposes.
	
	
	
	
	
	
Digital, Engineering & Technology (DET)	
	
	
	
	
	
Goodwill of ₹ 14,420 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 13,731) has been allocated to the DET segment (refer note 30 for segment details). Under 
this segment, CGUs have been identified based on past acquisitions. The recoverable amount of these CGUs has been determined 
using the value-in-use method, based on future cash flow projections approved by management for a five-year forecast period. 
Cash flows beyond this period are extrapolated using a terminal growth rate of 2%-3% and discount rates ranging from 15% to 18%. 
Key assumptions reflect past performance and external market data. A sensitivity analysis of the key assumptions (operating 
margin, discount rate, and growth rate) did not indicate any probable change that would result in the recoverable amount falling 
below the carrying amount of the CGU.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  339 
Design-Led Manufacturing (DLM)	
	
	
	
	
	
Goodwill of ₹ 3,258 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 2,608) has been allocated to the DLM segment (refer note 30 for segment details). The 
recoverable amount of the segment/CGU has been assessed based on its fair value less costs of disposal, derived from its 
market capitalisation, which exceeds the carrying amount of its net assets. As a result, no indicators of impairment have been 
identified.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Others Segment	 	
	
	
	
	
Goodwill of ₹ 362 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 353) has been allocated to the Others segment (refer note 30 for segment details). The 
recoverable amount of the CGU is based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections over a five-year forecast 
period. Cash flows beyond this period have been extrapolated using a terminal growth rate of 2% and a discount rate of 21%. 
A sensitivity analysis of the key assumptions (operating margin, discount rate, and growth rate) did not indicate any probable 
change that would result in the recoverable amount falling below the carrying amount of the CGU.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
5A. 	 Other Intangible assets
Asset class wise net book values:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Computer software
 102 
 232 
Technology/ Intellectual property
 1 
 8 
Customer contracts/ Customer relationships
 3,317 
 3,227 
Other intangible assets
 258 
 372 
Process know-how
 - 
 - 
Total
 3,678 
 3,839 
Movement in the carrying amount of intangible assets is as below:
Particulars
Computer 
software
Technology/ 
Intellectual 
property
Customer 
contracts/ 
Customer 
relationships
Other       
intangible 
assets
Process 
know-
how
Total
I. Cost or deemed cost
Balance as at April 1, 2023
 3,980 
 158 
 4,745 
 1,824 
 100 
 10,807 
Additions
 34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 34 
Disposals
 (1)
 - 
 (15)
 - 
 (100)
 (116)
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 (8)
 - 
 86 
 20 
 - 
 98 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 4,005 
 158 
 4,816 
 1,844 
 - 
 10,823 
Additions
 17 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 17 
Additions through business combinations 
(refer note 33)
 - 
 - 
 615 
 - 
 - 
 615 
Disposals#
 (3,115)
 - 
 - 
 (122)
 - 
 (3,237)
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 3 
 19 
 176 
 56 
 - 
 254 
Balance as at March 31, 2025
 910 
 177 
 5,607 
 1,778 
 - 
 8,472 
340  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Particulars
Computer 
software
Technology/ 
Intellectual 
property
Customer 
contracts/ 
Customer 
relationships
Other       
intangible 
assets
Process 
know-
how
Total
II.  Accumulated amortisation
Balance as at April 1, 2023
 3,630 
 131 
 992 
 1,322 
 100 
 6,175 
Amortisation for the year 
 153 
 19 
 595 
 142 
 - 
 909 
Disposals
 (1)
 - 
 (15)
 - 
 (100)
 (116)
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 (9)
 - 
 17 
 8 
 - 
 16 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 3,773 
 150 
 1,589 
 1,472 
 - 
 6,984 
Amortisation for the year 
 152 
 7 
 646 
 126 
 - 
 931 
Disposals#
 (3,115)
 - 
 - 
 (122)
 - 
 (3,237)
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 (2)
 19 
 55 
 44 
 - 
 116 
Balance as at March 31, 2025
 808 
 176 
 2,290 
 1,520 
 - 
 4,794 
III. Net book value (I-II)
As at March 31, 2024
 232 
 8 
 3,227 
 372 
 - 
 3,839 
As at March 31, 2025
 102 
 1 
 3,317 
 258 
 - 
 3,678 
# During the year, certain obsolete or non-operational computer softwares and other intangibles which were fully amortised and 
had a net book value of ₹ Nil, were disposed of from the intangible assets register.
5B. Intangible assets under development (IAUD)	
	
	
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Intangible assets under development
 714 
 558 
Intangible assets under development pertains to the development cost of software dedicated to the automation, management 
and monitoring of mobile networks.	 	
	
(a) Ageing of Intangible assets under development (IAUD):
Particulars
Less than  
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 
years
More than  
3 years
Total
Balance as at March 31, 2025
Project in progress
 155 
 141 
 127 
 291 
 714 
Total
 155 
 141 
 127 
 291 
 714 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
Project in progress
 137 
 124 
 119 
 178 
 558 
Total
 137 
 124 
 119 
 178 
 558 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  341 
(b) Movement in net book value of Intangible assets under development:		
	
Particulars
Amount
Balance as at April 01, 2023
 418 
Additions
 137 
Transferred to Other intangible assets
 - 
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 3 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 558 
Additions
 152 
Transferred to Computer software
 (15)
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 19 
Balance as at March 31, 2025
 714 
342  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. Investments
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Non-current 
Investments carried at equity method of accounting (refer note (a) below)
(i) Equity instruments of joint venture (unquoted)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive income 
('FVTOCI') (refer note (a) below)
(i) Equity instruments of other entities (unquoted)
 560 
 761 
 560 
 761 
Investments carried at amortised cost
(i) Investment in tax free bonds (quoted)
 1,035 
 1,614 
(ii) Investment in perpetual bonds (quoted)
 483 
 471 
 1,518 
 2,085 
Investments carried at fair value through profit and loss ('FVTPL') (refer note 
(a) below)
 (i) Equity instruments of other entities (unquoted)
 - 
 8 
(ii) Preferred instruments of other entities (unquoted)
 345 
 405 
(iii) Units of Partnership fund (unquoted)
 375 
 339 
 720 
 752 
Total non-current investments
 2,798 
 3,598 
Current
Investments carried at amortised cost
(i) Investment in perpetual bonds (quoted)
 - 
 102 
(ii) Investment in commercial paper (quoted)
 - 
 245 
(iii) Investment in tax free bonds (quoted)
 534 
 - 
 534 
 347 
Investment carried at fair value through profit and loss ('FVTPL')
(i) Investment in mutual funds (quoted)
 1,120 
 411 
 1,120 
 411 
Total current investments
 1,654 
 758 
Total  investments
 4,452 
 4,356 
Aggregate book value of quoted investments
 3,172 
 2,843 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 3,167 
 2,710 
Aggregate book value of unquoted investments
 1,280 
 1,513 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  343 
Notes:	
	
	
	
(a)	
Details of  investments 	
	
	
	
Particulars
 As at March 31, 2025 
 As at March 31, 2024 
 No. of shares 
 Amount 
 No. of shares 
 Amount 
Investments carried at equity method of accounting 
(i) Equity instruments of joint venture (unquoted) #1
Infotech HAL Limited, India (refer note 6(iv))
 2,000,000 
 - 
 2,000,000 
 - 
Investments carried at fair value through other comprehensive 
income
 (i) Equity instruments of other entities (unquoted)
Traffic master Plc., UK #2
 4,168 
 - 
 4,168 
 - 
Cardiac Design Labs Private Limited, India
 9,084 
 136 
 6,036 
 17 
Mysore ESDM Cluster, India
 3,193,237 
 3 
 3,193,237 
 3 
Qunu Labs Private Limited, India
 67,437 
 24 
 67,437 
 21 
Stuam Technologies Limited, India (formerly Innovation 
Communications Systems Private Limited) #3
 2,342,869 
 299 
 2,342,869 
 652 
IMEC.Xpand II, Belgium
 10,000 
 98 
 7,500 
 68 
 560 
 761 
Investment carried at fair value through profit and loss 
 (i) Equity instruments of other entities (unquoted)
Cardiac Design Labs Private Limited, India
 - 
 - 
 3,048 
 8 
 - 
 8 
(ii) Preferred instruments of other entities (unquoted)
Jana Care Inc., USA
 368,297 
 45 
 368,297 
 105 
Cylus Cyber Security Ltd., USA
 668,986 
 146 
 668,986 
 142 
Duskrise, Inc., USA
 42,171 
 154 
 42,171 
 158 
 345 
 405 
(iii) Units of Partnership fund (unquoted)
Vasuki 2019 SCSp, Luxembourg 
 NA 
 184 
 NA 
 167 
Star Burst, USA
 NA 
 191 
 NA 
 172 
 375 
 339 
Total
 720 
 752 
	
#1. 	During the year 2020-21, the Parent had impaired the carrying value of its investment in joint venture, which is currently 
under liquidation.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
#2. 	As at March 31, 2025, carrying value of equity instruments in Traffic master Plc. was ₹ 0.01 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 0.01), rounded 
off.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
#3. 	During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Group has recognised loss on fair valuation of its investment in Stuam 
Technologies Limited, India of ₹ 353 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 233) through other comprehensive income (OCI), primarily due to 
long lead time in the development and execution of orders. Management expects the value of the investment to improve in 
future as the products are launched over the next few years.	 	
	
	
		
	
	
	
344  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(iv) Investment in joint venture #1	
	
The Parent holds a 50% stake in Infotech HAL Limited, India as at March 31, 2025 (March 31, 2024: 50%). The share of profit of the 
joint venture is accounted for using the equity method.	 	
	
Summarised financial information:	 	
(a) Summarised balance sheet:	
	
	
	
Particulars
 As at  
March 31, 2025
(Unaudited)#4
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
(Audited)#2
Non-current assets
 2 
 2 
Current assets
 2 
 2 
Current liabilities
 (54)
 (49)
Net assets
 (50)
 (45)
(ii) Gain / (Loss) on fair valuation of investments:
Particulars
 For the year ended
 March 31, 2025
For the year ended
 March 31, 2024
Measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL)
Jana Care Inc. USA
 (61)
 5 
Cardiac Design Labs Private Limited, India
 37 
 -   
Vasuki 2019 SCSp, Luxembourg
 8 
 (8)
Duskrise, Inc., USA
 (8)
 8 
Star Burst, USA
 14 
 (5)
Total
 (10)
 -   
Measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
Cardiac Design Labs Private Limited, India
 74 
 -   
Qunu Labs Private Limited, India
 3 
 -   
IMEC.Xpand II, Belgium
 5 
 -   
Stuam Technologies Limited, India (formerly Innovation Communications 
Systems Private Limited)
 (353)
 (233)
Total
 (271)
 (233)
	
(iii) Carrying values:
Particulars
 As at
 March 31, 2025 
As at
 March 31, 2024
Aggregate amount of Investments carried at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (non-current)
 560 
 761 
Aggregate amount of Investment carried at amortised cost (current and non-
current)
 2,052 
 2,432 
Aggregate amount of Investments carried at fair value through profit and loss 
(current and non-current)
 1,840 
 1,163 
	
		
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  345 
(b) Summarised statement of profit and loss:
Particulars
 For the year ended
 March 31, 2025 
(Unaudited)#4
 For the year ended
 March 31, 2024
(Audited)#2
Revenue 
 -   
 -   
Loss for the year
 (5)
 (5)
Other comprehensive income for the year
 -   
 -   
Total comprehensive loss for the year
 (5)
 (5)
Share in loss from joint venture
 (2)
 (2)
Share of loss from joint venture accounted in consolidated financial 
statements#3
 -   
 -   
	
(c) Reconciliation to carrying amounts:	
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2025
(Unaudited)#4
As at 
March 31, 2024
(Audited)#2
Opening net assets/ (liabilities)
 (45)
 (40)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 (5)
 (5)
Closing net assets/ (liabilities)
 (50)
 (45)
Parent's share
50%
50%
Parent's share in net assets of joint venture#3
 - 
 - 
#1. 	Infotech HAL Limited is under the process of liquidation and the matter is pending with Official Liquidator.	
	
#2. For the financial year ended March 31, 2024, financial information of joint venture was based on unaudited financial 
statements, which has been updated based on audited financial statements of FY 2023-24 in current year.	 	
#3. 	The Parent has limited its share of loss from the joint venture to the extent of carrying value of its investment, in line with its 
contractual obligations.	
	
#4. 	The financial statements of the joint venture for FY 2024-25 is not audited as on date of approval of these consolidated 
financial statements.	
(v) Investment in Associate	
Particulars
 As at  
March 31, 2025
 As at  
March 31, 2024
Equity instruments of associate (unquoted) (Number of shares: 5,825,632)
 563 
 - 
On November 29, 2024, the Company, through its subsidiary Cyient Semiconductors Inc., USA entered into a Share Purchase 
Agreement (‘SPA’) with Azimuth AI Inc., USA (‘Azimuth’) and acquired a 27.62% stake, for a consideration of $ 7.25 (₹ 612). 
Azimuth is an Embedded Silicon Product company in developing highly differentiated ASICs for Edge Computing Applications. 
Consequent to this acquisition,  Azimuth became an ‘Associate’ of the Company. The transaction has been accounted for using 
the equity method as per IND AS 28.
346  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Summarised financial information of the associate that are material:
(a) Summarised balance sheet:	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
(Unaudited)#1
Current assets
 560 
Current liabilities
 77 
Net assets
 483 
Group's share in net assets@27.62%
 133 
Group's share of goodwill
 402 
Group's share of customer relationship
 28 
Group’s carrying amount of the investment
 563 
	
	
	
(b) Summarised statement of profit and loss:	
Particulars
For the period  
November 29, 2024 to 
March 31, 2025
(Unaudited)#1
Revenue 
 - 
Loss for the year
 (176)
Other comprehensive income for the year
 - 
Total comprehensive loss for the year
 (176)
(c) Carrying value of investment:	
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2025
Investment as on the date of acquisition
 612 
Share of Group’s loss for the year
 (47)
Amortisation of customer relationship for the year
 (2)
Carrying value of investment in Associate
 563 
#1. 	The financial statements of the associate for FY 2024-25 is not audited as on date of approval of these consolidated financial 
statements.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  347 
7. Other financial assets
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
 As at
March 31, 2024
 Non-current: 
 Measured at amortised cost 
 Security deposits 
  Considered good 
 318 
 347 
  Considered doubtful 
 25 
 16 
Less : Allowance for doubtful deposits 
 (25)
 (16)
 Total other non-current financial assets 
 318 
 347 
 Current: 
 Measured at amortised cost 
 Interest accrued on deposit accounts 
 83 
 219 
 Advance to employees 
 81 
 71 
 Other receivables 
 211 
 102 
Measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI)
 Derivative instruments designated in a hedging relationship 
 52 
 21 
 Total other current financial assets 
 427 
 413 
 Total other financial assets 
 745 
 760 
	
	
	
348  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 8. Other assets 	
 Particulars 
 As at  
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
 Non-current: 
 Capital advances 
 97 
 68 
 Pre-payments 
 42 
 80 
 Balances with government authorities
 29 
 30 
Total other non-current assets
 168 
 178 
 Current: 
 Pre-payments 
 975 
 1,363 
 Deferred contract costs 
 61 
 153 
 Balances with government authorities
 641 
 627 
 Advances to suppliers
 737 
 735 
Other receivables 
 67 
 52 
Total other current assets
 2,481 
 2,930 
Total other assets
 2,649 
 3,108 
	
	
	
	
	
9. Inventories (Valued at lower of cost or net realisable value)	
	
	
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Raw materials
 4,790 
 3,986 
Work-in-progress
 619 
 422 
Finished goods
  281 
 227 
Consumables and stores
 76 
 41 
Total
 5,766 
 4,676 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  349 
10. Trade receivables
Particulars 
 As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Measured at amortised cost:
Unsecured, considered good#
 14,602 
 13,206 
Less: Allowance for expected credit loss
 (535)
 (589)
 14,067 
 12,617 
Unsecured, considered good - credit impaired
 15 
 15 
Less : Impariment allowance
 (15)
 (15)
Total
 14,067 
 12,617 
# Includes receivables from associates (refer note 32).	 	
Note:	
	
Expected credit loss (ECL):		
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. Credit risk is managed 
through credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously monitoring the creditworthiness of customers to which the 
Group grants credit terms in the normal course of business. The average credit period range is between 30-120 days. Before 
accepting any new customer, the Group uses an internal credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s credit quality 
and defines credit limits for each customer. Limits and scoring attributed to customers are reviewed once a year.		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
As a practical expedient, the Group uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss of its trade receivables. The provision 
matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the trade receivable and is adjusted for forward 
looking estimates. The ECL allowance (or reversal) during the year is recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and 
loss.		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
As at March 31, 2025
 Ageing of trade receivables 
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
to 1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Undisputed trade receivables
Considered good
 10,505 
 3,148 
 429 
 361 
 83 
 27 
 14,553 
Credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed trade receivables
Considered good
-
-
 27 
 22 
 - 
 - 
 49 
Credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 15 
 15 
Total
 10,505 
 3,148 
 456 
 383 
 83 
 42 
 14,617 
Less : Expected credit loss and 
Impairment allowance
 (550)
Balance at the end of the year
 14,067 
350  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11. 	 Cash and Bank Balances
11A. Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Balances with banks:
- in current accounts
 3,266 
 4,457 
- in deposits#
 7,407 
 361 
- in unclaimed dividend accounts
 33 
 30 
Total cash and cash equivalents
 10,706 
 4,848 
Less: Bank overdrafts
 - 
 (118)
Net cash and cash equivalents for cash flow statement
 10,706 
 4,730 
Restricted cash balances included above
Balance in unclaimed dividend accounts
 33 
 30 
# 	 The deposits held by the Group with banks and financial institutions comprise time deposits, which can be withdrawn by the 
Group at any point without prior notice or penalty on the principal.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
As at March 31, 2024
 Ageing of trade receivables
Not due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
to 1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Undisputed trade receivables
Considered good
 9,539 
 2,801 
 541 
 197 
 45 
 83 
 13,206 
Credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed trade receivables
Considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 15 
 15 
Total
 9,539 
 2,801 
 541 
 197 
 45 
 98 
 13,221 
Less : Expected credit loss and 
Impairment allowance
 (604)
Balance at the end of the year
 12,617 
As at March 31, 2025, the Group has contract assets of ₹ 3,918 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 4,362) net of allowance for expected credit 
losses of ₹ 34 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 33) (refer note 21B).
Movement in the allowance for expected credit losses of trade receivables and contract assets:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 637 
 692 
Provision made during the year (net of reversals) (refer note 28)
 289 
 7 
Bad debts written-off
 (360)
 (49)
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 18 
 (13)
Balance at the end of the year
 584 
 637 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  351 
11B. Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents	
	
	
	
	
	
 Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Balance in escrow account#
 10 
 58 
Deposits in bank with original maturity more than 3 months but less than 12 
months #
 2,350 
 4,160 
Deposits held as margin money/security for bank guarantees                                   
 76 
 769 
Total
 2,436 
 4,987 
# 	 Deposits in bank include an amount of  ₹ 1,553 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 4,164) representing IPO proceeds pending utilisation of 
partly owned subsidiary Cyient DLM Limited.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
(i) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2025:
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2024
Proceeds/ 
Additions
Additions 
through business 
combinations 
(refer note 33)
Repayments
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
adjustments
As at  
March 31, 2025
Borrowings#
 4,526 
 1,447 
 940 
 (5,006)
 231 
 2,138 
Lease liabilities
 3,350 
 710 
 41 
 (1,140)
 35 
 2,996 
Sale and lease back 
liability
 22 
 -  
 -  
 (13)
 -  
 9 
Proceeds from factoring 
arrangements  
(on behalf of banks)
 193 
 -  
 -  
 (185)
 (3)
 5 
Total liabilities from 
financing activities
 8,091 
 2,157 
 981 
 (6,344)
 263 
 5,148 
(ii) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities for the year ended March 31, 2024:
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2023
Proceeds/ 
Additions
 Additions 
through 
business 
combinations 
 Repayments 
 Foreign 
currency 
translation 
adjustments 
As at  
March 31, 2024
Borrowings#
 9,336 
 -   
 -   
 (5,053)
 243 
 4,526 
Lease liabilities
 2,842 
 1,742 
 -   
 (1,244)
 10 
 3,350 
Sale and lease back 
liability
 34 
 1 
 -   
 (13)
 -   
 22 
Proceeds from factoring 
arrangements (on behalf 
of banks)
 -   
 201 
 -   
 -   
 (8)
 193 
Total liabilities from 
financing activities
 12,212 
 1,944 
 -   
 (6,310)
 245 
 8,091 
# Movement in working capital loans is considered net of repayments.
352  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. 	 Equity share capital
Authorised share capital, equity shares of ₹ 5 each
 Particulars
Number of Shares
Amount
As at April 1, 2023
 280,000,000 
 1,400 
Increase/(decrease) during the year
 -   
 -   
As at March 31, 2024
 280,000,000 
 1,400 
Increase/(decrease) during the year
 -   
 -   
As at March 31, 2025
 280,000,000 
 1,400 
	
	
	
	
(A) Issued, subscribed and fully paid up capital: 	
	
	
	
 Particulars 
 As at March 31, 2025 
 As at March 31, 2024
 Number of shares 
 Amount 
 Number of shares 
 Amount 
 Opening balance 
 110,889,812 
 555 
 110,575,006 
 553 
  Add: Issue of shares during the year#
 149,112 
 - 
 314,806 
 2 
 Closing balance 
 111,038,924 
 555 
 110,889,812 
 555 
# 	 During the year, the Parent has allotted 149,112 (March 31, 2024: 314,806) equity shares of  ₹ 5 each valuing ₹ 0.74 (March 
31, 2024: ₹ 1.57), consequent to the exercise of the stock options by the associates of the Group under the Associate Stock 
Option Plan.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(B) Details of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares: 
 Name of the shareholder 
 As at March 31, 2025
 As at March 31, 2024 
 Number of  
shares held 
 % holding of 
equity shares 
 Number of 
shares held 
 % holding of 
equity shares 
 Fully paid up equity shares 
 Vineyard Point Software Private Limited 
14,006,750
12.61%
 14,000,000 
12.63%
 Infocad Enterprises Private Limited 
7,051,650
6.35%
 7,000,000 
6.31%
 Amansa Holdings Private Limited 
6,590,807
5.94%
 7,850,873 
7.08%
 DSP mutual Fund 
6,005,749
5.41%
 4,979,137 
4.49%
 
(iii) Non-cash investing activities:
 Particulars 
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Acquisition of subsidiaries (refer note 33)
 383 
 - 
Acquisition of Right-of-use assets (refer note 3B)
 825 
 1,661 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  353 
 (C) Details of shares held by promoters at the end of the year: 
 Name of the promoter 
 Number of shares  
 % holding 
of equity 
shares 
 % Change 
during the Year 
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 Change 
 As at  
March 31, 2025 
 Vineyard Point Software Private 
Limited  
 14,000,000 
 6,750 
 14,006,750 
12.61%
0.05%
 Infocad Enterprises Private Limited 
 7,000,000 
 51,650 
 7,051,650 
6.35%
0.74%
 Bodanapu Ganesh Venkat Krishna 
 1,913,260 
 -   
 1,913,260 
1.72%
 -   
 Bodanapu Sri Vaishnavi 
 1,793,008 
 -   
 1,793,008 
1.61%
 -   
 Venkat Rama Mohan Reddy 
Bodanapu 
 373,820 
 28,800 
 402,620 
0.36%
7.70%
 Sucharitha Bodanapu  
 373,820 
 -   
 373,820 
0.34%
 -   
 D. Nageswara Reddy 
 172,800 
 -   
 172,800 
0.16%
 -   
 Bodanapu Avanti Reddy 
 2,502 
 82,038 
 84,540 
0.08%
3278.90%
 Carol Ann Reddy  
 38,400 
 -   
 38,400 
0.03%
 -   
 B V S Ratna Kumari 
 15,600 
 -   
 15,600 
0.01%
 -   
 A Amala Reddy  
 3,680 
 -   
 3,680 
0.00%
 -   
 B Ashok Reddy 
 300 
 -   
 300 
0.00%
 -   
 Name of the promoter 
  Number of shares 
 % holding 
of equity 
shares 
 % Change 
during the Year 
 As at  
March 31, 2023 
 Change 
 As at  
March 31, 2024 
 Vineyard Point Software Private 
Limited  
 14,000,000 
 -   
 14,000,000 
12.63%
 -   
 Infocad Enterprises Private Limited 
 7,000,000 
 -   
 7,000,000 
6.31%
 -   
 Bodanapu Ganesh Venkat Krishna 
 1,913,260 
 -   
 1,913,260 
1.73%
 -   
 Bodanapu Sri Vaishnavi 
 1,793,008 
 -   
 1,793,008 
1.62%
 -   
 Venkat Rama Mohan Reddy 
Bodanapu 
 373,820 
 -   
 373,820 
0.34%
 -   
 Sucharitha Bodanapu  
 373,820 
 -   
 373,820 
0.34%
 -   
 D. Nageswara Reddy 
 172,800 
 -   
 172,800 
0.16%
 -   
 Bodanapu Avanti Reddy 
 137,500 
 (134,998)
 2,502 
0.00%
-98.18%
 Carol Ann Reddy  
 38,400 
 -   
 38,400 
0.03%
 -   
 B V S Ratna Kumari 
 15,600 
 -   
 15,600 
0.01%
 -   
 A Amala Reddy  
 3,680 
 -   
 3,680 
0.00%
 -   
 B Ashok Reddy 
 300 
 -   
 300 
0.00%
 -   
(D) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to equity shares: 	
	
	
	
	
The Parent has only one class of equity shares having a par value of ₹ 5 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one 
vote per share. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting, except in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the 
remaining assets of the Group in proportion to their shareholding.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
354  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(E) Purchase of treasury shares: 	
	
	
	
	
The Parent has constituted a ‘Cyient Associate Stock Option Plan 2021 Scheme (‘Trust’), to grant, offer and issue options to the 
employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. During the FY 2022-23, the Trust had acquired 1,079,000 equity shares from 
the secondary market amounting to ₹ 950 based on the loan received from the Company. The Company has treated the Trust 
as its direct extension, such that the assets and liabilities of the Trust are included in the standalone and consolidated financial 
statements and the shares acquired/held by the Trust are classified as ‘Treasury Shares’. ‘Share options exercised during the 
year under this scheme, have been settled using the treasury shares of the Parent. The treasury shares when re-purchased are 
recognised at cost and deducted from equity. Any difference between the carrying amount and the consideration, if re-issued, is 
recognised in capital reserve.
 
The Trust has re-issued 90,716 shares during the year ended March 31, 2025 ( March 31, 2024: 101,614) under the ASOP 2021 
scheme to the associates. Shares held by Trust as at March 31, 2025: 886,670 (March 31, 2024: 977,386).	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(F) Share-based payments: 	
	
	
	
	
I. Cyient Limited:	 	
	
	
	
(i)Associate Stock Option Plans (Equity settled)	
	
	
	
	
Associate Stock Option Plan – 2008 (ASOP 2008):	
	
	
	
	
The Parent has instituted ASOP 2008 in July 2008 and earmarked 1,000,000 equity shares of ₹ 5 each for issue to the employees 
under ASOP 2008. The Parent modified ASOP 2008 and adjusted the number of options and exercise price on account of bonus 
issue of 1:1 during Financial year 2010-11. Under ASOP 2008, options will be issued to employees at an exercise price, which shall 
not be less than the market price on the date of grant. These options vest over a period ranging from one to three years from the 
date of grant, starting with 10% at the end of first year, 15% at the end of one and half years, 20% after two years, 25% at the end 
of two and half years and 30% at the end of third year.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Associate Stock Option Plan – 2015 (ASOP 2015):	
	
	
	
	
The Parent has instituted ASOP 2015 in July 2015 and earmarked 1,200,000 equity shares of ₹ 5 each for issue to the employees 
under ASOP 2015. Under ASOP 2015, options will be issued to employees at an exercise price, which shall not be less than the 
market price on the date of grant. These options vest over a period ranging from one to three years from the date of grant, 
starting with 10% at the end of first year, 15% at the end of one and half years, 20% after two years, 25% at the end of two and 
half years and 30% at the end of third year.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Associate Restricted Stock Units Scheme 2020 (ARSU 2020):	
	
	
	
	
The Parent has instituted the  ARSU’s 2020 plan earmarking 1,050,000 shares of ₹ 5 each which provided for grant of Restricted 
Stock Units (‘RSUs’) to eligible associates of the Parent and its subsidiaries. The exercise price shall be ₹ 5 each. The RSUs will vest 
over a period of three years from the date of grant. These options vest over a period ranging from one to three years from the 
date of grant, starting with 30% at the end of first year, 50 % after two years, 20% at the end of third year.	
	
	
	
	
Associate Stock Option Scheme 2021  (ASOP 2021):	
	
	
	
	
The Parent has instituted the ASOP 2021 scheme and also incorporated  ‘Cyient Associate Stock Option Scheme 2021 Trust’ 
(Trust), whereunder shares were purchased from the stock exchanges through the Trust. KP Corporate Solutions Limited, 
Corporate Trustee, has been appointed as trustee for this Trust. Shareholders of the Parent have approved the Scheme and the 
formation of Trust through postal ballot on February 23, 2021. During the year ended March 31, 2022, Trust purchased 1,079,000 
shares. The exercise price shall be ₹ 5 each. The options will vest over a period of 3 years equally from the grant date.	
	
	
	
	
Associate Stock Option Scheme 2023  (ASOP 2023):	
	
	
	
	
The Parent has instituted ASOP 2023 in June 2023 and earmarked 1,200,000 equity shares of ₹ 5 each for issue to the employees 
under ASOP. Under ASOP 2023, options will be issued to employees at an exercise price, which shall not be less than the market 
price on the date of grant. These options vest over a period ranging from one to three years from the date of grant, starting with 
33% at the end of first year, 33% at the end of second year and 34% at the end of third year.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  355 
Movements in stock options during the year
Particulars
For the year ended March 31, 2025
For the year ended March 31, 2024
Number of 
Options
Weighted average 
exercise price/range
Number of 
Options
Weighted average 
exercise price/range
ASOP 2008
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 - 
 - 
 25,000 
 518 
Granted
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Forfeited 
 - 
 - 
 (25,000)
 518 
Exercised
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
ASOP 2015
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 194,805 
 222 - 1,011 
 491,481 
 222 - 1,011 
Granted
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Forfeited 
 (2,000)
 - 
 (41,290)
 618 
Exercised
 (105,692)
 450 - 1,011 
 (255,386)
 565 
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 87,113 
 269 - 1,011 
 194,805 
 222 - 1,011 
ARSU 2020
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 141,693 
 5 
 97,143 
 5 
Granted
 61,210 
 5 
 116,938 
 5 
Forfeited 
 (18,953)
 5 
 (12,968)
 5 
Exercised
 (43,420)
 5 
 (59,420)
 5 
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 140,530 
 5 
 141,693 
 5 
ASOP 2021
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 977,386 
 5 
 1,009,100 
 5 
Granted
 - 
 - 
 69,900 
 5 
Forfeited 
 (79,647)
 5 
 - 
 - 
Exercised
 (90,716)
 5 
 (101,614)
 5 
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 807,023 
 5 
 977,386 
 5 
ASOP 2023
Options outstanding at the beginning of the year
 10,000 
 1,778 
 - 
 - 
Granted
 - 
 - 
 10,000 
 1,778 
Forfeited 
 (10,000)
 1,778 
 - 
 - 
Exercised
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Options outstanding at the end of the year
 - 
 - 
 10,000 
 1,778 
	
	
Details of options granted under ASOP to associates of subsidiary companies:
Particulars
ASOP 2020
ASOP 2021
For the year ended March 31, 2025
 38,090 
 -   
For the year ended March 31, 2024
 1,16,938 
 69,900 
356  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(ii) Fair value of stock options granted during the year:		
	
	
	
The weighted average fair value of the share options during the year is  ₹ 1,555 - ₹1,750 (March 31, 2024:  ₹ 424 - ₹1,892). 
Options and RSUs were priced using Black Scholes pricing model. Where relevant, the expected life used in the model has been 
adjusted based on management’s best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural 
considerations. Expected volatility is based on the historical share price volatility over the past years.	
	
	
	
	
The following assumptions were used for calculation of fair value of grants:
Particulars
For the year ended March 31, 2025
ASOP 2008
ASOP 2015
ARSU 2020
ASOP 2021
ASOP 2023
Exercise price (₹)
-
222.00 - 1,011.00
5.00
5.00
1,778.00
Grant date share price (₹) 
-
234.80 - 986.00
284.15 - 2,044.00
805.65 - 982.90
 1,680.00 
Dividend yield (%)
-
1.70 - 2.90
2.50 - 2.90
2.60 - 2.90
2.50
Expected volatility (%)
-
 29.80 - 41.82 
 30.00 - 41.9 
 36.00 - 41.8 
35.00
Risk-free interest (%)
-
 4.49 - 7.90 
 4.49 - 7.28 
 5.10 - 6.30 
7.25 - 7.28
Expected term (in years)
-
 3 - 4 
 3 - 4 
3 - 4
3 - 4
Particulars
For the year ended March 31, 2024
ASOP 2008
ASOP 2015
ARSU 2020
ASOP 2021
ASOP 2023
Exercise price (₹)
184.00 - 559.00
222.00 - 1,011.00
5.00
5.00
1,778.00
Grant date share price (₹) 
185.00 - 531.50
234.80 - 986.00
284.15 - 2,044.00
805.65 - 982.90
 1,680.00 
Dividend yield (%)
1.53 - 2.64
1.70 - 2.90
2.50 - 2.90
2.60 - 2.90
2.50
Expected volatility (%)
28.66 - 65.53
 29.80 - 41.82 
 30.00 - 41.9 
 36.00 - 41.8 
35.00
Risk-free interest (%)
6.41 - 8.40
 4.49 - 7.90 
 4.49 - 7.28 
 5.10 - 6.30 
7.25 - 7.28
Expected term (in years)
3 - 4
 3 - 4 
 3 - 4 
3 - 4
3 - 4
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  357 
(iii) Share Options exercised:
Schemes
Year
No. of options 
exercised
Exercise date#1
Share price on 
exercise date
Associate Stock Option Plan – 2015 
(ASOP 2015)
2024-25
1,05,692
April 24, 2024 to February 
28, 2025
1,267.15 - 1,959.35
Associate Restricted Stock option plan 
- 2020 (ARSU 2020)
2024-25
43,420
July 10, 2024 to March 04, 
2025
1,211.50 - 1,959.35
Associate Stock Option Scheme 2021  
(ASOP 2021) #2
2024-25
90,716
May 16, 2024 to March 21, 
2025
1,211.50 - 2,001.35
Associate Stock Option Plan – 2015 
(ASOP 2015)
2023-24
2,55,386
June 02, 2023 to March 
15, 2024
1,459.00 - 2,223.90
Associate Restricted Stock Units 
Scheme 2020 (ARSU 2020)
2023-24
59,420
August 28, 2023 to March 
15, 2024
1,574.45 - 2,067.10
Associate Stock Option Scheme 2021  
(ASOP 2021) #2
2023-24
1,01,614
June 02, 2023 to March 
21, 2024
1,459.00 - 2,293.15
#1. Allotment were made on various dates during that period.
#2. Shares re-issued out of treasury shares not resulting in increase of no. of shares outstanding.
II. Cyient DLM Limited (DLM):	
	
	
	
	
Restricted stock unit plan 2023 (RSU plan 2023):	
	
	
	
	
DLM has instituted the restricted stock unit (RSU) plan 2023 plan earmarking 7,33,800 shares of ₹ 10 each which provided for 
grant of RSUs to eligible associates of DLM and its subsidiaries. The Board of Directors of DLM recommended the establishment 
of the plan on October 25, 2023 and the shareholders approved the recommendation of Board of Directors on November 5, 2023 
through a postal ballot. The RSUs will vest over a period of three years from the date of grant.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
358  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(i) Movements in stock options during the year:
Particulars
For the year ended March 31, 2025
For the year ended March 31, 2024
No. of Options
Weighted average 
exercise price
No. of Options
Weighted average 
exercise price
Options outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
 733,800 
 10 
 -   
 -   
Granted
 -   
 -   
 733,800 
 10 
Forfeited 
 (236,500)
 10 
 -   
 -   
Exercised
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Options outstanding at the 
end of the year
 497,300 
 10 
 733,800 
 10 
	
	
	
	
	
(ii) Fair value of stock options granted during the year:
The weighted average fair value of the share options granted during the year is  ₹ Nil (March 31, 2024:  ₹ 444). RSU were priced 
using Black Scholes pricing model. 
The following assumptions were used for calculation of fair value of grants:
Particulars
RSU 2023
Exercise price (₹)
 10 
Grant date share price (₹) 
 634 
Dividend yield (%)
0.5
Expected volatility (%)
 35.60 - 40.40 
Risk-free interest (%)
 7 
Expected term (in years)
 5 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  359 
13.  Other equity
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
 (a) Share application money pending allotment  
 Opening balance 
 1 
 - 
 Share application money received during the year 
 1 
 1 
 2 
 1 
 (b) Capital redemption reserve  
 Opening and closing balance 
 16 
 16 
 16 
 16 
 (c) Securities premium 
 Opening balance 
 2,639 
 2,427 
 Exercise of share options 
 46 
 69 
 Premium received on allotment of shares  
 73 
 143 
 2,758 
 2,639 
 (d) General reserve 
 Opening balance
 5,139 
 5,139 
Transfer from SEZ re-investment reserve
 65 
 - 
 5,204 
 5,139 
 (e) Share-based payments reserve 
 Opening balance 
 571 
 488 
 Share-based payments expense (refer note 23) 
 294 
 241 
 Options exercised 
 (126)
 (158)
 739 
 571 
 (f) Special economic zone (SEZ) re-investment reserve 
Opening balance
 65 
 65 
Less: Transfer to general reserve
 (65)
 - 
 - 
 65 
 (g) Retained earnings 
 Opening balance 
 28,575 
 24,845 
 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Parent 
 6,157 
 6,828 
 Other comprehensive income arising out of re-measurements of the net   
 defined benefit liability (net of taxes) 
 9 
 (38)
 34,741 
 31,635 
 Less: Appropriations 
 Dividend on equity shares (refer note 37) 
 (3,300)
 (3,060)
 31,441 
 28,575 
 (h) Treasury shares 
 Opening balance 
 (861)
 (950)
 Re-issuance of Treasury shares 
 80 
 89 
 (781)
 (861)
360  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Particulars 
 As at 
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
 (i) Other reserve 
 Opening balance 
 3,792 
 - 
 Gain on stake dilution in subsidiary (refer note 14(b)) 
 6,834 
 3,792 
 10,626 
 3,792 
 (j) Capital reserve 
 Opening and closing balance 
 35 
 35 
 35 
 35 
 (k) Cash flow hedge reserve 
 Opening balance 
 13 
 (81)
 Effective portion of (loss)/ gain on designated portion of hedging instruments 
(net of taxes) 
 (15)
 94 
 (2)
 13 
 (l) Foreign currency translation reserve 
 Opening balance 
 2,192 
 2,127 
 Movement during the year 
 597 
 65 
 NCI portion 
 (13) 
 - 
 2,776 
 2,192 
 (m) Equity instruments through OCI (refer note 6) 
 Opening balance 
 (151)
 3 
 Fair value change on financial instruments 
 (292)
 (233)
 Less: Share of non-controlling interests 
 169 
 79 
 (274)
 (151)
 Total 
 52,540 
 42,026 
	
	
	
13A. Nature of reserves: 	
	
(a) 	 Capital redemption reserve 	
	
	
Represents the nominal value of equity shares bought back pursuant to Buyback in accordance with Section 69 of the 
Companies Act, 2013. 	 	
	
	
(b) 	 Securities premium 	
	
 	
Amounts received on issue of shares in excess of the par value has been classified as securities premium. The reserve is 
utilised in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. 	
	
	
	
(c) 	 General reserve 	
	
	
Represents appropriation of profit by the Group. Additionally, General reserve is appropriated for the creation of capital 
redemption reserve on Buyback of equity shares pursuant to section 69 of Companies Act, 2013. 	 	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  361 
(d) 	 Share-based payments reserve 	
	
The Share-based payments reserve is used to record the value of equity-settled share-based payment transactions with 
employees. The amounts recorded in this account are transferred to securities premium upon exercise of stock options by 
employees. 
	
	
(e) 	 Special economic zone (SEZ) reinvestment reserve 	
	
	
Represents the amount transferred to the SEZ Reinvestment Reserve in earlier years. The reserve was created out of the 
profits of eligible SEZ units in accordance with the provisions of Section 10AA(1)(ii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961, and was 
utilized by the Company for the acquisition of new plant and machinery for the purposes of its business, in compliance with 
the requirements of Section 10AA(2) of the Income-tax Act, 1961. Accordingly, post utilisation, the reserve balance has 
been transferred to the General Reserve.	 	
	
	
(f) 	 Retained earnings 	
	
(i)  	 Retained earnings comprises of prior years’ undistributed earnings after taxes along with current year profit, net of 
dividends declared. 	
	
(ii) 	 Re-measurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. These are presented within 
retained earnings. 	
(iii) 	 Gain or loss on disposal of equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive income is 
reclassified to retained earnings. 	
	
	
	
(g) 	 Treasury shares (refer note 12(F)) 	
	
	
(h) 	 Other reserves 	
	
	
Represents the gain on change in proportion held by non-controlling Interests.	 	
	
	
(i) 	 Share application money pending allotment  	
	
	
Represents amount received from associates on exercise of stock options, pending allotment. 	
	
	
	
(j) 	 Capital reserve 	
	
	
Represents the gain on bargain purchase on acquisitions and other additions from components. 	
	
	
	
(k) 	 Cash flow hedge reserve 	
	
	
Represents effective portion of gain and loss on designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge, net of tax. 	
	
(l) 	 Foreign currency translation reserve 	
	
	
Exchange difference relating to the translation of the Group’s foreign operations from their functional currencies to the 
Group’s presentation currency are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign 
currency translation reserve. 	
	
	
	
(m) 	Equity instruments through OCI 	
	
	
Represents the cumulative gains and losses arising on fair valuation of the equity instruments measured at fair value through 
OCI, net of amounts reclassified to retained earnings when the investments have been disposed off. 	
	
	
	
	
	
362  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14. Non-controlling Interests (‘NCI’)
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Cyient Solutions and Systems Private Limited
Balance as at beginning and end of the year
 (32)
 (32)
Sub-total
 (32)
 (32)
Cyient DLM Limited
Balance as at beginning of the year
 3,020 
 - 
Increase on account of dilution of stake (refer note (a) below)
 1,300 
 2,899 
Share based payment reserve
51
-
Profit for the year attributable to NCI
 326 
 200 
Other comprehensive loss for the year attributable to NCI
 (156)
 (79)
Sub-total
 4,541 
 3,020 
Balance as at the end of the year
 4,509 
 2,988 
Note: 
a. 	 During the previous year ended March 31, 2024, the Parent had diluted 33.33% of its stake (i.e., on June 06, 2023: 7.16%  and 
July 10, 2023: 26.18%) in Cyient DLM Limited (‘DLM’) thereby decreasing its ownership interest from 100.00% to 66.67% 
and during the year ended March 31, 2025, Parent has further diluted 14.50% of its stake (i.e. on August 21, 2024) thereby 
decreasing its ownership interest from 66.67% to 52.17% (hereinafter referred as ‘Dilution’) and has opted to measure the 
non-controlling interests at proportionate share in net assets.	
b. Computation of gain on account of dilution of stake in DLM
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Proceeds from IPO
 - 
 7,000 
Proceeds from sale of shares to NCI
 8,739 
 - 
Less: IPO expenses
 - 
 (309)
Less: Income tax paid on proceeds from sale of shares to NCI
 (605)
 - 
Less: Adjustment on account of dilution of stake
 (1,300)
 (2,899)
Other Reserves (Gain on account of dilution of stake held by NCI)
 6,834 
 3,792 
c. Utilisation of net IPO proceeds (net of share issue expenses) of Cyient DLM Limited is summarised below:
Objects of the issue as per prospectus
IPO Proceeds
Utilised amount as at 
March 31, 2025
Unutilised amount as at 
March 31, 2025
Funding incremental working capital 
requirements
 2,911 
 1,807 
 1,104 
Funding capital expenditure
 436 
 29 
 406 
Repayment/pre-payment, in part or full, of 
certain borrowings
 1,609 
 1,608 
 1 
Achieving inorganic growth through 
acquisitions
 700 
 700 
 -   
General corporate purposes#
 976 
 934 
 42 
Total
 6,632 
 5,078 
 1,553 
# Revision on account of reduction in actual expenditure compared to estimated IPO related expenses by ₹ 42.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  363 
15. 	 Borrowings
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Non - current:
Unsecured - at amortised cost
Term loans from banks
 982 
 2,783 
Total
 982 
 2,783 
Current:
Secured - at amortised cost
Working capital loans from banks
 515 
 119 
Unsecured - at amortised cost
Working capital loans from banks
 597 
 630 
Current maturities of non-current borrowings
 44 
 994 
Total
 1,156 
 1,743 
Total borrowings
 2,138 
 4,526 
Aggregate secured borrowings
 515 
 119 
Aggregate unsecured borrowings
 1,623 
 4,407 
364  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Terms and conditions of outstanding borrowings are as follows:
Particulars
Instalments/loan term 
Secured by
Effective interest 
rate#3
Date of 
maturity#4
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Term Loans - Unsecured
Quarterly / 5 years 
availed in 2023
Corporate guarantee from 
Cyient Limited
SONIA+1% Margin
-
 -   
 2,983 
Quarterly / 5 years 
availed in 2023
Corporate guarantee from 
Cyient Limited
SORA+1% Margin
-
 -   
 773 
Monthly/10 years 
availed in 2018
None
2.50%
-
 -   
 21 
Quarterly repayments 
starts from March 2026
Corporate guarantee from 
Cyient DLM Limited
SOFR+1.76%
26-09-2029
 1,026 
 -   
Working Capital - Secured
On demand
Primary Security: Paripassu 
charge on current assets of 
Cyient DLM Limited
Secondary Security: 
Paripassu charge on movable 
fixed assets of Cyient DLM 
Limited.
8.45%-8.65%
-
 -   
 1 
Corporate guarantee from 
Cyient Limited and charge 
on all existing and future 
freehold and leasehold 
property and other assets 
and liabilities.
SONIA+1.20% Margin
-
 -   
 118 
Working Capital - Unsecured
On demand
Corporate guarantee from 
Cyient Limited
EURIBOR+1% Margin
-
 -   
 630 
None
7.65%
-
 150 
 -   
Corporate guarantee from 
Cyient Limited
SORA+1% Margin
-
 447 
 -   
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  365 
Particulars
Instalments/loan term 
Secured by
Effective interest 
rate#3
Date of 
maturity#4
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Packing Credit facility - Secured
On demand
Primary Security: 
Paripassu charge, by way 
of hypothecation, on entire 
current assets of Cyient 
DLM Limited, both present 
and future along with other 
bankers.
Secondary Security: 
Paripassu charge, by way 
of hypothecation, on entire 
movable fixed assets of 
Cyient DLM Limited, both 
present and future along with 
other bankers.
6.00%
-
 139 
 -   
Corporate guarantee from 
Cyient Limited and charge on 
all existing and future current 
assets and movable fixed 
assets of cyient DLM Limited.
5.67%
 - 
 86 
 -   
First paripassu charge on all 
current assets and movable 
fixed assets of cyient DLM 
Limited, both existing and 
future.
5.88%
 - 
 145 
 -   
Primary Security: First 
Paripassu charge on current 
assets of Cyient DLM 
Limited, both present and 
future.
Secondary Security: 
Paripassu charge on movable 
fixed assets of the Cyient 
DLM Limited with other 
working capital lenders.
5.70%
 - 
 145 
 -   
Total
 2,138 
 4,526 
	
	
	
	
	
	
366  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
#1. 	In 2018, Cyient, Inc. entered into a loan agreement with a maximum borrowing of $500,000 (₹ 35 Mn) from the State of Connecticut through the Connecticut Department 
of Economic and Community Development (DECD) for the expansion at 99 East River Drive at an interest rate of 2.5% (“Assistance Agreement”).  The Assistance 
Agreement, as amended, requires Cyient, Inc. and its subsidiary Cyient Defense Services, Inc. (as well as its two subsidiaries) (collectively, “CDSI”) to employ 456 full-
time employees in Connecticut by December 31, 2026 (“Measuring Date”).  Cyient, Inc. is required to retain a CPA to perform a job audit and deliver the results to DECD 
within 60 days of the Measuring Date.  The aforesaid loan has been repaid as on August 16, 2024, thereby, the related requirement/commitments under the loan stand 
discharged as per the terms of loan agreement.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
#2. 	The quarterly returns or statements of current assets filed by Cyient Limited and Cyient DLM Limited to the banks are in agreement with the books of accounts.	
	
		
	
	
	
	
#3. 	Term Loans are at variable rates that are linked to respective Benchmark rates + margin  (Benchmarks are “EURIBOR” which means the Euro Interbank Offer Rate,” 
SONIA” which means Sterling Overnight Index Average ,” SORA” which means Singapore Overnight Rate Average, “SOFR” which means Secured Overnight Financing 
Rate). Working Capital  Loans are at variable rates that are linked to respective Benchmark rates + margin ( Benchmarks are “ SONIA” means  which Sterling Overnight 
Index Average , “EURIBOR” which means the Euro Interbank Offer Rate).	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
#4. There are no instalments overdue for the term loans as on March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Note:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group has not defaulted in any financial loan covenants.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  367 
16. 	 Other financial liabilities
Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Non-current
Measured at amortised cost
Sale and lease back liability
 1 
 4 
 Measured at fair value through profit or loss
Liability towards acquisition of business (refer note below)
 106 
 - 
Total
 107 
 4 
Current
Measured at amortised cost
Accrued salaries & wages (refer note 39)
 2,122 
 1,877 
Liability towards claim settlement (refer note 28A)
 406 
 473 
Capital creditors
 73 
 123 
Interest accrued
 19 
 5 
Factoring payable
 5 
 193 
Unclaimed dividends
 33 
 30 
Sale and lease back liability
 8 
 18 
Others #2
 51 
 - 
Measured at fair value through profit or loss
Liability towards acquisition of business (refer note below) #1
 268 
 1,722 
Measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
   Derivative instruments designated in a hedging relationship 
 55 
 4 
Total 
 3,040 
 4,445 
Total other financial liabilities 
 3,147 
 4,449 
	
	
	
368  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note:	
	
	
Entity wise break-up of liability towards acquisition of business:
Acquirer
Acquiree
Classification
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Cyient Project Management 
Consultancy LLC
Abu Dhabi & Gulf Computers 
Establishment
Non-current
 11 
 - 
Cyient DLM Inc
Altek Electronics LLC
Non-current
 95 
 - 
Cyient Project Management 
Consultancy LLC
Abu Dhabi & Gulf Computers 
Establishment
Current
19
-
Cyient DLM Inc
Altek Electronics LLC
Current
 174 
 - 
Cyient Singapore Private 
Limited
Grit Consulting Pte Ltd
Current
 - 
 1,044 
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
Integrated Global Partners Pty 
Limited
Current
 - 
 77 
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
Work Force Delta Pty Limited
Current
 - 
 41 
Cyient Europe Limited #1
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Current
 75 
 560 
Total
 374 
 1,722 
#1. Includes ₹ 75 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 88) payable towards tax incentives of Celfinet – Consultoria em Telecomunicações, S.A. 
pertaining to pre-acquisition period.	
	
	
	
#2. Includes credit card dues.	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  369 
17. 	 Provisions
 Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Provision for employee benefits
Gratuity (refer note (a) below)
 1,435 
 1,293 
Pension and deferred compensation (refer note (b) below)
 22 
 57 
Compensated absences (refer note (c) below)
 1,627 
 1,571 
Others
 10 
 13 
Sub-total
 3,094 
 2,934 
Other provisions
 7 
 5 
Total
 3,101 
 2,939 
Non-current:
Provision for employee benefits
Gratuity
 1,179 
 1,056 
Pension and deferred compensation
 22 
 57 
Compensated absences
 539 
 675 
Others
 6 
 7 
Total non-current provisions
 1,746 
 1,795 
Current:
Provision for employee benefits
Gratuity
 256 
 237 
Compensated absences
 1,088 
 896 
Others
 4 
 6 
Other provisions 
 7 
 5 
Total current provisions
 1,355 
 1,144 
	
	
	
	
Note:	
	
	
	
Employee benefit plans are as under:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Defined benefit plans	
	
	
	
(a) Gratuity:	
	
	
	
In accordance with the ‘Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972’ of India, the Parent and two of its subsidiaries provide for gratuity, a 
defined retirement benefit plan (the ‘Gratuity Plan’) covering eligible employees. Liabilities with regard to such gratuity plan are 
determined by an independent actuarial valuation and are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss in the period 
determined. The gratuity plan is administered by the Parent’s own trust which has subscribed to the “Group Gratuity Scheme” 
of Life Insurance Corporation of India.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The present value of the defined benefit obligation (DBO), and the related current service cost and past service cost, were 
measured using the projected unit credit method.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
370  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuation
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Discount Rate (%)
6.58%-6.70%
7.18%-7.24%
Salary Increase rate (%)
4.00%- 10.00%
7.00%- 10.00%
Attrition (%)
8.00%-26.70%
8.00%-26.70%
Mortality Table
IALM (2012-14) 
Ultimate
IALM (2012-14) 
Ultimate
Retirement age
58-60 years
58-60 years
The following table sets out the defined benefit costs as per actuarial valuation for the Parent and its subsidiaries in 
India:	
Particulars
For the year ended 
 March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
 March 31, 2024
Current service cost
 174 
 152 
Past service cost
 1 
 - 
Total service cost (A)
 175 
 152 
Interest expense on defined benefit obligation
 95 
 83 
Interest income on plan assets
 (14)
 (10)
Net interest cost (B)
 81 
 73 
Defined benefit cost recognised in consolidated statement of profit and 
loss (A)+(B)
 256 
 225 
Re-measurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to change in demographic assumptions in defined 
benefit obligation
 (1)
 16 
Actuarial gain due to change in financial assumptions in defined benefit 
obligation
 (1)
 (14)
Due to experience adjustments
 29 
 46 
Return on plan assets (greater)/less than discount rate
 (3)
 4 
Components of defined benefit costs recognised in other comprehensive 
income
 24 
 52 
Total
 280 
 277 
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the entity’s obligation in respect of its defined benefit plans is as 
follows:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation
 1,682 
 1,488 
Fair value of plan assets
 (247)
 (195)
Net liability arising from defined benefit obligation
 1,435 
 1,293 
	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  371 
Movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation:
Particulars
For the year ended 
 March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
 March 31, 2024
Projected benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 
 1,488 
 1,325 
Current service cost
 174 
 152 
Past service cost
 1 
 - 
Interest cost
 95 
 83 
Actuarial loss
 27 
 48 
Payments
 (103)
 (120)
Defined benefit obligation at the end of the year
 1,682 
 1,488 
	
	
	
	
Change in plan assets	
	
	
	
Particulars
For the year ended 
 March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
 March 31, 2024
Plan assets at the beginning of the year
 195 
 141 
Return on plan assets                                                            
 14 
 11 
Employer contribution
 133 
 151 
Payments
 (98)
 (104)
Return on plan assets less than discount rate
 3 
 (4)
Plan assets at the end of the year
 247 
 195 
	
	
	
	
The average rate of increase in compensation levels is determined by the Group, considering factors such as, the Group’s past 
compensation revision trends and management’s estimate of future salary increases.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Sensitivity analysis	
	
	
	
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions 
constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below:
	
	
	
	
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Discount rate (1% movement)
 (61) 
 65 
 (54) 
 55 
Future salary growth (1% movement)
 66 
 (65) 
 56 
 (57) 
	
	
	
	
372  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Within 1 year
 368 
 339 
1-2 years 
 313 
 274 
2-3 years 
 272 
 239 
3-4 years
 235 
 211 
4-5 years
 192 
 175 
5-10 years
 536 
 493 
Above 10 years
 336 
 304 
The expected contribution to the plan is ₹ 368 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 339)	
	
	
	
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 3.7 to 9.7 years (March 
31, 2024: 3.7 to 9.4 years).	 	
	
	
Composition of plan assets	
	
	
	
Plan assets comprise of 100% insurer managed funds. Fund is managed by Life Insurance Corporation of India as per Insurance 
Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDA) guidelines. Category wise composition of the plan assets is not available.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(b) Pension and deferred compensation:	
	
	
	
Employees of the subsidiary i.e., Cyient Engineering & Information GmbH (‘Cyient GmbH’), are entitled to a pension benefit and 
deferred compensation in the form of a defined benefit plan. For the pension plan and the deferred compensation plan, Cyient 
GmbH has established a contractual trust arrangement in Germany with separate accounts, which are qualified as plan assets.	
	
	
	
The present value of the defined benefit obligation (DBO), and the related current service cost and past service cost, were 
measured using the projected unit credit method.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Principal assumptions used for the purposes of the  
actuarial valuation
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount Rate (%)
3.90%
3.50%
Salary Increase rate (%)
3.25%
2.75%
Attrition (%)
Until age of 39 - 5.00% 
Age of 40-49 - 2.50%- 3.00% 
From age of 50 - 0.00%
Until age of 39 - 5.00% 
Age of 40-49 - 2.50%- 3.00% 
From age of 50 - 0.00%
Mortality Table
HEUBECK-RICHTTAFELN 
2018 G
HEUBECK-RICHTTAFELN 
2018 G
Retirement age
63 years
63 years
	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  373 
The following table sets out the defined benefit costs as per actuarial valuation for the Group:		
	
Particulars
 For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Defined benefit cost recognised in consolidated statement of profit and loss
Current service cost
 2 
 4 
Total service cost (A)
 2 
 4 
Interest expense on defined benefit obligation
 9 
 9 
Interest income on plan assets
 (8)
 (7)
Net interest cost (B)
 1 
 2 
Defined benefit cost recognised in consolidated statement of profit and loss 
(A)+(B)
 3 
 6 
Remeasurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to financial assumptions change in defined benefit 
obligation
 (24)
 - 
Actuarial (gain)/loss due to experience on defined benefit obligation
 (13)
 - 
Return on plan assets less than discount rate
 1 
 - 
Components of defined benefit costs recognised in other comprehensive 
income
 (36)
 - 
Total
 (33)
 6 
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the entity’s obligation in respect of its defined benefit plans is as 
follows:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation
 250 
 272 
Fair value of plan assets
 (228)
 (215)
Net liability arising from defined benefit obligation
 22 
 57 
Movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation:
Particulars
 For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Projected benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 
 272 
 255 
Disposals (divestments)
 - 
 (9)
Current service cost
 2 
 4 
Interest cost
 9 
 9 
Actuarial (gain)/loss
 (37)
 14 
Payments
 (3)
 (3)
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 7 
 2 
Defined benefit obligation at the end of the year
 250 
 272 
374  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Change in plan assets	
	
Particulars
 For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Plan assets at the beginning of the year
 215 
 188 
Return on plan assets                                                            
 8 
 7 
Return on plan assets (greater)/less than discount rate
 (1)
 19 
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 6 
 1 
Plan assets at the end of the year
 228 
 215 
The average rate of increase in compensation levels is determined by the Company, considering factors such as, the Company’s 
past compensation revision trends and management’s estimate of future salary increases.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Sensitivity analysis	
	
	
	
Reasonably possible changes at the reporting date to one of the relevant actuarial assumptions, holding other assumptions 
constant, would have affected the defined benefit obligation by the amounts shown below:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Increase
Decrease
Increase
Decrease
Discount rate (1% movement)
 (39)
 44 
 (46)
 53 
Future salary growth (1% movement)
 - 
 (2)
 - 
 - 
	
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Within 1 year
 7 
 6 
1-2 years 
 7 
 6 
2-3 years 
 8 
 7 
3-4 years
 9 
 8 
4-5 years
 10 
 9 
5-10 years
 57 
 54 
The expected contribution to the plan for the year ended is  ₹ 7 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 6)		
	
	
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 17.25 years (March 31, 
2024: 18.74 years).
	
	
	
	
Remeasurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income (OCI):
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Gratuity
 24 
 52 
Pension
 (36)
 -   
Total OCI recognised in consolidated statement of profit and 
loss
 (12)
 52 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  375 
Composition of plan assets	
	
	
	
Plan assets comprise of insurer managed funds. 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(c) Assumptions for compensated absences	 	
	
	
i) Compensated absences – India and domestic subsidiaries:	
	
	
	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount Rate (%)
6.58%-6.70%
7.18%-7.24%
Salary escalation rate (%)
4.00%- 10.00%
7.00%- 10.00%
Mortality Table
8.00%-26.70%
8.00%-26.70%
Attrition (%)
IALM (2012-14) Ultimate
IALM (2012-14) Ultimate
Retirement age
58-60 years
58-60 years
	
	
	
	
ii) Compensated absences – Overseas branches and subsidiaries :
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount Rate (%)
1.16%-4.85%
0.41%-4.84%
Salary escalation rate (%)
2.90% - 5.00%
2.80% - 3.30%
Mortality Table
IALM (2012-14) Ultimate
IALM (2012-14) Ultimate
Attrition (%)
8.00%-18.60%
13.60%-23.80%
Retirement age
60 years
60 years
	
	
	
	
The accrual for unutilised leave is determined for the entire available leave balance standing to the credit of the employees at year-
end as per Group’s policy. The value of such leave balance eligible for carry forward, is determined by an independent actuarial 
valuation and charged to consolidated statement of profit and loss in the period determined.	 	
	
	
The average rate of increase in compensation levels is determined by the Company, considering factors such as, the Company’s 
past compensation revision trends and management’s estimate of future salary increases.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
iii) Long Service Leave – Australia:	 	
	
	
The regulations of long service leave are applicable to the associates of the Company employed at its Australia Branch and 
subsidiaries. The accrual of long service leave is in addition to the compensated absences to which the associates are entitled to. 
These long service leaves are dependent on the tenure of the employee with the same employer and are regulated by respective 
state laws.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
376  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
18. 	 Income taxes	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
18A.  Tax expense		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(a) Income tax expense recognised in consolidated statement of profit and loss:
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Current Income tax:
   Current Income tax
 2,518 
 2,422 
   Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous year
 - 
 (32)
 2,518 
 2,390 
Deferred tax credit:
  In respect of the current year
 (251)
 (212)
  In respect of MAT credit
 - 
 (22)
 (251)
 (234)
Total
 2,267 
 2,156 
(b) Income tax (expense) / benefit recognised directly in other comprehensive income:
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Income tax effect -
On re-measurement (gain)/loss on defined benefit plans
 (3)
 14 
Tax effect on equity instrument through other comprehensive income
 (21)
 - 
On effective portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge
 5 
 (31)
Income tax charged to OCI
 (19)
 (17)
Bifurcation of the income tax recognised in other comprehensive income 
into:
Items not to be reclassified to consolidated profit or loss in subsequent 
periods
 (24)
 14 
Items to be reclassified to consolidated profit or loss in subsequent periods
 5 
 (31)
Total
 (19)
 (17)
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  377 
(c) Reconciliation of tax expense and tax based on accounting profit:
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Profit before Income tax expense
 8,750 
 9,184 
At India's statutory income tax rate
25.17%
25.17%
Income tax expense
 2,202 
 2,312 
Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile expected tax expense:
Exemptions / deductions for tax purposes
 (57)
 (101)
Effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit
 65 
 41 
Deferred tax asset not recognised on tax losses in certain jurisdictions/
deferred tax asset recognised on losses of earlier years
 3 
 (13)
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years
 - 
 (54)
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions
 58 
 (25)
Others
 (4)
 (4)
Income tax expense
 2,267 
 2,156 
Effective tax rate
25.91%
23.48%
	
	
	
	
	
	
Notes:	
	
	
	
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Parent has opted for the application of lower tax rate of 22% (excluding surcharge and 
cess thereon) under the provisions of the section 115BAA of Income Tax Act, 1961.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
18B.  Deferred tax	
	
	
	
	
(a) Deferred tax assets and liabilities:
 Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax assets (net)
 861 
 752 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 (734)
 (839)
Total
 127 
 (87)
	
	
	
	
	
	
378  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(b) Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities:	
	
	
	
	
	
FY 2024-25
As at  
April 1, 2024
Recognised in 
the consolidated 
statement of 
profit and loss
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
Others
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
adjustments
As at  
March 31, 2025
Deferred tax assets / 
(liabilities) in relation 
to:
Property, plant and 
equipment and 
intangible assets
 (842)
 105 
 - 
 - 
 (20)
 (757)
Expected credit loss 
allowance
 130 
 (25)
 - 
 - 
 2 
 107 
Provisions
 640 
 10 
 (3)
 - 
 5 
 652 
Contract assets
 (398)
 76 
 - 
 - 
 (9)
 (331)
Cash flow hedges 
 (4)
 - 
 5 
 - 
 - 
 1 
Carry forward of tax 
losses
 66 
 66 
 - 
 - 
 5 
 137 
Tax incentives
 246 
 (24)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 222 
Gain on bargain 
purchase on business 
combinations
 (13)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (13)
Fair value changes#1
 56 
 6 
 (21)
 - 
 1 
 42 
Right-of-use assets
 (784)
 115 
 - 
 - 
 (13)
 (682)
Lease liabilities
 805 
 (92)
 - 
 - 
 10 
 723 
Others
 11 
 14 
 - 
 (5)
 6 
 26 
Net deferred tax 
assets/(liabilities)
 (87)
 251 
 (19)
 (5)
 (13)
 127 
	
	
	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  379 
FY 2023-24
As at  
April 1, 2023
Recognised 
in the 
consolidated 
statement 
of profit and 
loss
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
Others #2
MAT 
utilisation/ 
entitlement
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
adjustments
As at  
March 31, 2024
Deferred 
tax assets / 
(liabilities) in 
relation to:
Property, plant 
and equipment 
and intangible 
assets
 (944)
 120 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (18)
 (842)
Expected 
credit loss 
allowance
 144 
 (16)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2 
 130 
Provisions
 567 
 54 
 14 
 - 
 - 
 5 
 640 
Contract 
assets
 (284)
 (110)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4)
 (398)
Cash flow 
hedges 
 27 
 - 
 (31)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4)
Carry forward 
of tax losses
 63 
 7 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (4)
 66 
Tax incentives
 - 
 158 
 - 
 88 
 - 
 - 
 246 
MAT credit 
entitlement
 - 
 22 
 - 
 - 
 (22)
 - 
 - 
Gain on 
bargain 
purchase 
on business 
combinations
 (13)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (13)
Fair value 
changes#1
 55 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 56 
Right-of-use 
assets
 (646)
 (143)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5 
 (784)
Lease 
liabilities
 673 
 139 
-
-
-
 (7)
 805 
Others
 10 
 3 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2)
 11 
Net deferred 
tax assets/
(liabilities)
 (348)
 234 
 (17)
 88 
 (22)
 (22)
 (87)
#1. 	Deferred tax asset has not been recognised on loss on fair valuation of investments of ₹ 353 for the year ended March 31, 
2025 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 233) as it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which such capital loss 
can be utilised in the foreseeable future.
#2. 	Includes amount payable towards tax incentives of Celfinet – Consultoria em Telecomunicações, S.A. pertaining to pre-
acquisition period.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
380  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
As at March 31, 2025
Jurisdictions with  
net assets
Jurisdictions with  
net liabilities
Net
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to:
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 (123)
 (634)
 (757)
Expected credit loss allowance
 83 
 24 
 107 
Provisions
 511 
 141 
 652 
Contract assets
 (1)
 (330)
 (331)
Cash flow hedges
 1 
 - 
 1 
Carry forward of tax losses
 92 
 45 
 137 
Tax incentives
 222 
 - 
 222 
Gain on bargain purchase on business combinations
 - 
 (13)
 (13)
Fair value changes
 (29)
 71 
 42 
Right-of-use assets
 (470)
 (212)
 (682)
Lease liabilities
 513 
 210 
 723 
Others
 25 
 1 
 26 
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)(net)
 824 
 (697)
 127 
	
	
	
	
	
As at March 31, 2024
Jurisdictions with  
net assets
Jurisdictions with  
net liabilities
Net
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) in relation to:
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
 (127)
 (715)
 (842)
Expected credit loss allowance
 100 
 30 
 130 
Provisions
 454 
 186 
 640 
Contract assets
 - 
 (398)
 (398)
Cash flow hedges
 (4)
 - 
 (4)
Carry forward of tax losses
 46 
 20 
 66 
Tax incentives
 246 
 - 
 246 
Gain on bargain purchase on business combinations
 - 
 (13)
 (13)
Fair value changes
 - 
 56 
 56 
Right-of-use assets
 (531)
 (253)
 (784)
Lease liabilities
 557 
 248 
 805 
Others
 11 
 - 
 11 
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)(net)
 752 
 (839)
 (87)
	
	
	
	
18C. Income tax assets and liabilities	
	
	
	
	
	
 Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Income tax assets (net)
 707 
 732 
Income tax liabilities (net)
 (523)
 (562)
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  381 
19. 	 Other liabilities	
	
 Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Current
Unearned revenue
 645 
 495 
Advance from customers
 988 
 975 
Statutory remittances
 1,135 
 1,290 
Others
 1 
 41 
Total 
 2,769 
 2,801 
	
	
20. Trade payables
20A. Trade payables carried at amortised cost	
	
 Particulars 
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Current
(i) Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises ('MSE')
 84 
 106 
(ii) Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises# (refer note 39)
 3,850 
 4,895 
Total
 3,934 
 5,001 
# Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled in 30 to 60 days terms.
As at March 31, 2025
Trade payables ageing
  Outstanding for the following periods from the due date of payment 
Unbilled
Not due
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
MSE
 - 
 81 
 3 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 84 
Others
 1,554 
 1,446 
 788 
 51 
 2 
 9 
 3,850 
Disputed dues - MSE
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 1,554 
 1,527 
 791 
 51 
 2 
 9 
 3,934 
As at March 31, 2024
Trade payables ageing
  Outstanding for the following periods from the due date of payment
Unbilled
Not due
Less than 
1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
MSE
 - 
 45 
 61 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 106 
Others
 1,854 
 1,523 
 1,445 
 60 
 9 
 4 
 4,895 
Disputed dues - MSE
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 1,854 
 1,568 
 1,506 
 60 
 9 
 4 
 5,001 
382  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. Revenue from contracts with customers	 	
Particulars 
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue from services
 58,204 
 59,108 
Revenue from products
 15,400 
 12,364 
Total revenue from contracts with customers
 73,604 
 71,472 
The Group presents revenues net of indirect taxes in the consolidated statement of profit and loss.	
	
	
	
21A.    Disaggregated revenue information	
	
The table below presents disaggregated revenues from contracts with customers by contract type, geography and timing of 
recognition. The Group believes that this disaggregation best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of 
revenues and cash flows are affected.	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
 For the year ended 
March 31, 2025 
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024 
Revenues by contract type
Fixed price
 24,765 
 25,859 
Time and material
 33,432 
 33,230 
Maintenance 
 7 
 19 
Product sale
 15,400 
 12,364 
Total
 73,604 
 71,472 
Revenues by geography
North America
 31,561 
 28,882 
EMEA
 21,013 
 22,700 
APAC (including India)
 21,030 
 19,890 
Total
 73,604 
 71,472 
Revenues by timing of recognition
Goods and services transferred
 - At a point in time
 15,400 
 12,364 
 - Over time
 58,204 
 59,108 
Total
 73,604 
 71,472 
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  383 
21B.   Trade receivables and contract balances
Particulars 
 As at  
March 31, 2025
 As at  
March 31, 2024
Trade receivables
 14,067 
 12,617 
Contract assets
 3,918 
 4,362 
Unearned revenue ('Contract liabilities')
 645 
 495 
Advance from customers ('Contract liabilities')
 988 
 975 
Contract assets: 
During the year ended March 31, 2025, ₹ 3,627 of contract assets as at March 31, 2024 has been reclassified to trade receivables 
on completion of performance obligation. During the year ended March 31, 2024, ₹ 3,959 of contract assets as at March 31, 2023 
has been reclassified to receivables on completion of performance obligation. 	
	
	
	
	
Contract liabilities: 	
	
a) 	 Unearned revenue: During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Group recognised revenue of ₹ 394 arising from unearned 
revenue as at March 31, 2024. During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Group recognised revenue of ₹ 506  arising from 
unearned revenue as at March 31, 2023.	
	
	
	
b) 	 Advance from customers: During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Group recognised revenue of ₹ 642  arising from 
advance from customers as at March 31, 2024. During the year ended March 31, 2024, the Group recognised revenue of 
₹ 1,250  arising from advance from customers as at March 31, 2023.	
	
	
	
c) 	 Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations: Revenue allocated to remaining performance 
obligations represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized, which includes contract liabilities and amounts 
that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. Applying the practical expedient, the Group has not disclosed 
information about remaining performance obligations in contracts, where the original contract duration is one year or less or 
where the entity has the right to consideration that corresponds directly with the value of entity’s performance completed to 
date.	 	
	
	
21C. 	Reconciling the amount of revenue recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss with the contracted 
price	
Particulars 
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue as per contract
 73,717 
 71,623 
Adjustments:
Reduction towards variable consideration components#
 (113)
 (151)
Revenue from contracts with customers
 73,604 
 71,472 
# Comprises of volume discounts, service level credit etc.,
	
	
384  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. Other income		
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Interest income on financial assets carried at amortised cost
Deposits with banks and financial institutions
 615 
 363 
Investments in bonds and commercial papers
 127 
 159 
 742 
 522 
Other non-operating income
Gain on termination of leases 
 25 
 15 
Liabilities no longer required, written back (net)
 19 
 34 
Miscellaneous income
 45 
 57 
 89 
 106 
Other gains and losses
Foreign exchange gain (net)
 53 
 121 
Exchange loss on foreign currency forward contracts (net)
 (16)
 (5)
Profit on sale of mutual funds
 44 
 50 
Gain/(Loss) on fair valuation of financial assets and financial liabilities
 54 
 (135)
 135 
 31 
Total 
 966 
 659 
23. Employee benefits expense	
	
	
	
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Salaries and wages
 32,964 
 31,750 
Contribution to provident and other funds #1
 1,010 
 941 
Social security and other benefits to overseas employees #2
 1,029 
 1,049 
Employee stock option expense (refer note 13)
 345 
 241 
Staff welfare expenses #3
 1,677 
 1,276 
Less: Capitalised
 (126)
 (137)
Total
 36,899 
 35,120 
	
	
	
	
Notes:	
	
	
	
#1.	 Contribution to provident fund and other funds	
	
	
	
	
Provident fund:	
	
	
	
	
The Parent and two of its subsidiaries makes provident fund contributions which are defined contribution plans for qualifying 
employees. Under the scheme, they are required to contribute a specified percentage of the payroll costs to fund the benefits. 
These contributions are made to the fund administered and managed by the Government of India. Monthly contributions are 
charged to the consolidated statement of profit and loss in the period they are incurred. Total expense recognised during the 
year aggregated to ₹ 679 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 648).	
	
	
	
	
		
	
	
		
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  385 
	
Gratuity (funded):	
	
	
	
	
Amount recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss in respect of gratuity ₹ 256 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 225) (refer 
note 17(a)).	
	
	
	
	
	
National pension scheme:	
	
	
	
	
Amount recognised in consolidated statement of profit and loss in respect of national pension scheme ₹ 39 (March 31, 2024: 
₹ 26).		
	
	
	
		
	
	
Superannuation fund - India:	
	
	
	
	
The qualifying employees of the Parent receive benefit under a Superannuation scheme which is a defined contribution 
scheme wherein the employee has an option to choose the percentage of contribution between 5% to 15% of the basic 
salary of the covered employee. These contributions are made to a fund administrated by Life Insurance Corporation of 
India. The Company’s monthly contributions are charged to the consolidated statement of profit and loss in the period they 
are incurred. Total expense recognised during the year aggregated to ₹ 27 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 29).	 	
	
	
		
	
	
Employees’ state insurance scheme:	
	
	
	
	
Amount recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss in respect of Group’s contribution to employees’ state 
insurance scheme ₹ 9 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 13).	
	
	
	
	
		
	
#2. 	Social security and other benefits to overseas employees	 	
	
	
	
Superannuation fund:	 	
	
	
	
The employees at the Australia branch and subsidiaries of the Parent are also covered under a superannuation scheme. 
The Group contributes 9.5% of the basic salary of the employee. The Group’s monthly contributions are charged to the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss in the period they are incurred. Total expense recognised during the year 
aggregated to ₹ 168 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 161).	
	
	
	
	
401 (K) benefit plan:	
	
	
	
	
Cyient Inc., and Altek Electronics LLC provides a defined contribution plan benefit through 401(K) benefit plan to all of 
its eligible employees. The plan is administered by these entities while the trustee for the plan is an external agency. The 
contribution from these entities is at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The monthly contributions are charged to 
the consolidated statement of profit and loss in the period they are incurred. Total expense recognised during the year 
aggregated to ₹ 101 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 98). The amount payable towards 401(K) benefit plan as at March 31, 2025 is ₹ 0.19 
(March 31, 2024: ₹ Nil).	 	
	
		
	
	
Other social security schemes:	 	
	
	
	
For Europe subsidiaries, certain social security benefits (such as pension, unemployment, work accident insurance, group 
life insurance and sickness insurance payment) are funded by employers and employees. The contribution amounts are 
determined based upon the employee’s salary. The Company has no further obligations under the plan beyond its monthly 
contributions. Total expense recognised during the year aggregated to ₹ 695 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 761).	
	
	
In Singapore, the Central Provident Fund(CPF) contributions are defined contribution plans for employees. Under the 
scheme, they are required to contribute a specified percentage of the payroll costs which depends on the employee’s age. 
These contributions are made to the fund administered and managed by the Government of Singapore. Total expense 
recognised during the year aggregated to ₹ 19 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 17).	 	
	
	
386  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
Employees of other subsidiaries are eligible for social security schemes which are  contribution schemes. These schemes 
are administered by the respective local authorities of the country, as per the statutory requirement, and the amounts are 
contributed by the respective entities to the authorities. Monthly contributions are charged to the consolidated statement 
of profit and loss in the period they are incurred. Total expense recognised during the year aggregated to ₹ 46 (March 31, 
2024: ₹ 12)	
	
	
	
	
		
	
#3. 	Staff welfare expenses	
	
	
	
Medical insurance plan - Cyient Inc:	
	
	
	
	
Cyient Inc.,    offers a medical insurance plan to its associates on self-insured basis which consists of fixed costs of 
administration charges and stop loss insurance that are charged on a per associate basis and monthly claims being 
settled from consolidated fund maintained by third party insurance fund. At the end of every financial year, the insurance 
agency provides an estimate of “Claims Not Yet Received” computed on actuarial valuation based on number of 
associates and claims received over the last 12 months. Total expense recognised during the year aggregated to ₹ 643 
(March 31, 2024: ₹ 628).	
	
	
	
	
24. Cost of materials consumed	
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Inventory of raw materials at the beginning of the year
 3,986 
 3,908 
Additions through business combination (refer note 33)
 660 
 - 
Add: Purchases
 11,501 
 9,971 
Less: Inventory of raw materials at the end of the year
 (4,790)
 (3,986)
Cost of raw material consumed
 11,357 
 9,893 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  387 
26. Finance costs
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Interest expense
Interest on borrowings
 360 
 480 
Interest on lease liabilities {refer note 3B(c)}
 215 
 219 
Other interest expense
 353 
 451 
Unwinding of discounting of deferred consideration
 - 
 10 
Total
 928 
 1,160 
27. Depreciation and amortisation expense
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (refer note 3A)
 710 
 709 
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (refer note 3B)
 1,031 
 1,049 
Amortisation of other intangible assets (refer note 5A)
 931 
 909 
Total 
 2,672 
 2,667 
25. Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and traded goods
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
Finished goods
 227 
 113 
Work-in-progress
 422 
 301 
Total
 649 
 414 
Additions through business combinations (refer note 33)
Finished goods
 64 
 - 
Work-in-progress
 220 
 - 
Total
 284 
 - 
Closing balance
Finished goods
 281 
 227 
Work-in-progress
 619 
 422 
Total
 900 
 649 
Change in inventories
Finished goods
 10 
 (114)
Work-in-progress
 23 
 (121)
Total decrease/(increase) in inventories
 33 
 (235)
388  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28. Other expenses	
	
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Rent including lease rentals (refer note 3B)
 199 
 189 
Rates and taxes
 177 
 261 
Insurance
 254 
 245 
Stores and spares consumed
 113 
 60 
Freight outwards
 56 
 65 
Travelling and conveyance
 1,320 
 1,410 
Sub-contracting charges
 5,216 
 5,668 
Communication
 197 
 214 
Printing and stationery
 18 
 28 
Power and fuel
 275 
 296 
Marketing and advertising expenses
 122 
 164 
Repairs and maintenance
  - Buildings
 33 
 67 
  - Hardware & software maintenance
 2,131 
 2,158 
  - Others
 215 
 233 
Non-Executive Directors' commission
 23 
 23 
Legal and professional charges
 1,531 
 1,322 
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) expenditure
 84 
 122 
Provision for expected credit loss for trade receivables and other financial assets 
(net) (refer note 10)
 289 
 7 
Payment to auditors
 71 
 67 
Recruitment expenses
 220 
 326 
Training and development
 63 
 82 
Software charges
 625 
 247 
Miscellaneous expenses #1
 650 
 412 
Total
 13,882 
 13,666 
	
	
Notes:	
	
#1. 	Includes political contributions amounting to ₹ 30 to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Telugu Desam Party (March 31, 2024: 
₹ 100 to BJP).		
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  389 
28A. Exceptional Item	
	
	
In earlier years, a civil class action antitrust lawsuit was filed in a U.S. District Court (consolidating multiple civil lawsuits), 
against one of the Parent’s U.S. subsidiaries, Cyient Inc. amongst various other companies. It was alleged that the defendants 
agreed to restrict the employment of individuals. During year ended March 31, 2024, a criminal lawsuit against the individual 
defendants was dismissed by the Court. Subsequently, on January 20, 2024, Cyient Inc. entered into an agreement to settle, 
and dismiss with prejudice, the said civil class action antitrust lawsuit for an amount of $ 7.4 Mn. The settlement was without 
admission of any liability and the plaintiffs had agreed to release and discharge all claims associated with this lawsuit against 
Cyient Inc. and its affiliates.	
	
	
During the year end March 31, 2025, the Court has granted preliminary approval of the agreement in January 2025. 
Accordingly, Cyient Inc. has paid $ 0.9 Mn net of an insurance claim of $ 3 Mn. A motion for final approval of the settlement has 
been filed on April 7, 2025 and balance amount is expected to be paid upon the final hearing. The Company has recognized a 
net expense of ₹ Nil for the year ended March 31, 2025 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 676 ($ 8.1 Mn)) as an ‘exceptional item’.	
	
Based on the information available to date, we do not believe that the aforesaid matter will have any material adverse effect 
on the Group’s operations, financial condition or liquidity.	
	
	
29. Earnings per share (EPS) 	
	
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Profit after tax attributable to the owners of the Parent for basic & diluted EPS
 6,157 
 6,828 
Basic EPS:
Number of shares outstanding at the year end
 111,038,924 
 110,889,812 
Less: Treasury shares
 (886,670)
 (977,386)
Number of equity shares for earnings per share
 110,152,254 
 109,912,426 
Weighted average number of equity shares 
 110,042,228 
 109,705,624 
Earnings per share (₹)
 55.95 
 62.24 
Diluted EPS:
Weighted average number of equity shares 
 110,042,228 
 109,705,624 
Effect of potential equity shares on ASOPs & ARSUs outstanding
 880,603 
 948,157 
Weighted average number of equity shares adjusted for effect of dilution 
 110,922,831 
 110,653,781 
Earnings per share (₹)
 55.51 
 61.71 
390  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30. Segment information	 	
	
	
A. 	 Products and services from which reportable segments derive their revenue	 	
	
	
	
The Group’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’), is the Executive Vice Chairman and Managing Director who evaluates 
Group’s performance and allocates resources based on an analysis of various performance indicators by business verticals 
and geographical segmentation of customers. The Group has identified business segments as its primary segment and 
geographic segments as its secondary segment. Business segments are Digital, Engineering & Technology (‘DET’), Design 
Led Manufacturing (DLM), Others. Geographic segments of the Group are North America (NAM), Europe Middle East Africa 
(EMEA) and Asia Pacific (‘APAC’).	 	
	
	
	
The DET segment includes Transportation, Connectivity, Sustainability and NGA (New Growth Areas such as HiTech, 
Automotive, Semicon and Medical Technologies) while the Digital, Embedded Solutions are across all the Business Units. 
The DLM segment includes Cyient DLM Limited and its subsidiaries. The DLM segment is engaged in the business of 
manufacturing and providing “Electronic Manufacturing Services”. Others include Cyient Solutions and Systems Private 
Limited and Aerospace Tooling division of Cyient Defense Services Inc., USA.	
	
	
	
	
The accounting policies adopted for segment reporting are in line with the accounting policies of the Group. Segment 
revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities have been identified to segments on the basis of their relationship to the operating 
activities of the segment. Revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities which relate to the Group as a whole and are not allocable 
to segments on reasonable basis have been included under “unallocable revenue /expenses /assets /liabilities”.	
	
		
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  391 
B. Segment revenue and results	
	
	
	
Particulars
For the year ended March 31, 2025
DET
DLM
Others
Total
Revenue from contracts with customers
 58,158 
 15,196 
 360 
 73,714 
Less : Inter segment revenue
 (110)
Total
 58,158 
 15,196 
 360 
 73,604 
Employee benefits expense
 34,839 
 1,862 
 227 
 36,928 
Cost of materials consumed
 243 
 11,082 
 146 
 11,471 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 2,301 
 341 
 30 
 2,672 
Other expenses
 12,968 
 880 
 34 
 13,882 
Allocable other income
 (58)
 (27)
 - 
 (85)
Inter segment expense
 (110)
Total
 50,293 
 14,138 
 437 
 64,758 
Segment results
 7,865 
 1,058 
 (77)
 8,846 
Less : Finance costs
 928 
Less : Exceptional items (refer note 28A)
 - 
Add : Other unallocable income/ (expense) (net)
 881 
Less : Share of loss from associate and joint venture 
(refer note 6 (iv & v))
 49 
Profit before tax
 8,750 
Tax expense
 (2,267)
Profit for the year
 6,483 
392  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Particulars
For the year ended March 31, 2024
DET
DLM
Others
Total
Revenue from contracts with customers
 59,114 
11,919
 473 
 71,506 
Less : Inter segment revenue
 (34)
Total
 59,114 
 11,919 
 473 
 71,472 
Employee benefits expense
 33,707 
 1,174 
 272 
 35,153 
Cost of materials consumed
 257 
 9,200 
 201 
 9,658 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 2,416 
 223 
 28 
 2,667 
Other expenses
 13,197 
 435 
 35 
 13,667 
Allocable other income
 112 
 (24)
 1 
 89 
Inter segment expense
 (34)
Total
 49,689 
 11,008 
 537 
 61,200 
Segment results
 9,425 
 911 
 (64)
 10,272 
Less : Finance costs
 1,160 
Less : Exceptional items (refer note 28A)
 676 
Add : Other unallocable income (net of unallocable 
expenditure)
748
Add : Share of loss from joint venture (refer note 6 
(iv))
 - 
Profit before tax
 9,184 
Tax expense
 (2,156)
Profit for the year
 7,028 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  393 
Geographic segments	
	
	
Information regarding geography wise revenue is as follows:	
	
	
Geographic location
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Segment revenue
NAM
 31,561 
 28,882 
EMEA
 21,013 
 22,700 
APAC (including India)
 21,030 
 19,890 
Total
 73,604 
 71,472 
	
	
	
C. Capital employed (Segment assets - Segment liabilities)  
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Segment assets
DET
 40,353 
 41,313 
DLM
 16,015 
 12,220 
Others
 620 
 588 
Total Segment Assets
 56,988 
 54,121 
Unallocable assets
 19,958 
 15,915 
Consolidated total assets
 76,946 
 70,036 
Segment liabilities
DET
 9,117 
 11,087 
DLM
 3,697 
 3,806 
Others
 16 
 44 
Total Segment Liabilities
 12,830 
 14,937 
Unallocable liabilities
 6,512 
 9,530 
Consolidated total liabilities
 19,342 
 24,467 
394  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Geographical non-current assets, (property, plant and equipment, right of use assets, capital work-in-progress, goodwill, other 
intangible assets, intangible assets under development and other non-current assets) are allocated based on location of assets: 
	
	
	
Geographic location
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Segment non-current assets
NAM
 2,010 
 2,169 
EMEA
 14,239 
 13,673 
APAC (including India)
 13,995 
 13,174 
Total
 30,244 
 29,016 
	
	
	
Major Customer-greater than 10% of revenue from operations:
Revenue from one customer amounted to ₹ 9,566 ( March 31, 2024: ₹ 9,549), arising from sales in the DET segment.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  395 
31. List of subsidiaries, joint venture and associate included in consolidation of financial statements:
Sl. No.
Name of the Company
Parent Company
Country of 
Incorporation
Percentage of Direct/Indirect 
ownership interest
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Subsidiaries
1
Cyient Europe Limited 
Cyient Limited
UK
100%
100%
2
Cyient Benelux BV 
Cyient Europe Limited 
Netherlands
100%
100%
3
Cyient Schweiz GmbH 
Cyient Europe Limited 
Switzerland
100%
100%
4
Cyient SRO 
Cyient Europe Limited 
Czech Republic
100%
100%
5
Cyient Semiconductors NV 
(formerly Cyient NV w.e.f 
February 03, 2025)
Cyient Europe Limited 
Belgium
100%
100%
6
Cyient Inc.
Cyient Limited
USA
100%
100%
7
Cyient Canada Inc.
Cyient Inc.
Canada
100%
100%
8
Cyient Defense Services Inc. 
Cyient Inc.
USA
100%
100%
9
Cyient GmbH 
Cyient Limited
Germany
100%
100%
10
Cyient AB
Cyient GmbH 
Sweden
100%
100%
11
Cyient KK #1
Cyient Limited
Japan
100%
100%
12
Cyient Insights Private Limited 
Cyient Limited
India
100%
100%
13
Cyient DLM Limited (refer note 
14)
Cyient Limited
India
52.17%
66.67%
14
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
Cyient Limited
Australia
100%
100%
15
Integrated Global Partners Pty 
Limited
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
Australia
100%
100%
16
Integrated Global Partners Pte. 
Limited
Integrated Global Partners 
Pty Limited
Singapore
100%
100%
17
Integrated Global Partners SpA
Integrated Global Partners 
Pty Limited
Chile
100%
100%
18
IG Partners South Africa Pty Ltd
Integrated Global Partners 
Pty Limited
South Africa
100%
100%
19
Workforce Delta Pty Limited
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
Australia
100%
100%
20
Cyient Singapore Private 
Limited
Cyient Limited
Singapore
100%
100%
21
Cyient Israel India Limited #3
Cyient Limited
Israel
100%
100%
22
Cyient Solutions and Systems 
Private Limited 
Cyient Limited
India
51%
51%
23
Grit Consulting Pte Ltd
Cyient Singapore Private 
Limited
Singapore
100%
100%
24
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Cyient Europe Limited
Portugal
100%
100%
25
Metemesonip, Unipessoal Lda
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Portugal
100%
100%
396  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sl. No.
Name of the Company
Parent Company
Country of 
Incorporation
Percentage of Direct/Indirect 
ownership interest
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
26
Celfinet UK 
Telecommunications 
Consulting Services Ltd
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
UK
100%
100%
27
Celfinet España - Consultoria 
en Telecomunicaciones, SL
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Spain
100%
100%
28
Celfinet (Brasil) - Consultoria 
em Telecomunicações, Ltda.
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Brazil
100%
100%
29
Celfinet Mozambique 
– Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, Limitada
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Mozambique
100%
100%
30
Celfinet Mexico - Consultoria de 
Telecomunicaciones AS
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Mexico
100%
100%
31
Celfinet Germany - 
Telecommunications 
Consulting Services GmbH
Celfinet – Consultoria em 
Telecomunicações, S.A.
Germany
100%
100%
32
Sentiec Oyj
Cyient Europe Limited
Finland
100%
100%
33
Citec Group Oy Ab
Sentiec Oyj
Finland
100%
100%
34
Cyient Oy Ab
Citec Group Oy Ab
Finland
100%
100%
35
Citec Engineering France Sarl
Cyient Oy Ab
France
100%
100%
36
Cyient Engineering AB
Cyient Oy Ab
Sweden
100%
100%
37
Cyient Engineering & 
Information GmbH
Citec Group Oy Ab
Germany
100%
100%
38
Cyient Group France SAS
Citec Group Oy Ab
France
100%
100%
39
Akilea Overseas Ltd
Cyient Group France SAS
UK
100%
100%
40
Cyient Norway AS
Citec Group Oy Ab
Norway
100%
100%
41
Citec Engineering India Private 
Limited #4
Cyient Insights Private 
Limited 
India
0%
100%
42
Cyient Global Captive Solutions 
Private Limited #6
Cyient Limited
India
100%
100%
43
Cyient DLM Inc., #2
Cyient DLM Limited
USA
100%
100%
44
Altek Electronics LLC #13
Cyient DLM Inc.
USA
100%
-
45
Cyient Semiconductors Private 
Limited #7
Cyient Limited
India
100%
-
46
Cyient Semiconductors Inc., #8
Cyient Semiconductors 
Private Limited
USA
100%
-
47
Cyient Semiconductors Europe 
Private Limited #9
Cyient Semiconductors 
Private Limited
UK
100%
-
48
Cyient Project Management 
Consultancy - L.L.C - S.P.C#10
Cyient Limited
UAE
100%
-
49
Abu Dhabi & Gulf Computers 
Establishment #12
Cyient Project 
Management Consultancy 
- L.L.C - S.P.C
UAE
100%
-
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  397 
Sl. No.
Name of the Company
Parent Company
Country of 
Incorporation
Percentage of Direct/Indirect 
ownership interest
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Joint venture
50
Infotech HAL Limited (Under 
liquidation)
-
India
50%
50%
Associate
51
Azimuth AI Inc., #11
Cyient Semiconductors 
Inc.,
USA
27.62%
-
Section 8 Company
52
Cyient Urban Micro Skill Centre 
Foundation #5
-
India
-
-
Notes: 	
	
	
	
	
#1. 	 Cyient Australia Pty Limited holds 86% of shareholding in Cyient KK and Cyient Limited holds the remaining 14% 
shareholding.
	
	
	
	
	
#2. 	 On March 05, 2024, Cyient DLM Limited incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in United States of America namely Cyient 
DLM Inc.,	
	
	
	
	
#3. 	 The Board of Directors of the Parent at their meeting held on October 14, 2021 have approved the closure of its wholly 
owned subsidiary, Cyient Israel India Limited (‘CIIL’) in line with its strategy of simplification of legal entity structure. CIIL did 
not have any operations and the financial results of CIIL are not material to the Group. This has no impact on business as the 
same is serviced by the existing legal entities. 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
#4. 	 Cyient Limited had acquired 100% of equity shares of Citec Engineering India Private Limited (‘Citec India’) on September 
1, 2022.  Thereafter, on October 19, 2023, Cyient Limited had transferred 100% of shareholding to Cyient Insights private 
Limited (‘Insights’) as part of strategic business consolidation. Thus, Citec India has become a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Insights. Further, on November 01, 2023 Citec India has been merged with Insights vide order dated July 07, 2024.	
	
	
	
	
#5. 	 On October 10, 2018, the Company incorporated Cyient Urban Micro Skill Centre Foundation (‘Cyient Urban’), a wholly 
owned Section 8 Company under the Companies Act, 2013, to further the CSR activities of the Company. The objective is 
not to obtain economic benefits through the activities of Cyient Urban and accordingly it has been excluded for the purpose 
of preparation of consolidated financial statements.
	
	
	
	
	
#6. 	 On February 27, 2024, Cyient Limited incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in India namely Cyient Global Captive 
Solutions Private Limited.
	
	
	
	
	
#7. 	 On August 23, 2024, Cyient Limited incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in India namely Cyient Semiconductors Private 
Limited.
	
	
	
	
	
#8. 	 On October 16, 2024, Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in United States of 
America namely Cyient Semiconductors Inc.,
	
	
	
	
	
#9. 	 On January 15, 2025, Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in United Kingdom 
namely Cyient Semiconductors Europe Private Limited.
	
	
	
	
	
398  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
#10. On September 23, 2024, Cyient Limited incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in India namely Cyient Project Management 
Consultancy - L.L.C - S.P.C.
	
	
	
	
	
#11. On November 29, 2024, Cyient Semiconductors Inc., acquired 27.62% stake in Azimuth AI Inc., and became its Associate.	
	
	
	
	
#12. On November 15, 2024, Cyient Project Management LLC(CPM LLC) entered into  Share Purchase Agreement(‘SPA’) with 
Abu Dhabi & Gulf Computers Establishment (ADGCE) and acquired 100% stake. Consequent to this acquisition, ADGCE 
became a subsidiary of CPM LLC with effect from December 24, 2024.
	
	
	
	
	
#13. On October 04, 2024, Cyient DLM Inc., acquired 100% stake in Altek Electronics Inc., USA (‘Altek’) and became its wholly 
owned subsidiary.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		
	
	
	
		
	
 	
	
	
	
32. Related parties	
	
	
	
Related parties other than disclosed in Note 31:
Entity
Country of Incorporation
Nature of relationship
Cyient Foundation
India
Entity with common KMP
Infotech ESOP Trust
India
Entity with common KMP
Cyient Associate Stock Option Scheme 2021 Trust
India
Entity with common KMP
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP):	
	
	
	
Name
Designation
M.M. Murugappan
Non-Executive Chairman
B.V.R Mohan Reddy 
Founder Chairman; Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice Chairman and Managing Director (from April 3, 2023);  
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (till April 2, 2023)
Prabhakar Atla
President and Chief Financial Officer ( w.e.f April 20, 2023)
Sukamal Banerjee
Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (w.e.f February 19, 2025)
Debjani Gosh
Independent Director (w.e.f January 23, 2025)
Nitin Prasad
Independent Director
Vikas Sehgal
Independent Director
Vivek Gour 
Independent Director
Matangi Gowrishankar 
Independent Director
Sudheendhra Putty
Company Secretary
Retired KMP's:
Karthikeyan Natarajan 
Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (retired w.e.f January 23, 2025); 
Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer (from April 3, 2023);  
Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer (till April 2, 2023)
Ajay Aggarwal
Chief Financial Officer (retired w.e.f. April 20, 2023)
Ramesh Abhishek
Independent Director (retired w.e.f May 22, 2024)
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  399 
Related Party Transactions:
Balances and transactions between the Parent and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on 
consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Summary of the transactions and balances with related parties are as follows:
(a) Transactions during the year:  
Particulars
Party name
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Revenue from contracts with 
customers
Azimuth AI Inc.,
 87 
 - 
Expenditure for corporate social 
responsibility (refer note 28)
Cyient Foundation 
 84 
 122 
Donation
Cyient Foundation 
 3 
 - 
Compensation to KMP’s is as follows:
Particulars
Party name
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended
March 31, 2024
Short-term benefits
Executive Vice Chairman and Managing 
Director and executive officers#1 & 2
 420 
 478 
Dividend paid 
Non-Executive and Non-independent/ 
Independent Director, Executive Vice 
Chairman, Managing Director and Executive 
officers
 98 
 92 
Commission and other benefits 
Non-Executive and Non-Independent 
Director and Independent Directors
 23 
 23 
#1 	 Executive officers include Krishna Bodanapu, Prabhakar Atla, Ajay Aggarwal, Karthikeyan Natarajan, Sukamal Banerjee and 
Sudheendhra Putty.	
	
	
	
#2 	 The above figures do not include provisions for compensated absences, gratuity and premium paid for group health 
insurance, as separate actuarial valuation / premium paid are not available.	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
(b) Balances at the year end:
Particulars
Party name
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Trade receivables
Azimuth AI Inc.,
 70 
 - 
Contract assets
Azimuth AI Inc.,
 24 
 - 
Short-term benefits payable
Executive Vice Chairman and Managing 
Director and executive officers
 258 
 249 
Commission and other benefits 
payable
Non-Executive and Non-Independent 
Director and Independent Directors
 23 
 23 
Note:	
	
	
	
The Group’s related party transactions during the year ended March 31, 2025 and outstanding balances as at March 31, 2025 are 
with its associate with whom the group generally enters into transactions which are at arm’s length and in the ordinary course of 
business.	 	
	
	
400  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
33. Business combinations		
	
	
	
	
	
	
(i) 	 Abu Dhabi & Gulf Computers Establishment (ADGCE)	
	
	
	
	
	
	
On November 15, 2024, the Group, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Cyient Project Management Consultancy - 
L.L.C, entered into a Share Purchase Agreement (the “SPA”) to acquire 100% of the issued share capital of Abu Dhabi & 
Gulf Computers Establishment (‘ADGCE’) for an upfront cash consideration of ₹ 129 and performance based contingent 
payments of ₹ 30. ADGCE became a subsidiary of Cyient Project Management Consultancy - L.L.C, effective December 24, 
2024 on satisfactory completion of the closing conditions under the SPA and has been consolidated with effect from that 
date.		
	
	
	
	
	
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
ADGCE is an Abu Dhabi-based technology consulting and digital services company, primarily serving clients in the Energy 
sector. The acquisition aligns with the Group’s strategic roadmap to expand its global presence, particularly in the Middle 
East, one of the world’s largest energy markets, and to drive growth in the Sustainability business.
	
The fair value of net assets acquired as of the acquisition date amounted to ₹ 73. The excess of the purchase consideration 
over the fair value of net assets has been recognized as goodwill. The goodwill, amounting to ₹ 86 is attributable to the 
acquired workforce and the high profitability prospects of ADGCE. Goodwill arising from the acquisition is not deductible 
for tax purposes. The identified intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful life of 7 years, based on 
management’s assessment of the period over which the associated economic benefits are expected to be realized (refer 
note (iii) below).
	
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The fair value of the contingent  consideration, recognised on the acquisition date is determined by discounting the 
estimated amount payable to the  previous owners on achievement of certain financial targets applying the discounted cash 
flow approach. The key inputs used for the estimation of fair values are discount rate of 25% and probabilities of achievement 
of financial targets.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		
	
	
	
	
From the date of acquisition, ADGCE has contributed revenues amounting to ₹ 72 and profit before tax of ₹ 1 to the Group’s 
consolidated financial results for the year ended March 31, 2025. The financial year end reporting period of ADGCE is different 
from the Group. Accordingly, it is impracticable to provide revenue and profit or loss contribution from the beginning of the 
annual reporting period.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		
	
	
	
	
		
	
	
	
(ii) 	 Altek Electronics LLC, USA (Altek)	
	
	
	
	
	
	
On October 04, 2024, the Group through it’s wholly owned subsidiary Cyient DLM Inc., USA entered into Share Purchase 
Agreement with Altschuler Holdings, Inc. and acquired 100% of the shares of Altek Electronics LLC, USA (‘Altek’), an 
electronic manufacturing services provider in the United States, for a consideration of ₹ 1,537.30, consisting of an upfront 
cash payment of ₹ 1,184 (post working capital adjustments) and performance based contingent payments of ₹ 353. Further, 
the Group has repaid shareholders loan of ₹ 940 to the sellers.. Altek became a subsidiary of Cyinet DLM Inc.,USA effective 
October 04, 2024 on satisfactory completion of the closing conditions under the SPA and has been consolidated with effect 
from that date.  	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		
	
	
	
Altek is a Connecticut-based electronic manufacturing services provider which assembles printed circuit board (PCB) and 
box builds for medical, industrial/commercial, aerospace, defense, telecommunications, and transportation industries. It 
offers PCB assembly, SMT assembly, through hole, BGA, automated optical inspection, wire and cable harness, selective 
solder, wave soldering, test, leadless device placement, conformal coating and potting, burn-in, high voltage soldering, 
traceability, and mechanical assembly solutions.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The fair value of net assets acquired (including intangible assets) as of the acquisition date amounted to ₹ 899. The excess of 
the purchase consideration over the fair value of net assets has been recognized as goodwill. The goodwill, amounting to ₹ 
638 is attributable to the assembled workforce and the expected future profitability of the acquired business. Goodwill arising 
from the acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes. The identified intangible assets are amortized over their estimated 
useful lives, ranging from 3 to 10 years, based on management’s assessment of the period over which the associated 
economic benefits are expected to be realized (refer note (iii) below).	 	
	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  401 
	
The fair value of the contingent  consideration, recognised on the acquisition date is determined by discounting the 
estimated amount payable to the previous owners on achievement of certain financial targets applying the discounted cash 
flow approach. The key inputs used for the estimation of fair values are discount rate of 14% and probabilities of achievement 
of financial targets.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		
	
	
	
	
From the date of acquisition, Altek has contributed revenues amounting to ₹ 1,747 and profit before tax amounting to ₹ 53 
to the Group’s performance. The Group has incurred acquisition related costs of ₹ 80 which has been recognised as other 
expenses. The financial year end reporting period of Altek is different from the Group. Accordingly, it is impracticable to 
provide revenue and profit or loss contribution from the beginning of the annual reporting period.	
	
	
(iii) Fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities as at the date of acquisition
Particulars
ADGCE
Altek
Total
Assets
Property, plant and equipment
 9 
 225 
 234 
Right of use assets
 - 
 29 
 29 
Other Intangible assets
 60 
 555 
 615 
Inventories
 - 
 944 
 944 
Contract assets
 12 
 - 
 12 
Trade receivables
 23 
 411 
 434 
Cash and cash equivalents
 9 
 139 
 148 
Other financial assets
 - 
 1 
 1 
Other assets
 23 
 18 
 41 
 136 
 2,322 
 2,458 
Liabilities
Borrowings
 - 
 (940)
 (940)
Lease liabilities
 - 
 (41)
 (41)
Trade payables
 (28)
 (253)
 (281)
Provisions
 (12)
 (62)
 (74)
Other financial liabilities
 (17)
 (34)
 (51)
Other liabilities
 (6)
 (93)
 (99)
 (63)
 (1,423)
 (1,486)
Total identifiable net assets at fair value
 73 
 899 
 972 
Goodwill
 86 
 638 
 724 
Total purchase consideration
 159 
 1,537 
 1,696 
	
	
402  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(iv) 	Citec Engineering India Private Limited (Citec India)	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on January 22, 2024, approved the Scheme of Amalgamation under Section 
233 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, for the merger of Citec Engineering India Private Limited 
(“Citec India”) with Cyient Insights Private Limited, both wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Parent. The Scheme was approved 
by the National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”) and other relevant regulatory authorities.
	
		
	
	
The amalgamation was undertaken to simplify the Group’s shareholding structure by reducing shareholding tiers. The 
Group continued to hold the same effective interest before and after the amalgamation, qualifying it as a common control 
transaction under Appendix C of Ind AS 103 — Business Combinations. Accordingly, no gain or loss has been recognised.
	
	
The NCLT, Hyderabad Bench, approved the Scheme on July 7, 2024, effective from November 1, 2023, and the order was 
filed with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs on July 17, 2024. Pursuant to the Scheme, 249,999 equity shares of ₹10 each held 
by Cyient Insights Private Limited in Citec India were cancelled. There was no change in the total equity shareholding of the 
Group as a result of the transaction. There was no consideration paid to effect the amalgamation.
	
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Business combinations during the year ended 2023-24: There were no business combinations during the year ended 
March 31, 2024.	
	
	
	
	
	
34. Financial instruments	 	
	
	
	
	
34.1Capital management	 	
	
	
	
	
	
For the purpose of the Group’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital, securities premium and all other 
equity reserves. The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to maintain a strong capital base to ensure 
sustained growth in business and to maximize the shareholders value. The capital management focuses to maintain an 
optimal structure that balances growth and maximizes shareholder value.
	
		
	
	
Gearing ratio:	 	
	
	
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Borrowings
 2,138 
 4,526 
Cash and bank balances #1
 (10,792)
 (5,675)
Other treasury investments (bonds, mutual funds and commercial paper)
 (3,172)
 (2,843)
Net debt
 - 
 - 
Total equity
 57,604 
 45,569 
Net debt to equity ratio
 - 
 - 
The Group has always been positive on its net cash position with cash and bank balances along with other treasury investments. 
During the year the group has not defaulted in any loan covenants.	
	
	
	
	
	
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the year ended March 31, 2025.	
	
	
	
	
	
#1. Excludes Cyient DLM Limited IPO proceeds pending utilisation and fixed deposits having maturities more than 3 months.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  403 
34.2 Fair Value Measurement
a) 	 The carrying value of financial assets by categories is as follows:
 Particulars
 As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Measured at amortised cost
Trade receivables
 14,067 
 12,617 
Cash and cash equivalents
 10,706 
 4,848 
Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
 2,436 
 4,987 
Other financial assets 
 693 
 739 
Investment in tax free and perpetual bonds (quoted)#1
 2,052 
 2,187 
Investment in commercial paper (quoted)#2
 - 
 245 
Total financial assets measured at amortised cost
 29,954 
 25,623 
Measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI)
Investments in other equity instruments (unquoted)
 560 
 761 
Derivative instruments designated in a hedging relationship 
 52 
 21 
Total financial assets measured at FVOCI
 612 
 782 
Measured at fair value through statement of profit and loss (FVTPL)
Investments in mutual funds (quoted)
 1,120 
 411 
Equity instruments of other entities (unquoted)
 - 
 8 
Investment in preferred instruments of other entities 
 345 
 405 
Investment in Partnership fund 
 375 
 339 
Total financial assets measured at FVTPL
 1,840 
 1,163 
Total financial assets
 32,406 
 27,568 
#1. Fair value of investment in tax free and perpetual bond is ₹ 2,047 (March 31, 2024 : ₹ 2,050)
#2. Fair value of investment in commercial paper is Nil (March 31, 2024 : ₹ 249)
404  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
b) The carrying value of financial liabilities by categories is as follows:
 Particulars
 As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Measured at amortised cost
Borrowings
 2,138 
 4,526 
Trade payables
 3,934 
 5,001 
Other financial liabilities
 2,718 
 2,723 
Lease liabilities
 2,996 
 3,350 
Total financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
 11,786 
 15,600 
Measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI)
Derivative instruments designated in a hedging relationship 
 55 
 4 
Total financial liabilities measured at FVOCI
 55 
 4 
Measured at fair value through statement of profit and loss (FVTPL)
Liability towards acquisition of business
 374 
 1,722 
Total financial liabilities measured at FVTPL
 374 
 1,722 
Total financial liabilities
 12,215 
 17,326 
The management assessed that fair value of cash and cash equivalents and other bank balances, trade receivables, other financial 
assets, trade payables, borrowings and other current financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the 
short-term maturities of these instruments, and hence these are carried at amortised cost.	 	
	
	
	
	
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in 
a current transaction between willing parties, other than a forced or a liquidation sale.	
	
	
	
	
	
Investments in other equity, debt and preferred instruments (quoted and unquoted) are measured at fair value through initial 
designation in accordance with Ind AS 109. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
Derivative assets/ (liabilities) are mandatorily measured at fair value.	
	
	
	
	
	
Liability towards acquisition of business is measured mandatorily at fair value through statement of profit and loss.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
34.3 Fair value hierarchy	
	
	
	
	
	
Valuation technique and key inputs	 	
	
	
	
	
Level 1 - 	 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in an active markets for identical assets or liabilities.	
	
	
	
Level 2 - 	 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
	 (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). 	
	
	
	
	
	
Level 3 - 	 Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).		
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  405 
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy for assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2025:
Particulars
Date of valuation
Total
Fair value measurement using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Financial Assets:
Measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI)
Investments in other equity instruments 
(unquoted) #1
March 31, 2025
 560 
 - 
 - 
 560 
Derivative instruments designated in a hedging 
relationship#2
March 31, 2025
 52 
 - 
 52 
 - 
Measured at fair value through statement of 
profit and loss (FVTPL)
Investment in preferred instruments of other 
entities (unquoted) #1
March 31, 2025
 345 
 - 
 - 
 345 
Investment in Partnership fund (unquoted) #1
March 31, 2025
 375 
 - 
 - 
 375 
Investment in mutual funds (quoted)
March 31, 2025
 1,120 
 1,120 
 - 
 - 
Total financial asset measured at fair value
 2,452 
 1,120 
 52 
 1,280 
Measured at amortised cost
Investment in tax free and perpetual bonds 
(quoted)
March 31, 2025
 2,047 
 2,047 
 - 
 - 
Total financial asset measured at amortised 
cost
 2,047 
 2,047 
 - 
 - 
Financial Liabilities:
Measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI)
Derivative instruments designated in a hedging 
relationship#2
March 31, 2025 
 55 
 - 
 55 
 - 
Measured at fair value through statement of 
profit and loss (FVTPL)
Liability towards acquisition of business#1
March 31, 2025
 374 
 - 
 - 
 374 
Total financial liabilities measured at Fair 
value
 429 
 - 
 55 
 374 
There have been no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the year ended March 31, 2025.
	
	
	
	
406  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy for assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2024:
Particulars
Date of 
valuation
Total
Fair value measurement using
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Financial Assets:
Measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI)
Investments in other equity instruments 
(unquoted)#1
March 31, 2024
 761 
 - 
 - 
 761 
Derivative instruments designated in a hedging 
relationship#2
March 31, 2024
 21 
 - 
 21 
 - 
Measured at fair value through statement of profit 
and loss (FVTPL)
Investment in preferred instruments of other entities 
(unquoted) #1
March 31, 2024
 405 
 - 
 - 
 405 
Equity instruments of other entities (unquoted)#1
March 31, 2024
 8 
 - 
 - 
 8 
Investment in Partnership fund (unquoted) #1
March 31, 2024
 339 
 - 
 - 
 339 
Investment in mutual funds (quoted)
March 31, 2024
 411 
 411 
 - 
 - 
Total financial asset measured at fair value
 1,945 
 411 
 21 
 1,513 
Measured at amortised cost
Investment in tax free and perpetual bonds (quoted)
March 31, 2024
 2,050 
 2,050 
 - 
 - 
Investment in commercial paper (quoted)
March 31, 2024
 249 
 249 
 - 
 - 
Total financial asset measured at amortised cost
 2,299 
 2,299 
 - 
 - 
Financial Liabilities:
Measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI)
Derivative instruments designated in a hedging 
relationship#2
March 31, 2024
 4 
 - 
 4 
 - 
Measured at fair value through statement of profit 
and loss (FVTPL)
Liability towards acquisition of business#1
March 31, 2024
 1,722 
 - 
 - 
 1,722 
Total financial liabilities measured at Fair value
 1,726 
 - 
 4 
 1,722 
There have been no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the previous year ended March 31, 2024.
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  407 
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values:	
	
	
	
	
#1. The fair values of the unquoted equity, debt and preferred instruments, liability towards acquisition of business and gross 
obligation liability to acquire non-controlling interests have been estimated using a DCF model. The valuation requires 
management to make certain assumptions about the model inputs, including forecast cash flows, discount rate, and 
probabilities of the various estimates within the range used in management’s estimate of fair value for these unquoted 
equity, preferred and debt investments.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
#2. The Parent enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with 
investment grade credit ratings. Foreign exchange forward contracts are valued using valuation techniques, which employs 
the use of market observable inputs. The most frequently applied valuation techniques include forward pricing using present 
value calculations. The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange 
spot and forward rates, yield curves of the respective currencies, etc.  As at March 31, 2025, the mark-to-market value 
of derivative asset positions is net of a credit valuation adjustment attributable to derivative counterparty default risk. 
The changes in counterparty credit risk had insignificant impact on the hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives 
designated in hedge relationships.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (level 3)
The following table presents changes in level 3 items for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024:
Liability towards acquisition of business:
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
 1,722 
 3,029 
Acquisitions
383
 - 
Receivable on account of working capital adjustments
 (94)
 - 
Others #1
 - 
 88 
(Profit)/Loss recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss
 (60)
 137 
Foreign currency translation adjustments
(12)
 18 
Payments during the year 
 (1,565)
 (1,550)
Closing balance
 374 
 1,722 
#1. Includes amount payable towards tax incentives of Celfinet – Consultoria em Telecomunicações, S.A. pertaining to 
pre-acquisition period.
408  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Investment in other equity and preferred instruments (unquoted):
Particulars
 Other equity 
 Preferred 
instruments 
Units of 
partnership funds
Total
Balance as at April 01, 2023
 934 
 387 
 282 
 1,603 
Investments made during the year
 68 
 -   
 59 
 127 
Loss recognised in the consolidated statement of 
profit and loss
 -   
 13 
 (13)
 -   
Fair value change on financial instruments recognised 
through OCI
 (233)
 -   
 -   
 (233)
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 -   
 5 
 11 
 16 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 769 
 405 
 339 
 1,513 
Investments made during the year
 23 
 -   
 -   
 23 
Loss recognised in the consolidated statement of 
profit and loss
 -   
 (32)
 22 
 (10)
Fair value change on financial instruments recognised 
through OCI
 (271)
 -   
 -   
 (271)
Foreign currency translation adjustments
 39 
 (28)
 14 
 25 
Balance as at March 31, 2025
 560 
 345 
 375 
 1,280 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  409 
Valuation inputs and relationships to fair value	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The following table summarises the quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used in level 3 fair value 
measurements.	
	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
Fair value 
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs
Valuation process
Sensitivity of 
the inputs to fair 
value
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Investment in 
other equity, 
debt and 
preferred 
instruments 
(unquoted)
 
1,280 
 
1,513 
Earnings 
growth rate
Earnings growth factor for 
unquoted equity, debt and 
preferred investments are 
estimated based on the market 
information of similar type of 
companies and also considering 
the economic environment 
impact. 
Any increase in 
earnings growth 
rate would 
increase the fair 
value.                    
 
Discount rate
Discount rates are determined 
using a capital asset pricing 
model to calculate a pre-tax 
rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value 
of money and risk specific to 
that asset.  
Any increase in 
the discount rate 
would result in 
decrease in fair 
value.
Liability towards 
acquisition of 
business and 
contingent 
consideration
 374 
 1,722 
Expected 
cash outflows
Estimate of cash outflows are 
based on forecasted sales 
and entity’s knowledge of the 
business and how the current 
economic environment is likely 
to impact.
Any increase in 
expected cash 
flows would 
increase the fair 
value. 
Discount rate
Discount rate is the current 
average borrowing cost that 
a market participant  would 
expect to pay to obtain its debt 
financing based on the assumed 
capital structure.
Any increase in 
the discount rate 
would result in 
decrease in fair 
value.
	
	
	 	
	 	
	
	
34.4 	Financial risk management	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Objectives and policies	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives,  comprise of borrowings, lease obligation, trade and other 
payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group’s principal financial 
assets include security deposits, investments, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents that is derived directly 
from its operations. The Group also holds FVTOCI investments and enters into derivative transactions for hedging purpose.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group is exposed to market risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and other price risks. The Group risk management is carried out 
by the management which helps in identification, measurement, mitigation and reporting all risks associated with the activities 
of the Group. These risks are identified on a continuous basis and assessed for the impact on the financial performance. All 
derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the appropriate skills, experience 
and supervision. It is the Group’s policy that no trading in derivatives for speculative purposes will be undertaken. The Board of 
Directors reviews policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
410  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A. Market Risk		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and equity price risk. Financial instruments 
affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, investments, and derivative financial instruments.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group’s primary focus is to foresee the unpredictability of financial markets and seek to minimize potential adverse effects 
on its financial performance. The primary market risk to the Group is foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk. The Group 
uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate foreign exchange related risk exposures. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is 
influenced mainly by the individual characteristic of each customer and the concentration of risk from the top few customers.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
i. Foreign currency risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group operates internationally and a major portion of the business is denominated in foreign exchange predominantly 
US Dollar, Pound Sterling, Australian Dollar and Euro currencies. Consequently the group is exposed to foreign exchange risk 
through its services and purchases / import of services from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies. The Group holds 
derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the risk of changes in exchange rates on 
foreign currency exposures. The exchange rate between the rupee and foreign currencies has changed substantially in recent 
years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. Consequently, the results of the Group’s operations are affected as the rupee 
appreciates/ depreciates against these currencies.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group monitors and manages its financial risks by analysing its foreign exchange exposures. The Group, in accordance 
with its Board approved risk management policies and procedures, enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to manage 
its exposure in foreign exchange rates.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Parent has applied the hedge accounting principles set out in Ind AS 109 in respect of such derivative contracts, designated 
in a hedging relationship, used to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain highly probable 
forecast transactions. Accordingly, in respect of all such outstanding contracts as at March 31, 2025 that were designated as 
effective hedges of highly probable forecast transactions, (loss)/ gain aggregating ₹ (2) (net of taxes) (March 31, 2024: ₹ 13 (net of 
taxes)) have been recognised under the cash flow hedge reserve.	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(a) Derivative financial instruments:		
	
	
	
	
Outstanding forward exchange contracts as on March 31, 2025:
Currency
No. of contracts
Amount in contract 
currency
Amount in ₹
Buy/Sell
Cross currency
AUD
6
5,000,000
278
Sell
INR
CAD
14
11,380,000
713
Sell
INR
EUR
15
12,150,000
1,158
Sell
INR
GBP
9
7,070,000
778
Sell
INR
USD
63
61,800,000
5,334
Sell
INR
	
Outstanding forward exchange contracts as on March 31, 2024:
Currency
No. of contracts
Amount in contract 
currency
Amount in ₹
Buy/Sell
Cross currency
EUR
18
14,400,000
1,329
Sell
INR
GBP
5
4,000,000
428
Sell
INR
USD
59
56,400,000
4,754
Sell
INR
	
	
	
All outstanding forward exchange contracts as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 have balance maturity period of less than 
one year.  		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  411 
Sensitivity analysis:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
In respect of the Parent’s forward contracts, a 5% increase/decrease in the respective exchange rates of each of the currencies 
underlying such contracts would have resulted in:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
* an approximately ₹ (413)/ 413 (decrease)/increase in the Group’s other comprehensive income as at March 31, 2025.	
* an approximately ₹ (326)/ 326 (decrease)/increase in the Group’s other comprehensive income as at March 31, 2024.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Unhedged foreign currency exposure 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the volatility of the Group’s net 
monetary assets (which includes cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables,contract assets, other financial assets, trade 
payables, other financial liabilities), which are denominated in various foreign currencies (viz. USD, EUR, GBP, AUD, SGD, CAD, 
YEN etc.).		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Sensitivity analysis:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 , every 5% increase / (decrease) in the respective foreign currencies 
compared to functional currency of the Parent would impact profit before tax by ₹ 406 / (₹ 406) and ₹ 586 / (₹ 586) respectively.
ii. Interest rate risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes in market 
interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s debt 
obligations with floating interest rates. Any changes in the interest rates environment may impact future cost of borrowings. 
The Group monitors the movements in interest rates and wherever possible, reacts to material movements in such interest rates 
by restructuring its financing arrangements.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
For the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 , every 1% increase / decrease of the floating rate of interest would impact 
profit before tax by (₹ 15) / ₹ 15 and (₹ 45) / ₹ 45 respectively.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
B. Credit Risk	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Credit risk is the risk that counter party will not meet its obligations under a financial instruments or customer contract leading to 
a financial loss. Credit risk arises from cash held with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposure to clients, including 
outstanding accounts receivable. Credit risk is managed through credit approvals, establishing credit limits and continuously 
monitoring the creditworthiness of customers to which the Group grants credit terms in the normal course of business. The 
Group establishes an allowance for expected credit losses and impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in 
respect of trade receivables and contract assets.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
In addition, the Group is exposed, to credit risk in relation to financial guarantees given to subsidiary’s banks. The Group’s 
exposure in this respect is limited to the maximum amount that the Group will have to pay if the guarantee is called on.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Trade and other receivables:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The demographics 
of the customer, including the default risk of the industry and country in which the customer operates, also has an influence on 
credit risk assessment.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The following table gives details in respect of percentage of total receivables (trade receivable and contract assets) from top 
customer and top five customers:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
412  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Receivable from top customer
6.35%
 7.04% 
Receivable from top 5 customers
 21.02% 
 20.21% 
	
	
	
	
	
Investments:	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group limits its exposure to credit risk by generally investing in liquid securities and only with counterparties that have a 
good credit rating. The Group does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counter-parties, and does not have 
any significant concentration of exposures to specific industry sectors or specific country risks.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
C. Liquidity risk	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group may not be able to meet its present and future cash and collateral obligations without 
incurring unacceptable losses. The Group’s objective is to, at all times, maintain optimum levels of liquidity to meet its cash and 
collateral requirements. The Group closely monitors its position and maintains adequate source of financing.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group has unutilised credit limits from the banks of ₹ 12,949 and ₹ 10,799,  as of March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 
respectively. As of March 31, 2025, the Group had working capital of ₹ 27,754 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 19,010), including cash and bank 
balances of ₹ 13,142 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 9,835).	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities (excluding lease 
liabilities) :	
	
	
	
	
	
	
As at March 31, 2025	
	
	
Particulars
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Trade payables
 3,934 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities (current and non-current)
 3,040 
 107 
 - 
 - 
Total
 6,974 
 107 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
Less than 1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Trade payables
 5,001 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other financial liabilities (current and non-current)
 4,445 
 4 
 - 
 - 
Total
 9,446 
 4 
 - 
 - 
	
	
	
	
	
The Group’s obligation towards payment of borrowings and lease liabilities has been included in note 15 and note 3B, respectively.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
D. Other price risks	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group is exposed to equity price risks arising from equity investments. Company’s equity investments are held for strategic 
rather than trading purposes.	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  413 
35. Contingent liabilities and commitments	 	
	
	
	
	
	
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
 (A) Contingent liabilities:
Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debt (refer notes (a) to (f) 
below)	
 782 
 762 
Notes:	
	
	
(a) 	 The Group has disputed various demands raised by income tax authorities for the assessment year 2017-18 (March 31, 2024: 
2013-14, 2017-18) which are pending at various stages of appeals. The aggregate amount of disputed tax not provided for is 
₹ 4 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 4). The Group is confident that these appeals will be decided in its favour.
	
		
(b) 	 The Group has disputed various demands raised by the service tax authorities for the financial years 2006-07 to 2009-10, 
2013-14 to 2017-18 (till June 2017) (March 31, 2024: 2006-07 to 2009-10, 2013-14 to 2017-18 (till June 2017)). The Group 
filed appeals, which are pending with the appropriate authorities. The aggregate amount of disputed tax not provided for 
is ₹ 548 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 548). The Group is confident that these appeals will be decided in its favour. The above does not 
include show cause notices received by the Group.
	
		
(c)  	 The Group has disputed demands raised by the GST authority for the financial years 2017-18 to 2022-23. The Group is yet 
to file appeal with the appropriate authorities. The aggregate amount of disputed tax not provided is ₹ 107 (March 31, 2024: 
₹ 87). The Group is confident that these appeals will be decided in its favour. The above does not include show cause notices 
received by the Group.	
	
	
(d) 	 The Group is contesting certain pending service tax refunds amounting to ₹ 29 (March 31, 2024 : ₹ 29) at various appellate 
authorities. The Group is confident that these appeals will be decided in its favour.	
	
	
	
		
(e)  	 During the financial year 2015-16, the Government of India notified an amendment to the Payment of Bonus Act, 1961 
whereby the applicable slabs as well as coverage limit was enhanced. The said amendment was made effective April 1, 2014. 
The Group is contesting the retrospective applicability of the amendment for the financial year 2014-15 in the High Court of 
Judicature at Hyderabad for the states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The aggregate amount of liability pertaining to the 
financial year 2014-15, not provided for, is ₹ 92 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 92). 
	
		
(f) 	 The Group has disputed demand amounting to ₹ 2 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 2) raised by ESIC authorities towards non-payment 
of contribution from November 2010, which is pending for appeals. As the Group has complied with all the regulations, it is 
confident that this appeal will be decided in its favour.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(B)  Commitments:
Particulars
As at
March 31, 2025
As at
March 31, 2024
Contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided  
for (net of capital advances)#	
 984 
 846 
# Includes uncalled capital pertaining to investments ₹ 606 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 612)	
	
	
	
(C) 	 The Group has certain commitments to bankers relating to receivable factoring arrangements entered with them in respect 
of receivables from few customers. These factoring arrangements are in the normal course of business. The Group is 
confident of meeting these commitments arising from such arrangements.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
414  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
36. Material partly-owned subsidiary
During the previous year ended March 31, 2024, Cyient DLM Limited (‘DLM’), a wholly owned subsidiary, had completed its Initial 
Public Offering (“IPO”) by way of fresh issue of 22,364,653 equity shares of face value of ₹10 each at an issue price of ₹265 per 
equity share, aggregating to ₹5,920. The equity shares were listed on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE 
Limited on July 10, 2023. Further, it had undertaken a pre-IPO placement by way of private placement of 4,075,471 equity shares 
aggregating to ₹1,080 at an issue price of ₹265 per equity share on June 6, 2023. Consequently, the shareholding of the Parent 
had reduced by 33.33% in DLM.
On August 21, 2024, the Parent has further diluted 14.50% of its stake in DLM. Post stake dilution, it is considered a “material 
partly-owned subsidiary.” This dilution in stake has not resulted in loss of control over the subsidiary. Further, this has not resulted 
in significant restrictions on the Group’s or its subsidiaries’ ability to access or use the assets and settle the liabilities of the 
Group. Below is the summarised financial information of DLM:	
	
	
Proportion of equity interest held by non-controlling interests
Name of the entity
Country of Incorporation  
and Operation
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Cyient DLM Limited
India
47.83%
33.33%
Information regarding non-controlling interests:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Accumulated balances of non-controlling interests
 4,541 
 3,020 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests
 326 
 200 
Other comprehensive loss attributable to non-controlling interests
 (156)
 (79)
Summarised financial information of the subsidiary
(i) Summarised statement of profit and loss#:
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Revenue from contract with customers
 15,196 
 11,919 
Profit for the year
 681 
 612 
Other comprehensive loss
 (332)
 (240)
Total comprehensive income
 349 
 372 
Profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interests
 326 
 200 
Other comprehensive loss for the year attributable to non-
controlling interests
 (156)
 (79)
(ii) Summarised balance sheet#:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Non-current assets
 4,122 
 2,774 
Current assets
 12,817 
 13,259 
Non-current liabilities
 (2,107)
 (1,522)
Other current liabilities
 (5,338)
 (5,421)
Total equity
 9,494 
 9,090 
Attributable to non-controlling interests
 4,541 
 3,020 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  415 
(iii) Summarised cash flows information#:
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Cash flows used in operating activities
 (624)
 (705)
Cash flows generated from/ (used in) investing activities
 1,267 
 (4,278)
Cash flows (used in)/generated from financing activities
 (588)
 4,790 
Net Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 55 
 (193)
# Financial information presented are before inter-company eliminations.
37. Distributions made and proposed	
	
	
	
Particulars
For the year ended  
March 31, 2025
For the year ended  
March 31, 2024
Cash dividends on equity shares declared and paid:
Final dividend for the year ended on March 31, 2024 : ₹ 18 per share 
(March 31, 2023 : ₹ 16 per share)#2
 1,980 
 1,743 
Interim dividend for the year ended on March 31, 2025 : ₹ 12 per 
share (March 31, 2024 : ₹ 12 per share)#2
 1,320 
 1,317 
Total#1
 3,300 
 3,060 
Proposed dividend on equity shares:
Final dividend for the year ended on March 31, 2025 : ₹ 14 per share 
( March 31, 2024: ₹ 18 per share)
 1,555 
 1,996 
Total
 1,555 
 1,996 
#1. Includes unclaimed dividend (net) ₹ 3 (March 31, 2024: ₹ 5)	
	
#2. Numbers are net of dividend on treasury shares, if any.	
	
Proposed final dividend on equity shares for the year ended March 31, 2025 is subject to approval at the annual general meeting 
and is not recognised as a liability as at March 31, 2025. The dividend declared/paid and proposed is in accordance with Section 
123 of the Companies Act, 2013.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
416  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
38. Disclosure of additional information as required by Paragraph 2 of the General Instructions for Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements to Schedule III to 
the Companies Act, 2013 	 	
	
	
	
	
	
  	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(A) As at and for the year ended March 31, 2025
Sl 
No.
Name of the entity in the Group
Net assets, i.e., total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit or loss 
Share in other comprehensive 
income
Share in total comprehensive 
income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
As % of consolidated 
other comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of consolidated  
total comprehensive 
income
Amount
Parent Company
Cyient Limited
65%
 37,669 
173%
 11,246 
11%
 34 
166%
 11,280 
Subsidiaries#
Indian 
1
Cyient Insights Private Limited
2%
 1,113 
3%
 194 
-2%
 (6)
3%
 188 
2
Cyient DLM Limited
16%
 9,494 
11%
 681 
-111%
 (332)
5%
 349 
3
Cyient Solutions and Systems Private 
Limited
-1%
 (294)
0%
 (1)
-
 - 
0%
 (1)
4
Cyient Global Captive Solutions Private 
Limited
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
5
Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited
3%
 1,444 
-1%
 (54)
-1%
 (3)
-1%
 (57)
Foreign
1
Cyient Inc.
9%
 4,918 
9%
 602 
29%
 86 
10%
 688 
2
Cyient Europe Limited
15%
 8,415 
10%
 642 
162%
 486 
17%
 1,128
3
Cyient GmbH
3%
 1,997 
2%
 157 
18%
 53 
3%
 210 
4
Cyient KK
0%
 207 
0%
 27 
3%
 8 
1%
 35 
5
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
2%
 1,308 
4%
 288 
-10%
 (30)
4%
 258 
6
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
2%
 1,214 
-1%
 (73)
3%
 8 
-1%
 (65)
7
Cyient Israel Private Limited
0%
 32 
0%
 (10)
0%
 1 
0%
 (9)
8
Cyient Project Management Consultancy 
- L.L.C - S.P.C
0%
 (15)
0%
 (15)
0%
 - 
0%
 (15)
Adjustments on account of consolidation
-25%
 (14,407)
-116%
 (7,527)
50%
 150 
-109%
 (7,377)
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  417 
Sl 
No.
Name of the entity in the Group
Net assets, i.e., total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit or loss 
Share in other comprehensive 
income
Share in total comprehensive 
income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
As % of consolidated 
other comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of consolidated  
total comprehensive 
income
Amount
Non-controlling interests in:
1
Cyient Solutions and Systems Private 
Limited (refer note 14)
0%
 (32)
-
 - 
0%
 - 
 - 
 - 
2
Cyient DLM Limited
8%
 4,541 
5%
 326 
-52%
 (156)
3%
 170 
Joint venture
Indian 
Infotech HAL Limited (under liquidation)
-
 - 
-
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
100%
 57,604 
100%
 6,483 
100%
 299 
100%
 6,782 
# It includes their subsidiaries, if any.
418  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
38. Disclosure of additional information as required by Paragraph 2 of the General Instructions for Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements to Schedule III to 
the Companies Act, 2013 	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(B) As at and for the year ended March 31, 2024	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Sl 
No.
Name of the entity in the Group
Net assets, i.e., total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit or loss 
Share in other comprehensive 
income
Share in total comprehensive 
income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
As % of consolidated 
other comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of consolidated  
total comprehensive 
income
Amount
Parent Company
Cyient Limited
64%
 29,343 
71%
 4,973 
-52%
 58 
73%
 5,031 
Subsidiaries# 
Indian 
1
Cyient Insights Private Limited 
2%
 940 
-1%
 (76)
-2%
 2 
-1%
 (74)
2
Cyient DLM Limited
20%
 9,090 
9%
 612 
215%
 (240)
5%
 372 
3
Cyient Solutions and Systems Private 
Limited
-1%
 (294)
0%
 (1)
0%
 - 
0%
 (1)
4
Citec Engineering India Private Limited
2%
 890 
2%
 171 
-3%
 3 
3%
 174 
Foreign
1
Cyient Inc.
9%
 4,206 
2%
 155 
4%
 (5)
2%
 150 
2
Cyient Europe Limited
16%
 7,273 
19%
 1,328 
7%
 (8)
19%
 1,320 
3
Cyient GmbH
4%
 1,785 
0%
 10 
2%
 (2)
0%
 8 
4
Cyient KK
0%
 172 
0%
 28 
0%
 - 
0%
 28 
5
Cyient Australia Pty Limited
2%
 1,052 
4%
 309 
-4%
 5 
5%
 314 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  419 
Sl 
No.
Name of the entity in the Group
Net assets, i.e., total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit or loss 
Share in other comprehensive 
income
Share in total comprehensive 
income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount
As % of consolidated 
other comprehensive 
income
Amount
As % of consolidated  
total comprehensive 
income
Amount
6
Cyient Singapore Private Limited
2%
 806 
-1%
 (85)
-1%
 1 
-1%
 (84)
7
Cyient Israel Private Limited
0%
 41 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
Adjustments on account of consolidation
-28%
 (12,723)
-8%
 (596)
-137%
 153 
-6%
 (443)
Non-controlling interests in:
1
Cyient Solutions and Systems Private 
Limited (refer note 14)
0%
 (32)
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
2
Cyient DLM Limited
7%
 3,020 
3%
 200 
71%
 (79)
2%
 121 
Joint venture
Indian 
Infotech HAL Limited
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
0%
 - 
Total
100%
 45,569 
100%
 7,028 
100%
 (112)
100%
 6,916 
# It includes their subsidiaries, if any.
420  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
39. 	 Reclassifications: 
	
During the year, in view of improved presentation, the Group has reassessed presentation of following:
(i) 	 Accrued salaries and wages to employees have been reclassified under “Other financial liabilities” which were hitherto 
included in trade payables amounting to ₹ 2,122 as at March 31, 2025 (₹ 1,877 as at March 31, 2024).
(ii) 	 Unbilled revenue has been classified as “Contract Assets” as a separate line on the face of Balance sheet  which was 
hitherto included in other current financial assets amounting to ₹ 3,918 as at March 31, 2025 (₹ 4,362 as at March 31, 
2024).
(iii) 	 The Group has enhanced its segment disclosures to include segment-wise break-up of specified and material income 
and expense items.
	
	
The above changes do not impact recognition and measurement of items in the financial statements and consequentially, 
there is no impact on total equity and/ or profit (loss) for the current or any of the earlier periods. Considering the nature of 
changes, the management believes that they do not have any material impact on the balance sheet at the beginning of the 
comparative period and, therefore, this does not require presentation of a third balance sheet.	
	
	
	
		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
		
	
	
	
	
	
		
	
	
40. 	 Other statutory information	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(i) 	 The Group does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Group 
for holding any Benami property.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(ii) 	 The Group does not have any transaction with companies which are struck off.	
	
	
	
(iii) 	 The Group has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.	
	
(iv) 	 The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority.	
	
	
	
	
	
(v) 	 Other than disclosed below, the Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person or entity, 
including foreign entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:	 	
	
(a) 	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(b) 	 provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries:	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  421 
For the year ended March 31, 2025
Name of the 
intermediary to which 
the funds are advanced 
or loaned or invested
Nature of 
transaction
Date on which funds 
are advanced or loaned 
or invested
Amount of funds 
advanced or 
loaned or invested
Parties to which these 
funds are ultimately 
advanced or loaned or 
invested
Date on which funds 
are further advanced or 
loaned or invested
Amount of fund 
further advanced 
or loaned or 
invested 
Cyient Singapore 
Limited
Loan given
June 04, 2024
 386 
Rainer John ptasznik 
Jeremy James Brown
June 10, 2024
 986 
Cyient DLM Inc.
Investment in 
equity shares
September 27, 2024
 1,177 
Altschuler Holdings, 
Inc.
October 04, 2024
 1,298 
Cyient DLM Inc.
Loan given 
as a part of 
acquisition
September 27, 2024
 1,005 
Altschuler Holdings, 
Inc. and its 
shareholders
October 04, 2024
 934 
Cyient Semiconductors 
Private Limited
Investment in 
equity shares
October 28, 2024
 672 
Azimuth AI Inc.,
November 29, 2024#
 612 
Cyient Project 
Management 
Consultancy - LLC.,
Investment 
in Abu 
Dhabi & Gulf 
Computers 
Establishment
November 20, 2024
 169 
Suresh Mani
November 29, 2024 
to  
December 25, 2024
 130 
# Funds were first invested by the intermediaries by utilising bridge loan facilities which were repaid using the funds invested in the intermediary. Funds amounting to ₹ 664 
were transferred from Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited to Cyient Semiconductors Inc.on December 19, 2024, which were invested in Azimuth AI Inc.,	 	
	
	
	
	
	
422  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended March 31, 2024
Name of the 
intermediary to which 
the funds are advanced 
or loaned or invested
Nature of 
transaction
Date on which funds 
are advanced or 
loaned or invested
Amount of 
funds advanced 
or loaned or 
invested
Parties to which these 
funds are ultimately 
advanced or loaned or 
invested
Date on which funds 
are further advanced 
or loaned or invested
Amount of fund further 
advanced or loaned or 
invested 
Cyient Insights Private 
Limited 
Investment in 
compulsorily 
convertible 
debentures
October 19, 2023
 905 
Cyient Limited
October 20, 2023
 905 
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
# Funds were first invested by the intermediaries by utilising bridge loan facilities which were repaid using the funds invested in the intermediaries.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company has complied with the relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and the Companies Act for the above transactions and 
the transactions are not violative of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003).	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2024-25  |  423 
Details of intermediaries and ultimate beneficiaries:	
	
Name
Registered address
Government identification
Relationship 
with the Parent
Cyient Europe Limited
First Floor Block A, Apex Plaza, Forbury 
Road, Reading, England RG1 1AX United 
Kingdom.
Company No.: 02743776
Subsidiary
Cyient Singapore Private 
Limited
61, Seletar Aerospace views, Singapore 
797560.
GST: 201512291G
Subsidiary
Cyient Insights Private 
Limited 
Tower 2 4B, Plot no. 2, Infotech IT Park, 
Nanakramguda, Gachibowli, Hyderabad, 
Telangana, India 500032.
CIN: 
U72200TG2013PTC087527
Subsidiary
Cyient Semiconductors 
Private Limited
2nd Floor, Cyient Limited, Plot No. 
11, Infocity, Madhapur, Hyderabad, 
Telangana, India, 500081
CIN: 
U46521TS2024PTC188699
Subsidiary
Cyient Project 
Management Consultancy 
- L.L.C
Ras AI Qitah Street, Al Bateen, 28  
Abu Dhabi – 20028
ELN: CN-5504569
Subsidiary
Suresh Mani
802, Al Nasr Tower 3, Gheel Street,  
Abu Dhabi, UAE
None
None
Azimuth AI Inc.,
131 Continental Dr, Suite 305, Newark, 
Delaware, United States of America
EIN: 88-1363299
Associate
Cyient semiconductors 
Inc.,
131 Continental Dr, Suite 305, Newark, 
Delaware, United States of America
EIN: 33-1622621
Subsidiary
Altschuler Holdings, Inc.,
89 Commercial Boulevard, Torrington, 
CT 06790
EIN: 33-1238373
None
Rainer John Ptasznik 
Jeremy James Brown
119 Emerald Hill Road #06-03 
Residences at Emerald Hill Singapore 
229401 ("RJP");
None
None
Cyient Limited
4th floor, 'A' wing, Plot No. 11, Software 
Layout Units, Infocity, Hyderabad, 
Telangana, India - 500081.
CIN: 
L72200TG1991PLC013134
None
(vii) The Group has not received any fund from any person or entity, including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall:	
	
	
	
	
(a) 	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or	
	
	
	
	
(b) 	 provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.	
	
	
	
	
(viii) The Group does not have any such transaction which is  not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey 
or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
424  |  Annual Report 2024-25
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
41. Audit trail 
The Holding Company and subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited 
under the Act have used accounting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of recording audit trail 
(edit log) facility and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the software except for 
direct changes to data made using certain access rights in one software, where the audit trail feature is enabled from January 07, 
2025 to March 31, 2025 and in respect of other software for maintenance of timesheet records, audit trail feature is enabled from 
June 18, 2024 to March 31, 2025. Further, no instance of audit trail feature being tampered with was noted in respect of softwares 
where the audit trail has been enabled. Additionally, the audit trail of prior year has been preserved by the Holding Company and 
the above referred subsidiaries as per the statutory requirements for record retention to the extent it was enabled and recorded 
in the prior year.
	
	
	
	
	
42. Semiconductors business
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Company has initiated the launch and carveout of its semiconductors business as 
a fully owned subsidiary Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited (CSPL), with the focused objective to explore and exploit the 
significant opportunities in the semiconductor’s sector. As approved by the Board of Directors on March 31, 2025, the Company 
has commenced carveout of its global semiconductors business through the transfer of net assets, contracts and employees 
from the Group companies in India, USA, Germany, Belgium, and Taiwan to CSPL and its subsidiaries, with necessary agreements 
to be executed in due course of time. Accordingly, no adjustments are required in the consolidated financial statements for the 
year ended March 31, 2025.
	
	
	
	
	
43. The Code on Social Security, 2020
The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post employment benefits 
received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the Gazette of India. Certain sections of the 
Code came into effect on 3 May 2023. However, the final rules/interpretation have not yet been issued. The Group will assess and 
record the impact of the Code, once it is effective.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
As per our report of even date
For S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
ICAI Firm registration number:  
101049W/E300004
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Cyient Limited
 
                        
Vikas Pansari
Partner
Membership No.: 093649
M.M. Murugappan
Non-Executive Chairman
(DIN - 00170478)
Krishna Bodanapu
Executive Vice Chairman  
and Managing Director
(DIN - 00605187)
Sukamal Banerjee
Chief Executive Officer 
and Executive Director
(DIN-10535670)
Place: Mumbai
Place: Hyderabad
Prabhakar Atla
 Sudheendhra Putty 
Date : April 24, 2025
Date : April 24, 2025
Chief Financial Officer
 Company Secretary 
 (M.No. - F5689) 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  425 
Financial Analysis - Consolidated 
Balance Sheet Summary for Last Five Years	
Particulars
As at  
March 
31, 2025
%
As at  
March 
31, 2024 
%
As at  
March 
31, 2023 
%
As at  
March 
31, 2022 
%
As at  
March 
31, 2021
%
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 
 4,745 
6.2%
 4,462 
6.4%
 4,481 
6.8%
 4,540 
9.5%
 4,870 
10.8%
Right of use assets
 2,824 
3.7%
 3,271 
4.7%
 2,770 
4.2%
 2,247 
4.7%
 2,311 
5.1%
Capital work-in-progress 
 75 
0.1%
 16 
0.0%
 27 
0.0%
 134 
0.3%
 113 
0.3%
Goodwill
 18,040 
23.4%
 16,692 
23.8%
 16,363 
25.0%
 6,185 
12.9%
 5,830 
13.0%
Other intangible assets
 3,678 
4.8%
 3,839 
5.5%
 4,632 
7.1%
 477 
1.0%
 598 
1.3%
Intangible assets under development
 714 
0.9%
 558 
0.8%
 418 
0.6%
 - 
0.0%
 763 
1.7%
Investment accounted for using the equity 
method
 563 
0.7%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
Financial assets 
(a) Investments
 2,798 
3.6%
 3,598 
5.1%
 3,463 
5.3%
 3,582 
7.5%
 344 
0.8%
(b) Other financial assets
 318 
0.4%
 347 
0.5%
 249 
0.4%
 257 
0.5%
 - 
0.0%
Deferred tax assets (net)
 861 
1.1%
 752 
1.1%
 482 
0.7%
 248 
0.5%
 319 
0.7%
Income tax assets (net)
 707 
0.9%
 732 
1.0%
 321 
0.5%
 876 
1.8%
 804 
1.8%
Other non-current assets 
 168 
0.2%
 178 
0.3%
 362 
0.6%
 355 
0.7%
 192 
0.4%
Total non-current assets
 35,491 
46.1%
 34,445 
49.2%
 33,568 
51.3%
 18,901 
42.1%
 16,410 
36.5%
Current Assets
Inventories
 5,766 
7.5%
 4,676 
6.7%
 4,358 
6.7%
 2,790 
5.8%
 1,586 
3.5%
Contract Assets
 3,918 
5.1%
 4,362 
6.2%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
Financial assets
 (a)  Investments
 1,654 
2.1%
 758 
1.1%
 1,718 
2.6%
 866 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 (b)  Trade receivables
 14,067 
18.3%
 12,617 
18.0%
 11,271 
17.2%
 7,333 
15.3%
 8,026 
17.9%
 (c)  Cash and cash equivalents
 10,706 
13.9%
 4,848 
6.9%
 6,215 
9.5%
 12,157 
25.4%
 14,408 
32.1%
 (d)  Other bank balances
 2,436 
3.2%
 4,987 
7.1%
 979 
1.5%
 509 
1.1%
 242 
0.5%
 (e)  Other financial assets 
 427 
0.6%
 413 
0.6%
 4,527 
6.9%
 3,476 
7.3%
 2,838 
6.3%
Other current assets
 2,481 
3.2%
 2,930 
4.2%
 2,845 
4.3%
 1,841 
3.8%
 1,418 
3.2%
Total current assets
 41,455 
53.9%
 35,591 
50.8%
 31,913 
48.7%
 28,972 
60.5%
 28,518 
63.5%
Total Assets
 76,946 
100.0%
 70,036 
100.0%
 65,481 
100.0%
 47,873 
100.0%
 44,928 
100.0%
 ₹ Mn and percentage
426  |  Annual Report 2024-25
₹ Mn and percentage
Particulars
As at  
March 
31, 2025
%
As at  
March 
31, 2024 
%
As at  
March 
31, 2023 
%
As at  
March 
31, 2022 
%
As at  
March 
31, 2021
%
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY 
Equity share capital
 555 
0.7%
 555 
0.8%
 553 
0.8%
 552 
1.2%
 550 
1.2%
Other equity
 52,540 
68.3%
 42,026 
60.0%
 34,114 
52.1%
 30,614 
63.9%
 29,023 
64.6%
Equity attributable to owners of the Company
 53,095 
69.0%
 42,581 
60.8%
 34,667 
52.9%
 31,166 
65.1%
 29,573 
65.8%
Non-controlling interests
 4,509 
5.9%
 2,988 
4.3%
 (32)
0.0%
 (32)
-0.1%
 (32)
-0.1%
Total equity
 57,604 
74.9%
 45,569 
65.1%
 34,635 
52.9%
 31,134 
65.0%
 29,541 
65.8%
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(a) Borrowings
 982 
1.3%
 2,783 
4.0%
 4,939 
7.5%
 23 
0.0%
 453 
1.0%
(b) Lease liabilities
 2,072 
2.7%
 2,465 
3.5%
 1,960 
3.0%
 1,795 
3.7%
 1,958 
4.4%
(c) Other financial liabilities 
 107 
0.1%
 4 
0.0%
 1,270 
1.9%
 345 
0.7%
 231 
0.5%
Provisions
 1,746 
2.3%
 1,795 
2.6%
 1,616 
2.5%
 1,347 
2.8%
 1,288 
2.9%
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 734 
1.0%
 839 
1.2%
 830 
1.3%
 345 
0.7%
 182 
0.4%
Other non-current liabilities
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 261 
0.5%
 166 
0.4%
Total non-current liabilities
 5,641 
7.3%
 7,886 
11.3%
 10,615 
16.2%
 4,116 
8.6%
 4,278 
9.5%
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(a) Borrowings
 1,156 
1.5%
 1,743 
2.5%
 4,397 
6.7%
 3,241 
6.8%
 2,731 
6.1%
(b) Lease liabilities
 924 
1.2%
 885 
1.3%
 882 
1.3%
 738 
1.5%
 632 
1.4%
(c) Trade payables
 3,934 
5.1%
 5,001 
7.1%
 7,142 
10.9%
 5,259 
11.0%
 4,532 
10.1%
(d) Other financial liabilities
 3,040 
4.0%
 4,445 
6.3%
 2,038 
3.1%
 425 
0.9%
 302 
0.7%
Income tax liabilities (net)
 523 
0.7%
 562 
0.8%
 570 
0.9%
 350 
0.7%
 296 
0.7%
Provisions
 1,355 
1.8%
 1,144 
1.6%
 1,137 
1.7%
 414 
0.9%
 384 
0.9%
Other current liabilities
 2,769 
3.6%
 2,801 
4.0%
 4,065 
6.2%
 2,196 
4.6%
 2,232 
5.0%
Total current liabilities
 13,701 
17.8%
 16,581 
23.7%
 20,231 
30.9%
 12,623 
26.4%
 11,109 
24.7%
Total liabilities
 19,342 
25.1%
 24,467 
34.9%
 30,846 
47.1%
 16,739 
35.0%
 15,387 
34.2%
Total Equity and Liabilities
 76,946 
100.0%
 70,036 
100.0%
 65,481 
100.0%
 47,873 
100%
 44,928 
100%
Annual Report 2024-25  |  427 
Annexure - 2
Notes: 
i)	
None of Subsidiary of the Group has been liquidated during the year.
ii)	 Reporting period for the subsidiaries are same as holding company i.e., April to March.
iii)	 Celfinet Germany - Telecommunications Consulting Services GmbH incorporated from  July 7, 2022 is yet to start operations. 
iv)	 Cyient Global Captive Solutions Private Limited incorporated from February 27, 2024 is yet to start operations.
v)	 All amounts mentioned above are in the ₹ millions, in accordance with Ind-AS accounting standards.
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries/
associate companies/joint ventures
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014-AOC I)
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
Name of the 
subsidiary
Cyient Inc.
Cyient 
Europe 
Limited
Cyient 
GmbH
Cyient KK
Cyient 
Australia Pty 
Limited
Cyient 
Singapore 
Private 
Limited
Cyient 
Insights 
Private 
Limited
Cyient DLM 
Limited
Cyient 
Solutions 
and Systems 
Private 
Limited
Cyient Israel 
India Limited
Cyient Sem-
iconductor 
Private 
Limited
Cyient 
Project Man-
agement 
Consultancy 
- L.L.C - 
S.P.C
Date of 
incorporation
July 19, 1999
August 04, 
1999
October 31, 
2000
December 
22, 2008
September 
05, 2014
May 08, 2015
December 
07, 2013
February 04, 
2015
April 19, 
2017
July 18, 2016
August 23, 
2024
September 
23, 2024
Reporting currency
USD
GBP
EUR
JPY
AUD
SGD
INR
INR
INR
ILS
INR
AED
Exchange rate as on 
the last date of the 
relevant financial 
year in the case of 
foreign Subsidiaries.
85.4979
110.787
92.6794
0.5725
53.7505
63.7772
1
1
1
23.1592
1
23.2806
Equity share capital
993
335
25
40
-
1,448
20
793
-
42
1,500
-
Other equity
3,778
8,038
1,956
168
1,308
(238)
1,093
8,701
(295)
(10)
(56)
(14)
Total assets
9,828
19,173
2,621
473
3,820
2,598
1,750
16,939
71
56
1,845
288
Total Liabilities
5,057
10,808
624
266
2,512
1,388
637
7,445
365
24
401
302
Investments
536
183
97
-
36
-
-
309
-
-
563
-
Turnover
22,209
14,491
1,719
1,372
4,714
805
2,348
15,196
-
4
304
70
Profit/(Loss) before 
taxation
916
669
179
41
384
(78)
262
917
(0.77)
10
(46)
(15)
Provision for 
taxation
316
70
27
14
104
(5)
68
236
-
-
7
-
Profit/(Loss) after 
taxation
600
599
152
27
281
(73)
194
681
(0.77)
10
53
(14)
Proposed Dividend 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
% of shareholding
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
52.17%
51.00%
100.00%
100.00%
100.00%
428  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Part “B”: Associates and Joint Venture
Name of Entity
Joint venture
Infotech HAL Limited , India
Associate
Azimuth AI Inc.
1. 	Latest audited Balance Sheet Date
March 31, 2024
NA #
2. 	Shares of Joint Ventures/ Associate held by the  
company on the year end
i.	 	No. of shares
2,000,000
5,825,632
ii. 	 Amount of Investment in Associates/ 
Joint Venture (refer note below)
-
563
iii.	 Extend of Holding %
50%
27.62%
3.	 Description of how there is significant influence
 There is significant influence 
to the extent of shareholding 
There is significant 
influence to the extent of 
shareholding.
4. 	Reason why the joint venture/ associate is not Consolidated
NA
NA
5. 	Net worth attributable to Shareholding as per  
latest audited Balance Sheet
Nil**
483
6. 	Profit / (Loss) for the year
i. 	 Considered in Consolidation**
 - 
 (49)
ii. 	 Not Considered in Consolidation
 - 
- 
Notes: 
i.	
Infotech HAL Limited is accounted as a joint venture in the consolidated financial statements of Cyient Limited which is 
currently under liquidation.
ii.	 ₹ Nil share of profit or loss has been recognized on consolidation from Infotech HAL Limited in the year ended  
March 31, 2025.
iii.	 Names of joint ventures which are yet to commence operations – None.
# On November 29, 2024, Cyient Semiconductors Inc., acquired 27.62% stake in Azimuth AI Inc., and became its Associate. 
For and on behalf of the Board
M.M. Murugappan
Krishna Bodanapu
Hyderabad
Director, Non-Executive Chairman
Executive Vice-Chairman & Managing Director
24 April, 2025
 DIN : 00170478
DIN : 00605187
Annual Report 2024-25  |  429 
Financial Analysis - Consolidated
Statement of Profit and Loss Summary for Last Five Years	
Particulars
2024-25
%
 2023-24 
%
 2022-23 
%
 2021-22 
%
 2020-21 
%
INCOME
Revenue from operations
 73,604 
98.70%
 71,472 
99.09%
 60,159 
98.66%
 45,344 
97.59%
 41,324 
96.73%
Other income
 966 
1.30%
 659 
0.91%
 814 
1.34%
 1,121 
2.41%
 1,399 
3.27%
Total Income
 74,570 
100.00%
 72,131 
100.00%
 60,973 
100.00%
 46,465 
100.00%
 42,723 
100.00%
EXPENSES
Employee benefits expense
 36,899 
49.48%
 35,120 
48.69%
 30,260 
49.63%
 22,665 
48.78%
 21,611 
50.58%
Cost of materials consumed
 11,357 
15.23%
 9,893 
13.72%
 6,839 
11.22%
 5,881 
12.66%
 5,165 
12.09%
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-
trade  and work in progress
 33 
0.04%
 (235) 
-0.33%
 125 
0.21%
 (175) 
-0.38%
 98 
0.23%
Operating, administration and other expenses
 13,882 
18.62%
 13,666 
18.95%
 13,371 
21.93%
 8,795 
18.93%
 8,426 
19.72%
Finance costs
 928 
1.24%
 1,160 
1.61%
 1,000 
1.64%
 393 
0.85%
 433 
1.01%
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense
 2,672 
3.58%
 2,667 
3.70%
 2,566 
4.21%
 1,922 
4.14%
 2,219 
5.19%
Total expenses
 65,771 
88.20%
 62,271 
86.33%
 54,161 
88.83%
 39,481 
84.97%
 37,952 
88.83%
Profit before share of profit/loss from joint venture, 
exceptional items and tax
 8,799 
11.80%
 9,860 
15.83%
 6,812 
11.17%
 6,984 
15.03%
 4,771 
11.17%
Exceptional item
 - 
0.00%
 676 
0.94%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
Profit before share of profit/loss from joint venture 
and tax
 8,799 
11.80%
 9,184 
12.73%
 6,812 
11.17%
 6,984 
15.03%
 4,771 
11.17%
Provision for income tax
 2,518 
3.38%
 2,156 
2.99%
 2,016 
3.31%
 1,692 
3.64%
 1,351 
3.16%
Deferred tax
 (251) 
-0.34%
 - 
0.00%
 (348) 
-0.57%
 69 
0.15%
 (218) 
-0.51%
Profit before share of profit/loss from joint venture
 6,532 
8.76%
 7,028 
9.74%
 5,144 
8.44%
 5,223 
11.24%
 3,638 
8.51%
Share of loss of an associate and a joint venture
 (49) 
-0.07%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
Non-controlling interests
 326 
0.44%
 200 
0.28%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
Profit for the year
 6,157 
8.26%
 6,828 
9.47%
 5,144 
8.44%
 5,223 
11.24%
 3,638 
8.51%
Total other comprehensive income, net of tax
 299 
0.40%
 (112) 
-0.16%
 602 
0.99%
 19 
0.04%
 231 
0.54%
Total comprehensive income for the year
 6,782 
9.09%
 6,916 
9.59%
 5,746 
9.42%
 5,242 
11.28%
 3,869 
9.06%
 ₹ Mn and percentage
430  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Ratio Analysis-Consolidated
Ratio analysis for the year ended March 31
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021
Ratio - Financial Performance
Other Income /  Total income (%) (refer note 2)
1.3%
1.3%
1.3%
2.4%
3.3%
Employee cost /  Total income (%)
49.5%
48.7%
49.6%
48.8%
50.6%
Administration expenses / Total income (%)
18.6%
18.9%
21.9%
18.9%
19.7%
Operating expenses /  Total income (%) (refer note 4)
83.4%
81.0%
83.0%
80.0%
82.6%
Depreciation & Amortization /  Total income (%)
3.6%
3.7%
4.2%
4.1%
5.2%
Finance Charges / Total income (%)
1.2%
1.6%
1.6%
0.8%
1.0%
Tax expense / PBT (%)
25.9%
23.5%
24.5%
25.2%
23.7%
EBIDTA / Revenue (%)
15.5%
18.2%
15.9%
18.1%
18.0%
Net Profit / Total income (%)
8.3%
9.5%
8.4%
11.2%
8.5%
Net Profit / Average Net Worth (%)
11.9%
17.0%
15.6%
17.2%
13.2%
ROCE (EBIT / Average capital employed) (%) (refer note 1)
16.9%
27.5%
23.8%
24.3%
18.9%
Ratios- Balance sheet
Debt-equity ratio (refer note 5)
0.09
 0.17 
 0.35 
 0.18 
 0.19 
Debtors turnover (Days)
 86 
 83 
 78 
78
84
 Current Ratio
 3.03 
 2.15 
 1.58 
 2.30 
 2.57 
Cash & Cash Equivalents / Total Assets (%) (refer note 6)
13.9%
6.9%
9.5%
25.4%
32.1%
Cash & Cash Equivalents / Total income (%)
14.4%
6.7%
10.2%
26.2%
33.7%
Depreciation & Amortization / Average gross block (%)
9.2%
7.1%
9.84%
9.26%
11.64%
Revenue / Average net fixed assets (refer note 3)
 2.56 
 2.53 
 2.89 
 3.35 
 3.10 
Revenue / Average total assets
 1.00 
 1.05 
 1.06 
 0.98 
 0.95 
Ratios - Growth*
Operating Revenue (%)
3.0%
18.8%
32.7%
9.7%
-6.7%
Operating Expenses (%) (refer note 4)
6.4%
15.5%
36.1%
5.3%
-8.0%
EBIDTA (%)
-12.6%
22.0%
22.0%
35.4%
9.0%
Net Profit  (%)
-9.8%
32.7%
-1.5%
43.6%
6.2%
Per Share Data
Basic earnings per share  (₹)
 55.95 
 62.24 
47.03
47.75
33.08
Cash earnings per share  (₹)
 80.23 
86.55
 70.49 
65.32
 53.25 
Book value  (₹) 
 518.77 
411.15
313.23
282.22
268.48
Price / Earning, end of year
 22.61 
32.08
21.16
19.43
19.57
Price / Cash earning, end of year
 15.77 
23.30
14.27
14.32
12.16
Price / Book value, end of year
 2.44 
4.86
3.18
3.29
2.41
Share price as on March 31 (National Stock Exchange)
 1,264.96 
 1,996.35 
995.25
927.75
647.45
No. of Share Outstanding as on March 31, (in Millions)
 111.04 
 110.83 
 110.58 
 110.32 
 110.03 
Weighted average no.of shares as on March 31, (in Millions)
 110.04 
 109.71 
 109.37 
 109.38 
 109.98 
Dividend Per Share (₹)
 26 
30
26
24
17
Dividend  (%)
520.0%
600%
520%
480%
340%
Notes: 
1. Capital employed is defined as total equity excluding long term and short term borrowings.	 	
	
	
	
2. Total income includes revenue from operations and other income.	
	
	
	
	
3. Net fixed assets excludes capital work-in-progress and intangible assets under development and includes goodwill.	
	
4. Operating expenses includes employees cost, administration expenses, cost of materials consumed and changes in inventories.	
5. Total debt in debt equity ratio represents total borrowings, lease liabilities and sale and lease back liability.	
6. Increase in closing balance of cash and bank balances is significantly due to gain from the dilution of stake in Cyient DLM limited.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  431 
10 Year Historical Perspective - Standalone
Particulars
2015-16
2016-17
2017-18
2018-19
2019-20
2020-21
2021-22
2022-23
2023-24
 2024-25 
For the year
Total Revenue
 13,591 
 13,736 
 14,397 
 16,149 
 15,231 
 13,799 
 17,505 
 22,279 
 24,614 
 24,941 
EBITDA
 3,637 
 3,617 
 5,671 
 5,932 
 4,792 
 4,742 
 6,760 
 5,322 
 6,967 
 5,699 
Finance costs
 3 
 6 
 6 
 11 
 148 
 146 
 104 
 166 
 220 
 170 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment**
 684 
 540 
 508 
 509 
 1,301 
 1,076 
 967 
 1,135 
 948 
 891 
Provision for income tax
 615 
 601 
 1,285 
 1,179 
 743 
 755 
 1,162 
 1,099 
 1,607 
 2,034 
Deferred tax
 (72)
 (100)
 (43)
 (174)
 120 
 (16)
 (43)
 (24)
 (30)
 (6)
Fringe benefit tax
 - 
-
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (16)
 (16)
 (16)
 - 
 - 
Profit before exceptional item
 2,407 
 2,570 
 3,915 
 4,407 
 2,480 
 2,781 
 5,691 
 3,548 
 4,973 
 3,415 
Exceptional item
 72 
 201 
 (103)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7,831 
Profit after tax 
 2,335 
 2,369 
 4,018 
 4,407 
 2,480 
 2,781 
 5,691 
 3,548 
 4,973 
 11,246 
Dividend
 787 
 1,307 
 1,463 
 1,667 
 1,649 
 1,871 
 2,646 
 2,875 
 3,327 
 2,887 
Dividend for previous year
 899 
 787 
 1,307 
 1,463 
 1,667 
 1,649 
 1,871 
 2,646 
 2,875 
 3,327 
As at the end of the year
Share capital*
562
563
563
 552 
 550 
 550 
 552 
 553 
 555 
 555 
Reserves and surplus
 16,213 
 18,259 
 20,051 
 21,813 
 20,433 
 23,422 
 25,442 
 26,476 
 28,774 
 37,112 
Share application money pending allotment
1
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7 
 (7)
 - 
 14 
 2 
Net Worth
 16,776 
 18,822 
 20,614 
 22,365 
 20,983 
 23,979 
 25,987 
 27,029 
 29,343 
 37,669 
Loan funds
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Gross block - PPE and Other intangible assets
 8,013 
 8,251 
 8,581 
 9,028 
 9,735 
 9,943 
 10,379 
 11,247 
 10,605 
 7,547 
Capital investment
 207 
 238 
 330 
 447 
 707 
 208 
 436 
 868 
 (642)
 (3,058)
Right of use assets
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,667 
 1,830 
 2,555 
 3,757 
 4,246 
 4,268 
Net current assets
 8,420 
 10,510 
 12,282 
 13,044 
 10,449 
 14,151 
 13,575 
 8,837 
 11,512 
 19,332 
Debt - equity ratio
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Per share data
Bonus / capital history **
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Basic earnings per share (₹) (EPS)
20.77
21.05
 35.69 
 39.07 
 22.56 
 25.29 
 52.03 
 32.44 
 45.33 
 102.20 
Dividend per share (₹) (DPS)
 7.0 
 10.5 
 13.0 
 15 
 15 
 17 
 24 
 26 
 30 
 26 
Dividend (%)
140.0%
210.0%
260.0%
300%
300%
340%
480%
520%
600%
520%
Dividend pay-out (%)
33.7%
55.2%
36.4%
37.8%
66.5%
67.3%
46.5%
81.0%
66.9%
25.7%
Book value (₹)
 149.1 
167.2
183.1
 202.45 
 189.94 
 217.99 
 235.56 
 244.44 
 265.37 
 339.24 
Face value (₹)
5
5
5
 5 
 5 
5
5
5
5
 5 
*   	 The Company bought back an aggregate of 3,123,963 equity shares , utilizing a total of ₹ 1,999 (excluding transaction costs of Buyback), which represents 99.99% of 
the maximum Buyback size between February 01, 2019 to April 11, 2019.  	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
** 	 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company has adopted Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’ which sets out the principles for recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases 
and requires lessees to account for all leases under a single on-balance sheet model.  
 ₹ Mn
432  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Analysis - Standalone
Balance Sheet Summary for Last Five Years
Particulars
As at   
March 31, 
2025
%
As at   
March 31, 
2024
%
As at   
March 31, 
2023
%
As at   
March 31, 
2022
%
As at   
March 31, 
2021
%
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 
 2,332 
5.4%
 2,409 
6.6%
 2,453 
7.2%
 2,561 
8.0%
 2,636 
8.7%
Right of use assets
 926 
2.2%
 1,358 
3.7%
 1,405 
4.1%
 1,064 
3.3%
 909 
3.0%
Capital work-in-progress 
 16 
0.0%
 7 
0.0%
 2 
0.0%
 70 
0.2%
 36 
0.1%
Goodwill
 110 
0.3%
 110 
0.3%
 110 
0.3%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
Other Intangible assets  
 534 
1.2%
 657 
1.8%
 775 
2.3%
 148 
0.5%
 178 
0.6%
Intangible assets under 
development
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 734 
2.4%
Financial assets 
(a)	Investments
 14,426 
33.7%
 13,820 
38.0%
 13,376 
39.4%
 8,047 
25.3%
 5,008 
16.5%
(b)	Loans
 1,016 
2.4%
 747 
2.1%
 1,196 
3.5%
 1,111 
3.5%
 802 
2.6%
(c)	Other financial assets
 169 
0.4%
 203 
0.6%
 177 
0.5%
 179 
0.6%
 182 
0.6%
Deferred tax assets (net)
 322 
0.8%
 328 
0.9%
 339 
1.0%
 203 
0.6%
 204 
0.7%
Income tax assets (net)
 375 
0.9%
 321 
0.9%
 238 
0.7%
 763 
2.4%
 771 
2.5%
Other non-current assets 
 18 
0.0%
 41 
0.1%
 153 
0.5%
 207 
0.6%
 125 
0.4%
Total non-current assets
 20,244 
47.3%
 20,001 
55.0%
 20,224 
59.5%
 14,353 
45.0%
 11,585 
38.1%
Current assets 
Contract assets
 1,610 
3.8%
 1,933 
5.3%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
Financial assets 
(a)	Investments
 1,654 
3.9%
 668 
1.8%
 1,718 
5.1%
 866 
2.7%
 - 
0.0%
(b)	Trade receivables
 9,848 
23.0%
 9,398 
25.8%
 7,075 
20.8%
 4,589 
14.4%
 4,297 
14.1%
(c)	Cash and cash equivalents
 6,526 
15.2%
 1,881 
5.2%
 1,152 
3.4%
 8,748 
27.5%
 11,541 
38.0%
(d)	Other bank balances
 2 
0.0%
 2 
0.0%
 1 
0.0%
 1 
0.0%
 2 
0.0%
(e)	Loans
 1,285 
3.0%
 589 
1.6%
 543 
1.6%
 540 
1.7%
 671 
2.2%
(f)	Other financial assets
 306 
0.7%
 545 
1.5%
 2,146 
6.3%
 1,744 
5.5%
 1,470 
4.8%
Other current assets
 1,335 
3.1%
 1,350 
3.7%
 1,120 
3.3%
 1,021 
3.2%
 823 
2.7%
Total current assets
 22,566 
52.7%
 16,366 
45.0%
 13,755 
40.5%
 17,509 
55.0%
 18,804 
61.9%
Total assets
 42,810 
100.0%
 36,367 
100.0%
 33,979 
100.0%
 31,862 
100.0%
 30,389 
100.0%
 ₹ Mn and percentage
Annual Report 2024-25  |  433 
Particulars
As at   
March 31, 
2025
%
As at   
March 31, 
2024
%
As at   
March 31, 
2023
%
As at   
March 31, 
2022
%
As at   
March 31, 
2021
%
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY 
Equity share capital
 555 
1.3%
 555 
1.5%
 553 
1.6%
 552 
1.7%
 550 
1.8%
Other equity
 37,114 
86.7%
 28,788 
79.2%
 26,476 
77.9%
 25,435 
79.8%
 23,429 
77.1%
Total equity 
 37,669 
88.0%
 29,343 
80.7%
 27,029 
79.5%
 25,987 
81.6%
 23,979 
78.9%
LIABILITIES 
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(a)	Lease liabilities
 538 
1.3%
 957 
2.6%
 1,026 
3.0%
 798 
2.5%
 769 
2.5%
(b)	Trade payables
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 63 
0.2%
 - 
0.0%
(c)	Other financial liabilities
 1 
0.0%
 4 
0.0%
 2 
0.0%
 28 
0.1%
 32 
0.1%
Provisions
 1,368 
3.2%
 1,209 
3.3%
 1,004 
3.0%
 1,052 
3.3%
 956 
3.1%
Total non-current liabilities
 1,907 
4.5%
 2,170 
6.0%
 2,032 
6.0%
 1,941 
6.1%
 1,757 
5.8%
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(a)	Lease liabilities
 383 
0.9%
 365 
1.0%
 337 
1.0%
 358 
1.1%
 272 
0.9%
(b)	Trade payables
 1,142 
2.7%
 2,769 
7.6%
 3,122 
9.2%
 2,598 
8.2%
 2,752 
9.1%
(c)	Other financial liabilities
 842 
2.0%
 811 
2.2%
 253 
0.7%
 136 
0.4%
 103 
0.3%
Income tax liabilities (net)
 22 
0.1%
 22 
0.1%
 134 
0.4%
 114 
0.4%
 97 
0.3%
Provisions
373
0.9%
 387 
1.1%
 409 
1.2%
 210 
0.7%
 200 
0.7%
Other current liabilities
 472 
1.1%
 500 
1.4%
 663 
2.0%
 518 
1.6%
 1,229 
4.0%
Total current liabilities
 3,234 
7.6%
 4,854 
13.3%
 4,918 
14.5%
 3,934 
12.3%
 4,653 
15.3%
Total liabilities
 5,141 
12.0%
 7,024 
19.3%
 6,950 
20.5%
 5,875 
18.4%
 6,410 
21.1%
Total equity and liabilities 
 42,810 
100.0%
 36,367 
100.0%
 33,979 
100.0%
 31,862 
100.0%
 30,389 
100.0%
 ₹ Mn and percentage
434  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Financial Analysis - Standalone
Statement of Profit and Loss Summary for Last Five Years	
Particulars
 2024-25 
%
 2023-24 
%
 2022-23 
%
 2021-22 
%
 2020-21 
%
INCOME
Revenue from operations
 24,136 
96.8%
 24,614 
97.0%
 22,279 
96.4%
 17,505 
86.4%
 13,799 
92.0%
Other income
 805 
3.2%
 751 
3.0%
 822 
3.6%
 2,753 
13.6%
 1,198 
8.0%
Total Income
 24,941 
100.0%
 25,365 
100.0%
 23,101 
100.0%
 20,258 
100.0%
 14,997 
100.0%
EXPENSES
Employee benefits expense
 13,781 
55.3%
 13,261 
52.3%
 11,964 
51.8%
 8,954 
44.2%
 7,235 
48.2%
Operating, administration and other expense
 4,656 
18.7%
 4,386 
17.3%
 5,213 
22.6%
 3,423 
16.9%
 3,020 
20.1%
Finance costs
 170 
0.7%
 220 
0.9%
 166 
0.7%
 104 
0.5%
 146 
1.0%
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 
 891 
3.6%
 948 
3.7%
 1,135 
4.9%
 967 
4.8%
 1,076 
7.2%
Total expenses
 19,498 
78.2%
 18,815 
74.2%
 18,478 
80.0%
 13,448 
66.4%
 11,477 
76.5%
Profit before exceptional items and tax
 5,443 
21.8%
 6,550 
25.8%
 4,623 
20.0%
 6,810 
33.6%
 3,520 
23.5%
Exceptional items
 7,831 
31.4%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
 - 
0.0%
Profit before tax
 13,274 
53.2%
 6,550 
25.8%
 4,623 
20.0%
 6,810 
33.6%
 3,520 
23.5%
Provision for income tax
 2,034 
8.2%
 1,607 
6.3%
1099
4.8%
1162
5.7%
755
5.0%
Deferred tax
 (6) 
0.0%
 (30)
-0.1%
 (24)
-0.1%
(43)
-0.2%
 (16)
-0.1%
Profit after tax
 11,246 
45.1%
 4,973 
19.6%
 3,548 
15.4%
 5,691 
28.1%
 2,781 
18.5%
Total other comprehensive income, net of tax
 34 
0.1%
 58 
0.2%
 (258)
-1.1%
(34)
-0.2%
120
0.8%
Total comprehensive income for the year
 11,280 
45.2%
 5,031 
19.8%
 3,290 
14.2%
 5,657 
27.9%
 2,901 
19.3%
 ₹ Mn and percentage
Annual Report 2024-25  |  435 
Ratio Analysis - Standalone
Ratio analysis for the year ended March 31
2025
2024
2023
2022
2021
Ratio - Financial Performance
Revenue from Operations / Total income (%)
96.8%
97.0%
96.4%
86.4%
92.0%
Other Income / Total income (%) (refer note 3)
3.2%
3.0%
3.6%
13.6%
8.0%
Employee cost / Total income (%)
55.3%
52.3%
51.8%
44.2%
48.2%
Administration expenses / Total income (%)
18.7%
17.3%
22.6%
16.9%
20.1%
Operating expenses / Total income (%) (refer note 2)
73.9%
69.6%
74.4%
61.1%
68.4%
Depreciation / Total income (%)
3.6%
3.7%
4.9%
4.8%
7.2%
Finance charges / Total income (%)
0.7%
0.9%
0.7%
0.5%
1.0%
Tax  / Total income (%)
8.1%
6.2%
4.7%
5.5%
4.9%
Tax / PBT (%) (refer note 5)
37.3%
24.1%
23.3%
16.4%
21.0%
EBIDTA / Total income (%)
22.8%
28.3%
23.9%
38.6%
34.4%
Net Profit (PAT) / Total income (%)
45.1%
19.6%
15.4%
28.1%
18.5%
Net Profit (PAT) / Average net worth (%)
33.6%
17.6%
13.4%
22.8%
12.4%
ROCE (EBIT / Average capital employed) (%) (refer note 1)
14.3%
24.0%
18.1%
27.7%
16.3%
Ratios - Balance sheet
Debt-equity ratio
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Debtors turnover (Days)
 173 
 168 
 143 
 119 
 114 
Current ratio
6.98
3.37
2.80
4.45
4.04
Cash & cash equivalents / Total assets (%) (refer note 6)
15.2%
5.2%
3.4%
27.5%
38.0%
Cash & cash equivalents / Total income (%)
26.2%
7.6%
5.2%
50.0%
83.6%
Depreciation & Amortisation / Average gross block (%)
6.7%
8.3%
8.1%
7.8%
8.3%
Revenue / Average net fixed assets (refer note 4)
5.72
5.31
5.23
4.67
3.42
Revenue / Average total assets
0.61
0.72
0.70
0.65
0.53
Ratios - Growth
Revenue from Operations (%)
-1.9%
10.5%
27.3%
26.9%
-9.4%
Total Income (%)
-1.7%
9.8%
14.0%
35.1%
-9.1%
Operating expenses (%) (refer note 2)
4.5%
2.7%
38.8%
20.7%
-12.4%
EBIDTA  (%)
-18.2%
30.9%
-21.3%
12.2%
-1.0%
Net Profit  (%)
126.1%
40.2%
-37.7%
104.6%
12.1%
Per Share Data
Basic earnings per share  (₹)
 102.20 
 45.33 
 32.44 
 52.03 
 25.29 
Cash Earnings per share  (₹)
 279.39 
 53.40 
 42.35 
 60.35 
 35.06 
Book value  (₹)
 339.24 
 264.61 
 244.44 
 235.57 
 217.93 
Price / Earning, end of year
 12.38 
 44.04 
 30.68 
 17.83 
 25.60 
Price / Cash Earning, end of year
 4.53 
 37.39 
 23.50 
 15.37 
 18.47 
Price / Book value, end of year
 3.73 
 7.54 
 4.07 
 3.94 
 2.97 
Share price as on March 31 (National Stock Exchange)
 1,264.96 
 1,996.35 
995.25
927.75
647.45
No. of Share Outstanding as on March 31, (in Millions)
 111.04 
 110.89 
110.58
110.32
110.03
Weighted average no. of shares as on March 31, (in Millions)
 110.04 
 109.71 
109.37
109.38
109.98
Dividend Per Share (₹)
 26 
30
26
24
17
Dividend (%)
520%
600%
520%
480%
340%
Notes: 
1. Capital employed is defined as total equity excluding long term and short term borrowings.
2. Operating expenses includes employee cost and administration expenses.
3. Total income includes revenue from operations and other income.
4. Net fixed assets excludes capital work-in-progress and includes goodwill.
5. The rise in tax expense was driven by the gain from the dilution of stake in Cyient DLM limited.
6. Increase in closing balance of cash and bank balances is significantly due to gain from the dilution of stake in Cyient DLM limited.
436  |  Annual Report 2024-25
SIGNIFICANT MILESTONES
1991
August
Infotech Enterprises was incorporated as a private limited company 
1995
August
The company received its ﬁrst ISO 9002 certiﬁ cation from BVQi London for its conversion services
1997
1998
March
Re-organized as a public limited company; IPO of Equity shares at ₹ 20 per share and listed in all major 
stock exchanges in India
April
Acquisition of SRG Infotech, a 16-year-old local software company providing software services in 
Oracle and Visual basic client server environments. The acquisition brought into the company the 
assets, customers, technologies, employees and over 500 person years of expertise
October
Partner in Development with IBM for developing Enterprise wide Information System. Infotech 
Enterprises diversiﬁes into Business software development by adding 50 developers, creating an 
independent proﬁt centre 
December
Infotech Enterprises signs a break-through contract to provide GIS conversion, Consulting and 
Mapping services worth US$ 5.5 million to Analytical Surveys, Inc. (ASI) 
1999
January
Infotech Enterprises enters into an agreement with Navionics Italy the world leader in seamless 
marine electronic charts for digitization and Conversion services
June
Infotech and ASI sign a long term contract for ASI to source US$ 33 million in conversion and software 
services from Infotech Enterprises
July
Infotech Enterprises establishes a wholly owned subsidiary Infotech Software Solutions Inc. in the 
United states of America in the state of California. The Corporation is primarily engaged in the 
business of supplying computer software and related services 
August
Infotech Enterprises announces acquisition of Europe based GIS software solution company- 
Dataview Solutions Limited. The company acquired Dataview with an upfront cash payment of US $ 
1.80 million and issue of stock of Infotech for US $1.80 million over the next two years 
September
Infotech Enterprises acquires Cartographic Sciences Pvt. Mumbai- India from Analytical Surveys Inc. 
September
Infotech Enterprises receives an ISO 9001 for its software development services
September
Infotech Enterprises earned the coveted Fast Track Award from Smallworld Pte. Ltd. U.K. for 
completion of a prestigious GIS project at Bharti Telenet Limited in a record time of ﬁve months
November
Infotech Enterprises signed a shareholder agreement with Walden Nikko and GE Capital for issue of 
equity/optionally convertible debentures aggregating to 11,50,000 equity shares of ₹ 10 each at a 
price of ₹ 350 each
2000
January
Inauguration of the state-of-the-art software development centre spread across 130,000 sq.ft. area 
in Infocity - Hyderabad. The state-of-the-art development centre built at an approximate cost of 
₹ 12 crore and can accommodate 4,000 software engineers
April
Merger of Cartographic Sciences with the company
May
Infotech Enterprises enters into a Master Services Agreement with Pratt & Whitney, a division of 
United Technologies Corporation, a Fortune 100 company
October
Infotech Enterprises announces the acquisition of a German company, Advanced Graphics Software 
GmbH (AGS). AGS is nine-year-old mechanical engineering software and services company 
specializing in 3D CAD/CAM
November
Infotech Enterprises wins a multimillion dollar GIS project from the Dutch multi-national group, 
FUGRO
2001
April
Infotech Europe acquires European GIS distributor Map Centric - a leading independent GIS 
distributor in Europe
May 
Infotech Enterprises bags a contract worth US $ 7 million to provide Photogrammetry service to 
Triathlon, a leading full ﬂ edged geomatics company in Canada
May
Infotech Enterprises ranks 5th among Top Ten Exporters from Andhra Pradesh for the Year 
2000-2001
June
Infotech Enterprises acquires 10-acres of land to set up a software development campus at 
Manikonda, Hyderabad.
July
Infotech Enterprises achieves the ISO 9001:2000 from BVQi and joins the list of top few companies in 
India and the ﬁrst company in the GIS sector
Annual Report 2024-25  |  437 
2001
August 
Infotech Enterprises attains the coveted SEI CMM LEVEL 4 certiﬁ cation for its software development 
centre at Infocity, Hyderabad 
November 
Infotech Enterprises receives ISO 9001:2000 for Software and Engineering Services lines of business 
by BVQi London 
December
Infotech Enterprises announces the opening of the state-of-the-art Engineering services facility in 
Bangalore, India 
2002 
February 
Infotech Enterprises Announces strategic business relationship with Pratt & Whitney Division of 
UTC. Pratt & Whitney to participate with up to ~18% equity stake in Infotech, demonstrating long 
term partnering intent and endorsing Infotech Business competence 
April 
Infotech Enterprises achieves SEI CMM Level 5 for its Software Development & Services Division 
April 
Infotech Enterprises’ board recommends issue of Bonus Shares at 1:1 ratio 
August 
Infotech Enterprises bags a major GIS contract from KPN Telecom, the largest telecommunications 
company in the Netherlands, to provide spatial data management services. 
September 
Company bags the Federation of Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FAPCCI) Award 
for Best Information Technology (IT) Company in the state of Andhra Pradesh (2001-2002) 
2003 
April 
Infotech Enterprises attains the best process improvement model-”The Level 5 of the CMMi Version 
1.1 for the SW/SE/SS disciplines” 
September 
Infotech Enterprises announces the inauguration of a new development center in Puerto Rico to 
provide engineering design services 
September 
Infotech Enterprises signs long term outsourcing contact with Bombardier Transportation to provide 
Engineering Services in India 
2004 
January 
Infotech Enterprises acquires VARGIS - a GIS Company in the US 
July 
Change in Business Model. Verticalization brought into place 
September 
Infotech Enterprises divests 51% of its stake in Infotech Aerospace Services Inc. in favour of United 
Technologies Corporation 
September 
Infotech Enterprises conferred with BS 7799 standards 
2005 
March 
Infotech Enterprises acquires Tele Atlas India Pvt. Ltd. Tele Atlas (Netherlands) joins as a strategic 
partner with preferential allotment of shares 
March 
Infotech Enterprises opens branch office in Singapore 
April 
Infotech Enterprises opens branch office in Melbourne, Australia 
May 
Inaugurated Geospatial production facility at Frostburg, Maryland, USA 
July
Infotech Enterprises opens branch office in Dubai 
September
Wins a landmark GIS contract from KPN Telecom and also signs a 5-year major Engineering Design 
Agreement with Alstom Transport 
October
Completed 5 years of relationship with Pratt & Whitney 
2006
March
Signs a major GIS contract with GE for Swisscom 
December 
Infotech Enterprises opens branch office at Canada 
2007
June
Acquires 74% stake in Geospatial Integra and renamed the company as Infotech Geospatial (India) 
Limited
July 
Preferential allotment of shares to GA Global Investments Limited & Carrier International Mauritius 
Limited 
August 
Set up Infotech HAL Limited, a Joint Venture Company with HAL, a Navaratna PSU under the Ministry 
of Defence, at Bangalore 
2008 
October 
Acquired TTM (India) Private Limited and TTM Inc. made foray into Hitech Vertical 
December 
Established wholly owned subsidiary in Japan
2009
December 
Infotech Enterprises opens branch office in Malaysia
2010 
January
Infotech Enterprises signs a long term engineering services contract with Hamilton Sundstrand
January 
Acquired Daxcon Engineering Inc., USA (Step down subsidiary) 
August
Acquired Wellsco Inc., USA (Step down subsidiary) 
438  |  Annual Report 2024-25
2011 
May
Awarded ‘Supplier of the year’ by Boeing 
November 
IGIL becomes a wholly owned subsidiary 
2012 
October 
Set up branch in South Korea 
October 
Won Golden Peacock Award for excellence in Corporate Governance 
2013 
January 
Inaugurated New Development Centre in SEZ at Kakinada 
April 
Opened office in Silicon Valley 
September 
Set up branch in Taiwan 
November 
Set up branch in South Africa 
2014 
March
Acquired Softential Inc., 
March
Commenced process for name change and re-branding 
April 
Mr. Krishna Bodanapu appointed Managing Director & CEO 
May 
Re-branding completed, new logo launched and Company’s name changed to Cyient 
August 
Acquired 51% stake in Invati Insights Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad 
October 
Set up a subsidiary in Australia 
December 
Won the 14th ICSI National Award for Excellence in Corporate Governance 
2015 
January
Acquired 74% stake in Rangsons Electronics Pvt. Ltd., Mysore 
April 
Mr. B.V.R. Mohan Reddy elected Chairman of National Association of Software Services Companies 
(NASSCOM) 
July
Acquired Pratt & Whitney Global Services Engineering Asia, Singapore 
August 
Divested entire stake in Infotech Enterprises Information Technology Services Private Limited, a 
wholly owned subsidiary 
Launched National Digital Literacy Mission Centre 
September
R&D Unit recognised by Department of Scientiﬁc and Industrial Research, Ministry of Science and 
Technology, Government of India
October
Set up step down subsidiary in Czech republic 
2016 
February 
Established state of the art development centre in Warangal, Telangana
March 
‘Lifetime Achievement Award’ conferred on Mr. B.V.R. Mohan Reddy by Hyderabad Management 
Association 
Set up a subsidiary in China
May
Awarded 2015 Supplier of the Year by Boeing 
June 
Inaugurated Global Design Center in Bengaluru for SMEC 
July
Set up subsidiary in Israel 
August
Marked its 25th Anniversary by enabling large scale inclusive ‘Digital Literacy’ Mission 
October
Mr. B.V.R. Mohan Reddy appointed as the Honorary Consul of the Federal Republic of Germany 
November 
Cyient Europe Limited acquired 100% stake in Blom Aeroﬁlms Limited, UK 
December
Zinnov Zones 2016 Rates Cyient in the Leadership Zone in Four Industry Verticals 
2017
January 
Secured Prestigious Pratt & Whitney 2016 Supplier Innovation and Productivity Savings Awards
February 
Cyient Inc. acquired 100% stake in Certon Software Inc, a Florida based company 
March 
Mr. B.V.R. Mohan Reddy awarded the Padma Shri Award, 2017 for distinguished and exceptional 
achievement in Trade & Industry 
New facility set up at Pune, Maharashtra
April
Incorporated Cyient Solutions and Systems Private Limited 
September
Acquired B&F Design Inc. through US subsidiary 
November
Recognised as one of ‘India’s most innovative organisations’ by CII 
December
Divested company’s stake in Infotech Aerospace Services Inc., Puerto Rico
December
Voluntarily obtained a rating of CGR 2+ from ICRA for corporate governance practices 
Annual Report 2024-25  |  439 
2018
February
Won Pratt & Whitney awards for supplier innovation and productivity savings 
March
Adopted a new set of Articles of Association 
April
Non-resident shareholding in the company limited to 49%
Acquisition of AnSem NV, Belgium through Cyient Europe Limited
May
Cyient Insights becomes wholly owned subsidiary
October
Incorporated Cyient Urban Micro Skill Centre Foundation, a section 8 company
2019
January
Cyient DLM becomes wholly owned subsidiary
February
Company commences first ever buyback of its shares
March
Dissolved Cyient Insight LLC, USA, a step down subsidiary of the company
April
Completion of buyback of company shares
July
New Technology Precision Machining Co., Inc was merged with Cyient Defense Services Inc.
2020
April
Commissioned new factory for DLM business in Hyderabad
August
Acquired Integrated Global Partners Pty Ltd., Australia
2021
February
Launched “Design for Circularity” Consulting and Engineering Practice
April 
Appointment of Mr. M.M. Murugappan as Non-Executive Chairman
July 
Launched gender neutral global parental leave policy
October 
Launched global management consulting practice
December
Acquired 15% stake in Innovation Communication System Limited
2022
January 
Constituted ESG Committee of the Board including CSR within its ambit
April
Acquisition of Grit Consulting
May
BVR Mohan Reddy inducted into Geospatial Hall ofFame
June
Acquisition of Celfinet
July
Cyient Foundation and IIT Hyderabad team up tonurture India’s entrepreneurial talent through 
BVRMohan Reddy School of Innovation andEntrepreneurship
August
Acquisition of Sentiec Oyj/Citec Engineering India Private Limited
2023
January 
Draft Red Herring Prospectus for Cyient DLM filed
July
Listing of Cyient DLM Limited Shares on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited
July
Cyient Receives Premier Award from Raytheon Technologies for Exemplary Performance in 2022
September
Incorporation of SCIENT Development Foundation, a Non-Profit Company as an associate of Cyient 
Foundation, the CSR arm of the company
Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan Inaugurates Dr. BVR Mohan Reddy School of 
Innovation and Entrepreneurship at IIT Hyderabad Campus
December
Cyient Inaugurates CyientifIQ Experience Center at Hyderabad
2024
February
Incorporation of Cyient Global Captive Solutions Private Limited, wholly owned subsidiary of the 
company
March
Cyient partners with Deutsche Aircraft for the Design of Rear Fuselage Section of the D328ecoTM
August
Incorporated Cyient Semiconductors Private Limited as a wholly owned subsidiary 
Offloaded 14.50% stake in Cyient DLM Limited and present holding is 52.16%
September
Incorporated Cyient Project Management Consultancy LLC in Abu Dhabi, UAE as a wholly owned 
subsidiary
October
Acquired Azimuth AI, Inc through Cyient Semiconductors Inc
Acquired Abu Dhabi & Gulf Computer Est., through Cyient Project Management Consultancy LLC
December
ICSI ‘Lifetime achievement Award for Translating Excellence in Corporate Governance into 
Reality’presented to B.V.R. Mohan Reddy
Won the “ICSI - CSR Excellence Award - Best Corporate under Small & Emerging Category”
440  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Shareholders’ Handbook 
WHEN WAS THE COMPANY FOUNDED? 
The company was incorporated as Infotech Enterprises Private Limited - a Private Limited company on 28 August 1991 under 
the Companies Act, 1956. The Company was converted into a Public Limited company vide resolution dated 21 April 1995. In 
May 2014 the company changed its name to Cyient Limited.
WHAT IS THE COMPANY’S AREA OF OPERATIONS? 
Cyient is an acknowledged leader in geospatial services, engineering design services, design-led manufacturing, networks and 
operations, data transformation, and analytics. We collaborate with our clients to help them achieve more and together shape a 
better future. We call it Designing Tomorrow Together. 
Our industry focus includes Aerospace & Defense, rail transportation, off-highway & industrial, power generation, mining, oil & 
gas, communications, utilities, infrastructure, geospatial and Navigation, semiconductor and medical technology & Healthcare. 
We align closely with the business needs, goals, culture, and core values of our clients. This reflects in the deep, long-standing 
relationships we have developed and sustained with some of the leading names in these industries. 
Our stock is publicly traded, and we have a sound track record of growth and profitability. We are committed to developing a 
sustainable society and actively promote education and inclusive growth initiatives in communities around us. 
WHO ARE THE FOUNDERS OF THE COMPANY? 
The founder members of the company are: Mr. B.V.R. Mohan Reddy, Mrs. B. Sucharitha, and Mr. K. Rajan Babu.
WHEN DID THE COMPANY HAVE ITS INITIAL PUBLIC OFFER (IPO) AND AT WHAT PRICE? 
The company made its maiden public offer in March 1997 at a price of  ₹10 each for cash at a premium of  ₹10 per share. The issue 
was lead managed by Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI), Madras. The issue was oversubscribed by 1.56 times. 
WHAT IS THE VISION STATEMENT OF THE COMPANY? 
Designing Tomorrow Together. This is our vision and the basis of our brand promise. Three simple words that describe our 
unique approach of working with you to improve your business and the lives of your customers. 
WHAT ARE THE VALUES OF THE COMPANY? 
In our relationships with our clients, stakeholders, and associates, we are guided by our Values FIRST - Fairness, Integrity, 
Respect, Sincerity and Transparency. 
WHAT IS THE QUALITY POLICY OF THE COMPANY? 
At Cyient, we are committed to delight our clients by consistently providing sustainable solutions, complying with the applicable 
requirements and continually improving the processes to improve human lives. Cyient focuses on exceeding our clients’ 
expectations and failure prevention. 
We at Cyient understand and are committed to live up to our brand promise of “Designing Tomorrow Together”. 
We at Cyient communicate the Quality Policy within the Organization as well as to interested Parties.
WHAT ARE THE QUALITY OBJECTIVES OF THE COMPANY? 
Aspire to achieve best-in-class levels of Client, Quality and Delivery performance metrics for the industries we serve as per the 
respective roadmaps
Improve or sustain stakeholder’s engagement scores
Focus on building skills and capabilities to keep abreast with the demands of the changing business 
WHERE IS THE COMPANY LOCATED?
The company is headquartered in Hyderabad, India and has a global presence across 47 locations. Full details of the locations are 
published elsewhere in this Annual Report.
WHAT IS THE ADDRESS OF THE COMPANY’S REGISTERED OFFICE? 
The registered office of the company is located at
4th Floor, ‘A’ Wing
Plot No. 11, Software Units Layout,
Infocity, Madhapur, Hyderabad - 500 081, Telangana
Annual Report 2024-25  |  441 
WHAT IS THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL YEAR? 
The Company follows a financial year that begins on April 1 and ends on March 31. 
WHO ARE THE COMPANY’S AUDITORS AND CONSULTANTS? 
Statutory Auditors: S.R. Batliboi & Associates LLP 
Secretarial Auditors: MKS & Associates
Internal Auditors: KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP 
Tax advisor: G.P. Associates 
LEGAL COUNSEL 
Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas
Fox Mandal & Associates 
Trilegal
WHAT IS THE HISTORY OF BONUS ISSUE OF SHARES AT THE COMPANY? 
YEAR
1994-95
1995-96
1996-97
2002-03
2006-07
2010-11
RATIO
7: 5
1: 1
1: 1
1: 1
1: 2
1: 1
WHAT IS THE DIVIDEND HISTORY OF THE COMPANY FOR LAST FIVE YEARS?
YEAR
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
Interim
Final
Interim
Final
Interim
Final
Interim
Final
Interim
Final
%
340
200
200
280
200
320
240
360
240
280
WHAT IS THE NUMBER OF SHAREHOLDERS IN THE COMPANY IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS?
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
No. of Shareholders
57,316
116,297
121,541
162,068
185,366
WHAT IS THE MARKET CAPITALISATION OF THE COMPANY FOR THE LAST FIVE YEARS?
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
Market Capitalisation (₹ Million)
71,238
102,346
110,050
221,260
140,453
IS NOMINATION FACILITY AVAILABLE TO THE SHAREHOLDERS? 
Yes. Nomination facility is available to the Shareholders. Shareholders are advised to make use of the nomination facility. For 
further details, investors may contact the R&T Agents of the Company. 
HOW DOES A SHAREHOLDER GO ABOUT TRANSFERRING HIS SHARES/HAVING RELATED CORRESPONDENCE? 
To transfer shares in physical form and general correspondence regarding shares, shareholders may write to the Company’s 
Registrars/the Company 
KFin Technologies Limited 
Unit: Cyient Limited 
Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, 
Financial District, Gachibowli, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad - 500 032. 
Tel: +91-40-6716 1562
Email: mohsin.mohd@kfintech.com; einward.ris@kfintech.com 
Website: www.kfintech.com
Transfer of shares in electronic form are effected through your depository participant. Please note that the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India has issued directives that trading in the scrip of the Company would be in compulsory demat form by all 
investors w.e.f. August 28, 2000.
442  |  Annual Report 2024-25
IN WHICH STOCK EXCHANGES ARE THE COMPANY’S SHARES LISTED AND WHAT ARE THE CODES?
The company’s equity shares are listed in India on the National Stock Exchange (NSE: CYIENT) and the BSE Limited (BSE: 532175). 
WHAT IS THE COMPANY’S ISIN CODE? 
Cyient’s ISIN code is INE136B01020. 
HOW MANY SHARES ARE OUTSTANDING? 
As of 31 March 2025, the company had 11,10,38,924 shares outstanding. 
WHAT IS THE RECORD DATE AND PAYMENT DATE OF THE INTERIM/FINAL DIVIDEND? 
You can find the record date/payment date for the last announced dividend in the Announcements section of the Investor page 
on our website. These details are also notified to the stock exchanges on the same day of the announcement of the dividend and 
available on the BSE and NSE websites. 
WHEN IS THE AGM HELD? 
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is typically held in June-July. The formal announcement will be published on the Investors 
page of our website, closer to the event. As a shareholder, you will receive a formal notice of the meeting, containing details of 
the date, time and venue, alongside the Annual Report. Newspaper advertisements and announcements to the stock exchanges 
are also issued/made.
HOW DOES A PERSON BUY THE COMPANY’S SHARES? 
The company’s shares can be purchased in the open market in India through either a stock broker or any financial institution that 
provides brokerage services at the BSE or NSE. 
HOW CAN A SHAREHOLDER ACCESS INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY? 
Information about the company is available on its website. Further, all information that is material in nature is notified to stock 
exchanges and appropriate advertisements are also issued in the newspapers. 
DOES THE COMPANY ACCEPT FIXED DEPOSITS FROM THE PUBLIC? 
The Company does not accept fixed deposits.
HOW DOES A SHAREHOLDER RECORD A CHANGE IN THE ADDRESS? 
For physical holdings, please send a letter, duly signed by the first holder, stating the new address and folio numbers of the 
shares you own to our R & T agents. An acknowledgement will be sent to your new address confirming the up-dation of the 
change in our records. 
In the case of dematerialized holdings, please write to your Depository Participant (DP) intimating them of the change and ask 
for a confirmation that their records reflect the new address.
IF DIVIDEND CHEQUE IS LOST/WAS NEVER RECEIVED/HAS EXPIRED, HOW TO GET A FRESH CHEQUE RE-ISSUED? 
Please write to our R&T Agent, with details of folio numbers (in the case of physical holdings) or the DP ID and Client ID in the case 
of dematerialized holdings. After verification, they will issue a fresh instrument. 
To avoid this problem in the future, you can use the ECS facility in which the dividend amount is automatically credited to the 
bank account of your choice. To avail of this facility, give your request to our R&T agent in writing. 
Also, you might consider dematerializing your holdings through a Depository Participant. This would not only eliminate the 
issues of storage and risk of loss of paper certificates but also ensure automatic crediting of dividends to your bank account.
HOW DOES A SHAREHOLDER RE-CLAIM THE SHARES AND/OR UNCLAIMED DIVIDEND TRANSFERRED TO IEPF? 
Such shareholders may make an application to the IEPF Authority in Form No. IEPF-5 available on www.iepf.gov.in online and 
send a physical copy of the same duly signed to the R&T Agent along with requisite documents enumerated in the Form No. 
IEPF-5.
No claims shall lie against the company in respect of the dividend/shares so transferred to the IEPF.
Annual Report 2024-25  |  443 
Global Headquarters
Cyient Ltd.
Plot No. 11
Software Units Layout
Infocity, Madhapur
Hyderabad - 500081
Telangana, India
Tel: +91 40 6764 1000
Asia Pacific 
Australia 
Cyient Australia Pty Ltd.
Level 8, 350 Collins Street
Melbourne, Victoria 3000
Tel: +61 3 8605 4815
Cyient Australia Pty Ltd.
8, Freight Drive
Ravenhall
Melbourne, Victoria 3023
Cyient Australia Pty Ltd.
Lvl 4, 81 Flushcombe Rd
Blacktown NSW 2148, Sydney
Tel: +61 2 8887 8600
Cyient Australia Pty Ltd. 
34, Toohey Road
Wetherill Park, NSW 2164
Sydney
Cyient Ltd
Office 57, Level 16, 167 Eagle 
Street, Brisbane , 
Australia
Cyient Ltd. Level 9.02, 105
St Georges Terrace Perth WA 6000, 
Australia
South Korea 
Cyient Ltd.
21 F, Seoul Finance Center
136, Sejong-daero, Jung-gu
Seoul 04520
Tel: + 82 2 3782 4936
Taiwan 
Cyient Ltd.
No. 262, Zhuangjing 6th Street
Zhubei City, Hsinchu County 30264
Tel: +886 3 668 5522
Japan
Cyient Ltd.
Sho-Building 6F
3-14-5, Nihonbashi
Chuo-Ku, Tokyo 103-0027 
Tel: +81 3 3527 9825
Malaysia 
Cyient Ltd.
Level 28
The Gardens South Tower
Mid Valley City
Lingkaran Syed Putra
Kuala Lumpur 59200  
Tel: +60 3 2298 7321
Singapore
Cyient Ltd.
10 Seletar Aerospace Heights, 
Singapore 797546
India 
Cyient Ltd.
Cyient IT Park
Plot No- 110A & 110 B
Phase 1, Electronics City
Hosur Road
Bangalore - 560100
Tel: +91 80 2852 2341
Cyient Ltd.
Plot No. 2, IT Park
Nanakramguda
Gachibowli
Hyderabad - 500032
Telangana
Tel: +91 40 6748 9100
Cyient Ltd.
NSL SEZ 
Block No. 1
Plot No. 6, Survey No. 1
IT/TES SEZ, IDA Uppal
Hyderabad – 500039
Telangana
Tel: +91 40 6704 3434
Cyient Ltd.
Plot No: 1, 2, 3, 4 & 5A
IT SEZ, Sarpavaram
Kakinada - 533005
Andhra Pradesh
Tel: +91 884 232 6700
Cyient Ltd.
Survey No: 410
Plot No: 14, SEZ Unit
Hill No: 3
Madhurawada(V)
Rushikonda, Vizag - 530045
Andhra Pradesh
Tel: +91 891 669 3100
Cyient Ltd.
B-11, Sector 63
Noida - 201307
Uttar Pradesh
Tel: +91 120 669 1000
Cyient Ltd.
Plot No. 7, NSEZ, Phase-2
Noida - 201305
Uttar Pradesh
GLOBAL PRESENCE
444  |  Annual Report 2024-25
Cyient Ltd
Cyient Ltd, ODC-1, Ground Floor, 
Wing B, Building No-B1, Plot No-8, 
Sector-144, Noida-201304, India
Cyient Ltd
C/o Awfis, Technopolis, 11th Floor, 
BP Block, Sector V, Bidhan Nagar, 
Kolkata - 700 091, West Bengal
Cyient Insight
Midas Tower, Rajiv Gandhi Infotech 
Park, Hinjewadi, Phase 1, Pune 
411057
Cyient Ltd (Citec)
Midas Tower, Rajiv Gandhi Infotech 
Park, Hinjewadi, Phase 1, Pune 
411057
Cyient Ltd
Unit-4, Plot No:66-70,
M/s TSIIC Ltd, IT/ITES SEZ, 
Madikonda Village:
Hanamkonda - 506142
Cyient Ltd (Citec) 
Building No 1, 
Mindspace,
Juinagar, 
Navi Mumbai - 400706
Cyient DLM Limited
SEZ Unit, Plot No. 5G, 
Survey No. 99/1 Mamidipalli Village,
GMR Aero & Ind.Park, RGIA 
Shamshabad, Hyderabad-500108 
Telangana
Cyient DLM Limited
Plot No. 347, D1&D2, KIADB
Electronics City, Hebbal Industrial 
Area Mysuru-570016 Karnataka
Cyient DLM Limited
No-27C, 
Shivapura 2nd stage Peenya
industrial area, Bengaluru 
Urban-560058 Karnataka
Europe, Middle East, and Africa
Belgium
Cyient NV
Esperantolaan 9, 
B-3001, Heverlee, 
Belgium
England 
Cyient Europe Ltd.
Apex, Forbury Road,
Reading RG1 1AX,
United Kingdom 
Cyient Europe Ltd.
The Astrolabe
Cheddar Business Park
Wedmore Road
Cheddar, Somerset
BS27 3EB
Tel: +44 (0) 1934 311 000
Switzerland
Cyient Schweiz GmbH
c/o Walder Wyss AG
Christoffelgasse, 6
3011, Bern
The Netherlands
Cyient BV Minervum 7491
4817 ZP Breda Oost, Breda
Tel: +31 76 572 2966
Cyient BV (AnSem)
Hengelosestraat 565 7521  
AG Enschede 
Netherlands
Tel: +31 53 203 2500
Finland
Cyient Oy Ab
Silmukkatie 2, 65100 Vaasa, 
Finland
Cyient Oy Ab
Elektroniikatie 8, 90590 Oulu, 
Finland
Cyient Oy Ab
Koulukatu 25-27 B, 
68600 Pietarsaari,
Finland
Cyient Oy Ab
Insinöörinkatu 41, 
33720 Tampere, 
Finland
Cyient Oy Ab
Lemminkäisenkatu 14-18. 
20520 Turku, 
Finland
Cyient Oy Ab
Puolikkotie 8,
02230 Espoo, 
Finland
Sweden
Cyient Engineering Ab
Gustav Anders Gata 15 E, 65340 
Karlstad, Sweden
Norway
Cyient Norway AS
Strandveien 37, 1366 Lysaker, 
Norway
Annual Report 2024-25  |  445 
France
Citec Engineering France SARL and 
Cyient Group France
Immeuble l’Européen – Bâtiment 
C, 2-6 rue Joseph Monier, 92500 
Rueil-Malmaison, France
Germany
Cyient GmbH
Düsseldorfer Landstraße 401, 
47259 Duisburg, Germany
Cyient Engineering & Information 
GmbH
In den Schwarzwiesen 13, 61440 
Oberursel, Germany
Cyient Engineering & Information 
GmbH
Tröglitzer Str.8, 06712 Zeitz, 
Germany
	
Israel
Cyient Israel India Ltd.
David Ben-Gurion 1, Bnei Brak
Tel: +972 54 811 0200
UAE
Cyient PMC LLC 
Ras AI Qitah Street, Al Bateen, 28 
Abu Dhabi - 20028
North America
United States of America 
Cyient Inc. 
275 East Hillcrest Dr
Thousand Oaks
CA 91360
Cyient Inc.
800 West Cummings Park
Suite 6250, Woburn
MA 01801
Allen (One Bethany East)
900 W Bethany Drive
Suite 245 & 250
Allen, TX
Cyient Inc.
2206 Eastland Drive
Bloomington, IL 61704
Tel: +1 309 664 6991
Cyient Inc.
4949 Harrison Ave Suite 115
Rockford, IL 61108
Cyient Inc. 
3rd, 4th & 5th Floor
99 East River Drive
East Hartford, CT 06108
Tel: +1 860 528 5430 
Cyient Inc.
3rd Floor
386, Main Street
Middletown, Middlesex
CT 06457
Cyient Inc.
120 Production Ct
New Britain CT 06051
Cyient Defense Services Inc.
15300 Park of Commerce Blvd
Jupiter, FL 33478 
Tel: +1 860 310 3758
Cyient Inc.
218 South Thomas Street
Suite 204-209 Spanish Village III
Tupelo MS 38801
Cyient Inc.
200 Brookstone Centre Pkwy Suite 
303 Columbus, GA 31904
Canada
Cyient Canada
273 Lakeshore Dr., 
Pointe-Claire, 
QC H9S 4L1, 
Canada Suite F
Cyient Canada
5090 Explorer Dr Suite 401 
Mississauga, 
ON L4W 4T9, Canada       
Others
Celfinet SA
Rua João Chagas 53, piso 2 Esq
Portugal
Celfinet SA
Rua João Chagas 53, piso 2 Dir
Portugal
Celfinet SA
Rua João Chagas 53G, piso 2
Portugal
Celfinet SA
Praça Mouzinho de Albuquerque 
113, 5º andar
Portugal
METEMESONIP UNIPESSOAL LDA
Rua António Augusto de Aguiar 60
Portugal
446  |  Annual Report 2024-25
NOTES
Annual Report 2024-25  |  447 
NOTES
Aerospace & Defense
Mining
Communications
Automotive & Mobility
Utilities
Semiconductors
Rail
Energy
Healthcare & Life Sciences
33 YEARS OF  
ENGINEERING EXCELLENCE 
Across Industries
With over three decades of expertise, Cyient has been at the forefront of engineering excellence—
enabling innovation, efficiency, and impact across global industries through trusted partnerships.
cyient.com
Global Headquarters
Cyient Limited, Plot No. 11, Software Units Layout,
Infocity, Madhapur, Hyderabad - 500 081, India | T: +91 40 6764 1000
