 
 
Dreamfolks Services Limited 
 Unit No. 301-307, Tower B, Good Earth Trade Tower, 
Sector-62, Gurgaon-122001, 
Haryana, India | Tel: 0124-4037306 
www.dreamfolks.com | info@dreamfolks.com 
CIN: L51909DL2008PLC177181 
Regd. Office: 26, DDA Flats, Shivalik Road, Panchsheel Park, South Delhi, New Delhi-110017 
September 04, 2025 
 
Subject: Notice of 17th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company and Annual 
Report for the Financial Year 2024-25 inter-alia including Business Responsibility and 
Sustainability Report 
 
Dear Sir(s)/Madam(s), 
 
This is to inform that the 17th AGM of the Company will be held on Monday, September 29, 2025 
at 11:30 A.M. (IST) through Video Conferencing/Other Audio-Visual Means in accordance with 
the relevant Circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Securities and Exchange 
Board of India. 
 
Pursuant to Regulation 30 and 34 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, please find attached herewith, Annual Report for FY 2024-25, inter-alia, 
including Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report and the Notice convening the  
17th AGM of the Company. 
 
The aforesaid documents are also hosted on the website of the Company viz. 
https://www.dreamfolks.com/ and are being dispatched to all eligible Members whose e-mail id 
is registered with the Company/ Depository Participants/ Registrar and Transfer Agent etc. 
 
You are hereby requested to take the above intimation on record. 
 
Thanking You! 
 
Yours Faithfully, 
 
For Dreamfolks Services Limited 
 
 
 
Harshit Gupta  
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer 
 
Encl: As above 
To,  
The Secretary, Listing Department 
BSE Limited 
P. J. Towers,  
Dalal Street 
Mumbai – 400001 
Scrip Code: 543591 
To,  
The Listing Manager, Listing Department 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor, Plot No. C-1,  
Block G, Bandra Kurla Complex,  
Bandra (E), Mumbai – 400051 
Symbol: DREAMFOLKS 
HARSHIT 
GUPTA
Digitally signed 
by HARSHIT 
GUPTA 
Date: 2025.09.04 
20:56:25 +05'30'
Annual Report 2024-25
Expanding
Horizons
Crossing Boundaries.
Creating Possibilities.
What’s
Inside
Expanding Horizons, Crossing 
Boundaries, Creating Possibilities
02
Management Discussion 
and Analysis 
64
Standalone Financial Statements 
200
Key Indicators Demonstrating 
Our Momentum
08
Board’s Report
128
Celebrating Excellence through 
Innovation and Leadership Recognition 
12
Building a Lifestyle Ecosystem 
for the Evolving Consumer 
06
Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report 
87
Consolidated Financial Statements 
274
From Lounge Access Pioneer to Global 
Travel & Lifestyle Services Platform
10
Report on 
Corporate Governance 
154
Notice
178
From Strong Foundations to 
Purposeful Growth
14
Translating Market Momentum 
into Scalable Advantage 
18
Financial Scorecard of Our 
Strategic Growth 
28
Strategic Client Partnerships 
34
Message from the Chairperson 
and Managing Director 
24
Value Creation Model 
30
Expanding Reach in New 
Geographies 
36
Expanding Our 
Service Offerings 
38
Redefining Experiences 
through Innovation 
40
Corporate Information 
56
Insights from the 
Board’s Report 
62
Curating Premium 
Lifestyle Services
46
Empowering Communities, 
Enriching Lives 
54
Board of Directors 
58
Enhancing Customer Experiences 
during Travel and Beyond 
48
Corporate Overview
Statutory Report
Financial Statements
Unwind between journeys— 
DreamFolks brings the lounge to your platform
Redefining Reach. Reinventing Value
Expanding Horizons, 
Crossing Boundaries, 
Creating Possibilities.
At DreamFolks, we continued our 
journey of transformation during the 
fiscal year 2025 by not just growing 
but also evolving into a broader travel 
and lifestyle ecosystem. With strong 
execution across client acquisition, 
technology, and service innovation, we 
expanded our horizons well beyond 
airport lounges. Our strategy focused 
on building long-term relevance 
through a diversified portfolio, 
deeper client integration, and curated 
experiences at scale. Amid industry 
Through expansion into new frontiers, 
innovating with intent, and elevating every 
touchpoint, we have set the stage for a more 
connected, personalized, and value-driven 
ecosystem — one that mirrors the aspirations 
of tomorrow’s evolving consumer.
recalibration, we responded with agility 
and foresight, offering over 20 premium 
services, strengthening enterprise and 
banking partnerships, and leveraging 
our proprietary technology platform to 
deliver seamless access across 3,000+ 
touchpoints. DreamFolks is now firmly 
positioned as an integrated travel and 
lifestyle aggregator driven by service 
diversification, powered by technology, 
and built to scale with relevance and 
resilience.
DreamFolks brings business 
to the fairway
DreamFolks powers where 
networks grow
Dreamfolks Services Limited
3
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
2
Annual Report 2024-25
2
The fiscal year 2025 was a defining year for DreamFolks, as we moved decisively beyond our core to expand both 
the breadth and depth of our offerings. This evolution was not merely about scale — it was about pioneering new 
services, unlocking untapped markets, and embedding the DreamFolks experience into more touchpoints across 
the customer’s journey.
During the year, six new premium services were onboarded — including Highway Dining, Pay & Use, Access 
to members-only recreational facilities, Coffee at Mall, Baggage Wrapping, and Excess Baggage for premium 
customers — taking the total portfolio to over 20 premium service offerings. We have also  deepened our client 
relationships and added marquee clients across industries, welcoming over 30 new partners in the enterprise 
and banking segments. These partnerships expand market reach, enrich service delivery, and create new 
growth avenues.
Recognizing that people are the foundation of sustainable growth, DreamFolks has also invested in expanding 
our skilled employee base as part of our strategic planning. This strengthened our talent pool which ensures that 
we  the Company can respond with agility to evolving market dynamics, deliver exceptional experiences, and drive 
long-term value for customers, partners, and shareholders alike.
Expanding Frontiers
 This year signaled a clear evolution in our approach —from steady enhancement to bold, intentional innovation across our 
offerings and operations. As we expanded beyond traditional lounge services, innovation became the foundation of how we 
deliver differentiated value — not only to end users but also to our enterprise and banking clients.
At the core of this evolution lies our proprietary technology platform designed to scale rapidly, integrate deeply across partner 
ecosystems, and personalize access across diverse customer journeys. In FY2024-25, we used this foundation to build 
smarter access models, enhance loyalty-linked experiences, and introduce six new premium services. These additions have 
broadened engagement opportunities across the new-age discerning customers. This has opened fresh monetization avenues 
through cross-selling opportunities across our network of 3,000+ touchpoints expanding the pay-and-use model across 
loyalty platforms and card networks, and extending paid access to non-card customers.
Driving Innovation
At DreamFolks, we believe that exceptional journeys begin long before take-off and extend well beyond the destination. 
This belief has guided our evolution from enabling access to orchestrating experiences that are intuitive, personal, and 
emotionally resonant. Every interaction across our ecosystem, whether in an airport lounge, on the road, or in a retail space 
is now designed to foster connection, elevate convenience, and enrich everyday moments. This experiential shift is not just a 
differentiator; it’s the foundation of our long-term strategy to build an ecosystem that grows with the evolving needs of next-
generation customers.
Enhancing Experiences
Stay global—connect instantly 
with DreamFolks
DreamFolks gives you seamless access to 
lounges - anytime, anywhere globally
Dreamfolks Services Limited
5
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
4
Corporate Overview
Building a Lifestyle Ecosystem 
for the Evolving Consumer
DreamFolks Services Limited stands as one of India’s leading travel 
and lifestyle services aggregator, offering seamless access to premium 
experiences across the globe. With a presence across 100+ countries and 
3,000+ touchpoints, DreamFolks continues to redefine access by integrating 
a wide spectrum of travel and lifestyle experiences. 
From airport lounges, spa and 
wellness treatments, gifting solutions, 
international eSIM connectivity, 
healthcare, beauty & grooming services, 
Meet & Assist, Airport Transfers, 
and railway lounges to visa services 
facilitation and Golf, our platform has long 
been synonymous with convenience and 
comfort. Building on this foundation, we 
have extended our reach into everyday 
lifestyle privileges — premium coffee 
at malls, highway dining, access to 
members-only recreational facilities, 
excess baggage solutions, and baggage 
wrapping  creating a holistic ecosystem 
that accompanies customers not only 
through their journeys but also across 
their daily lives.
These additions reflect our commitment 
to addressing the evolving needs of the 
modern consumer through innovation, 
personalization, and convenience. We 
have enabled over 10 Million passengers 
to access premium services in the past 
year, ensuring a seamless and elevated 
travel experience.
Our Mission
To empower seamless travel and 
lifestyle experiences through 
innovation and technology and be the 
first choice for our clients and partners.
Our Vision
Make premium travel & lifestyle 
experiences accessible to everyone.
Our Values
Trust
Customer 
Centricity
Innovation
DreamFolks brews perks beyond shopping
Annual Report 2024-25
6
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Dreamfolks Services Limited
7
Key Indicators Demonstrating Our Momentum
Measuring What Matters: Metrics That Mark Our Ascent
3,000+
Touchpoints
10.9 MN
Passengers accessing lounge services 
through DreamFolks in FY2025
65% YoY 
Revenue growth from Railway lounges FY2025
100+
Countries covered globally
75
Domestic airport lounges
800+ 
Golf touchpoints
24.2%
ROE  (FY2025)
800+
International airport lounges
14
Domestic Railway lounges
20+
Service offerings 
29.7%
ROCE  (FY2025)
6.7% in FY2025
Contribution of "Services other than 
India airport lounges"
` 12,919 MN
13.8% YoY
Revenue from Operations
Net Worth
` 3,006 MN
27.2% YoY
Dreamfolks Services Limited
9
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
8
Adopted global operating model 
with direct contracts worldwide 
Introduced first in-app 
integrated solution for clients
2020
 Listed on NSE & BSE
Forayed into the railway sector 
with lounge access at 12 
major stations.
2022
 Our Year-on-Year Growth Story 
Rolled out in-house technology platform  
Enabled real-time voucher issuance via APIs partnered 
with telecom firm for bundled lounge access
2019
 Unveiled DreamFolks Membership 
Card as part of the Global lounge 
program with a leading Card Issuer
2018
From Lounge Access 
Pioneer to Global Travel & 
Lifestyle Services Platform
Launched self check-in kiosks at major Indian airports 
 Acquired Vidsur Golf (now known as Golfklik Private 
Limited) to expand premium offerings 
Rolled out Web-access Tool for QR-based access
2023
Expanded global footprint by entering South East Asia 
Forged a strategic partnership with RedBeryl to 
elevate our luxury lifestyle services
Launched exclusive DreamFolks Club membership  
Introduced Highway Dining as a service
Rolled out Coffee at Malls, Pay & Use, and Access to 
members-only recreational facilities
2024-25
Expansion 
Phase
Launched flagship Lounge 
Access Program with a 
leading global Card Network
2013
Tied up with leading Indian Card 
Issuers & Corporate Clients (including 
a prominent airline company)
ISO 27001 & PCI DSS certifications
2016
Initial 
Phase
Growth 
Phase
Annual Report 2024-25
10
Dreamfolks Services Limited
11
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Awards & Accolades
Celebrating Excellence 
through Innovation and 
Leadership Recognition
DreamFolks has been 
consistently recognized for 
excellence across technology, 
leadership, innovation, 
customer experience, and 
travel experiences. These 
accolades reflect our 
relentless focus on delivering 
premium experiences and 
driving innovation across the 
industry.
Awards & Recognitions
Ms. Liberatha Kallat, Chairperson & MD, was felicitated as India’s 
Impactful CEOs 2024 by Times Now.
DreamFolks was recognized as the Iconic Brands of India 
2024 by ET Now.
The company received the Excellence in Premium Travel & Lifestyle Solutions 
award at the TAFI (Travel Agents Federation of India) Convention 2025 in Vietnam.
Dreamfolks Services Limited was named Best User Experience Solution 
Provider at the 8th Annual India Banking Summit & Awards 2024.
The company won Best Banking Card Service Provider of the Year at the 11th 
edition of The Payments Reloaded Awards 2024.
Ms. Liberatha Kallat, Chairperson & MD, DreamFolks, was conferred the Business 
Leadership Award at the Indian Achievers’ Awards 2024.
The company received Business Innovation Award at the 14th edition of 
Entrepreneur Awards 2024.
DreamFolks was recognized with the Deloitte India Technology Fast 50 Awards 
2024 in the category - Travel & Hospitality Tech at the 19th edition of the Deloitte 
Technology Fast 50 India program.
Annual Report 2024-25
12
Dreamfolks Services Limited
13
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
20+ travel and lifestyle 
service offerings
During FY2024-25, the 
company facilitated travel 
and lifestyle benefits for 10.9 
Million passengers.
Has global reach in 100+ 
countries, along with access 
to 3,000+ touchpoints.
Technology is at the core of our business model, powering a scalable and configurable platform that ensures 
flexibility, reliability, and customization across multiple access models. Our proprietary system manages card 
entitlements and benefits in real time, integrates seamlessly with client systems, and provides transparent 
accounting to both clients and consumers. The hybrid model enables omni-channel access—through 
membership cards, in-app integrations with client banking apps, and the DreamFolks web 
access platform. The platform also empowers clients with tools to reduce program costs 
and redesign solutions, such as shifting from fixed to spend/usage-linked benefits, 
incentivizing customer behaviour, and transitioning from plastic to digital access. 
Additionally, it safeguards against fraud, supports campaign management, and enhances 
consumer engagement, while maintaining efficiency and scalability.
Advanced Proprietary Tech Platform
DreamFolks is actively evolving from a single-category lounge 
aggregator into a multi-dimensional travel and lifestyle experience 
platform, leveraging our smart aggregation model to deliver over 
20+ bespoke service categories. We are is building an ecosystem 
that serves  every step of the customer 
journey—from pre-travel to  in-transit and 
post-arrival needs—creating both  convenience 
and monetization opportunities.
Diversified Services through 
a Unified Aggregation Model
DreamFolks lounge access footprint now extends beyond airports to include railway stations, highways, and visa 
application centers. Our collaboration with Visa Services underscores this expanded scope, offering seamless access 
to lounges alongside streamlined visa facilitation across global destinations. 
Market Leadership in Travel & Lifestyle Services 
in India with Enhanced Global Coverage
DreamFolks has pioneered a new standard in India’s travel and lifestyle 
services sector, transforming how customers access premium experiences 
through a unified, tech-driven aggregation platform. With an expanding 
portfolio of value-added services, DreamFolks provides curated, 
omnichannel access for both partners and consumers—positioning itself as 
a trusted gateway to global travel and lifestyle benefits.
Core Strengths
From Strong Foundations 
to Purposeful Growth
Annual Report 2024-25
14
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Dreamfolks Services Limited
15
At DreamFolks, our talent strategy plays a pivotal role in shaping a future-ready organization, driven by the recruitment of 
high-caliber professionals from premier engineering and business schools across India.The skilled workforce enables rapid 
technology adaptation and seamless client integration, preserving volumes and sustaining growth.
Top Talent Acquisition
DreamFolks’ growth is powered by strong partnerships with card networks, card issuing banks, and enterprises, each 
contributing significantly to the expansion and adoption of our platform. 
Deep Partnerships With Clients 
through API Integration
DreamFolks operates on an agile, technology-driven model that enables seamless service delivery across multiple customer 
touchpoints—including card swipes, mobile apps, self-check-in kiosks, and web platforms. This omnichannel approach ensures 
that users can access services easily, regardless of the method they prefer.
In FY 2024-25, DreamFolks made notable advancements in infrastructure flexibility. By adopting real-time visibility tools and 
scaling without owning physical assets, we unlocked significant value for both consumers and enterprise clients. This setup 
supports efficient, scalable delivery of travel and lifestyle services across airports, railway stations, malls, highways, and more. 
Hybrid Access Mechanism
DreamFolks demonstrates a robust client acquisition strategy by focusing on three core segments: Card Networks, Card 
Issuers, and Enterprise clients. This structured approach has enabled us to steadily increase our user base, which in turn 
enhances service utilization and broadens partner participation across lounges and other touchpoints. This creates a self-
sustaining ecosystem—often referred to as the “DreamFolks Flywheel”—where rising user volumes attract more service 
partners, which further incentivizes new client onboarding. The ability to build and leverage such network effects positions 
DreamFolks strongly for scalable and sustainable growth.
Strategic Client Base Expansion
Client Ecosystem
5
Card Networks
20+
Card Issuers
50+
Enterprises
1
Our card network partners help us integrate travel and lifestyle benefits 
directly into global payment network infrastructures, ensuring widespread 
availability and compatibility across Millions of cardholders—accelerating 
service adoption and global reach.
2
The partner card issuing banks provide value-added travel and lifestyle 
services in their credit and debit card offerings, driving volume, recurring 
usage, and customer loyalty during the card ownership lifecycle. This makes 
DreamFolks’ services a core part of premium banking experiences.
3
We have also entered into alliances with Enterprises. These partnerships 
extend DreamFolks’ reach beyond traditional banking, tapping into enterprise 
travel, employee benefit schemes, and consumer loyalty programs unlocking 
new channels of growth and brand visibility.
Annual Report 2024-25
16
Dreamfolks Services Limited
17
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Market Growth Catalysts
Translating Market Momentum 
into Scalable Advantage
India’s travel and lifestyle ecosystem is undergoing rapid transformation, 
driven by strong macroeconomic tailwinds, rising affluence, infrastructure 
expansion, digital acceleration, and evolving consumer expectations. These 
structural shifts are unlocking new growth opportunities across aviation, 
fintech, digital experiences, and outbound travel. DreamFolks is strategically 
poised to harness these tailwinds through a focused approach that combines 
service diversification, seamless digital integrations, and strong partnerships 
enabling real-time access to curated travel, lifestyle, and wellness benefits 
across an expanding global network.
How We Are Positioned to Lead the Upswing:
India’s rising disposable income and expanding middle class are reshaping consumer behaviour, particularly in travel 
and lifestyle segments. With a median age of just 28 years, the country is home to one of the youngest populations 
globally, led by Gen Z and Millennials. According to the Ministry of Commerce’s IndBiz platform, this shift in affluence 
and aspiration is set to make India the 4th-largest global travel market by 2030.
DreamFolks has expanded beyond traditional lounge access targeting India’s rising middle class and younger 
consumers. By diversifying our offerings and reaching non-metro cities, we are well-positioned to tap into the surge in 
domestic travel demand driven by rising disposable income and a youthful, experience-seeking population.
Rise in Disposable Income & 
Expanding Middle Class
Opportunities
DreamFolks’ Strategic Response
Source: Indbiz- India’s Gen-Zs to drive domestic travel market, set to become the 4th-largest globally
Annual Report 2024-25
18
Dreamfolks Services Limited
19
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
 Credit Card Penetration & Spending
Credit cards in circulation reached 101 Million by FY2024-25, projected to double to reach 200 Million cards by 
FY2028-29, supported by 15% CAGR growth. Rising affluence and expanding fintech partnerships are driving 
higher card-based spending, particularly in premium and lifestyle categories. Average spend per credit card—an 
essential eligibility criterion for lounge access—has been steadily increasing, reflecting the rising adoption and deeper 
penetration of credit cards in India
Opportunities
Leveraging our proprietary technology platform, DreamFolks powers real-time benefit visibility across leading card 
issuers, enabling seamless customer engagement with a wide spectrum of travel and lifestyle services.
DreamFolks’ Strategic Response
Source: https://www.pwc.in/assets/pdfs/indian-payment_handbook-2024.pdf
Credit Cards in Circulation (in Million)
85
22-23
120
24-25 E
159
26-27 E
102
23-24
138
25-26 E
203
28-29 E
181
27-28 E
Average Spend per Credit Card is Surging
(INR Thousand, YoY Growth in %)
4.1%
Q4 
FY2024
(0.7%)
Q1 
FY2025
2.8%
Q2 
FY2025
(0.7%)
Q3 
FY2025
5.9%
Q4 
FY2025
Credit card
Credit card (expected)
47.7
46.5
49.1
52.1
50.5
The Indian corporate travel market is expected to grow at a CAGR of 12%, reaching USD35 Billion by 2025. Corporate 
travel is rebounding as organizations resume in-person meetings, client engagements, and events. This revival is 
fueling demand for seamless, tech-enabled solutions that simplify travel booking, expense tracking, and on-the-go 
management.
Business & Corporate Travel Recovery
Opportunities
Added over 30 new enterprise clients in FY2024-25 and enhanced offerings like Meet & Assist, airport transfers, and 
wellness services, making business transit more efficient.
DreamFolks’ Strategic Response
Source: Corporate Travel Statistics & Trends in India – 2025
India is on track to significantly grow its 
aviation infrastructure, with the number of 
operational airports projected to reach 220 
by 2025. The year FY2024-25, saw a total 
of 43.2 Million domestic air passengers—a 
10.35% Y-O-Y increase—continuing 
the strong upward trend in domestic 
travel demand.
Infrastructure Growth
Opportunities
India’s luxury travel market is witnessing an unprecedented surge in 2025, fuelled by evolving consumer preferences, 
rising disposable incomes, and a generational shift toward experience-driven consumption. The year 2025 signals 
a boom in wellness and experiential travel too, with Indians increasingly investing in curated cultural, spiritual, and 
immersive journeys.
Luxury & Experiential Travel
Opportunities
We have diversified our service portfolio beyond lounges to include premium experiences such as golf access, beauty 
and wellness services, luxury spas, and exclusive entry to over 3,000 elite members only recreational facilities across 
the globe—enhancing lifestyle privileges for our discerning clientele.
DreamFolks’ Strategic Response
Capitalizing on this momentum, we have established a strong foothold with 100% coverage across all Indian airports 
and railway lounges, reinforcing our position as a preferred partner for premium travel and transit experiences 
nationwide.
DreamFolks’ Strategic Response
Source: TTW -India’s Domestic Air 
Travel Growth Breaks Records in FY25
Domestic Passenger Traffic (Count in Million, YoY growth in %)
4.4%
Q4FY2024
39.1
4.2%
Q1FY2025
40.2
6.5%
Q2FY2025
39.2
9.2%
Q3FY2025
42.8
10.4%
Q4FY2025
43.2
Annual Report 2024-25
20
Dreamfolks Services Limited
21
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
India recorded INR 2,862 Trillion in total digital transaction value in FY2025. UPI alone grew 30% YoY to INR 260.56 
Trillion accounting for 84% of retail digital transactions.  
Digital Payments and Fintech Growth
Opportunities
We have enabled seamless multi-modal digital access across platforms (app, web, kiosks, QR, card, and wallet), 
leveraging integrations with issuers via proprietary tech for real-time benefit delivery.
DreamFolks’ Strategic Response
Source: ET Times- UPI share surges to 84% in Digital transaction in FY 25
India experienced its 
highest-ever number of 
outbound travelers in 
2024, as reported by the 
Mastercard Economics 
Institute, driven by rising 
affluence, expanded air 
connectivity, and increased 
visa facilitation. This 
upward trend has continued 
into FY2025, positioning 
India as one of the fastest-
growing outbound travel 
markets globally.
International Outbound Travel Surge 
Opportunities
DreamFolks now offers access to a robust network of 800+ international airport lounges, enabling comfort and 
consistency for Indian travelers across the world. We have expanded our tie-up with Plaza Premium, adding over 100 
new lounges and F&B outlets across multiple countries.
DreamFolks’ Strategic Response
Source:  Mckinsey.com/industries/travel/our-insights/from-india-to-the-world-
unleashing-the-potential-of-indias-tourists
India’s outbound travel has potential to grow from 13 million trips in 
2022 to over 80 million in 2040.
Annual international departures, millions
2000
2005
2010
2015
2020
2025
2030
2035
2040
India
China
104
13
90
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
80
4
19
Domestic mobility is accelerating with growing railway infrastructure and highway expansion under the UDAN and 
Bharatmala schemes.
Rail & Highway Travel Evolution
Opportunities
Achieved pan-India railway lounge coverage and introduced Highway Dining access, strategically extending premium 
service touchpoints beyond airports to serve the growing multi-modal traveller base.
DreamFolks’ Strategic Response
Globally, consumers are shifting to experience bundles and 
value-packed memberships across sectors, including travel. 
Rise of Subscription Economy
Opportunities
DreamFolks launched the DreamFolks Club—an 
aggregated subscription model bundling multiple services 
like golf, grooming, dining, and SIM access, driving 
recurring revenue and customer stickiness.
DreamFolks’ Strategic Response
Annual Report 2024-25
22
Dreamfolks Services Limited
23
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Message from the Chairperson 
and Managing Director 
Dear Shareholders, it is my privilege to 
present to you our Annual Report for 
the Financial Year 2024-25. Since the 
inception of DreamFolks, our mission 
has been to redefine travel services. 
Having established ourselves as a 
leader within the industry, we have 
now evolved into a leading aggregator 
of travel and lifestyle services, 
consistently expanding our offerings 
beyond the realm of airport services.
Over the past few years, our core 
principle has been multifaceted 
diversification, and this year we 
have continued on the same path by 
expanding our service portfolio beyond 
lounges and acquiring many new 
enterprise clients in the travel, loyalty-
tech & hospitality industry. Further, 
we have enhanced our integration 
with existing enterprise and banking 
clients, providing them with tailored 
technology solutions through our 
cutting-edge technology platform. This 
approach has further solidified our 
leadership position within a rapidly 
evolving consumer ecosystem.
The Aviation & Credit Card 
Industries
In FY2024-25, the aviation industry 
demonstrated a robust recovery, 
marked by a strong growth in 
passenger traffic and enhanced 
operational efficiencies. Airlines have 
demonstrated improved financial 
performance, fueled by a resurgence 
in both leisure and business travel. 
Notably, domestic air passenger traffic 
in India has witnessed an impressive 
growth of nearly 8%, culminating in 
a record movement of 165.4 million 
passengers during the year. 
Looking ahead, the prospects for the 
aviation sector appear promising. We 
anticipate advancements in technology, 
the implementation of sustainability 
initiatives, and the expansion of air 
travel networks. As the industry adapts 
to evolving consumer preferences 
and regulatory frameworks, it is 
well-positioned for continued growth, 
fostering innovation and enhancing the 
overall travel experience.
Similarly, the credit card industry 
has experienced a notable rebound, 
characterized by increased consumer 
spending and a rise in transaction 
volumes as economic conditions have 
improved. The adoption of digital 
payment solutions and contactless 
transactions has further propelled this 
growth, with consumers increasingly 
favouring the convenience and 
rewards associated with credit card 
usage, including access to airport 
and railway lounges, golf games and 
lessons, and other premium services. 
As of March 31, 2025, the number of 
credit cards in circulation has grown 
to nearly 110 million, reflecting an 
8% increase from the previous year, 
with each cardholder’s spending per 
quarter continuing to show an upward 
trend, which is a positive trend for 
DreamFolks.
Looking forward, the future prospects 
for the credit card industry remain 
optimistic. Ongoing advancements 
in technology, which prioritize 
convenience and personalization, will 
drive further growth. Additionally, the 
growing emphasis on financial inclusion 
and the expansion of credit offerings 
to underserved markets are expected 
to contribute to sustained growth and 
innovation within the sector.
The Year in Review
Dreamfolks is not just growing, it’s also 
evolving. Through our focused scalable 
and integrated delivery model, we are 
laying the groundwork for long-term 
leadership in the travel and lifestyle 
space. We are committed to diversify 
our business model and integrate a 
wider range of services, catering to 
our global clientele’s varied needs and 
aspirations.
We are progressing on our journey of 
transformation, expanding our global 
footprint, strengthening our client 
ecosystem and driving diversification 
with agility and purpose. During the 
year, we added 6 new services taking 
our total premium service offerings 
to more than 20. A notable initiative 
this year was the introduction of 
coffee at malls as a service at premium 
coffee outlets across various metro 
and non-metro cities. Given its low-
ticket nature, this initiative enables 
partner bank to extend this service 
for the lower end cards as well. We 
also continue to enhance value for 
our premium customers by providing 
access to 3,000+ members-only 
recreational facilities across 150 
destinations worldwide. 
Enterprise clients continue be a 
key pillar to our growth strategy. 
Throughout the year, we have added 
marquee enterprise clients belonging 
to different industries. During the 
year, as part of our strategic planning, 
Over the past few 
years, our core principle 
has been multifaceted 
diversification, and 
this year we have 
continued on the same 
path by expanding 
our service portfolio 
beyond lounges and 
acquiring many new 
enterprise clients in the 
travel, loyalty-tech & 
hospitality industry. 
Ms. Liberatha Kallat
Chairperson and Managing Director
Dreamfolks Services Limited
25
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
24
we have also expanded our skilled 
employee base which has helped us in 
onboarding more than 30 new clients 
and six new services.
Financial Performance 
In FY2024-25, we continued our 
topline growth journey, with revenue 
from operations growing by 14% Y-O-Y 
to INR 12,919 Million, resulting from 
two of our revenue growth drivers, 
domestic air travel and credit card 
volumes, both of which recorded a 
growth of approximately 8% during the 
year. 
DreamFolks facilitated approximately 
10.9 million passengers during the 
year, which remained almost at par to 
previous year, despite the increased 
implementation of the structural 
changes related to minimum spend 
threshold in credit card industry in 
India. The gross margins of 11.6% and 
the adjusted EBITDA margin of 7.9% in 
FY2024-25,  were within our previous 
communicated guidance. 
Our services other than India Airport 
Lounges now contribute to 6.7% of the 
revenues, as compared to 5.8% in the 
previous year.
Technology and Innovation 
Our ongoing investment in cutting-
edge technology and strategic 
innovation is not only strengthening 
our operational backbone but also 
significantly enhancing the client 
experience. 
We are at a pivotal point where we are 
making major transformation in our 
tech. This strategic transformation is 
powered by a modern, cloud-based 
technology platform, enabling real-time 
collaboration, efficient growth, and 
quick responses to customer feedback. 
This has evolved our system from a 
simple operational tool into a vital 
strategic asset, creating personalized 
and user-friendly experiences for 
our clients’ tech-savvy customers. 
With our in-house tech infrastructure 
adaptability, it helps us to be future 
ready for the impressive expansion in 
enterprise client base and other than 
lounge services.
We are dedicated to harnessing 
the power of cloud infrastructure 
and digital ecosystems to create a 
more transparent, agile, and secure 
environment for our clients. By 
leveraging advanced cloud solutions, 
we have established a robust 
framework that facilitates real-time 
collaboration, seamless scalability, and 
rapid feedback integration.
Our innovative pay-and-use solutions 
empower existing and new clients to 
leverage their traditional customer 
base, providing additional benefits 
at attractive discounts beyond 
their complementary offerings. 
Furthermore, we have made significant 
strides in infrastructure flexibility 
by adopting fungible strategies and 
ensuring real-time visibility, thereby 
unlocking value across a spectrum of 
consumer benefits through traditional 
channels, digital applications, kiosks, 
and online platforms.
We remain committed to being 
the technology partner of choice, 
redefining industry benchmarks 
through innovation, operational 
excellence, and an unwavering focus on 
client success.
Future Outlook 
As we move forward, DreamFolks 
is committed to implementing 
robust strategies and capitalizing 
on the growth opportunities that lie 
ahead. We are optimistic that the 
macroeconomic challenges we have 
encountered are now behind us, and 
we have developed a clear strategy 
to rebound from the pressures 
experienced in the previous year.
Our focus will remain on consolidating 
and scaling services beyond the 
India Airport Lounge, particularly 
emphasizing our recently introduced 
offerings such as Coffee at Malls, 
Access to members-only recreational 
facilities, and Highway Dining. We 
firmly believe that these services 
possess significant untapped potential, 
which will facilitate our advancement 
to the next level. This aligns with our 
objective of a increasing contribution 
from non-lounge services. 
In addition, we will continue to expand 
our clientele by adding enterprise 
clients and travel agents, which will 
further drive our overall growth. Our 
strategy will involve offering bundled 
services to these clients, thereby 
increasing both the ticket size and 
profit margins at the company level.
Our technology platform remains the 
cornerstone of our operations, and we 
In addition, we will 
continue to expand 
our clientele by adding 
enterprise clients 
and travel agents, 
which will further 
drive our overall 
growth. Our strategy 
will involve offering 
bundled services to 
these clients, thereby 
increasing both 
the ticket size and 
profit margins at the 
company level.
will leverage our state-of-the-art technology 
to enhance integration with clients and deliver 
innovative solutions tailored to their needs.
This strategic direction will be bolstered by 
favourable industry trends. The Indian travel 
industry is projected to grow at an annual rate of 
12% to 15% over the next five years, particularly 
international travel accelerating at a rate of 
18% to 20%, driven by the rise in short-haul 
destinations.
In conclusion, DreamFolks is at a pivotal stage in 
its evolution, and we are resolutely committed 
to becoming the leading provider of travel 
and lifestyle services. With the support of all 
stakeholders, we are confident in our ability to 
deliver positive and sustainable results in the 
long term.
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Chairperson and Managing Director
Annual Report 2024-25
26
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Dreamfolks Services Limited
27
Key Financial Indicators
Financial Scorecard of 
our Strategic Growth
Our performance indicators serve as a clear reflection of our strategic 
execution—showcasing how we are consistently enhancing customer 
experiences, driving operational scale, and unlocking long-term value 
across our ecosystem.
Revenue From Operations (INR Mn)
7,732.5
FY2023
11,350.1
FY2024
12,918.8
FY2025
Networth (INR  Mn)
1,571
FY2023
2,364
FY2024
3,006
FY2025
CAGR: 29.2%
CAGR: 38.3%
Adjusted EBITDA* (INR  Mn) & EBITDA* Margin (%)
1,046.1
FY2023
1,031.8
FY2024
1,020.8
FY2025
PAT (INR  Mn) and PAT Margin (%)
725.3
FY2023
686.4
FY2024
650.5
FY2025
13.5%
9.1%
7.9%
9.4%
6.0%
5.0%
Adj. EBITDA*
PAT
Adj. EBITDA* Margin
PAT Margin
*After adjusting for non-cash ESOP expenses
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
28
Dreamfolks Services Limited
29
Value Creation Model
Key Service Offerings
Strategic Priorities
	
Airport & Railway Lounge Access
	
Meet & Assist Services
	
Coffee at Malls & Highway Dining
	
Golf Access & Spa Services
	
Visa Assistance & Transit Hotels
	
Excess Baggage & Wrapping 
	
Pay-and-Use
	
Members-only recreational facilities
	
Airport F&B Outlets
Expand our 
service offering 
to maintain 
leadership in Travel 
& Lifestyle services 
aggregation 
business.
Strategic Priorities
Invest in digital 
platforms, API 
integrations, to 
scale partner 
and user 
experience.
One-stop solution for access 
to premium travel and lifestyle 
services
Proprietary technology platform
Deep-rooted relationships with 
marquee clients
Scalable access through bank, 
network, and enterprise 
alliances
Input
Outcome
Output
Deciphering Our Process Strategy
	
DreamFolks operates on a highly 
scalable, capital efficient model allowing 
us to generate strong cash flows while 
continuing to invest in innovation.
	
We maintain a debt-free, liquid balance 
sheet, giving us the flexibility to fund 
our growth internally. This strategic 
discipline keeps us agile, self-reliant, 
and resilient
Financial  
Capital
` 574 MN 
Net cash from operations
` 1480 MN 
Cash reserves
` 3,006 MN 
Equity
` 1,021 MN 
Adjusted EBITDA
29.7% 
ROCE
` 12,919 MN 
Revenue
24.2% 
ROE
` 651 MN 
PAT
Profitable, debt-light growth
Strong free cash flow
Sustainable self-funded 
expansion
S1
Accelerate revenue 
diversification by 
increasing the share of 
non-lounge services to 
be a major contributor 
of topline over the 
next 4–5 years.
S2
Enhance client 
profitability 
through spend-
based benefit 
models and cost-
efficient usage 
optimization.
S3
S4
Strengthen 
client portfolio 
by onboarding 
new enterprise, 
fintech, 
and travel 
ecosystem 
partners.
S5
Maintain 
a capital-
efficient, and 
tech-first 
operating 
model to drive 
sustainable 
profitability.
S6
Disrupt the 
global travel and 
lifestyle services 
benefits market 
by expanding 
aggressively in 
the South-East 
Asian Market.
S7
Human  
Capital
	
Our teams are agile and function on 
cross-functional delivery model.
	
Our culture blends service led 
excellence complemented with 
innovation ready culture.
High employee productivity 
with lean team size.
	
Trained Employees Facilitate: 
Great Place To Work Certified  
(Aug’24 - Aug’25)
30+ new clients 
Onboarding of 
6 new service
Rolling out 
110 
Employees
79 
Training hours imparted
Health & accident 
insurance policies
ESOP scheme 
for employees
Annual Report 2024-25
30
Dreamfolks Services Limited
31
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Input
Outcome
Output
Deciphering Our Process Strategy
	
We are built on an integrated 
omnichannel platform with access 
modes via issuer card, DreamFolks app, 
kiosks, and partner portals.
	
Designed for lean operations, 
minimizing physical asset ownership 
while maximizing coverage.
Services 
Capital
100% Coverage  
Airport & 
railway lounges 
domestically
10+ Banks 
Enabled with 
spend based 
access model
47
F&B outlets 
domestically
10.9 MN 
Passengers serviced
29
F&B outlets in 
South East Asia 
& Middle East 
domestically
75
Airport lounges
14
Railway lounges
3,000+ 
Touchpoints
Integrated omni-
channel infrastructure 
(web, card, app, kiosk)
Premium travel and lifestyle 
services aggregator
Client-centric customized 
products
Seamless service delivery 
across card, app, web, QR, kiosk
	
Our intellectual capital is anchored in 
proprietary technology, recognized 
security, and brand strength  enabling 
us to scale globally, customize locally, 
and lead with trust in the premium 
service aggregation space.
Intellectual 
Capital
Strong brand equity within 
BFSI and enterprise travel 
space.
India’s leading lifestyle 
services aggregator
	
ET Now – Iconic Brand of India 
2024
	
Best Banking Card Service 
Provider 2024
ISO 27001 
(Information security)
SOC 1 & 2 
(Operational controls & trust assurance)
PCI DSS v4 
(Payment data 
compliance)
	
In-house proprietary tech- platform 
 
Certifications:
	
LEED certified infrastructure
	
R&D and Capex on technology 
to reduce plastic
	
Usage of LED lights in office space
High energy efficiency through usage 
of LED lights.
Significant reduction in plastic and 
paper usage.
	
Drive paperless, digital access via web and 
QR code integrations across services.
	
Invest in sustainable materials and R&D to 
minimize plastic usage in service delivery.
	
Maintain regulatory compliance through 
proactive environmental management and 
monitoring.
Natural 
Capital
Compliance With:
	
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) 
Act.
	
Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act.
	
Environment protection act and rules.
Improved energy efficiency and 
reduced carbon emissions from 
operations.
Contribution to corporate 
sustainability goals and ESG 
commitments.
Social and 
Relationship 
Capital
3000+
Beneficiaries
	
Our efforts reflect a long-term 
commitment to inclusive growth and 
social equity.
We create meaningful impact 
in the communities we operate 
through targeted education, 
health, and safety initiatives.
2
Initiatives undertaken
` 14.2 MN
CSR budget
Project Saksham
Annual Report 2024-25
32
Dreamfolks Services Limited
33
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Expanding Frontiers through Partnership
Strategic Client 
Partnerships
FY2024-25 marked a pivotal phase in DreamFolks’ evolution, 
as we advanced our journey from a service aggregator to an 
integrated global travel and lifestyle platform. Strengthening this 
transformation were several high-impact strategic partnerships 
across banking, travel, and digital ecosystems — reinforcing 
DreamFolks’ role as a key enabler within a rapidly expanding 
mobility landscape.
Throughout FY2024-25, we continued to strengthen our market presence by onboarding 
a wide spectrum of marquee enterprise clients across key industries. We onboarded 30+ 
new clients diversifying beyond banking.
This diversified client acquisition reflects the versatility and scalability of our platform, as 
well as growing confidence in our ability to deliver premium travel and lifestyle solutions. 
From leading card issuers and card networks to new-age enterprises, our client base now 
includes both traditional and modern companies.
Expanding Our Ecosystem with 
Diverse Enterprise Clients
On the banking front, we solidified our alliances through new and expanded programs 
with leading institutions, reinforcing the industry’s trust in our value proposition. 
These partnerships are designed to deliver differentiated travel & lifestyle experiences 
to affluent, mass-affluent, and emerging segments—across credit, debit, and prepaid 
portfolios.
Strengthening Strategic Partnerships 
Across Banking Segment
Annual Report 2024-25
34
Dreamfolks Services Limited
35
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Expanding Reach in 
New Geographies
Leveraging our position as a category leader in India, DreamFolks 
is accelerating our international growth trajectory. We have 
made significant strides in scaling our international footprint 
through targeted partnerships and network integration. 
The fiscal year 2024-25 marked a decisive leap in DreamFolks’ 
global expansion journey. With the addition of 300+ global 
lounges worldwide, our access network now spans over 3,000+ 
touchpoints across 100+ countries reinforcing our stature as a 
global travel and lifestyle services aggregator.
DreamFolks deepened our global footprint by strengthening our partnership with Plaza 
Premium Group—the world’s largest independent airport lounge network, known for 
delivering premium hospitality services across major international hubs. This enhanced 
collaboration added 100+ new lounges and F&B outlets across key global airports to 
DreamFolks’ portfolio. With this expansion, we now offer access to a global network of 
over 800 airport lounges, reinforcing our commitment to delivering comfort, convenience, 
and premium experiences to travelers.
Strengthening Global 
Lounge Access
Our Meet & Assist service footprint now covers over 400 international 
airports, offering seamless, personalized journey support for global travelers. 
This expansion underscores our commitment to end-to-end travel facilitation 
across regions.
Enabled Meet & Assist Services 
at 400+ International Airports 
800+ 
Global lounges as of March 2025
100+ 
Global F&B touchpoints
Annual Report 2024-25
36
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Dreamfolks Services Limited
37
Expanding our 
Service Offerings
With a sharpened focus on sustainable growth, DreamFolks is 
strategically diversifying our service portfolio to unlock new 
revenue streams, reduce dependency on traditional segments, 
and deepen our relevance across evolving customer ecosystems. 
This expansion, with the addition of six new services, reinforces 
our vision of being a holistic enabler of premium travel and 
lifestyle experiences.
In FY2025, we strengthened our position as a comprehensive travel and lifestyle services aggregator by significantly expanding 
our service portfolio. We introduced six new offerings—Highway Dining, Pay & Use facilities, Access to Premium members only 
recreational facilities, Coffee at Malls, Baggage Wrapping, and Excess Baggage services—taking the total premium services to 
over twenty. These additions extend DreamFolks’ value proposition well beyond lounges, covering diverse touchpoints across 
the traveller’s journey and everyday lifestyle needs.
The new services are designed to meet evolving consumer expectations and provide partner banks, enterprises, and card 
networks with differentiated engagement models.
Expanding Horizons with 
New Services
By broadening the service mix, DreamFolks is 
building resilience and unlocking new revenue 
streams. Non-lounge services already contributed 
6.7% of revenues in FY2025, up from 5.8% in 
FY2024, and are projected to scale to nearly 
one-third of the topline in the next five years. This 
strategic expansion reinforces our long-term vision 
of becoming the definitive enabler of premium travel 
and lifestyle experiences across geographies.
Driving Resilience 
through Service 
Diversification
DreamFolks continues to invest in high-caliber talent to drive strategic growth and deepen market penetration. We have actively 
recruited from premier business and engineering institutions, strengthening internal capabilities across technology, product, 
data analysis, and client strategy.
As we evolves into a multi-vertical, enterprise-aligned platform, the demands on our organizational capabilities have grown 
significantly. With expansion into enterprise verticals by onboarding clients from various industries, alongside the onboarding of 
20+ new services, our strategy of expanding the employee base has been very fruitful till now and would deliver higher returns 
in the near future. This strategic shift has also translated into a calibrated increase in operating expenditure— a direct outcome 
of building capability across enterprise sales, service onboarding, and partner support functions. Rather than being a short-term 
margin drag, this investment is a direct enabler of long-term growth, supporting our expansion into new industries, high-volume 
clients, and diversified services.
Harnessing Talent 
to Power Growth
Connect. Relax. Belong — elite club 
access with DreamFolks
Your passport to 
world-class greens
Dreamfolks Services Limited
39
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
38
Innovating Change
Redefining Experiences 
through Innovation
At DreamFolks, innovation is a strategic imperative — 
embedded not just in our technology roadmap but in how 
we anticipate and respond to evolving client expectations. 
FY2024-25 was a year of transformative momentum, 
marked by service diversification, cross-sector client 
acquisition and platform evolution through development 
of our omnichannel access model—enabling customers to 
access services via mobile app, self-check-in kiosk, bank 
partner platforms and DreamFolks Web Access.
Our continued investment in cutting-edge technology and 
strategic innovation is not only enhancing our operational 
backbone but is also significantly elevating the client 
experience across the platform through ongoing upgrades, 
seamless integrations, and data-led personalization. 
Annual Report 2024-25
40
Dreamfolks Services Limited
41
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
DreamFolks’ technology platform is at the 
heart of our ability to deliver seamless, secure, 
and scalable services across travel and lifestyle 
verticals. Our proprietary technology is 
developed in-house and purposefully designed 
to cater to the unique demands of the travel 
and hospitality ecosystem. Supporting a 
wide spectrum of tech-led services from 
access enablement to client integration our 
platform allows for high customizability, 
rapid deployment, and seamless service 
orchestration tailored to distinct partner 
needs. 
Designed with adaptability and efficiency at 
its core, our digital infrastructure enables 
real-time service integration, effortless 
user experiences, and strategic flexibility  
reinforcing our position as a platform-first 
enterprise. 
FY2024-25 saw continued investment in 
modernizing core systems and expanding tech-
led capabilities —a strong move to drive long-
term platform scalability, data security, and 
consistent experience delivery across diverse 
service environments.
Engineered for Elevated 
Experiences Through 
Technological Excellence
At DreamFolks, we uphold the highest standards 
of data security, service reliability, and operational 
excellence — a commitment reflected in our globally 
recognized certifications and robust compliance 
practices. These credentials underscore our 
dedication to protecting customer data, enabling 
secure transactions, and delivering trusted 
experiences at scale.
Unwavering Focus on 
Quality and Security
1
ISO/IEC 27001: Robust information 
security management.
2
PCI DSS v4.0: Advanced safeguards for 
sensitive payment data.
4
LEED Gold Certification: Reinforces 
our sustainability commitment within 
operational environments.
3
SOC 1 Type 2, SOC 2 Type 1 & 2: 
Ensures security, availability, and 
confidentiality of client information.
DreamFolks leverages smart, adaptive technology to streamline access across travel 
infrastructure — enabling both physical and digital entry into lounges, services, and 
amenities. Our platform supports multi-format credentials such as physical cards, QR codes, 
and mobile passes, ensuring consistent, high-speed access across geographies and devices, 
reflecting our ambition to redefine convenience through innovation.
Facilitating Seamless Entry
Physical Card Access
Travelers can access services using DreamFolks-branded or partner-issued 
cards by simply swiping or tapping at lounge and service entry points.
Dual Access Modes
DreamFolks offers hybrid access flexibility, ensuring that users can 
transition effortlessly between physical and digital credentials. Whether 
swiping a card or scanning a QR code, every entry point is optimized for 
speed, security, and simplicity.
Digital Convenience
Our mobile-first platform empowers users to discover, activate, and 
manage their travel benefits through intuitive apps and web portals. This 
includes digital lounge access, airport services, and partner offerings — 
all at their fingertips.
Annual Report 2024-25
42
Dreamfolks Services Limited
43
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
With credit card programs transitioning to spend-based models and user expectations rising across touchpoints, DreamFolks 
has responded with strategic innovation across our proprietary platform, partner integrations, and user engagement models. 
These moves are already delivering tangible value across the ecosystem — enhancing cost-efficiency for banks, unlocking 
monetization beyond complimentary entitlements, and deepening digital-first user journeys.
Key Technology-led Interventions 
Shaping our Future-readiness
Our mobile-first platform empowers users to discover, 
activate, and manage their travel benefits through 
intuitive apps and web portals. This includes digital 
lounge access, airport services, and partner offerings — 
all at their fingertips.
Seamless Spend-based 
Model Implementation
Delivered customized, API-enabled tech solutions 
that allow client banks and enterprises to embed 
DreamFolks’ offerings directly within their mobile apps, 
web platforms, and loyalty portals.
Deeper Ecosystem 
Integration
Rolled out pay-and-use functionality across multiple 
services, giving customers flexibility to purchase 
benefits even without complimentary entitlements 
— a model that creates new revenue streams while 
empowering user choice.
Expansion of Pay-
and-Use Capabilities
Strengthened usability across all access points — 
including bank apps, the DreamFolks app, self-service 
kiosks, and web — ensuring real-time availability and 
uniform experience at every customer touchpoint.
Omnichannel Access 
Mechanism
Launched a robust analytics framework for clients, 
providing granular insights into spend thresholds, 
usage behavior, and engagement patterns — enabling 
data-driven program optimization and improved 
customer ROI.
Advanced Data & 
Analytics Layer
State Of The Art Technology Platform
Our ongoing investment in cutting-edge technology 
and strategic innovation is not only strengthening our 
operational backbone but also significantly enhancing 
the client experience. We are at a pivotal point where 
we are making major transformations in our tech, 
powered by a modern, cloud-based platform that 
enables real-time collaboration, seamless scalability, 
and rapid feedback integration. This evolution has 
turned our system from a simple operational tool into 
a vital strategic asset, creating personalized and user-
friendly experiences for our enterprise clients and their 
tech-savvy customers.
Ms. Liberatha Kallat
Chairman & Managing Director
Our ongoing investments in technology and 
innovation are driving a major transformation of the 
DreamFolks platform. By moving to a modern, cloud-
based architecture, we have evolved from a simple 
operational tool into a strategic asset that enables 
real-time collaboration, rapid scaling, and personalized 
experiences for our enterprise clients and tech-savvy 
customers. With in-house capabilities and a flexible 
infrastructure, we are future-ready to support an 
expanding client base and new services. One of the most 
exciting developments is our smart system that allows 
customers to seamlessly access and customize both 
traditional and modern services — creating convenience, 
adaptability, and value at every step.
Mr. Balaji Srinivasan
Executive Director & Chief Technology Officer
Dreamfolks Services Limited
45
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
44
Enhancing Experiences
Curating Premium 
Lifestyle Services
DreamFolks delivers premium lifestyle services that extend beyond point-
to-point travel. Our integrated platform spans lounges, concierge-style 
meet-and-assist, wellness and spa experiences, golf access, baggage care, 
and curated F&B including coffee at malls and access to members-only 
recreational facilities. For consumers and enterprise clients alike, we 
provide dependable, high-quality touchpoints that enhance comfort, save 
time, and elevate satisfaction as needs evolve. We create reliable, high-value 
touchpoints that deliver comfort, optimize time, and set new standards of 
convenience and satisfaction across the journey.
At DreamFolks, we curate elevated travel experiences that accompany customers seamlessly across air, road, 
and rail journeys. From airport lounges, baggage solutions, meet & greet, and international transit services in air 
travel, to highway dining and other premium road-side facilities, and further to railway lounges and concierge 
support in rail travel —our service ecosystem ensures comfort and convenience at every step. Our commitment to 
innovation ensures that each touchpoint — whether in the skies, on the road, or along the rails —delivers unmatched 
convenience, personalization, and elegance, setting a new paradigm for premium travel experiences.
Redefining Every Mile —Transforming 
Travel with DreamFolks Services
At the heart of DreamFolks’ service portfolio lies our premier Airport Lounge Access — a flagship offering that 
continues to define and elevate the pre-flight experience for Millions of travelers. As India’s pioneer and market 
leader in lounge aggregation, DreamFolks maintains unmatched 100% coverage across all operational airport and 
railway lounges in India, ensuring a seamless, consistent experience for every passenger.
With 10.9 Million passengers availing lounge access through our platform in FY2024-25, our presence at 75 airport 
lounges and 14 railway lounges solidifies DreamFolks as the largest enabler of pre-journey comfort and convenience.
Premier Lounge Access — 
The Flagship of Elevated Travel
46
Annual Report 2024-25
Dreamfolks Services Limited
47
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Enhancing Customer 
Experiences during 
Travel and Beyond
DreamFolks is a gateway to a world of thoughtfully curated travel 
and lifestyle experiences, delivering seamless access to comfort, 
convenience, and exclusivity across every stage of the journey. From 
airport and railway lounges to dining, wellness, mobility, and members-
only privileges, our platform empowers clients to enhance customer 
engagement through premium experiences—backed by proprietary 
technology, a growing global network, and a scalable service model 
designed for long-term value creation.
400+
Meet & assist Services
3,000+ 
Premium members-only 
recreational facilities
250+ Outlets
Coffee At Malls
Service Expansion Highlights 
during the Year
Seamless Services Across the 
Entire Travel Journey
Pre-Travel (At Home & Airport Departure)
Post-Arrival & Beyond
In-Transit (At Airport & En Route)
Airport  
Transfer
Airport  
Transfer
Meet And  
Assist
Lounge  
Access
Sleeping  
Pods
F&B  
Outlets
Spa & 
Wellness 
Services
Transit  
Hotels
Golf Games 
& Lessons
Railway  
Lounges
Beauty & 
Grooming
Gifting  
Services
Healthcare
Highway  
Dining
Members-
only 
recreational 
facilities
Pay &  
Use
Coffee At  
Malls
Visa at your 
doorstep 
service
E-SIM
Excess 
Baggage 
services
Baggage 
wrapping 
services
Valet 
service
Indulge in premium 
spa services
Dreamfolks Services Limited
49
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
48
Luxury Begins At Home
At The Airport-Your Gateway to Effortless Indulgence
Airport Transfers — Seamless Mobility, Elevated
At DreamFolks, we redefine airport mobility through our curated Airport 
Transfer services, delivering a travel experience that begins the moment you step 
out your door. Spanning over 200 global destinations, our offering combines 
logistical precision with refined comfort. Whether it’s a sophisticated sedan 
or an ultra-luxury ride, each transfer is tailored to complement the premium 
expectations of our clientele — transforming routine transit into a seamless 
extension of the journey.
Meet & Assist — Redefining Personalized Airport 
Navigation
DreamFolks enhances the travel journey with our Meet & Assist service, available 
at over 400 airports worldwide. This premium offering is crafted to eliminate 
the complexities of air travel — guiding passengers through check-in, security, 
immigration, and boarding with seamless precision. Whether for first-time flyers, 
families, or high-frequency travelers, Meet & Assist exemplifies our commitment to 
effortless, curated travel experiences that begin long before takeoff.
Spa & Wellness — A Pause Wrapped in Luxury
Wellness is now an essential part of premium travel, and to meet this need, 
DreamFolks offers access to airport spa services that provide holistic rejuvenation. 
From express massages to full-service treatments, these wellness zones are curated 
for consumers seeking mind-body balance before or after a flight. As part of our 
integrated service strategy, Spa & Wellness offerings cater to a growing preference 
for experiential luxury, further reinforcing our commitment to creating moments of 
indulgence at every stage.
F&B Offers — Dining, Reimagined
From curated dining at terminal restaurants to exclusive partnerships with airport 
F&B outlets, DreamFolks elevates the culinary experience while in transit, extending 
our footprint across South-East Asia and the Middle East. These offers are seamlessly 
embedded into our service stack — enabling clients to extend hospitality beyond 
traditional formats, while giving customers access to premium dining with real-time 
digital redemption options.
Beyond the Airport
As travel evolves into a more experiential 
journey, DreamFolks is redefining the 
boundaries of luxury by extending curated 
services well beyond the airport. Each 
offering is designed to address the evolving 
needs of today’s premium consumer — 
blending convenience, indulgence, and 
innovation across every touchpoint of the 
travel and lifestyle spectrum.
Railway Lounges — Extending Comfort 
Across Corridors
Our foray into railway lounge aggregation reflects a strategic step towards inclusive, 
multi-modal travel excellence. With 14 lounges across India and full national 
coverage, DreamFolks is elevating rail journeys with hospitality-grade experiences, 
mirroring the comfort of air travel — a move aligned with India’s infrastructure 
ambitions and rising Tier 2 & 3 mobility trends.
E-SIM Services — Always Connected, Effortlessly
In collaboration with leading global Travel SIM providers, DreamFolks enables 
digital-first connectivity for international travelers. Especially designed for students, 
business executives, and digital nomads, our E-SIM solution offers a cost-effective, 
agile alternative to traditional roaming — ensuring you are connected, always.
Golf Games & Lessons — Lifestyle Meets Leisure
Through curated partnerships, DreamFolks offers privileged access to 800+ golf 
courses globally, including premium domestic clubs. Whether for corporate leisure, 
elite cardholder benefits, or lifestyle bundling, our golf offering is tailored to 
diverse preferences and skill levels — blending sport, status, and serenity into one 
seamless service.
Annual Report 2024-25
50
Dreamfolks Services Limited
51
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Healthcare Services — Holistic Wellness for the 
Modern Traveler
In partnership with Healthians, we bring a portfolio of preventive health check-ups, 
diagnostics, and wellness consultations into the entire journey. With access to a 
robust diagnostics network, teleconsultations, and diet/lifestyle support, DreamFolks 
embeds wellness at the core of our next-gen travel and lifestyle stack.
Visa Services — Streamlined Access, Elevated 
Experience
DreamFolks reimagines the visa application journey through our premium lounge 
access integration at visa centers, paired with doorstep concierge services. This dual 
offering provides an elevated, stress-free process, reducing friction while maintaining 
utmost security, comfort, and brand equity for our enterprise and B2B partners.
Gifting Services — Thoughtfulness, Simplified
Whether celebrating milestones or fostering loyalty, our curated gifting platform 
empowers clients and customers to send flowers, curated hampers, and personalized 
tokens — extending emotional connections beyond journeys. It’s another way 
DreamFolks enhances brand intimacy and end-user delight.
Beauty & Grooming — Everyday Indulgence, 
Expertly Delivered
Our beauty and grooming services seamlessly complement lifestyle benefits 
offered through premium card and loyalty programs. By enabling access to curated 
salons, spas, and personal care experiences, we help brands strengthen consumer 
engagement and infuse convenience into self-care routines.
Highway Dining 
In line with our strategy to broaden travel-related services across all segments of the 
journey, DreamFolks introduced Highway Dining in FY2024-25. This new category aims to 
offer curated food and beverage experiences at key transit points along major highways.
Access to Members-only Recreational Facilities   
In a first-of-its-kind offering, DreamFolks enabled exclusive access to 3,000+ premium 
members only recreational facilities globally, opening doors to lifestyle and networking 
privileges beyond the airport. 
Baggage Wrapping and Excess Baggage Support  
To enhance safety, efficiency, and convenience during travel, we rolled out our innovative 
baggage wrapping services and excess baggage support across selected airports. These 
services offer customers  with secure, hassle-free baggage solutions during both departure 
and return journeys.
Coffee at Malls  
One of the standout additions this year was the launch of ‘Coffee at Malls’ as a premium 
service, now available at nearly 250+ outlets across leading brands.
Pay & Use Facilities  
Recognizing the need for utility-based convenience, DreamFolks introduced Pay & Use 
service. By integrating this proposition, clients can enhance customer engagement and 
customers can enjoy access to premium travel and lifestyle services through a single, 
convenient platform—a one-stop shop for luxury experiences.
New Services Onboarded in FY2024-25: 
Enriching Lifestyle Offerings
During FY2024-25, we introduced several new high-utility services tailored to enhance convenience, comfort, and 
personalization:
Annual Report 2024-25
52
Dreamfolks Services Limited
53
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Community Engagement
Empowering Communities, 
Enriching Lives
Guided by the compassionate leadership of Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat, 
our Chairperson and Managing Director, DreamFolks’ Community 
Engagement is deeply rooted in impactful, high-value programs that go 
beyond the customary. We recognize our responsibility towards building 
a more inclusive and equitable society, and our efforts are guided by 
a focus on education, health, and empowerment, ensuring that our 
contributions create tangible benefits for communities in need.
Title Sponsor for ROTSPORTS 2024 –  
November 17 2024
DreamFolks proudly sponsored the 12th edition of ROTSPORTS 
2024, a mega sports event for over 1,200 divinely abled children 
from the districts of Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, and 
Alappuzha. The event, held at Viswajyothi CMI Public School 
Ground, Angamaly, was organized in association with the Rotary 
Club of Cochin Airport. Through this initiative, DreamFolks 
reinforced our dedication to supporting the underprivileged while 
celebrating the strength and abilities of children with special needs.
Washroom Infrastructure Support at 
Govt. Girls Senior Secondary School, 
Badshahpur, Gurgaon – March 2025
As part of our CSR focus on health, hygiene, and girl child 
empowerment, DreamFolks supported the construction and 
improvement of washroom facilities at Govt. Girls Senior Secondary 
School, Badshahpur. The project aimed at ensuring a safer and 
cleaner school environment, thereby encouraging better attendance 
and improving the overall well-being of girl students. This initiative 
directly benefited more than 1,800 girl students from Classes 6 to 
12, contributing to their dignity, comfort, and educational continuity.
1,200
Specially-abled children in Kerala districts
1,800
Girls students benefitted 
Dreamfolks Services Limited
55
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
54
Corporate Information
Board of Directors 
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
Chairperson and Managing Director 
Mukesh Yadav 
Non-Executive Director
Dinesh Nagpal 
Non-Executive Director 
Balaji Srinivasan 
Executive Director and CTO 
Monica Widhani 
Independent Director 
Ravindra Pandey 
Independent Director 
Sunil Kulkarni 
Independent Director
Prerna Kohli 
Independent Director
Management Team
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
Chairperson and Managing Director 
Balaji Srinivasan 
Executive Director & CTO 
Shekhar Sood
Chief Financial Officer 
Sandeep Sonawane 
Chief Business Officer 
Harshit Gupta
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
Corporate office 
Unit No. 301-307, Tower B, Good Earth Trade 
Tower,
Sector-62, Gurgaon-122001, Haryana, India 
Website 
https://www.dreamfolks.com/ 
Corporate Identity Number (CIN)
 L51909DL2008PLC177181
Statutory Auditors 
S.S. Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP
69, Okhla Industrial Area, Phase III, 
New Delhi – 110 020, India 
Tel: +91 11 4670 8888 
Website: https://sskmin.com/ 
delhi@sskmin.com 
Secretarial Auditors 
DMK Associates 
Company Secretaries
 31/36, Basement, Old Rajinder Nagar, 
New Delhi 110 060 
Tel: 91-011-42432721
Email: deepak.kukreja@dmkassociates.in
Internal Auditors 
Wadhwa & Co. Chartered Accountants 
22, DDA Flats, Panchsheel Park, 
Shivalik Road, New Delhi 
Email: sushil@sushilwadhwa.com 
Tel: 9810094084
Registrars & Transfer Agents
MUFG Intime India Private Limited 
Noble Heights, 1st Floor, Plot No. NH 2, LSC, C-1 
Block, 
Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri, New Delhi-110058 
Tel: +91 11 49411000 
Email: delhi@linkintime.co.in
Principal Bankers
HDFC Bank
HDFC Bank Ltd
Vatika Technology Park
Sector 49, Badshahpur, Gurgaon 122001
Deependra Kumar
Mobile No. 8802343373
Deependra.Kumar@hdfcbank.com
ICICI Bank 
ICICI Bank Ltd
11, Times Tower M G Road
Gurgaon 122001
Piyush Paliwal
Mobile No. 8527497674 
piyush.paliwal@icicibank.com
DBS Bank Ltd
UGF, Tower C, DLF Building 10
DLF Cyber City, Gurgaon 122002
Abhishek Garg
Mobile No. 8879769516
abhishekgarg@dbs.com
Annual Report 2024-25
56
Dreamfolks Services Limited
57
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Board of Directors
The sustained success of our Company is underpinned by the strategic vision and principled leadership of our Board. Their 
unwavering commitment to excellence, combined with sound governance and a unified long-term outlook, continues to steer the 
organization toward sustained value creation. Through disciplined oversight, prudent decision-making, and a relentless focus on 
our mission, the Board has been instrumental in shaping a resilient and future-ready enterprise.
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
Chairperson and Managing Director
Liberatha Peter Kallat is the Promoter and Managing Director of our 
Company. She was designated as the Chairperson of our Company on 
November 30, 2021. She holds a Bachelor’s degree in Science from Andhra 
University. She has been associated with the Company since 2014 and is 
responsible for the strategy and overall management of our Company. She 
has experience in the hospitality sector and has, in the past, been associated 
with Indian and global multinational companies such as Taj GVK Hotels & 
Resorts Limited, PepsiCo. India, Premium Port Lounge Management Company 
Private Limited, and Pernod Ricard India (P) Limited. She has received a 
number of awards including the Entrepreneur of the Year in the Future 
Woman Leader Summit and Awards 2017, Outstanding Woman Entrepreneur 
and Employment Award 2018, Woman Icon of the Year 2019, Women 
Entrepreneur of the Year Award 2019, Economic Times Most Promising 
Business Leaders of Asia Award 2019 and 10 Best Entrepreneurs of 2021 
by Industry Era Magazine. She has also received a certificate of recognition 
as ‘The 10 Most Inspiring Women Entrepreneurs to Watch Globally’ by 
Innovative Zone, ‘Woman of Excellence Award’ by Indian Achievers’ Forum 
and ET Inspiring Women Leaders (North-2022).
Balaji Srinivasan  
Executive Director and Chief 
Technology Officer
 Balaji Srinivasan is an Executive Director and Chief Technology Officer of 
our Company. He holds a diploma in software and systems management from 
NIIT, New Delhi. He has been associated with our Company since 2019. He 
has experience in the technology sector. Prior to joining our Company, he 
held senior management positions at start-up ventures such as FarEye and 
also held the position of Vice-President at Genpact India Private Limited. He 
has been awarded the Smart Innovator Award 2019 Enterprise Innovation 
Summit 2019 in recognition of his extraordinary ability to innovate that 
resulted in creating business value for the organization and the Smart 
Innovator Award 2021 at the and Enterprise Innovation Summit 2021 in 
recognition of the extraordinary efforts in technology innovation that resulted 
in creating business value for the organization. He has also been awarded the 
Global FinTech Excellence in Leadership Award 2022 by Elets (Banking and 
Finance) and Innovator Award by the Big CIO Show & Awards during FY2025.
Mukesh Yadav
Non-Executive Director
Mukesh Yadav is the Promoter and a Non-Executive Director of our 
Company. He has been associated with our Company since 2011. 
He has more than 20 years of experience and has been a Director of 
companies such as Whistling Heights Resorts Private Limited, Urban Land 
Management Private Limited and Yashna Infratech Private Limited. He 
has been associated with a residential project ‘Amangani Peaceful Homes’, 
located in Rewari, Gurugram.
Dinesh Nagpal
Non-Executive Director
 Dinesh Nagpal is the Promoter and Non-Executive Director of our 
Company. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Arts from Maharishi Dayanand 
University, Rohtak. He has been associated with our Company since 2011. 
He has been associated with a residential project, ‘Amangani Peaceful 
Homes’, located in Rewari, Gurugram. He has more than 20 years of 
experience and has been a Director of companies such as Ankur Propmart 
Private Limited, Urban Land Management Private Limited and Yashna 
Infratech Private Limited.
Prerna Kohli
Independent Director
Dr. Prerna Kohli is an Independent Director of our Company. She is a 
Clinical Psychologist, a Public Speaker, a Workshop Facilitator and a Holistic 
Practitioner. A four-time Gold Medalist in Psychology, she is an awardee of 
“100 Women Achievers of India” selected by the Ministry of Women & Child 
Development. . She offers Heart-based workshops and lectures that focus 
on Life Balance, Self-awareness and Inner Peace. Dr. Kohli has also been a 
member of the POSH committee for the Press Information Bureau of India, a 
volunteer therapist at Tihar Jail, and a life skills coach at the Gurgaon prison 
and Aligarh prison. She has been an adviser to the National Commission 
for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and is a member of the Niti Aayog 
Nutrition Committee. She is the founder of Mindtribe, a mental health 
organization helping people on the journey towards mental well-being.
Annual Report 2024-25
58
Dreamfolks Services Limited
59
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Ravindra Pandey 
Independent Director
Mr. Ravindra Pandey has done M.Sc. from University of Allahabad and CAIIB 
from Indian Institute of Bankers. He has also attended executive Management 
program at IIM, Lucknow and Euromoney, London. Mr. Pandey is a senior 
banker; superannuated as Dy. Managing Director of State Bank of India 
(SBI) after a stellar career spanning 37 years with SBI; with proven track 
record in top leadership roles in domestic and international assignments. He 
has in-depth knowledge and skill in shaping, nurturing and leading a strong 
organization. He is also a digital strategist, led adoption of emerging, disruptive 
and innovative processes/technologies to enable business transformation.
Mr. Pandey had served on the Board of large and highly reputed organizations. 
At present , he is on the Board of large and diverse listed /unlisted companies 
including Manufacturing , NBFCs, Hospitality sectors. He is providing valuable 
strategic guidance in the areas of Business Strategy, Risk Management, Digital 
Transformation, Audit & Compliance, ESG culture, etc. and sets highest 
standards of Corporate Governance in these companies.
Sunil Kulkarni 
Independent Director
Mr. Sunil Kulkarni serves as the CEO of the Business Correspondents 
Federation of India (BCFI) since 2020. Under his leadership, BCFI has 
functioned as a “Deemed Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO)” supporting over 
70 Corporate Business Correspondents (BCs) and 5 Payments Banks, who 
have among them nearly 3 Million BC agents nationwide. Kulkarni has played a 
pivotal role in driving the BC industry toward innovative financial services such 
as SHG digitization, digital credit, and commerce. His advisory experience spans 
notable organizations like The World Bank, Facebook for WhatsApp Payments, 
Euronet, FIS, select Indian banks and several fintech.
With over 36 years of experience, Kulkarni previously served as Joint 
Managing Director of Oxigen Services, where he pioneered India’s first 
e-distribution network for mobile recharge and branchless banking. He has 
also held leadership roles at Motorola India, focusing on wireless technologies, 
and Siemens, overseeing semiconductor operations. Kulkarni is a Gold 
Medalist in Electronics and Communication Engineering and an alumnus 
of IIM Ahmedabad’s Management Education Program. His expertise lies in 
leveraging technology to create scalable business models across financial and 
telecommunications sectors.
Shekhar Sood 
Chief Financial Officer 
Shekhar Sood is a seasoned finance professional with over 20 years of 
global experience. He has held strategic finance leadership positions in 
listed, privately held and multinational companies. In his last stint, he served 
as CFO for Bajaj Capital Group. He has also worked with Socomec India, 
Ambuja Cements Ltd., CLAAS Agricultural Machinery, Nangia & Co., and 
Grant Thornton (WCC). A recognized industry leader, Shekhar was honoured 
as a Visionary Leader – 2024 by Financial Express and awarded as Best 
Technology-Driven CFO of the Year – 2024. He has been featured in CXO Tech 
Magazine for his article on IPO journey and is an active participant and speaker 
at premier forums including IIMs, IITs, and leading business schools on topics 
such as fundraising, M&A, ESG practices, and future-ready finance.
He is a Chartered Accountant and Company Secretary and has also pursued 
Executive MBA. He is an executive alumnus of ISB. Shekhar brings a dynamic, 
client-centric, and results-driven approach, combined with critical thinking, 
high integrity, and entrepreneurial spirit. His core areas of expertise include 
Strategic Planning and Execution, Fundraising, IPO Management, and Investor 
Relations, Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A), Regulatory Compliance (LODR, 
ICDR) and Corporate Governance, Treasury and ESG Management, Digital 
Transformation and Enterprise Risk Management. Shekhar’s entrepreneurial 
mindset, strong business acumen, impactful communication style, and proven 
leadership in building high-performing teams distinguish him in the finance 
and business community. Shekhar continues to drive financial excellence, 
innovation, and sustainable value creation for all stakeholders.
Harshit Gupta 
Company Secretary and  
Compliance Officer
Mr. Harshit Gupta is an accomplished corporate governance professional 
with over a decade of diverse experience spanning legal strategy, compliance 
management, and corporate affairs. He is an Associate Member of the Institute 
of Company Secretaries of India and holds both a Bachelor’s and a Master’s 
degree in Commerce from St. Xavier’s College, along with an LL.B. from Vinoba 
Bhave University. 
Mr. Gupta has held key leadership roles in renowned corporate groups, including 
the Tata Steel Group and the HT Group. At the HT Group, he served as the 
Company Secretary of Next Mediaworks Limited and Next Radio Limited. In his 
broader role managing governance and compliance across group companies, he 
played a pivotal role in executing complex debt and equity transactions, mergers 
and acquisitions, and listing-related initiatives—contributing significantly to 
strategic growth and the strengthening of governance frameworks. 
Beyond his core corporate functions, Mr. Gupta has actively contributed to 
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives and has been instrumental in 
developing and implementing robust compliance systems across fiscal, human 
resources, health and safety, and regulatory domains. 
Mr. Gupta continues to drive financial excellence, foster innovation, and 
champion sustainable value creation for all stakeholders—demonstrating an 
unwavering commitment to principled leadership and long-term corporate 
stewardship.
Other Key Managerial Personnel
Monica Widhani
Independent Director
Ms. Monica Widhani,  has over 39 years of extensive experience in strategy 
formulation, advocacy, driving results across large multi- department 
teams, cross segment customer behavior understanding and marketing 
mix management, convenience store retailing, and a strong, credible 
personal brand in the industry. She had been associated with Bharat 
Petroleum Corporation Limited (‘BPCL’) from May 1985 till January 2019 
and headed a prominent leadership role as Head of Aviation at BPCL. Her 
past roles at BPCL included being Executive Director Coordination (Delhi 
Representative) Head, Urban Retailing, Retail SBU and Head of Retail 
Sales, Northern Region. She holds a Bachelors in Science-Hons (Chemistry) 
degree and is a Member of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Annual Report 2024-25
60
Dreamfolks Services Limited
61
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Insights from the 
Board’s Report 
InFY2024-25, DreamFolks Services Limited reported a strong financial 
performance, reinforcing its position as a leading player in the travel and 
lifestyle services industry. The Company’s consolidated revenue from 
operations stood at INR 12,918.82 Million, reflecting robust business 
momentum. Including other income, total consolidated income reached 
INR 13,004.42 Million, marking a healthy year-on-year growth from INR 
11,383.38 Million in FY2023-24. The Company posted a Profit Before Tax 
(PBT) of INR 898.85 Million and a Profit After Tax (PAT) of INR 650.50 
Million. We continued to maintain healthy profitability while investing in 
future growth.
Financial Performance
` 13,004.42 Million
Total consolidated income
` 650.50 Million
Profit After Tax
DreamFolks continues to strengthen our human capital base, with the 
number of permanent employees rising to 110 as of March 31, 2025, up 
from 83 in the previous year. We witnessed a notable 15% increase in the 
median remuneration of employees. During the year, we allotted 2,43,950 
equity shares under its Employees Stock Option Plan 2021 to encourage 
long-term ownership and retain key talent.
Human Capital
15% increase
Median remuneration of employees
110
Total employees’ strength 
as on March 31, 2025
2,43,950 equity shares
Allotted under ESOPs scheme
4
KMPs as on date
We had two subsidiaries during the year: Golfklik Private Limited, with 
a 60% stake, and Dreamfolks Services Pte. Ltd. in Singapore, a wholly 
owned subsidiary. These subsidiaries support our efforts to expand 
offerings and geographies. 
Subsidiaries and Global Presence
Reflecting our growing international footprint, we earned INR 887.03 
Million in foreign exchange during the year, a significant jump from INR 
343.07 Million in FY2023-24. Foreign exchange outgo stood at INR 
477.98 Million, up from INR 327.25 Million in the previous year.
Foreign Exchange and Global 
Engagement
158.5%
Growth in foreign 
exchange earning
` 887.03 Million
Foreign Exchange earned 
during FY2024-25
` 1,465.65 Million
Total liquidity on a 
standalone basis
` 897.70 Million
Invested in debt 
mutual funds
As of March 31, 2025, we maintained a robust liquidity profile with  
INR 1,465.65 Million in total liquidity on a standalone basis. This includes 
INR 303.33 Million in cash and cash equivalents , INR 897.70 Million 
invested in debt mutual funds and INR 264.63 in Other Bank balance. 
The tech-enabled business model continues to support strong capital 
efficiency and low working capital needs.
Position
Annual Report 2024-25
62
Dreamfolks Services Limited
63
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024-25
64
Dreamfolks Services Limited
65
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
GLOBAL ECONOMY
The global economy showed remarkable strength in the face of 
various challenges this past year. Despite ongoing geopolitical 
tensions and a cost-of-living crisis affecting many countries, it 
managed to remain resilient. According to the International 
Monetary Fund’s (IMF) latest World Economic Outlook, global 
GDP growth is now projected at 2.8% for 2025, a moderation 
from the earlier estimate of 3.3%. The downgrade reflects the 
cumulative impact of geopolitical tensions, tighter financial 
conditions, supply chain disruptions, and escalating trade 
barriers, which are increasingly weighing on cross-border 
commerce. Global headline inflation, which averaged 5.9% 
in 2024, is expected to moderate to 4.4% in 2025, as central 
banks adopt a neutral stance fostering a more favorable 
environment for investments and healthcare delivery.
Regionally, the United States is expected to expand at 1.8% 
in 2025, with growth constrained by trade policy uncertainty 
and its ripple effects on consumer sentiment. China, 
meanwhile, is forecast to grow at 4.0%, reflecting continued 
headwinds in real estate and export-linked industries. 
Amidst a challenging global backdrop, India continues 
to chart a strong growth trajectory, with GDP expansion 
pegged at 6.5% in 2025. This momentum is underpinned by 
robust domestic consumption, infrastructure upgrades, and a 
resilient financial ecosystem — all of which are fueling greater 
mobility, rising discretionary spending, and increased demand 
across aviation, tourism, and allied service sectors.
Outlook 
Overall, 2025 is expected to be a year of moderated global 
growth, with advanced economies projected to grow at 
1.4%, compared to 1.8% in 2024. Emerging markets and 
developing economies (EMDEs) are likely to expand at 3.7%, 
down from 4.3% in the prior year. Central banks across 
geographies are expected to adopt a more balanced policy 
stance, gradually normalizing interest rates to support growth 
while managing inflation risks. Despite near-term challenges, 
a more constructive global trade policy environment could 
restore business and investor confidence, setting the stage for 
renewed momentum in the medium term.
World GDP Growth Trends (Based on IMF, WEO April 2025)
India’s Growth Trajectory Over the Last Five Years:
India’s Retail Inflation on a Decline:
3.3%
2.8%
3.0%
1.8%
1.4%
1.5%
4.3%
3.7%
3.9%
2024
2025 (P) 2026 (P)
2024
2025 (P) 2026 (P)
2024
2025 (P) 2026 (P)
Global Economy
Advanced Economies
Emerging Market and 
Developing Economies
P- “P “stands for projected estimates
IMF - Press Briefing-  Transcript- WEO ,April 2025
IMF- WEO update - April 2025
INDIAN ECONOMY
Amid a backdrop of persistent global macroeconomic 
challenges 
— 
including 
elevated 
inflation, 
tightening 
monetary policies, geopolitical disruptions, and supply chain 
uncertainties — India has emerged as a beacon of stability and 
momentum in FY2024-25. According to the second revised 
estimates released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme 
Implementation (MOSPI), India’s GDP is estimated to grow 
by 6.5% in FY2024-25, underscoring the country’s solid 
macroeconomic fundamentals and strong policy support.
On the demand side, private final consumption expenditure — a 
key driver of domestic activity — is estimated to grow by 7.3%, 
buoyed by rising discretionary spending and a notable revival 
in rural demand. This resurgence in consumption is particularly 
meaningful for travel, tourism, and aviation, where rising 
affluence and mobility aspirations continue to spur growth.
From the supply side, real Gross Value Added (GVA) is expected 
to expand by 6.4%, supported by broad-based sectoral 
performance. The services sector, in particular, remains a pillar 
of resilience — projected to grow at 7.2%, driven by strong 
traction in financial services, real estate, professional and 
business services, public administration, and defence.
Strong government impetus has played a pivotal role in 
accelerating growth across the services sector. In FY2024-25, 
GDP Growth (in %)
2020-21
(5.8)
2021-22
9.7
2022-23
7.6
2023-24
9.2
2024-25
6.5
2022-23
6.7%
2023-24
5.4%
2024-25
4.6%
Retail inflation in India has consistently moderated over the past three years, easing from 6.7% to 4.6% by FY2024-25. This trend, 
driven by calibrated monetary policy and targeted government interventions, has helped stabilise prices and improve household 
purchasing power. In a further boost to demand, the Reserve Bank of India reduced the repo rate by 50 basis points to 5.50% in June 
2025, lowering borrowing costs across the economy. The resulting credit stimulus is expected to support private consumption and 
investment — particularly in discretionary, experience-driven sectors such as travel, hospitality, and premium services.
policy focus translated into tangible support for tourism and mobility-led consumption. The Union Budget earmarked INR 2,480 
Crores for tourism infrastructure — a 46% hike — complemented by targeted reforms such as MUDRA-backed homestay loans, 
e-visa simplification, visa-fee waivers, and hospitality skill-building programs to empower MSMEs and youth. Flagship schemes like 
Swadesh Darshan 2.0 and SASCI collectively sanctioned over INR 8,500 Crore for 100+ tourism development projects, enhancing 
cultural destinations and visitor experiences. Simultaneously, regional air travel received a major boost under the UDAN scheme, 
connecting over 579 underserved routes and enabling more than 141 Lakh passenger journeys — making air travel more accessible 
and fueling regional tourism.
Outlook
According to forecasts by Morgan Stanley, India will become 
the world’s third-largest economy by 2028, propelled by 
stable macro fundamentals, consumption-driven growth, 
and strategic infrastructure investment. Policy tailwinds, 
and increased budgetary allocations are deepening access 
and capacity across both urban and emerging destinations. 
Additionally, digital transformation and rising consumer 
aspiration are converging to amplify premium, seamless, and 
experience-driven service ecosystems spanning aviation, 
hospitality, retail, wellness, and more.
As India enters a phase of consumption-led growth anchored in 
mobility, convenience, and lifestyle upgrades, the environment 
is highly conducive for platforms that sit at the intersection of 
travel, technology, and service innovation.
Sources:
MOSPI Press Release - 30 May 2025Economic Survey '24-'25 
Indian Economic Outlook-PIB 
economictimes.indiatimes.com -India to be 3rd largest economy
PIB.gov.in- Press Release .
Budget 2025 brings major changes to India’s travel & tourism sector
Key Announcements For Toursism Sector
Annual Report 2024-25
66
Dreamfolks Services Limited
67
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
GLOBAL MOMENTUM: TRAVEL, TOURISM, & AVIATION 
ON A UNIFIED GROWTH PATH
The global travel and tourism industry has emerged as a key pillar 
of economic growth, demonstrating remarkable resilience and 
a strong recovery trajectory in the post-pandemic era. In 2024, 
the market was valued at approximately USD 2.3 Trillion and 
is projected to expand to USD 3.4 Trillion by 2029, reflecting 
a robust CAGR of 8%. This anticipated growth is driven by 
the resurgence of international travel, rising disposable 
incomes, and the mainstreaming of digital travel platforms. The 
sector’s total contribution to global GDP surged to USD 11.3 
Trillion and is expected to reach USD 15.9 Trillion by 2029 — 
accounting for over 11% of global economic output. According 
to WTTC’s 2025 Economic Impact Research, international 
visitors spending alone is projected to touch a record USD 2.1 
Trillion in 2025, surpassing pre-pandemic peaks.
As the recovery deepens, aviation has reasserted its 
position as the backbone of global mobility, enabling the 
resurgence of long-haul travel, international tourism, and 
global trade. In 2024, the global aviation industry surpassed 
pre-pandemic benchmarks, with record levels of passenger 
traffic and profitability. This rebound was fueled by pent-
up demand, increased operational capacity, and enhanced 
cost and fuel efficiencies across carriers and airports. Valued 
at approximately USD 1.04 Trillion in 2025, the total civil 
aviation ecosystem — comprising airlines, OEMs, and MRO 
services — is projected to nearly double to USD 1.97 Trillion 
by 2034, reflecting a CAGR of 8.1%. Growth is being driven 
by structural tailwinds such as expanding global middle class, 
accelerating fleet mordernization, and an increasing push 
towards sustainable aviation and digitally enabled passenger 
experiences.
Sources:
WTTC.org- Economic Impact of Travel & Tourism sector.
WTTC.Org- Global Travel & Tourism Stays Strong
Airports Council International -Global Air Travel Demand.
Global Aviation Market By Geography 
(North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America, Middle East, and Africa).
Study Period
2020-2030
Market Size (2025)
USD 358.85 Billion
Market Size (2030) Estimate
USD 524.14 Billion
CAGR (2025-2030)
7.87%
Fastest Growing Market
Asia Pacific
Largest Market
Asia Pacific
Source: https://www.mordorintelligence.com/industry-reports/aviation-market
As per IATA, during 2025, the global aviation industry is 
expected to surpass a key milestone, with total revenues 
projected to exceed USD 1.0 Trillion, reflecting a 4.4% 
growth over 2024 and marking the first instance of the sector 
crossing the Trillion-dollar threshold. Operating profit is 
estimated at USD 67.5 Billion, while net profit is forecasted at 
USD 36.6 Billion, representing a net margin of 3.6%, marginally 
higher than the estimated USD 31.5 Billion in CY2024. 
Ancillary revenues constitute 14.4% of total revenue and 
are projected to expand to approximately USD 481.3 billion 
by 2032, growing at a CAGR of 17%, as airlines increasingly 
monetise non-ticket services such as baggage fees, seat 
selection, and loyalty programs. Going by the aviation revenue 
Revenue Source
USD Billion
% of Total Revenue
Passenger
705
70.0%
Cargo
157
15.6%
Ancillary & Other
145
14.4%
Total
1,007
100%
Source: https://www.iata.org/en/iata-repository/pressroom/fact-sheets/industry-statistics/
Challenges & Way Forward
The aviation and travel ecosystem continues to navigate a 
complex landscape shaped by geopolitical tensions including 
the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Palestine conflicts, have 
introduced fresh uncertainties across global routes, fuel 
markets, and consumer sentiment. However, a more pressing 
operational headwind in 2025 is the prolonged disruption 
in global supply chains, affecting everything from aircraft 
manufacturing to maintenance cycles.
The global lifestyle industry, encompassing fashion, personal 
care, and wellness, is a large and growing market driven by rising 
incomes, digital-native consumers, and increased demand 
for branded and personalized products. Key drivers include 
advancements in e-commerce and supply chain innovation, 
while significant challenges involve optimizing operations and 
managing high competition and customer expectations. India is 
a particularly fast-growing market within this global industry, 
expected to reach USD 210 Billion by 2028, with fashion as its 
dominant sector. 
Source: ddnews.gov.in
Outlook
The long-term trajectory of global air travel remains firmly 
optimistic, with both demand and infrastructure expansion 
poised to reshape aviation dynamics through mid-century. 
According to the IATA Global Outlook for Air Transport (June 
2024), passenger journeys are expected to increase by 4.1 
billion over the next two decades, reflecting a robust CAGR 
of 3.8%. Complementing this, ACI’s Air Transport Forecast 
(2024–2053) projects global passenger traffic to reach 22.3 
billion by 2053, underpinned by a steady 3.0% annual growth 
rate from 2024 onwards. These forecasts underscore the 
resilience of the aviation sector and its continued role as a 
catalyst for global connectivity and economic integration.
Asia-Pacific is set to remain the engine of global aviation 
growth. With a projected CAGR of over 5.1% according to 
IATA and 4.5% per ACI, the region will account for more than 
half of all new passenger traffic by 2053. India stands out with 
an anticipated annual growth rate of 6.4%, driven by rapid 
urbanization, expanding airport infrastructure, and the rise of 
a consumption-driven middle class. Southeast Asian nations 
such as Indonesia and Vietnam are also expected to contribute 
significantly to the regional surge.
The Middle East is emerging as a global transit hub, capitalising 
on its geographic advantage and substantial investments in 
aviation infrastructure. With a projected near-term CAGR 
of 5.2% through 2030, the region is rapidly strengthening 
its position as a vital link between East and West. Africa, 
though starting from a smaller base, shows promising long-
term growth with a CAGR approaching 4.0%, supported by 
population growth, policy reforms, and increased regional 
connectivity.
In contrast, mature aviation markets such as North America 
and Europe are expected to expand at more measured rates 
of 2.5%–3.0%, reflecting demographic shifts and market 
saturation. Latin America and the Caribbean present a 
moderate growth scenario, with a 3.3% CAGR bolstered by 
economic stabilization and renewed tourism activity.
As of 2025, the industry outlook remains cautiously positive. 
Passenger volumes are projected to exceed pre-pandemic 
levels, and industry revenues are expected to cross the USD 
1 trillion milestone for the first time. These trends collectively 
point to a global aviation landscape that is not only recovering 
but evolving—becoming more inclusive, diversified, and 
strategically aligned with long-term socio-economic shifts.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
breakdown, passenger travel remains the core revenue 
source, accounting for over 70% of total airline income, driven 
by strong demand in both leisure and business segments. 
Cargo, while normalizing post-pandemic, still contributes a 
solid 15.6%, supported by e-commerce and global logistics. 
Ancillary revenues make up 14.4%, reflecting airlines’ growing 
focus on monetising services like baggage, seat selection, 
and loyalty programs to boost profitability. Passenger traffic 
is expected to increase by 6.7% year-on-year to reach an all-
time high of 5.2 billion travellers. These forecasts underscore 
the continued momentum in recovery and normalization post-
pandemic, supported by sustained demand, stable fuel prices, 
and efficiency-focused operations.
Aviation Market 
Market Size in USD Billion 
CAGR 7.87%
Source: Mordor Intelligence
2025 
USD 358.85 Billion
2030
USD 524.14 Billion
Annual Report 2024-25
68
Dreamfolks Services Limited
69
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Source: ACI -NEW 30-YEAR FORECASTS HIGHLIGHT ROBUST GROWTH, 26 FEB2025
Sources for Global Aviation Industry:
Mordorintelligence.com- Industry-reports-aviation-market
IATA Press Release Jan 2025 - Global Airline passenger demand 
2024
IATA.org- Strengthened profitability expected in 2025
IATA Repository - Factsheet Dec 24
IATA Knowledge Hub- Air Passenger Demand Forecasting
IATA repository - Global Outlook for Air Transport June 2024
IATA - Supply chain Issues impact on Global Airlines
GLOBAL AIRPORT LOUNGE MARKET
The global airport lounge market is evolving rapidly, projected 
to grow from USD 6.01 Billion to USD 10.49 Billion by 2032. 
Rising demand for premium, comfortable, and productive 
travel experiences is transforming lounges from luxury 
perks into mainstream airport essentials. The global airport 
lounges market is segmented by type and application. By type, 
offerings include Business Services (Wi-Fi, meeting spaces), 
Spa (wellness treatments), Sleeping Pods/Rooms (rest spaces 
for long layovers), and Walk-in Lounges (accessible without 
prior booking, promoting affordable luxury). By application, 
the market caters to Personal (leisure-focused comfort 
and amenities) and Business (work-friendly environments 
supporting productivity during travel). These diverse services 
are designed to enhance the passenger experience across 
different traveller profiles.
Assessing regional growth trends in the airport lounges market, 
North America is witnessing rapid expansion, propelled by 
strong business travel demand and frequent flyer engagement, 
with airlines elevating services through premium amenities 
and credit card collaborations. Europe is experiencing a revival 
in lounge usage post-pandemic, driven by investments in 
sustainable, tech-enabled lounges and broader access through 
third-party, pay-per-use models. Meanwhile, Asia is recording 
robust growth, fuelled by increasing affluence and travel 
activity in markets like China and India, with lounges adapting 
through culturally inspired designs, enhanced health protocols, 
and digital service innovations.
Source: 
https://www.einpresswire.com/article/776834557/airport-lounge-
market-to-reach-usd-10-5-billion-by-2032-growing-at-7-22-cagr-driven-
by-rising-air-travelers
AIRPORT LOUNGE MARKET IN INDIA
India’s airport lounge segment is undergoing a significant 
transformation, driven by the country’s expanding consumer 
base and growing appetite for premium, value-added 
experiences. Amid this backdrop, airport lounges are fast 
becoming a staple of modern travel. What was once a niche 
luxury has now emerged as a mainstream expectation among 
India’s increasingly aspirational travellers. This evolution is 
fueled by a burgeoning middle class, increasing urbanization, 
and a shift in consumer preferences toward convenience, 
comfort, and lifestyle-centric offerings. For the financial year 
2024–25, private consumption grew at a real rate of 7.2%, 
compared to 5.6% in FY2023-24. As discretionary spending 
surges across travel, hospitality, and wellness segments, 
lounges offer an essential pause point, delivering both comfort 
and status.
India’s airport lounge market is poised for sustained growth, 
projected to surpass USD 900 Million by 2029 with an 
estimated CAGR of 5%. This momentum is further amplified by 
the digitalization of access models, where traditional barriers 
to entry are being dismantled through innovation. Lounge 
access is no longer confined to premium flyers; today, fintechs, 
credit cards, and lifestyle aggregators are driving inclusivity in 
access.
The proliferation of travel credit cards offering complimentary 
lounge access has significantly contributed to the increased 
utilization of airport lounges among Indian travellers. India’s 
airport lounge landscape is being reshaped by the evolving 
preferences of modern travellers, especially the millennial 
demographic. Recent surveys show that nearly half of Indian 
millennials now prioritize travel-related benefits such as 
lounge access when selecting financial products, including 
credit cards. This shift reflects a broader consumer trend 
that values comfort, convenience, and premium experiences 
throughout the journey.
Indian travellers are also among the most frequent lounge 
users globally. Over 75% of travellers from India report 
using lounges when the amenity is available—well above the 
global average of 50%. Furthermore, more than 80% believe 
that wider lounge access would significantly enhance their 
overall airport experience. These findings highlight the strong 
and growing demand for premium airport services in India, 
driven by a rising mass of aspirational, experience-oriented 
consumers.
As air passengers have grown, a similar behavioral shift is 
emerging in rail travel. Daily passenger volumes are reaching 
23 million, and annual footfall surpassed 7,150 million in 
FY2024-25, up more than 5% Y-O-Y. The Indian Railways is 
undergoing its largest-ever modernization drive. With higher-
paying passengers, longer wait times, and upgraded station 
infrastructure, railway lounges are gaining traction.
Additionally, the increasing use of digital platforms has 
enabled seamless integration of services like travel insurance, 
hotel bookings, and car rentals into the booking journey. 
Travel companies are also leveraging data analytics to offer 
customised options, enhancing passenger satisfaction and 
boosting revenue beyond traditional ticket sales. These 
drivers collectively position India as one of the fastest-growing 
ancillary markets in global aviation.
Source:
Cognitive Market Research - Airline ancillary sector in India
Mordorintelligence.com- Airport lounges market
India’s Booming Airport Lounge Market
Airportdimensions.com- How Indian Travelers Are Shaping The Future Of 
The Airport Experience
https://www.outlookbusiness.com/economy-and-policy/india-private-
consumption-at-21-trillion-set-to-be-3rd-largest-consumer-market-by-
2026-report
https://indianexpress.com/article/business/indian-railways-passenger-
traffic-reserved-class-travel-9920849/
INDIAN AVIATION INDUSTRY
Overview
India is the third-largest domestic aviation market in the world 
after the U.S. and China, driven by a combination of strong 
economic growth, rising disposable incomes, and a rapidly 
expanding middle class. The country's vast geography and 
growing urbanization have spurred demand for air travel, 
particularly among first-time flyers from Tier 2 and Tier 3 
cities. According to IMARC Research, the Indian aviation 
sector is currently being valued at USD 14.47 Billion in 2024 
and projected to grow significantly, reaching USD 40.81 Billion 
by 2033 at a CAGR of 12.2% during 2025–2033. 
Top 20 Markets by Total Passenger Traffic Forecast
Rank
2023
2043
2053
1.
United States
United States
China
2.
China
China
United States
3.
India
India
India
4.
Japan
Spain
Indonesia
6.
Spain
Indonesia 
Spain
7.
United Kingdom
Turkey
Turkey
8.
Turkey
United Kingdom
United Kingdom
9.
Brazil
Japan
Mexico
10.
Germany
Mexico
Japan
11.
Italy
Brazil
Vietnam
12.
Russian Federation
Italy
Thailand
13.
Mexico
Russian Federation
Brazil
14.
France
Thailand
Saudi Arabia
15.
Australia
Germany
Russian Federation
16.
Indonesia
Saudi Arabia
Italy
17.
Canada
Vietnam
United Arab Emirates
18.
Korea
France
Germany
19.
United Arab Emirates
United Arab Emirates
France
20.
Thailand
Canada
Canada
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2024-25
70
Dreamfolks Services Limited
71
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
As of early 2025, India has 159 operational airports, a significant 
increase from 74 in 2014, reflecting the government's 
commitment to enhancing aviation infrastructure. This growth 
is largely attributed to initiatives like the Regional Connectivity 
Scheme Ude Desh ka Aam Naagrik (UDAN), aimed at 
improving air travel accessibility across the country. The UDAN 
scheme continues to play a pivotal role in enhancing regional 
connectivity. As of early 2025, the scheme has operationalized 
619 routes and connected 88 airports across the country. 
The revised scheme has been extended for an additional 10 
years, aiming to connect 120 new destinations and serve 40 
millions more passengers over the next decade. This growth 
aligns with the government’s strategic vision to establish India 
as a global aviation hub. To accommodate this growth, the 
Government of India has allocated over INR 92,000 Crore 
toward airport infrastructure development, aiming to increase 
the number of operational airports to 200 by 2025. This 
includes both greenfield and brownfield projects, with plans to 
undertake 50 airport development projects over the next five 
years. The Ministry of Civil Aviation has set an ambitious target 
to expand the number of operational airports to between 350 
and 400 by 2047.
According to DGCA, India’s domestic air passenger traffic 
reached 431.98 Lakhs in FY2024-25, up from 391.46 Lakhs 
in FY2023‑24, reflecting a year‑on‑year growth of 10.35% 
and India's domestic air travel market is projected to double, 
reaching 300 million passengers by 2030. Meanwhile, 
international passenger traffic is expected to grow at an even 
faster pace, with estimates from the Centre for Asia-Pacific 
Aviation (CAPA) India, an increase from 64 million in 2023 to 
160 million by 2030.
During the year 2024, significant strides were made in the 
development and modernization of airport infrastructure 
across India, reinforcing the government’s commitment to 
expanding aviation connectivity and capacity. Building on 
the foundation of the Greenfield Airports Policy, which has 
approved 21 such projects to date, several key airports saw 
progress in operations and expansions. Alongside physical 
infrastructure growth, technological advancements were 
integrated to elevate passenger experience and operational 
efficiency. The country received its first Cyber Defence 
Operations Centre in Cochin to bolster aviation cybersecurity, 
while the Digi Yatra initiative expanded to multiple airports, 
enabling seamless, contactless passenger processing via facial 
recognition technology. Sustainability efforts also gained 
momentum, with airports adopting energy-efficient systems 
and eco-friendly practices to reduce carbon footprints.
Outlook
As per Mordor Intelligence, the India Aviation Market 
is projected to grow from USD 14.78 Billion in 2025 to 
USD 26.08 Billion by 2030, with a CAGR of 12.03%. The 
government’s thrust on improving passenger experience 
under the UDAN scheme and Gati Shakti master plan, 
alongside airport privatization and PPP-driven terminal 
upgrades, has catalyzed demand for airport lounges, concierge 
services, and travel tech platforms. The focus on modernizing 
airports and enhancing connectivity is expanding the footprint 
of passenger-centric offerings, providing a strong runway for 
growth in premium airport experiences. This holistic growth 
strategy has positioned India to emerge as the world’s third-
largest domestic aviation market by 2024. Furthermore, 
projections indicate that the country’s air fleet size is expected 
to double from 600 to 1,200 aircraft during this period.
Study Timeframe (CY2025-30F)
Market Size (2025)
USD 14.78 Billion
Market Size (2030)
USD 26.08 Billion
Growth Rate (2025-2030)
12.03% CAGR
title case - Largest Share by Aircraft Type
Commercial Aviation 
Mordor Intelligence - Industry Report- Market Size by 2030
centre in Bengaluru, named Boeing India Engineering and 
Technology Center (BIETC). This state-of-the-art facility, 
built with an investment of INR 16,000 Million, spans 43 
acres and represents Boeing's largest investment outside the 
United States. This collaborative approach is reshaping the 
competitive landscape by bolstering domestic capabilities 
while sustaining the influence of established international 
aerospace giants. These synergies are fostering innovation 
and expanding market opportunities, thereby advancing India’s 
vision to emerge as a key global hub for aviation manufacturing.
According to Boeing's 2024 Commercial Market Outlook, 
South Asia is projected to be the fastest-growing commercial 
aviation market globally. To meet the rising demand, Indian 
and South Asian airlines are anticipated to add approximately 
2,835 new aircraft over the next 20 years, effectively 
quadrupling the current fleet size. Of these, about 2,445 will 
be single-aisle aircraft, while 370 will be wide-body planes. 
According to estimates by CAPA and McKinsey, the number 
of international outbound departures by Indian residents 
is projected to increase to over 50 Million by 2030 and 90 
Million by 2040.This significant growth positions India as 
one of the world's fastest-growing outbound travel markets. 
To accommodate this demand, Indian airlines are expected 
to deploy an additional 325–350 aircraft on international 
routes over the next 5–7 years. This expansion will offer Indian 
consumers a broader range of options, including full-service 
carriers, low-cost carriers, and leading global airlines.
Sources for the Indian Aviation Industry:
Constructionworld.in- Aviation & airport infra
Sansad.in- Ministry of Civila Aviation
Passenger terminal show- India aims for 200 airpots by 2025
PIB.gov.in-Major announcements for Civil aviation
Imarcgroup.com- Indian Aviation market
Mordor Intelligence - Industry Report- Market Size by 2030
Travelradar.aero- 10 year extension for UDAN scheme
Airbus Bets Big on India, Plans USD2 Billion Sourcing Plan
Aviation 2Z.com - Tata & Airbus Collaboration
Boeing's global engineering, technology campus in Bengaluru
Reuters.com- Global Airlines bet India travel boom
Live from lounge.com- Air Traffic 2024 analysis
Boeing Commercial Market Outlook 2024
Boeing expects Indian, South Asian airlines to add over 2,800 jets
NDTV.com- 50 Million Passengers To Fly Out Of India Per Year By 2030
CAPA India says country to have 50+ Million annual outbound travellers 
by FY2030
GLOBAL HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY
The global hospitality industry surged in 2024, reaching 
a market size of over USD3.98 Trillion, driven by the 
resurgence of international travel, rising consumer spending 
on experiences, and a return to pre-pandemic occupancy and 
revenue levels across key markets. With travel demand at 
99% of 2019 volumes and over 357 million jobs supported by 
tourism, hospitality has reasserted its role as a cornerstone of 
the global economy and a catalyst for growth, employment, 
and cultural exchange.
According to the latest World Tourism Barometer by UN 
Tourism, an estimated 1.4 billion international tourists were 
recorded globally, marking an 11% increase over 2023 and 
representing approximately 140 million additional international 
arrivals. Several destinations have even surpassed their 2019 
tourism volumes, highlighting the sector’s strong rebound.
STRONG INDUSTRY TAILWIND
Passenger Traffic (Million)
Domestic Travel Passenger Traffic 
Fleet Size
International Travel Passenger Traffic
# of Operational Airports
[CY2024] — 161 Million
[CY2024] — 600 Million
[CY2024] — 64 Million
[CY2024]- 200
[CY2030] — 300 Million
[CY2030] — 12,000Million
[CY2030] — 160 Million
[CY2030]—350-400
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Airbus plans to boost its sourcing from India, targeting USD 2 
Billion in annual component and service procurement by 2030, 
highlighting India's growing importance in global aerospace 
manufacturing and supply chains. Global aerospace leaders 
are progressively forming strategic partnerships with Indian 
companies to establish manufacturing facilities and research 
centers, facilitating technology transfer and enhancing local 
expertise. For instance, Airbus and Tata Advanced Systems 
have partnered to manufacture the C-295 military transport 
aircraft in India, marking the first time a military aircraft will be 
entirely produced by the private sector in the country. Similarly, 
Boeing has invested heavily in its engineering and technology 
Annual Report 2024-25
72
Dreamfolks Services Limited
73
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
International Tourists Arrivals CY2024 (As % of CY2019 Levels) 
As reflected in the graph above, comparing the international 
tourist arrivals in 2024, with pre-pandemic 2019 levels, 
highlights the strong regional momentum and the robust 
influx of tourists across various geographies. The Middle 
East maintained its position as the fastest-growing region, 
recording 95 million international arrivals, a 32% increase 
over 2019. In contrast, Africa welcomed 74 million visitors, 
marking a 7% rise over 2019. Europe, the world’s largest 
inbound region, saw 747 million international arrivals, a 
1% increase over 2019, though growth was uneven across 
Central and Eastern Europe due to ongoing geopolitical 
challenges. The Americas reached 213 million arrivals, 
recovering 97% of pre-pandemic volumes, with the Caribbean 
and Central America outperforming previous records. The 
region expanded by 7% Y-O-Y. Meanwhile, Asia and the 
Pacific experienced a notable resurgence, with 316 million 
international arrivals, achieving 87% of 2019 levels, reflecting 
a strong recovery trajectory.
TRANSFORMATIVE SHIFTS IN GLOBAL HOSPITALITY 
INDUSTRY AND TRAJECTORY AHEAD
The global hospitality industry is undergoing a profound 
transformation, shaped by shifting consumer expectations, 
technological innovation, and the pursuit of purpose-driven 
travel. In FY2024-25, the sector saw accelerated adoption of 
personalization, wellness, and sustainability — trends that are 
fundamentally redefining hospitality experiences. At the core 
of this transformation is a move toward hyper-personalized 
guest journeys, enabled by AI and smart technologies that 
anticipate needs and elevate comfort. Sustainable luxury 
is gaining traction, with hospitality brands blending eco-
conscious design, renewable energy solutions, and responsible 
sourcing without compromising on elegance. Wellness travel 
has also evolved, expanding beyond spas to include mental 
wellness, nature immersions, and digital detox experiences 
tailored to a growing cohort of mindful travellers. Technology 
remains a cornerstone, with contactless services, smart room 
automation, and immersive interfaces now standard across top-
tier properties. The rise of "bleisure" travel — where business 
and leisure intersect — is reshaping spaces to support flexible 
work-life balance. In tandem, travellers increasingly seek 
authentic, culturally immersive experiences, shifting demand 
from transactional stays to transformative encounters.
The global tourism and hospitality sector shows strong 
momentum in 2025, having nearly achieved full post-pandemic 
recovery. International tourism revenues hit USD 1.9 Trillion 
in 2024, marking a historic rebound. Asia and the Pacific is 
expected to be the key growth engine, supported by China’s 
reopening, improved air connectivity, and visa easing. Countries 
like Japan, Sri Lanka, and the Maldives have already exceeded 
pre-pandemic arrival levels. The Middle East continues to gain 
from regional initiatives like the proposed GCC unified visa, 
while Africa is emerging as a promising destination through 
investments in eco-tourism and cultural heritage.
Although geopolitical risks persist, the outlook remains broadly 
positive. Global tourist arrivals are projected to rise by 3–5% in 
2025, underpinned by steady macroeconomic conditions and 
increasing travel confidence. The wellness tourism segment 
is poised for exceptional growth. According to the Global 
Wellness Institute, the market is projected to grow from 
USD 651 Billion in 2022 to USD 1.4 Trillion by 2027 (CAGR 
of 16.6%). This surge reflects increasing consumer focus on 
preventive health, mindfulness, and immersive retreats — a 
trend most prominent in Asia and the Middle East.
Looking ahead, 2025 is poised to be a transformative year. 
Continued integration of AI, machine learning, and automation 
will further enhance guest personalization — from dynamic 
booking experiences to AI-powered concierge services. 
Hospitality brands are increasingly focused on delivering 
curated, meaningful stays, as demand shifts from conventional 
accommodations to experiential travel rooted in authenticity, 
wellness, and sustainability.
Source:
 Hospitalitynet.org - The Next Big Things in Hospitality: Trends for 2025
UNWTO.org-World Tourism Barometer
International tourism recovers pre-pandemic levels in 2024
Wellness Tourism Will Cross the USD1 Trillion Mark in 2024
WTTC.org - What is the economic impact of Travel & Tourism
Globenewswire.com- State of the Hospitality Report 2024: Market Soared 
to 3.98 Trillion
INDIAN HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY
The Indian hospitality industry has entered a new phase 
of expansion, buoyed by a strong post-pandemic recovery, 
increased domestic travel, and supportive government policies. 
Leaner cost structures, enhanced operational efficiencies, and 
digital transformation have contributed to stronger balance 
sheets and improved profitability across major hotel chains 
and hospitality enterprises. India currently stands as the sixth-
largest domestic travel market globally, with travel spending 
increasing at an annual rate of approximately 9%. In 2023, 
foreign exchange earnings from tourism reached USD 28.07 
Billion, as foreign tourist arrivals grew by 43.5% year-on-year, 
from 6.4 million to 9.2 million. While this still remains 15.5% 
below pre-pandemic levels, the trajectory indicates a strong 
resurgence in inbound travel. Notably, ongoing geopolitical 
tensions in West Asia and evolving travel preferences in the 
aftermath of China’s prolonged lockdowns have redirected 
global tourist flows toward India, enhancing its appeal as a 
preferred destination.
The government’s proactive stance has further catalysed 
industry growth. Strategic initiatives like the Special Assistance 
to States for Capital Investment (SASCI) and Swadesh Darshan 
2.0 have unlocked significant funding of INR 3,295.7 Crore 
across 40 projects and INR 793.2 Crore across 34 projects 
respectively, for the development of iconic tourist centers 
and sustainable tourism circuits. These policy interventions, 
coupled with improved ease of doing business, are fostering 
a conducive environment for investment and innovation 
in hospitality. Technological integration is emerging as a 
transformative force in the Indian hospitality sector. Hotels 
and resorts are increasingly adopting contactless check-ins, 
digital concierge services, and personalized guest experiences 
to elevate service delivery.
Outlook
India’s hospitality market was valued at USD 29.3 Billion in 
2024 and is expected to grow from USD 30.78 Billion in 2025 
to approximately USD 47.83 Billion by 2034, reflecting a 
CAGR of 5% over the forecast period. This growth is largely 
driven by the steady rise in both domestic and international 
tourism, which continues to expand the demand for travel, 
accommodation, and experiential services across the country. 
The hotel segment alone is expected to grow at a CAGR of 
9.4% during the same period, driven by a robust pipeline of 
new properties and growing demand across both business and 
leisure segments.
The rapid digital transformation of the travel ecosystem 
continues to be a critical driver, with the country’s online 
travel market expected to reach USD 19.05 Billion by 2025 
and projected to grow at a CAGR of 10.5% to USD 31.38 
Billion by 2030. This expansion is fuelled by increasing 
internet penetration, growing smartphone adoption, and the 
proliferation of app-based travel solutions.
Simultaneously, the wellness tourism segment is witnessing 
a robust surge, reflective of a global shift toward health-
conscious and holistic travel experiences. Valued at USD 21.31 
Billion in 2025, this market is anticipated to nearly double 
to USD 41.03 Billion by 2030, growing at a CAGR of 14%. 
Travellers are increasingly seeking destinations that offer 
preventive healthcare, spa retreats, and immersive wellness 
experiences, positioning India as a preferred hub for such 
offerings.
Adventure tourism is also emerging as a strategic growth 
avenue, with India setting its sights on becoming one of the 
world’s top 10 adventure tourism destinations by 2047. The 
sector is targeting 20 million Foreign Tourist Arrivals (FTAs) 
and 80 million Foreign Tourist Visits (FTVs), with an aim to 
generate USD 90 Billion in foreign exchange earnings through 
diversified adventure offerings and ecosystem development. 
The sector’s macroeconomic impact remains significant. The 
tourism industry is projected to contribute USD 512 Billion to 
India’s GDP by 2028 and is expected to support approximately 
53 million jobs by 2029, underscoring its pivotal role in 
employment generation and economic development.
132%
Middle East
107%
Africa
101%
Europe
97%
3%
Americas
99%
1%
World
87%
13%
Asia Pacific
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
% Recovery to 2019 Levels
% Recovery Remaining to 2019 Levels
Annual Report 2024-25
74
Dreamfolks Services Limited
75
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Complementing this momentum are robust government 
initiatives that continue to enhance the sector’s infrastructure 
and policy environment. Programs such as visa fee waivers, 
destination marketing campaigns, and the Incredible India 
Content Hub are strategically designed to attract international 
tourists and promote sustainable tourism practices. With a 
long-term vision of building a USD 3 Trillion tourism economy 
by 2047, India is laying a strong foundation for inclusive, 
resilient, and sustainable sectoral growth.
Sources:
PIB.gov.in- Year End Review-2024 : Ministry of Tourism
India Hotels Market – Industry Analysis and Forecast (2024-2030)
Mordorintelligence.com- Indian Hospitality market size
India Online Travel Market Size & Share Analysis 
Wellness Tourism Market In India Size & Share Analysis 
ET Tavel World -Govt aims for USD800 bn boost from adventure tourism
Tourism to contribute USD512 bn to India’s GDP by 2028
ET Travel - India aims to become USD 3 Trillion tourism economy by 2047
GLOBAL CARD INDUSTRY
The global card industry is undergoing rapid transformation in 
2025, driven by the accelerated shift toward digital payments. 
Non-cash transactions volumes surged to 1,411 Billion in 2023 
and are projected to reach 2,838.2 Billion by 2028, reflecting a 
robust CAGR of 15.0% between 2023 and 2028. 
Regionally, Asia-Pacific (APAC) is set to lead in both volume 
and growth, reaching 1,457.6 billion transactions with a 17.7% 
CAGR. Latin America is emerging as the fastest-growing 
region, boasting the highest CAGR of 20.7%, signaling a rapid 
shift to digital payments. The Middle East and Africa (MEA) 
also show strong progress with a 13.6% CAGR. Meanwhile, 
Europe maintains steady growth at 12%, and North America, 
despite a lower CAGR of 7.3%, continues to be a significant and 
mature market in the digital payments landscape.
While card payments remain a dominant mode, Account-to-
Account (A2A) and instant payments are gaining significant 
traction as cost-effective and faster alternatives, potentially 
diverting 15–25% of future card transaction growth. 
Capgemini forecasts that instant payments will account for 
22% of all global non-cash transactions by 2028, posing a major 
disruption risk to traditional card networks. However, only 
5% of banks are currently equipped to scale instant payment 
infrastructure, creating both a challenge and an opportunity 
for innovation.
Source:
Capgemini.com- World Payment Report 2025
Treasurytoday.com- Capgemini: the new threat which could cost the credit 
card industry Billions
Paymentexpert.com- In Europe Tech is Essentials as per Capgemini 2025 
Payment report
INDIAN CARD INDUSTRY
OVERVIEW
According to PwC’s Indian Payments Handbook (2024–29), 
credit cards in force are expected to exceed 101 million by the 
end of FY2024-25, continuing a sustained five-year growth 
trend. Over the next four years, issuance is projected to double 
to approximately 200 million cards by FY2028–29, supported 
by a ~15% CAGR. Credit card transaction volume and value 
are both expected to expand by 21% and 18%, respectively 
resulting in nearly 9 billion transactions and INR 40 Trillion in 
cumulative spend.
In contrast, debit cards show minimal issuance growth, 
remaining near 980–1,000 million cards as of FY2024-25. This 
could be attributed to the rapid rise of mobile-first payment 
solutions and the penetration of QR-based UPI platforms in 
both urban and semi-urban markets.
Amidst these usage trends, innovations in card security and 
transaction efficiency have also gained ground. Contactless 
and tokenised transactions are on the rise, with the RBI 
reporting over 91 crore card-on-file tokens created by the 
Transaction Value (In INR Trillion)
FY21-22
7.3
9.7
FY25-26E
6.4
26.4
FY23-24
5.9
18.3
FY27-28E
7.3
35.4
FY22-23
7.2
14.3
FY26-27E
6.8
30.5
FY24-25E
6.1
22.2
FY28-29E
7.7
41.2
Debit Card
Debit Card (Expected)
Credit Card
Credit card (expected)
Source: RBI, December 2024 ||PwC analysis, August 2024
Worldwide Non-Cash Transactions (Enterprise and Retail, Volume in Billions, 2018-2028f)
221.8
187.4
170.5
48.6
16.3
644.6
456.4
258.6
204.7
72.1
24.5
1,016.3
528.7	
312.4
222.6
109.2
29.7
1,202.8
645.8
361.1
237.3
132.9
34.0
1,411.3
777.5
417.3
252.6
163.7
39.2
1,650.4
1457.6
637.1
338.3	
340.7
64.5
2.838.2
Sources: Capgemini Research Institute for Financial Services, 2025; ECB Statistical Data Warehouse; BIS Statistics Explorer; Countries' central bank annual 
report
Note: 2023E represents estimated and 2028F represents forecasted
Growth 
'23E-'24F
CAGR 
‘23E-’28F
Global
16.6%
15.0%
15.2%
13.6%
MEA
23.2%
20.7%
Latin America
6.4%
7.3%
North America
15.5%
12%
Europe
20.4%
17.7%
APAC
2018
2021
2022
2023E
2024F
2028F
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
end of 2024. These enabled more than 320 Crore secure 
transactions amounting to INR 11 Lakhs Crore, replacing 
the need to store actual card data and significantly reducing 
fraud risks. Simultaneously, the Payments Infrastructure 
Development Fund (PIDF) has been instrumental in boosting 
card acceptance infrastructure. As of November 2024, over 
51.5 lakh physical devices and 3.5 crore digital acceptance 
tools, including QR codes, were deployed nationwide. This 
push has been especially impactful in Tier 3 to Tier 6 cities, 
laying the groundwork for broader card adoption.
On the regulatory front, 2024 marked a critical turning point. 
The RBI mandated that credit card issuers provide customers 
with the choice of multiple card networks, ending exclusivity 
agreements and fostering greater competition. Issuers with 
more than 1 million active cards are now required to allow 
customers to select their preferred network, enhancing 
transparency and empowering consumers. The Indian card 
industry is, therefore, poised for robust growth, supported 
by favorable demographics, expanding e-commerce, rising 
disposable incomes, and an increasingly digital-savvy consumer 
base.
FY21-22
3.94
2.24
FY25-26E
2.03
5.39
FY23-24
2.29
3.57
FY27-28E
1.95
7.61
FY22-23
3.42
2.91
FY26-27E
1.98
6.35
FY24-25E
2.10
4.44
FY28-29E
1.91
9.13
Debit Card
Debit Card (Expected)
Credit Card
Credit Card (Expected)
Transaction Volume (In Billion)
Annual Report 2024-25
76
Dreamfolks Services Limited
77
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
The graphs above depict India‘s changing payment card 
landscape from FY2025 to FY2029 which is expected 
to undergo a significant transformation, with credit card 
transaction volumes projected to more than double from 4.4 
billion to 9.1 billion, while debit card volumes are set to decline 
slightly from 2.1 billion to 1.9 billion. In terms of value, credit 
card transactions are forecasted to rise sharply from INR 22.2 
Trillion to INR 41.2 Trillion, indicating growing usage for high-
value purchases, whereas debit card values show only modest 
growth from INR 6.1 Trillion to INR 7.7 Trillion. These trends 
point to a clear shift in consumer preference toward credit 
cards, driven by urbanization, financing flexibility, rewards 
programs, and integration with platforms like UPI.
Sources:
https://www.pwc.in/assets/pdfs/indian-payment_handbook-2024.pdf
https://rbidocs.rbi.org.in/rdocs/Publications/PDFs/
PSR270120251BEE95CF47F2426B9740075D405FA070.PDF
Outlook
The Indian card payments industry is poised for substantial 
growth in 2024, with credit and charge card transactions 
expected to rise by 15.5%, reaching INR 22.3 Trillion 
(approximately USD 270.4 Billion), underscoring a pronounced 
shift towards digital, non-cash payment methods. Debit cards 
continue to dominate the landscape, buoyed by an expanding 
banked population and government initiatives such as the 
Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY). Overall card 
payments are projected to increase by 11.3%, reaching INR 
28.4 Trillion (USD 344 Billion). Notably, co-branded cards 
are gaining increasing popularity, particularly among younger, 
tech-savvy consumers, fostering enhanced personalisation 
and engagement. The sector is witnessing a structural 
evolution, with issuers transitioning from offering blanket card 
benefits to more targeted, spend-based rewards. According to 
RBI data, the average credit card spend rose to approximately 
INR 1.80 Lakhs in FY2024 from INR 1.68 Lakhs in FY2023, 
marking a 7.1% increase and indicating sustained demand for 
premium credit card privileges such as lounge access. Driving 
this momentum are rapid urbanization and increased internet 
penetration, supported by the proliferation of smartphones, 
laptops, and tablets, which have streamlined access to 
e-commerce platforms. This digital transformation allows 
businesses to operate efficiently without heavy reliance on 
physical storefronts, significantly reducing infrastructure and 
overhead expenses. The Indian e-commerce market is on track 
for robust expansion, with forecasts estimating a market size 
of USD 137.21 Billion by 2025 and a CAGR of 21.5% through 
2030. Key enablers propelling this growth include rising 
internet accessibility, widespread smartphone adoption, and 
government initiatives like the Digital India campaign and the 
Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC), all fostering a 
more inclusive and scalable digital commerce ecosystem. 
Additionally, the rapid growth of Direct-to-Consumer (D2C) 
brands — from 2% to 15% market share over the last five years 
and expected to sustain a 40% CAGR further energises the 
sector. Increasing online shopping demand, particularly from 
Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities, continues to accelerate digital payment 
adoption and fuels the growing need for payment cards across 
India. 
Sources:
ET Times- UPI enabled credit cards see 20% monthly transactions
India card payments market to grow by 11.3% in 2024
India credit and charge card payments market to grow by 15.5% in 2024,
Mordorintelligence.com- India's E-Commerce Market 
Global Premium LIfestyle services
As global consumer behavior evolves, premium lifestyle 
services — like Coffee at Malls, Highway Dining, and Access 
to members-only recreational facilities — are converging into 
an integrated ecosystem. These sectors collectively tap into 
rising affluence, travel frequency, and demand for convenience 
and exclusivity. Globally, the pay‑per‑use lounge aggregator 
platform market, which includes premium café and lounge 
access across mobility and retail venues, reached an estimated 
USD 1.26 Billion in 2024, and is projected to grow at a robust 
~12.7% CAGR, reaching approximately USD 3.75 Billion by 
2033.
Indian Premium Lifestyle Services
In 2024, India’s cafe market — including branded coffee shops 
and cafe chains — was valued between USD 380–564 million, 
with projected growth at a CAGR of 8–13% through 2025–
2030. This reflects a burgeoning café culture, particularly 
among millennials and Gen Z, with malls becoming preferred 
social and lounge spaces. Convenience-driven formats — dine-
in, takeaway, co-working — all contribute to strong traction, 
especially in urban centers and Tier 2/3 cities. Premium 
highway dining points serving express travellers and club 
memberships are increasingly being integrated into highway 
infrastructure and mall‑cluster formats, led by both standalone 
operators and partnerships with aggregators.
India’s private club segment is witnessing robust growth, with 
over 25 operational clubs spread across nearly 1 million square 
feet with 11,220 registered members. These club provide 
opulent, exclusive, and private spaces to socialize, network, 
and set deals.
The market for private members-only clubs reflects strong 
growth potential. Valued at INR 5,760 million in 2024, it is 
expected to expand to INR 9,410 million  by 2027, registering 
a robust CAGR of 17.8.
pioneer of the lounge access industry in India, DreamFolks 
holds 100% coverage across all operational airport and railway 
lounges in the country. We proudly manage lounge and travel 
benefit programs for some of the most prominent banks and 
card networks in India, offering seamless access to premium 
experiences across 3,000+ global touchpoints.
DreamFolks offers a comprehensive range of services 
designed to enhance and personalize every aspect of the travel 
and lifestyle experience. We have consistently expanded our 
portfolio to include a diverse set of value-added services like 
Railway Lounge Access, Meet and Assist, Golf Games and 
Lessons, curated Food and Beverage offerings, Spa services, 
Airport Transfers, Beauty & Grooming, E-SIM connectivity, 
Healthcare, premium lounges at Visa processing centers, 
Gifting Services, and Ultra Luxury Experiences such as access 
to members-only recreational facilities, Coffee at Malls, 
Baggage wrapping & Excess Baggage.
Over the years, we have moved far beyond lounges to become 
a true enabler of premium travel and lifestyle experiences. As 
of FY2024-25, we further strengthened our service bouquet 
by onboarding six new lifestyle offerings, taking our premium 
offerings to over 20 services. These include:
	
Coffee at Malls
	
Pay-and-Use Services
	
Highway Dining Access
	
Baggage Wrapping Services
	
Excess Baggage Allowance for Premium Customers
	
Access To Members-Only Recreational Facilities
Airport Lounge Access
We offer comprehensive lounge access across all operational 
airport lounges in India, including high-traffic hubs. We have 
800+ lounges as a part of our offering across the globe.
Meet and Assist
We provide personalized assistance through our Meet and 
Assist services, available at over 400 airports worldwide. 
These services cover both arrival and departure terminals and 
include support with check-in, security clearance, baggage 
handling, and lounge access, ensuring a smooth airport 
experience for every traveller.
Railway Lounge Access
Extending our expertise beyond airports, we offer lounge 
access at 14 major railway stations across India, with 100% 
coverage. This expansion is aligned with our goal of enriching 
multimodal travel experiences for our users.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
The Market Size Of Private Clubs Is Rising
2020
324
2021
375
2022
439
2023
501
2024
576
Source: Private Members Only Clubs in India report by Axon Developers 
and Skye Hospitality
INR Crore
100
0
200
300
400
500
600
Outlook 
Premium cafe and lounge services embedded in retail hubs and 
travel corridors are redefining hospitality. Consumers expect 
seamless experiences — whether for coffee in malls, relaxed 
pit stops on highways, or curated access to club facilities. 
Aggregators offering bundled access are capitalizing on this 
shift, delivering concierge‑style solutions across multiple 
venue types, enabled by partnerships with credit cards, 
memberships, and digital platforms.
Source:
https://www.imarcgroup.com/india-coffee-shops-cafes-market
Pay-Per-Use Lounge Aggregator Platform Market Outlook
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
This section presents a holistic view of the Company’s 
operations, strategic direction, and overall performance. It 
offers shareholders and investors a clear understanding of 
our core business functions, the markets we serve, and key 
operational highlights. The overview sets the context for the 
detailed analysis that follows, including financial performance, 
growth drivers, and associated risks.
Company Overview
We are a global travel and lifestyle services aggregator, 
offering a broad suite of solutions through our proprietary 
technology platform. The Company manages the entire gamut 
of benefits offered by its global clients, to their end customers, 
using in-house technology platform, which helps in curation 
and administration of such benefits for our clients, ranging 
from card issuers and card networks to enterprises. As the 
Annual Report 2024-25
78
Dreamfolks Services Limited
79
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Golf Games and Lessons
We enable access to over 60 golf courses in India and 800+ 
globally. Our golf experiences are tailored to offer users 
relaxing and networking opportunities across world-class 
venues.
Recreational Facilities
We bring the world of exclusivity to our users through 
3,000+ members-only premium recreational facilities across 
100+ countries. This high end luxury service offers users 
opportunities for networking, meeting & dining.
Food and Beverage Offerings
We offer curated F&B experiences at airports, allowing 
our users to enjoy specially designed vegetarian and non-
vegetarian meal combos. 
Spa Services
Our airport spa services offer therapies like head, neck, and 
shoulder massages, and foot reflexology. These treatments, 
delivered in partnership with trusted spa brands, are designed 
to rejuvenate travellers on the go.
Airport Transfer Services
We facilitate reliable and comfortable airport transfers — both 
pickups and drop-offs — across major cities in India and select 
international locations. This service includes wide variety 
of cars across 150+ airports in India and overseas, offering 
premium, safe, and reliable ground transport solutions to our 
users. These services are an essential part of our end-to-end 
travel experience offering. 
Visa-at-Your-Doorstep
In collaboration with a leading visa service provider, we offer 
premium lounges at visa application centres along with Visa-
at-Your-Doorstep services. This is a solution designed to 
transform your visa application experience into a convenient 
and stress-free journey that allows customers to submit their 
visa applications from the comfort of their homes or offices. 
Additionally, the lounge service at the visa center creates 
a stress-free and comfortable setting, transforming visa 
formalities into a smooth, premium experience.
Healthcare
Through our strategic healthcare partnerships, we enable 
clients to extend annual health check-ups and diagnostic 
testing services to their customers seamlessly integrated into 
their existing lifestyle benefits. This initiative is aligned with our 
broader goal of enhancing wellness-centric travel experiences, 
supporting end-to-end journey wellbeing.
Gifting Services
We offer curated gifting options through our platform, 
allowing users to send flowers, cakes, planters, and more to 
their loved ones across locations. This value-added service 
enhances the emotional connection between our clients and 
their consumers, enriching the loyalty ecosystem we help them 
build.
E-SIM
Our partnership with a leading global travel SIM provider 
enables us to offer pre-activated international e-SIMs to 
travellers in 100+ countries. This ensures reliable connectivity 
from the moment they begin their journey eliminating the need 
for local SIMs and enhancing convenience for global travellers.
Beauty and Grooming
Through partnerships with top-tier salon brands, we offer 
beauty and grooming services at 200+ premium outlets across 
India. These services include styling, skincare, and grooming 
solutions delivered by professional experts, aimed at amplifying 
customer delight and enhancing our clients’ loyalty offerings.
Highway Dining Access
DreamFolks extended its premium travel footprint beyond 
airports with the launch of Highway Dining Access. Designed 
to enhance long-distance road travel, the offering gives users 
seamless access to curated highway restaurants. 
Baggage Wrapping and Excess Baggage
Baggage Wrapping is a convenient way to secure luggage, 
protecting it from damage, and tampering. The service involves 
encasing suitcases in durable plastic wrap, ensuring travelers' 
belongings remain safe and intact throughout their journey. 
While, the Excess Baggage service helps in shipping your 
excess baggage affordably. Avoid hefty airline fees and travel 
stress-free.
Pay-and-Use 
To democratize access to comfort across all forms of transit, 
DreamFolks launched Pay-and-Use service. This initiative 
enables travellers including those without credit or debit card 
privileges to access Dreamfolks’ wide range of services.
Coffee at Malls
Further expanding its lifestyle ecosystem, DreamFolks 
introduced Coffee at Malls — a loyalty-linked offering that 
grants members access to premium coffee outlets in malls 
across India at 250+ outlets in over 175+ malls across 50+ 
cities, including Tier 1 and Tier 2 locations. The initiative is 
aimed at enriching everyday lifestyle touchpoints beyond 
travel.
Valet 
You can save time and avoid the hassle of parking with 
DreamFolks Valet service at leading malls across India. Enjoy 
added convenience and a premium experience for every 
customer.
Flywheel Effect
At DreamFolks, we are building a self-reinforcing growth 
model - our “flywheel.” As we onboard more clients seeking 
premium travel and lifestyle solutions, demand for high-end 
services grows. In response, we expand our offerings, which in 
turn makes us a more attractive partner across banking, travel, 
and enterprise sectors. This cycle of growing usage, expanding 
services, and deepening partnerships strengthens our market 
leadership and creates a robust competitive moat. In FY2024-
25, this effect was evident in our onboarding of 30+ new clients 
in the Enterprise and Banking industry and 6 new services, 
pushing our premium offerings to over 20 unique experiences.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
The fiscal year 2024-25 marked a year of strategic consolidation 
and intelligent expansion for DreamFolks Services Limited, as 
we continued to build on our position as India’s leading travel 
& lifestyle services aggregator. Our core focus was to expand 
our portfolio beyond lounges and deepen integration with 
enterprise and banking clients, thus reinforcing our leadership 
in a fast-evolving consumer ecosystem.
During the year, we onboarded six new premium services, 
taking our total lifestyle offerings to over 20 curated 
experiences. These additions included Highway Dining, Pay-
and-Use, Coffee at Malls, Excess Baggage Allowance, Baggage 
Wrapping, and Access to members-only recreational facilities 
globally. These services complement our growing presence 
in Golf Games and Lessons, E-SIMs, Airport Transfers, 
Healthcare, Beauty & Grooming Services, and Gifting, creating 
a holistic travel lifestyle ecosystem for our clients’ end users. 
Extending our lounge access touchpoints beyond airports 
to railway stations, visa application centers, and highways, 
we maintained 100% coverage across both airport and 
railway lounges in India. During the year in review, we 
added 300+ global lounges, 350+ golf courses, significantly 
enhancing service accessibility and footprint, reaching 3000+ 
touchpoints. To support this growing service portfolio, we 
intensified our efforts to diversify our client base, onboarding 
30+ new enterprise and banking clients during the year, 
spanning industries like fintech, e-commerce, and mobility. 
Simultaneously, we deepened engagement with existing clients 
by expanding the range of services offered, thereby increasing 
wallet share and enhancing customer satisfaction. 
Outlook: Scaling Beyond Lounges with Lifestyle-Centric 
Growth
DreamFolks has taken significant steps toward evolving from 
a lounge aggregator into a comprehensive travel and lifestyle 
services platform. While airport lounge access continues 
to anchor the business, its relative contribution is gradually 
moderating. The share of non-lounge services increased from 
5.8% in FY2024 to 6.7% in FY2025, reflecting early success in 
portfolio diversification.
Looking ahead, the Company has articulated a clear five-year 
roadmap to expand the share of these high-potential, premium 
lifestyle services to to be a major contributor of total revenue. 
This shift will be driven by offerings such as Coffee at Malls, 
Access to members-only recreational facilities, Highway 
Dining, Golf Services, and Meet & Assist, alongside deeper 
penetration into enterprise client segments.
With strong execution in FY2025 — including onboarding 
30+ new enterprise clients, launching six new services, and 
expanding presence across Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities — DreamFolks 
is well-positioned to capitalize on this diversification strategy.
FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
In FY2024-25, DreamFolks Services Limited sustained its 
strong growth momentum, reporting a 13.8% Y-O-Y increase in 
revenue from operations, which rose to INR 12,918.8 million, 
compared to INR 11,350.1 million in FY2023-24. This growth 
was driven by an expanded portfolio of premium services, 
deeper penetration across banking and enterprise clients, 
and continued global scaling of touchpoints. Despite rising 
operational costs associated with network expansion and 
strategic hiring, EBITDA remained stable at INR 973.0 million, 
reflecting the Company's focus on operational efficiency. 
While the EBITDA margin stood at 7.5% in FY2025, reflecting 
strategic investments in talent and service expansion, the 
overall profitability remained robust and consistent with our 
long-term growth ambitions. Profit after tax for the year was 
INR 650.5 million, reinforcing our commitment to sustaining 
earnings strength even as we scale operations.
Capital Efficiency
In FY2024-25, DreamFolks continued to demonstrate 
disciplined capital efficiency and robust profitability, even 
as it invested in expansion and service diversification. The 
Company reported a Return on Equity (RoE) of 24.2% and a 
Return on Capital Employed (RoCE) of 29.7%, underscoring 
our ability to generate strong shareholder value and deliver 
high returns on the capital deployed across our capital efficient 
operating model.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2024-25
80
Dreamfolks Services Limited
81
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
One of our key strategic investments this year was in building 
a high-performing workforce to support our growing service 
portfolio. Employee benefit expenses stood at INR 425.7 
million in FY2024-25, largely attributable to our scale-
up across new services, client segments, and operational 
geographies. Notably, employee costs remained well-contained 
at approximately 3.3% of total revenue, highlighting our 
continued emphasis on operational efficiency. The Adjusted 
EBITDA of INR 1,020.8 million and Adjusted EBITDA margin 
of 7.9% reaffirm our balanced approach between growth 
investments and margin preservation.
Profitability Trajectory
Over the past two years, DreamFolks has demonstrated 
a remarkable 29.4% CAGR in revenue from operations, 
underscoring the strength of its scalable business model and 
successful diversification beyond lounge access. This robust 
top-line growth reflects consistent expansion across premium 
service verticals and deeper wallet share with banks, card 
networks, and enterprise clients.
While Adjusted EBITDA remained steady in absolute terms, the 
CAGR of (1.2%) reflects a strategic reallocation of resources 
towards scaling operations, enhancing service delivery, and 
investing in long-term enablers such as technology and human 
capital. Despite these calibrated investments, the Company 
preserved its profitability discipline.
The PAT though modestly declining, remains a result of margin 
dilution driven by increased employee and service costs an 
outcome of growth-focused reinvestment. Notably, PAT 
margins remained healthy and reflect the Company's ability to 
sustain earnings while driving scale.
Key Financial Ratios
FY2025
FY2024
Explanation of Variation Of 25% or More In Key 
Financial Ratios
Debtors Turnover
4.6
4.9
NA
Interest Coverage Ratio
26.1
91.8
Impact of one-off provisional interest of INR 20 millions 
in FY2025.
Current Ratio (in Times)
2.5
2.3
NA
Debt-Equity Ratio  
(in Times)
0.0
0.0
NA
Operating Profit Margin (%)
7.2%
8.2%
NA
Net Profit Margin (%)
5.0%
6.0%
NA
Return on Net Worth (%)
24.2%
34.9%
Decrease as absolute net profit was constant but 
average equity increased as compared to previous year.
MARKET 
OPPORTUNITIES 
AND 
OUR 
STRATEGIC 
IMPERATIVES
The global travel and lifestyle aggregation ecosystem is 
undergoing a structural transformation, unlocking significant 
growth potential in lounge access, airport services, and 
ancillary offerings. Several macroeconomic and behavioral 
tailwinds are converging to expand the addressable market, 
create new service layers, and raise consumer expectations for 
seamless, personalized travel experiences.
Rising Passenger Volumes & Airport Infrastructure 
Expansion
In FY2024-25, India’s domestic aviation market sustained 
robust momentum, with total passenger traffic climbing to 
~16.1 crore passengers — a 10.3% increase over the previous 
year and markedly above pre-COVID levels. Over the next 
decade, this momentum is expected to continue, driven by an 
expanding middle class, improved connectivity, and growing 
regional air traffic. The government’s push to increase the 
number of operational airports to over 200 by 2035 and 
large-scale infrastructure upgrades create a favorable 
operating environment for airport-based service providers. 
This expansion will not only raise footfalls but also increase 
demand for high-quality airport experiences, including 
lounges, concierge services, and curated retail. We are actively 
positioning ourselves to capitalize on this wave by expanding 
our presence across new airports, railway lounges, and regional 
transport hubs. By aligning our service footprint with these 
infrastructure expansions, we aim to serve a rapidly growing 
base of travellers in emerging and underserved locations.
UDAN & Regional Connectivity
The updated UDAN scheme plans to connect 120 additional 
destinations, including helipads and remote airports, targeting 
40 million new travellers over the next decade. To capture 
this emerging opportunity, we are actively mapping service 
expansion into new regional airports, offering scalable lounge-
like amenities and ancillary benefits tailored for smaller hubs.
Financial Inclusion Unlocking a New User Base
As more users adopt digital payments, the demand for embedded 
travel and lifestyle privileges is expected to grow significantly. We 
are working closely with banks, fintechs, and payment networks to 
introduce tiered incentives and experiential benefits that reward 
first-time and evolving card users. By aligning our offerings with 
India’s financial inclusion goals, we aim to broaden our addressable 
market and deepen customer engagement at scale.
Acceleration in Credit Card–Based Access Models
According to PwC, the number of credit cards in force in India 
surpassed 101 million by the end of FY2024-25, reinforcing the 
country’s accelerating shift toward digital credit instruments. 
This expansion is a result of greater financial inclusion, lifestyle-
driven consumer behavior, and targeted product innovation by 
issuers.
Looking ahead, PwC projects that India’s credit card base will 
double to ~200 million cards by FY2028–29, growing at a 15% 
CAGR. Alongside this, annual credit card transaction volumes 
are expected to increase by 21% and transaction values by 18% 
over the same period — indicative of growing usage intensity 
and spend per user. Recognizing this trend, we strategically 
partner with banks, credit networks, and fintechs to integrate 
premium services like lounge access, concierge, and wellness 
perks into their loyalty offerings. We design flexible programs 
that enhance the perceived value of card products while driving 
engagement.
Advanced Digital & Hybrid Engagement
The industry is shifting toward digital-first, contactless 
experinces such as mobile boarding, QR access, digital check-
ins, and real-time analytics-driven up-sell models. Today’s 
travellers expect convenience, control, and instant access. With 
widespread adoption of QR-based entry, contactless service, 
and mobile-first experiences, the future lies in intelligent, 
integrated platforms.
To meet this expectation, our proprietary omnichannel 
platform delivers seamless digital access across mobile 
apps, issuer platforms, and kiosks. Backed by AI-powered 
chatbots, predictive analytics, and card-linked service bundles 
we personalise offerings, enable real-time decisioning, and 
help clients optimize usage-based models. This data-centric 
approach enhances satisfaction while improving program-level 
ROI for our partners.
Rise in Discretionary Spending
As post-pandemic incomes recover, discretionary travel is 
rebounding. Consumers are prioritizing experiences over 
goods, spending more on leisure, exploration, and premium 
comfort. This shift plays directly to our strengths. Our portfolio 
of premium lifestyle offerings, ranging from airport lounges 
and golf access to wellness, grooming, and gifting services 
positions us to cater to travellers who seek more from every 
journey.
Value-Added Services as Differentiators
To stay ahead in an increasingly competitive landscape, 
aggregation of value-added services (VAS) is critical. Over the 
past year, we have introduced Golf Games & Lessons, Meet & 
Assist, Railway Lounges, Spa & Beauty Services, and Airport 
Transfers — in collaboration with top-tier partners. These 
services not only enhance end-user experience but also unlock 
Significant Changes in Key Financial Ratios
Revenue from Operations (INR Million) 
CAGR 29.4% (FY23 - FY25)
FY23
7,733
FY24
11,350
FY25
12,919
PAT (INR Million) 
FY23
725
FY24
686
FY25
651
Adjusted EBITDA*  
(INR Million)
FY23
1,046
FY24
1,032
FY25
1,021
*After adjusting for non-cash ESOP expenses
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2024-25
82
Dreamfolks Services Limited
83
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
new monetization models and strengthen client relationships. 
By expanding from airport touchpoints into holistic lifestyle 
aggregation, we are evolving from a transactional platform into 
a full-stack experience ecosystem.
Evolving Work-Leisure (Bleisure) Trends
The blending of business and leisure travel (workcations) is 
expanding demand for premium and convenience-led travel 
solutions, with travellers seeking comfort and connectivity. We 
are developing tailored packages that combine lounge, Wi-Fi, 
spa, and transit services designed specifically to support the 
modern bleisure travellers hybrid lifestyle.
Lounge Ecosystem Entering a High-Growth Phase
With the global lounge industry expected to grow at a CAGR of 
7.5% (2023–2033), driven by airport privatisation and rising 
luxury travel demand, the potential for third-party aggregators 
is unprecedented. We are expanding our lounge network 
across international airports while simultaneously onboarding 
value-added services like spa, gourmet dining, and concierge 
experiences. Our scalable platform and strategic tie-ups with 
international aggregators help us unlock new geographies and 
strengthen our global footprint.
Enterprise Partnerships Outside Aviation
Beyond traditional airline and financial services, sectors like 
hospitality, e-commerce, wellness, and corporate travel are 
seeking experiential loyalty programs. We are extending our 
lifestyle aggregation model via API-driven integration, that 
allows enterprise clients across industries to integrate our 
lifestyle service such as grooming, golf, gifting, and spa directly 
into their consumer ecosystems.
OUTLOOK
As we transition from a year of strategic consolidation into 
an era of measured expansion, our focus at DreamFolks is 
firmly anchored in long-term value creation, diversification, 
and globalization. FY2024-25 reaffirmed the resilience of 
our business model despite macroeconomic adjustments, 
particularly the industry-wide shift towards spend-based 
benefit models. These evolving dynamics have not only 
validated the strength of our proprietary platform but also 
shaped the blueprint for our next phase of growth.
With a solid foundation in lounge aggregation and an expanding 
bouquet of over 20 premium travel and lifestyle services — 
including railway lounges, travel dining, spa & wellness, baggage 
wrapping, golf access, and members-only recreational facilities 
— we are poised to elevate our positioning from a travel enabler 
to a holistic lifestyle aggregator. In FY2024-25, services other 
than airport lounges contributed 6.7% to revenue, and we 
expect them to make a major contribution soon.
We have set a clear strategic goal to expand our, non-lounge 
services while continuing to lead in our core aggregation 
business. This ambition is grounded in expanding our presence 
across enterprise clients, forging global partnerships, and 
building a modular platform that can serve diverse user 
cohorts and geographies. Our recently introduced services 
— such as Coffee at Malls and Pay-and-Use programs — are 
specifically designed to target under-penetrated non-metro 
cities, broadening our demographic and geographic footprint. 
Our client acquisition momentum remains robust. We 
onboarded 30+ enterprise clients across travel, loyalty, and 
fintech sectors.
Technological innovation continues to underpin our growth. 
Our omnichannel digital infrastructure — now extended to 
cover real-time voucher issuance, self-check-in kiosks, and 
spend-based dynamic eligibility — positions us to deliver 
personalisation at scale. As banks and enterprises increasingly 
shift towards usage-linked service models, our integrated 
architecture allows for rapid deployment of tailored benefit 
stacks, enhancing both client ROI and end-user satisfaction.
With clear visibility into demand drivers such as rising premium 
travel, increasing credit card penetration, and expanding 
airport infrastructure, we are confident in our ability to lead 
the transformation of travel and lifestyle services in India and 
abroad.
THREATS 
In the rapidly evolving and highly interconnected travel 
ecosystem, we remain acutely aware of the diverse threats that 
could potentially impact our operations, customer experience, 
and stakeholder value. One of the foremost concerns in today’s 
digital age is cybersecurity. Protecting customer and client 
data is not just a compliance necessity — it is a cornerstone 
of our credibility. Accordingly, we have made significant 
investments in strengthening our cybersecurity infrastructure. 
Our systems are fortified with advanced technologies and 
governed by robust protocols to ensure end-to-end data 
security and privacy.
Equally important is our ability to remain agile in the face of 
changing market dynamics. Consumer preferences, technology 
adoption cycles, and global events can shift rapidly, redefining 
expectations almost overnight. To stay ahead, we continuously 
monitor industry trends and customer behavior using deep 
analytics and structured market intelligence. This insight-
driven approach enables us to anticipate shifts, respond swiftly, 
and evolve our offerings to remain relevant and competitive.
We also recognize the importance of being prepared for 
unforeseen disruptions ranging from geopolitical events 
and public health crises to climate-related incidents. As a 
safeguard, we have established comprehensive contingency 
plans and scenario-based response frameworks that enhance 
our organizational resilience. These plans are regularly 
reviewed and tested to ensure operational continuity under 
adverse conditions.
By taking a proactive stance on risk management and investing 
in both strategic foresight and operational readiness, we are 
confident in our ability to navigate uncertainty while delivering 
long-term value to our partners and customers.
Type Of Risk Exposure
Key Factors
Mitigation Measures
OPERATIONAL RISKS
Operational Risks
Dependence on Card Networks and Financial 
Institutions: Strategic relationships with banks and 
card issuers are crucial for revenue generation.
We continue to diversify partnerships to avoid over-
reliance on any single institution while nurturing 
strong relationships across multiple financial 
partners.
Contract Retention and Negotiation: Inability to 
renew or successfully renegotiate key contracts can 
adversely affect margins and overall performance.
Robust contract management practices and 
contingency frameworks are in place to ensure quick 
onboarding of alternate partners if required.
Dependence on Operators and Airport Service 
Providers: Reliance on third-party service 
providers, particularly lounge operators, is critical 
for customer access.
DreamFolks has instituted a diversified 
partner ecosystem built on long-term, strategic 
collaborations. The Company actively partners with 
multiple operators within each airport and service 
category, ensuring redundancy and continuity in 
service delivery.
Exposure to the Air Travel Industry: Heavy 
reliance on the aviation sector exposes us to 
demand fluctuations during disruptions such as 
pandemics.
We are diversifying our service offerings and 
touchpoints to reduce dependence on air travel, 
building more resilient and flexible business models.
External Variables (Fuel Prices, Policy Shifts, 
Airline Dynamics): Changes in airline operations, 
fuel costs, or government policy may affect revenue 
and financial performance.
Active monitoring of macroeconomic and regulatory 
developments enables us to make timely strategic 
adjustments to minimize the impact of such variables.
MARKET RISKS
Market Risks
Market Saturation in India: A maturing domestic 
market may constrain long-term growth.
We are expanding into global markets and focusing 
on product innovation to stay ahead of competition 
and tap new revenue streams.
Regulatory Uncertainty: Evolving regulations 
across banking, finance, aviation, and airport 
operations can pose business risks.
Ongoing engagement with regulatory bodies and 
policy stakeholders allows us to remain informed and 
advocate for favorable industry conditions.
Client Concentration Risk: Dependence on a few 
large clients may increase exposure to commercial 
or compliance penalties.
Our client base is being continuously diversified. We 
have instituted robust risk evaluation mechanisms to 
proactively mitigate key-client dependencies.
STRATEGIC RISKS
Strategic Risks
Execution of Strategic Initiatives: Timely and 
efficient execution is essential for realising desired 
outcomes.
Monitor progress regularly and adapt plans based on 
business performance and market developments.
Dependence on External Conditions: Strategic 
outcomes can be impacted by changing market or 
policy environments.
Conduct regular scenario analysis and build flexible 
strategies that can adapt to evolving external 
conditions.
Leadership and Resource Allocation: Lack of 
leadership bandwidth or suboptimal deployment 
can impair implementation.
Strengthen leadership development and succession 
planning.
Resource Constraints: Limited resources may delay 
or reduce the effectiveness of strategy execution.
Optimize allocation through prioritisation and long-
term financial planning.
Stakeholder Engagement: Ineffective engagement 
can impact alignment and execution of key decisions.
Maintain continuous communication and feedback 
mechanisms to build alignment with internal and 
external stakeholders.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2024-25
84
Dreamfolks Services Limited
85
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Type Of Risk Exposure
Key Factors
Mitigation Measures
CYBERSECURITY RISKS
Cybersecurity Risks
IT System Disruptions: Interruptions to systems 
may cause operational delays or service lags.
Invest in robust IT infrastructure and disaster 
recovery protocols. Conduct periodic system audits 
and simulations.
Cyber-Attacks and Data Breaches: Breaches can 
lead to loss of client trust and legal consequences.
Deploy enterprise-grade cybersecurity tools and 
conduct employee awareness training. Maintain 
cyber insurance to limit financial impact
Protection of Proprietary Data: Unauthorized 
access may compromise competitiveness.
Use advanced encryption and data protection 
protocols. Carry out regular penetration testing and 
risk reviews.
Intellectual Property Theft: IP theft or misuse can 
cause reputational and legal exposure.
Secure intellectual property rights and monitor for 
violations. Enforce legal protections proactively.
FINANCIAL RISKS
Financial Risks
Client Payment Delays or Defaults: Delays can 
affect cash flow and operational continuity.
Conduct thorough credit assessments. Strengthen 
invoicing, collections and recovery mechanisms.
Credit Risk from Receivables: Accumulation of 
receivables may increase financial exposure.
Monitor client receivables closely. Diversify client 
base and tighten credit controls.
Foreign Exchange Fluctuations: Currency volatility 
may impact revenue and margins.
Use appropriate hedging tools to manage forex 
exposure. Continuously assess currency risks.
Legal and Compliance Risk: Litigations and 
regulatory actions may affect business continuity 
and financial health.
Monitor legal risks actively. Maintain appropriate 
provisions to mitigate material liabilities.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND THEIR ADEQUACY
We have instituted a comprehensive internal control 
framework that is well-aligned with the scale and complexity 
of our operations. This framework reflects our unwavering 
commitment to ethical conduct, governance excellence, and 
operational discipline.
Our internal control systems are structured to support 
the achievement of strategic objectives, drive operational 
efficiency, and ensure compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations. These systems are designed to mitigate risks 
related to errors, fraud, and unauthorized transactions while 
safeguarding assets and enhancing the accuracy and reliability 
of both financial and operational reporting. Regular monitoring 
and evaluation are integral to our approach. The effectiveness, 
adequacy, and relevance of controls are assessed periodically 
to ensure they remain fit-for-purpose in a dynamic operating 
environment. These checks provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the integrity of accounting records, compliance 
with internal policies, and the execution of transactions in 
accordance with management authorization.
Oversight of the internal control environment rests with the 
Audit Committee of the Board, which reviews the annual 
audit plan, examines key audit findings, and ensures timely 
corrective actions are undertaken to reinforce the control 
ecosystem. Our internal audit function plays a pivotal role in 
this process. Through a structured, risk-based audit approach, 
the internal audit team evaluates key business processes and 
internal controls. The Internal Auditor reports independently 
to the Audit Committee, which reviews audit observations 
and monitors the implementation of recommended actions to 
further strengthen the Company’s governance and assurance 
mechanisms.
HUMAN RESOURCES
Investing in People to Power Growth
At DreamFolks, our people are not just enablers — they are the 
foundation of our platform’s agility, innovation, and premium 
service delivery. FY2025 marked a pivotal year in our human 
capital strategy, as we significantly invested in workforce 
expansion, aligning talent priorities with our long-term vision 
of becoming a leading access-as-a-service platform across 
travel and lifestyle domains.
With a lean yet high-impact team of 110 professionals, we 
strengthened our organizational capacity to support the 
onboarding of over 30 new enterprise clients and the rollout 
of six new service categories beyond lounges. This included 
growing teams across sales, client onboarding, product 
integration, and partner management, ensuring the enterprise 
business vertical has the depth and responsiveness it requires 
to scale. A deliberate move to build internal capabilities that 
match our platform’s expanding scope – from Airport Lounges 
to Highway Dining, Coffee at Mall, Access to Members-Only 
Recreational Facilities. airport lounges to highway dining, 
Coffee at mall, Access to members-only recreational facilities.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT
Continuous learning is embedded in our culture. We offer 
skill enhancement programs and ongoing training modules to 
ensure our workforce remains future-ready and aligned with 
our rapidly evolving service landscape. Our strategic focus 
on automation and process efficiency is complemented by a 
workforce that is adaptive, quality-focused, and technologically 
empowered.
We go beyond regulatory requirements to uphold rigorous 
health, safety, and hygiene standards at all our office locations. 
Clean and well-equipped restrooms, proper waste management 
systems, and periodic sanitation audits underscore our 
commitment to employee well-being. Recognizing the 
importance of mental and emotional well-being, we encourage 
a culture of openness and support through initiatives such as 
stress management workshops, access to counseling services, 
and employee engagement programs. Our holistic approach 
to wellness is further supported by comprehensive health and 
accident insurance coverage, ensuring our team’s financial 
security and timely access to healthcare.
At DreamFolks, we believe a motivated and well-supported 
team is central to our long-term success. As we scale our 
offerings and expand our client base, our people remain our 
strongest differentiator championing service excellence, 
innovation, and client satisfaction.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
At DreamFolks, technology is not just an enabler; it is a strategic 
differentiator that powers our robust business model and 
underpins our operational scalability. Our in-house proprietary, 
cloud-native technology platform forms the backbone of all 
service delivery and client integration efforts, enabling us to 
remain agile, cost-efficient, and highly responsive to evolving 
market demands. Our omnichannel access architecture, 
built around a hybrid technology facilitates seamless service 
delivery through multiple touchpoints — DreamFolks app, 
partner apps, credit and debit cards, issuer platforms, self-
check-in kiosks, and web-based portals. This allows us to 
offer a frictionless consumer journey and maximizes platform 
interoperability across banks, card networks, airlines, and 
enterprises.
By harnessing our advanced, cloud-native technology 
platform, we empower clients to move beyond static benefits 
and embrace highly personalized, data-driven engagement 
strategies. Our modular architecture allows us to offer 
bespoke solutions that align with each partner’s unique 
customer segments and business goals delivering value far 
beyond the conventional one-size-fits-all model. We deliver 
a high-quality, differentiated Costumer Value Proposition 
(CVP), tailored to each client’s target audience. Additionally, 
our system architecture enables real-time visibility into benefit 
utilization, allowing partners to monitor, analyze, and optimize 
product-level P&Ls, and implement targeted rewards for high-
value users.
We are at a pivotal moment in our journey, undertaking a major 
transformation in our technology landscape. This strategic 
shift is driven by a modern, cloud-based platform that enables 
real-time collaboration, supports scalable growth, and ensures 
rapid responses to customer feedback. What was once a basic 
operational tool has now evolved into a powerful strategic 
asset, delivering personalized, intuitive experiences tailored 
for our clients’ tech-savvy customers. Our adaptable in-house 
technology infrastructure positions us to be future-ready — 
empowering us to support the significant expansion of our 
enterprise client base and extend our offerings beyond lounge 
services.
Our systems are fully compliant with Payment Card Industry 
Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) Version 4.0, reflecting 
our commitment to safeguarding sensitive consumer and 
transaction data. Continuous monitoring, regular threat 
assessments, 
and 
proactive 
mitigation 
strategies 
are 
undertaken by our dedicated IT security team to ensure robust 
protection against cyber risks in an increasingly digitized 
ecosystem.
INVESTOR RELATIONS
We remain steadfast in our commitment to deliver 
transparent, timely, and consistent communication with our 
investor community. Our investor engagement practices are 
benchmarked against global best standards to ensure credibility 
and trust. Also, we have a dedicated Investor Relations 
(IR) team that serves as a bridge between the Company 
and its stakeholders, facilitating proactive engagement 
through regular updates, meetings, and disclosures. Periodic 
interactions are conducted with institutional and retail 
investors to provide insights into our financial performance, 
strategic developments, and future outlook.
The leadership team, including the Chairperson & Managing 
Director, Executive Director & Chief Technology Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer, and Chief Business Officer, works closely with 
the IR team to represent the Company across investor forums, 
media platforms, and analyst briefings. We ensure equitable 
access to all material information through timely disclosures to 
stock exchanges and updates on our website www.dreamfolks.
com which features a comprehensive Investor Information 
section.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
DREAMFOLKS SERVICES LIMITED
Pursuant to Regulation 34(2) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulation, 2015 (“SEBI LODR 
Regulations”) the Company has made disclosures in its Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (“BRSR”), which 
contains the following three sections:
SECTION A: Presents a Comprehensive outline of the Company, Encompassing its Range of Products and Services, its Operational 
Reach, Workforce, Affiliations, Corporate Social Responsibility, and Commitment to Openness.
SECTION B: Entails Disclosures regarding Management and Procedures tied to Company's Operations. These Disclosures are 
designed to showcase the Frameworks, Guidelines, and Methods that have been implemented to align with the National Guidelines 
on Responsible Business Conduct (“NGRBC”) Principles and Core Elements.
SECTION C: Furnishes detailed revelations linked to specific metrics, aligned with the nine fundamental Principles of NGRBC in 
accordance with the BRSR. 
Dreamfolks Services Limited (hereinafter ‘the Company’ or ‘us’ or ‘we’) is a global travel and lifestyle services aggregator, offering a 
broad suite of solutions through our proprietary technology platform. The Company manages the entire gamut of benefits offered 
by its global clients, to their end customers, using in-house technology platform, which helps in curation and administration of such 
benefits for our clients, ranging from card issuers and card networks to enterprises.– 
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1.	
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity - L51909DL2008PLC177181
2.	
Name of the Listed Entity - Dreamfolks Services Limited
3.	
Year of incorporation – 2008
4. 
Registered office address - 26, DDA Flats Panchsheel Park, Shivalik Road, New Delhi - 110017 India
5. 
Corporate office address - 301-307, 3rd Floor, Good Earth Trade Tower, Maidawas Road, Sector 62, Gurugram, 
Haryana - 122001
6.	
E-mail -  compliance@dreamfolks.in
7.	
Telephone - 0124-4037306
8.	
Website - www.dreamfolks.com
9.	
Financial year for which reporting is being done - 2024-25
10.	 Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed -
Name of the Exchange
Stock Code
BSE Limited
543591
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
DREAMFOLKS
11.	 Paid-up Capital – INR 106.54 Million 
12.	 Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person who may be contacted in case of any queries on 
the BRSR report – 
	
Mr. Shekhar Sood, Chief Financial Officer, Ph. No. – 0124-4037306, Email: compliance@dreamfolks.in 
13.	 Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on 
a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its consolidated financial statements, 
taken together). – The disclosures under this report are made on Standalone basis for Dreamfolks Services Limited.
Annual Report 2024-25
86
Dreamfolks Services Limited
87
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Our quarterly earnings announcements are accompanied by 
investor presentations and earnings calls, with call recordings 
and transcripts made available on our website. All key 
updates — including financial results, regulatory submissions, 
corporate presentations, and schedules of analyst and investor 
interactions — are published online to ensure transparency 
and ease of access.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
The Management Discussion and Analysis section contains 
forward-looking 
statements 
regarding 
our 
Company's 
objectives, projections, estimates, and expectations, as 
defined by relevant securities laws and regulations. Actual 
outcomes may deviate significantly from these statements. 
Key factors that may impact our Company's performance 
include, but are not limited to, economic conditions influencing 
demand, supply, and pricing in both domestic and international 
markets; changes in government regulations, tax laws, and 
other statutes; and events such as epidemics, pandemics, 
and natural disasters beyond our direct or indirect control. 
It is important to note that the financial ratios presented in 
the notes accompanying the Financials differ from those in 
the Management Discussion and Analysis. The ratios in the 
Financials are calculated strictly according to the formulas 
prescribed in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI, while 
the figures in the Management Discussion and Analysis are 
based on business metrics and commentary, which may not 
align with the Annual Report's Financials. Acknowledging the 
inherent uncertainties and unpredictable elements is essential 
for accurately interpreting these forward-looking statements.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
14.	 Name of assurance provider – N/A
15.	 Type of assurance obtained – N/A
S. 
No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1.
Benefit management services
The Company provides proprietary 
technology platform, solutions and services, 
for providing and managing end-to-end 
product/ service benefits for its clients that 
are availed by its clients’ customers, and to 
provide service aggregation, service delivery, 
related integrations & support services.
100
S. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover 
contributed
1.
Benefit management services 
 82990
100
17.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
III.	
Operations
18. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
Nil
24
24
International
Nil
Nil
Nil
19.	 Markets served by the entity:
a.	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
23
International (No. of Countries)
114   
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 
	
0.03%
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
The primary customers/clients of the Company are Banks, Card Network, Card issuers, and enterprises.
IV.	
Employees
20.	 Details as at the end of Financial Year:
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
II.	
Products / Services
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
110
92
83.64
18
16.36
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3.
Total employees 
(D + E)
110
92
83.64
18
16.36
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
2
1
50
1
50
6.
Total workers 
(F + G)
2
1
50
1
50
b.	
Differently abled Employees and workers:
S. 
No.
Particulars
Total 
(A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B / A)
No. (C)
% (C / A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
Nil*
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
3.
Total differently abled 
employees (D + E)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
Nil*
5.
Other than permanent (G)
6.
Total differently abled 
workers (F + G)
*The Company currently does not have employees with special needs; however, the Company is well equipped and 
ready to provide the needful to an employee who intends to join us in the future. We also do not discriminate on the 
basis of any factors, including this one.
21.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women 
Total(A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B / A)
Board of Directors
8
3 
37.50
Key Management Personnel
3
1
33.33
* As on March 31, 2025 there were 3 KMPs, however, as on date of this report there are 4 KMPs as Mr. Shekhar Sood 
was appointed as Chief Financial Officer of the Company w.e.f. April 30, 2025.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
88
Dreamfolks Services Limited
89
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent 
Employees
6.52
22.22
09.09
 09.15
32.26
13.57
18.95
30.30
21.88
Permanent 
Workers
N/A
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
23.	 (a)      Names of holding / subsidiary / associate companies / joint ventures
S. 
No.
Name of the  holding / 
Subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint 
ventures 
Indicate whether 
holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% Of shares held by 
listed entity
Does the entity indicated at column 
A participate in the Business 
Responsibility initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No)
1.
Golfklik Private 
Limited (Formerly 
known as Vidsur Golf 
Private Limited)
Subsidiary
60
Considering the scale of operations, the 
subsidiaries as of now don’t participate in 
the Business Responsibility Initiatives
2. 
Dreamfolks Services 
PTE. Limited
Subsidiary
100 
For a comprehensive overview of the subsidiaries, kindly refer to the Board’s Report.
VI.	 CSR Details
24.	 (i)        Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No) - Yes
(ii)	
Turnover (in Rs.) – INR 11,349.46 million 
(iii)	 Net worth (in Rs.)  – INR 2,370.82 Million 
VII.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the princi ples (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism 
in Place (Yes/ 
No) ( If yes, 
then provide 
web- link for 
grievance 
redress 
Policy)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Shareholders
Yes
1
Nil
Complaint 
pertains to 
request of 
physical copy of 
Annual Report, 
same had 
been promptly 
resolved within 
stipulated time.
3
Nil 
--
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Dreamfolks Hospitality Private Limited was struck off under the provision of the Companies Act, 2013, vide Order 
dated April 03, 2024 of the concerned ROC.
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism 
in Place (Yes/ 
No) ( If yes, 
then provide 
web- link for 
grievance 
redress 
Policy)
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Nil
Nil
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Nil
Employees 
   Workers
Yes. The Policy 
document is 
available on 
the Company’s 
intranet.
Customers
Yes.  The 
customers 
can directly 
reach out to 
the operations 
team as per 
the defined 
SLA.
Value Chain 
Partners
Nil
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
90
Dreamfolks Services Limited
91
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or 
mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk/ 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach	
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or  
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
1
Data Security
Risk 
The Company being a benefit 
Management 
Company 
through 
technology-driven 
platform, 
operates in a way that handles 
sensitive client data, the risk of 
unauthorized access, data breaches, 
or leaks are high. The Company acts 
as an intermediary, aggregating data 
and services from various sources to 
deliver value to its clients. However, 
this 
aggregation 
process 
also 
exposes the Company to potential 
data security risks.
The 
Company 
employs 
effective 
legal 
and 
technological 
safeguards 
to 
mitigate 
potential 
risks. It has embraced 
comprehensive 
data 
privacy, 
information 
security, 
and 
backup 
and recovery Policies as 
responsible measures to 
counter these risks as part 
of its proactive approach 
to 
protecting 
sensitive 
information and ensuring 
business continuity and 
effective risk mitigation 
strategies.
Negative
2
Extreme weather 
events
Risk
Extreme weather events such as 
floods, cyclones etc can significantly 
impact the Company and can result 
in operational disruptions such as 
airport closures and lounge damage, 
impairing partner service delivery, 
straining IT systems, and causing 
cash flow issues due to fixed costs 
amid declining revenues. 
Force majeure clauses in 
contracts with partners 
allows 
flexibility 
and 
legal 
protection 
during 
unavoidable 
disruption. 
Maintaining 
appropriate 
insurance cover and robust 
business continuity plan 
also helps in reducing the 
financial risks.
Negative
3
Disease Outbreak
Risk 
Widespread disease outbreak can 
reduce the airport passenger traffic 
and can thus lead to decrease in the 
use of the Company's services by the 
consumers.
Implementing 
and 
regularly updating health 
& sanitization protocols 
at the across lounges and 
other 
service 
locations 
helps reassure customers 
and partners supporting 
quicker 
recovery 
post-
outbreaks and regulatory 
compliance. 
Negative
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk/ 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach	
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or  
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
4
Employee 
Engagement, 
Diversity & 
Inclusion
Opportunity
The Company is committed to 
cultivating 
a 
vibrant 
and 
all-
inclusive workforce. The collective 
reservoir of knowledge, mentorship, 
and technical expertise that the 
employees contribute forms the 
bedrock of their accomplishments, 
setting them apart in the industry. 
The Company also acknowledges 
the 
profound 
importance 
of 
diversity, wholeheartedly embracing 
the diverse origins, viewpoints, 
and life experiences that each 
team member brings to enrich 
their 
endeavours. 
Furthermore, 
the Company places paramount 
emphasis on ensuring a safe and 
healthy working environment for all 
its dedicated employees.
Positive
5
Sustainable 
Branding
Opportunity
A 
strong 
sustainability 
focus 
can help the Company tap into 
niche markets of eco-conscious 
consumers who are willing to 
pay a premium for sustainable 
products/services. It would also 
attract investors and partners who 
prioritize environmental and social 
responsibility. 
Positive
6
Client 
Concentration
Risk
The closure of loyalty programs or 
changes in their structure could 
negatively impact the Company's 
revenue.
The 
Company 
remains 
focused 
on 
strategic 
expansion 
and 
diversification 
of 
its 
offerings to drive future 
growth and address recent 
challenges. 
Expanding 
its portfolio of services 
enables 
the 
Company 
to diversify both its risk 
exposure and its sources of 
income. 
Negative
7
Geopolitics
Risk and 
Opportunity
Geopolitics can present both risks 
and opportunities for the Company. 
Risks include potential disruptions 
to travel due to political instability, 
conflicts, or trade wars, leading 
to decreased demand or supply 
chain issues. Opportunities arise 
from shifting travel patterns, new 
markets opening up due to political 
realignments, or increased demand 
for travel to specific regions due to 
geopolitical factors.
The 
Company 
needs 
to 
carefully 
monitor 
geopolitical developments, 
assess the potential impact 
on its business, and develop 
strategies 
to 
mitigate 
risks by diversifying its 
operations, 
developing 
contingency 
plans, 
and 
actively 
engaging 
with 
stakeholders 
to 
navigate the complexities 
geopolitical landscape.
Both
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
92
Dreamfolks Services Limited
93
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
S. 
No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the risk/ 
opportunity
In case of risk, approach	
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or  
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
8
Human Migration
Opportunity 
Economic 
migration 
leads 
to 
urbanization, 
increasing 
airport 
traffic where the Company can 
expand partnerships.
Positive
9
Regulatory 
Compliance 
Opportunity
The Company relies heavily on 
technology and has sensitive data, 
making compliance a crucial area 
for them. It minimizes the risk of 
legal penalties, enhances reputation, 
streamline operations and foster 
innovation.
Positive
10
Operational delays
Risk
Disruption in service delivery due 
to system outages, logistics failures, 
partner inefficiencies.
Robust 
tech 
platform 
supported by  servers with 
strong and capable team, 
helps at assuring smooth 
operations. 
Additionally, 
Strong SLAs with partners, 
regular 
audits 
and 
performance 
evaluations 
and backup vendors & 
escalation protocols.
Negative
11
Stakeholder 
Relationships
Risk
Issues with regulatory bodies, public 
sentiment, or industry peers can 
cause regulatory delays, license 
revocations and public backlash of 
the Company.
The 
Company 
would 
need to have transparent 
communication 
with 
stakeholders and regular 
regulatory 
compliance 
filings 
to 
enhance 
their 
relationships 
with 
the 
stakeholders. 
Additionally, 
fostering 
strong relationships with 
stakeholders, 
ensuring 
consistent 
service 
quality and transparent 
communication helps to 
address concerns before 
they escalate into formal 
disputes. 
Negative
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, Policies and processes put in place towards adopting the 
NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1.
a.
Whether your entity’s Policy/Policies cover each 
Principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
b.
Has the Policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
c.
Web Link of the Policies, if available
https://www.dreamfolks.com/corporate-governance.html 
2.
Whether the entity has translated the Policy into procedures. 
(Yes / No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3.
Do the enlisted Policies extend to your  value chain partners? 
(Yes/No)
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
4.
Name of the national and international codes/certifications/
labels/ standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, 
Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, 
OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each 
Principle.
Some of the national and international codes/certifications/
labels/ standards obtained by the Company are:
ISO/IEC 
27001(international 
standard 
to 
manage 
information security), PCIDSS (The Payment Card Industry 
Data Security Standard), SOC1 Type 2, SOC2 Type 2, , LEED 
Gold Certification, Great Place To Work Certification.
5.
Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity 
with defined timelines, if any.
The Company doesn’t have any formal KPIs, but it is 
constantly working in the areas related to data security, DEI, 
enhanced customer experience and community engagement. 
6.
Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, 
goals and targets along-with reasons in case the same are not 
met.
  N.A.
Governance, Leadership and Oversight
7.
Statement by Director Responsible for the Business Responsibility Report, highlighting ESG  related challenges, targets and 
achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
Dear Stakeholders,
At DreamFolks, our commitment to sustainability stems from a sense of responsibility toward the people, planet and 
ecosystem. Climate change remains one of the greatest challenges of our time — a reality shaped by years of unsustainable 
practices — and it demands immediate, consistent, and sincere action.
For us, sustainability is not merely about meeting regulations; it is a way of thinking and operating. Over the past three years, 
we have actively broadened our vision, integrating Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Principles into every aspect 
of our business. We believe that innovation and technology are powerful tools in shaping a greener future, and we continue 
to use them to enhance both our efficiency and our environmental stewardship.
Our initiatives go beyond business — they create real-world impact. Having  completed Project Akshar, we have now launched 
a new CSR initiative named “Saksham” with the same mission of empowering underprivileged girl children through better 
access to education and opportunities. This ensures that our commitment to creating brighter and more inclusive futures 
remains unwavering.
We are proud of the measures we have taken to reduce our environmental footprint. Our technology-driven platform 
has already eliminated the use of paper and plastic in core processes. Taking this commitment a step further, we recently 
introduced Web Access, a digital service that entirely removes the need for physical plastic cards, reducing waste and making 
our services even more convenient and eco-friendly.
These achievements are only possible because of the trust and support of our stakeholders. As we move forward, we will 
remain committed to setting thoughtful targets, measuring our progress, and driving meaningful change — for our business, 
for our people, and for the planet. 
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Chairperson & Managing Director
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
94
Dreamfolks Services Limited
95
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
8. 
Details of the highest authority responsible  for 
implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility 
Policy (ies).
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
Chairperson & Managing Director
9.
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ 
Director responsible for decision making on Sustainability 
related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide details.
The Board of Directors looks after Sustainability related 
issues
10.
Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was   undertaken 
by Director / Committee of the Board/ 
Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ Any other – please specify)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against Above 
Policies and follow- up action
The Board of Directors and the respective 
supervisory head regularly review the 
Policies and tracks their implementation 
status.
Annual
Compliance with   statutory 
requirements of   relevance to the 
Principles, and rectification of any 
non-compliances
To the extent applicable, the Company has 
duly complied with the required statutory 
provisions in context of the Principles.
11.
Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of 
the working of its Policies by an external agency? (Yes/No). If yes, 
provide name of the agency.
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
The Company primarily carries out an independent 
assessment and review of its policies. However, as 
part of this process, consultants are engaged, as 
per the need, to provide inputs and guidance before 
finalization, with all final decisions taken by the 
Company.
12.
If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a Policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
The entity does not consider the Principles material to its business 
(Yes/No)
The Policies include all Principles
The entity is not at a stage where it is able to formulate and 
implement the Policies on specified Principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
Segment
Total number of 
training and awareness 
programmes held
Topics / Principles covered under 
the training and it’s *impact
%age of persons in respective 
category covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of Directors#
4
•	
Statutory Updates
•	
Corporate Governance 
•	
Business Process Improvements
100%
Key Managerial 
Persons (KMP)
4
Employees other than 
BoD and KMPs
13
•	
Professional conduct and 
Accountability; 
•	
Carbon footprint;
•	
Resource Management;
•	
Inclusion Diversity and 
Sensitivity; and 
•	
Compliance Training 
100%
Workers
Not Applicable
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent 
and   Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year: 
*The training programs enable the participants to fulfil their duties and responsibilities considering the best interest of the 
Company and its various stakeholders.  
#Further, the initiatives undertaken by the Company with respect to Familiarization Programmes has been disclosed on the 
website of the Company and can be accessed through the following link at https://s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/df.imagesv1/
website-content/Familiarization-Programme-Independent-Directors.pdf.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
96
Dreamfolks Services Limited
97
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
Judicial institutions
Amount (in INR)
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/ No)
Penalty
Principle 1
Deputy Commissioner 
of State Tax/B.I. (South 
Bengal)
INR 4.37 Million
The alleged penalty pertains to 
violation of the provisions of 
place of supply in section 12(3) 
of IGST Act, 2017 during the 
financial year 2019-20
Yes
Penalty
Principle 1
Deputy Commissioner 
of State Tax/B.I. (South 
Bengal)
INR 0.94 Million
The alleged penalty pertains to 
violation of the provisions of 
place of supply in section 12(3) 
of IGST Act, 2017 during the 
financial year 2020-21
Yes
Penalty
Principle 1
ETO-cum-Proper Officer 
(State Tax) Haryana GST 
Intelligence Unit
INR 0.02 Million
The Company has obtained 
a 
preferential 
registration 
number for its vehicle from 
the Transport department of 
Haryana, on payment of fees. 
Accordingly, the Company was 
liable to discharge tax liability 
on the receipt of said supply, on 
reverse charge basis, but the 
Company had failed to deposit 
the same.
Company has accepted the 
demand deposited appropriate 
tax alongwith interest and 
penalty.
No
Penalty
Principle 1
ETO-cum-Proper Officer 
(State Tax) Haryana GST 
Intelligence Unit
INR 0.01 Million
The Company has obtained 
a 
preferential 
registration 
number for its vehicle from 
the Transport department of 
Haryana, on payment of fees. 
Accordingly, the Company was 
liable to discharge tax liability 
on the receipt of said supply, on 
reverse charge basis, but the 
Company had failed to deposit 
the same.
Company has accepted the 
demand deposited appropriate 
tax alongwith interest and 
penalty.
No
2. Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the 
entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the 
following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Non- Monetary
NGRBC Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ judicial 
institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Imprisonment
Nil
Punishment
3.	 Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-
monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/enforcement agencies/judicial institutions
Please refer Q.2
4.	 Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery Policy? If yes, provide details in  brief and if available, provide a 
web-link to the Policy. Yes, the Company has an updated Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy.
	
Weblink: https://www.dreamfolks.com/files/policy/anti_bribery_and_anti_corruption_policy.pdf
5.	 Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement 
agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Directors
Nil
KMPs
Employees
Workers
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
Judicial institutions
Amount (in INR)
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/ No)
Penalty
Principle 1
Assisstant Commissioner, 
Division- VI, CGST and 
Central Excise Mumbai 
East Commissionerate
INR 1.35 Million
The Order states that Company 
had availed excess Input tax 
credit during the financial year 
2019-20 of INR 13.51 Million 
that attracts tax demand of 
13.51 Million alongwith penalty 
of INR 1.35 Million.
The 
Company 
has 
clear 
evidence showing that during 
the above year no excess input 
tax credit has been availed 
by the Company. Hence, the 
Company has already filed 
an appeal against the Order 
before Appeallate Authority.
Yes
Annual Report 2024-25
98
Dreamfolks Services Limited
99
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
6. Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues 
of conflict of interest of the Directors
Nil
Number of complaints received in relation to issues 
of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
7. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
No complaints were filed with regard to conflict of interest, therefore, no corrective action were required to be undertaken for 
the same.
8.	 Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable *365)/ Cost of goods/ services procured) in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Number of days of accounts payables
53
59
*Figures have been rounded off
9.	 Open-ness of business 
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers and related parties along with loans and 
advances & investments with related parties, in the following format: 
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Concentration of 
Purchases
a.
Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases.
Nil
Nil
b.
Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
Nil
Nil
c.
Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases 
from trading houses.
Nil
Nil
Concentration of 
Sales
a.
Sales to dealers/ distributors as % of total sales.
Nil
Nil
b.
Number of dealers/ distributors to whom sales are made.
Nil
Nil
c.
Sales to top 10 dealers/ distributors as % of total sales to 
dealers/ distributors.
Nil
Nil
Share of RPTs in
a.
Purchases (Purchases with related parties / Total Purchases)
0.85%
0.21%
b.
Sales (Sales to related parties/ Total Sales)
0.03%
0.00%
c.
Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related parties/ 
Total loans & advances)
69.51%
8.33%
d.
Investments (Investments in related parties / Total 
Investments made)
1.99%
3.31%
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Leadership Indicators
1. Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles  during the financial year:
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topic/Principles covered under the 
training
% age of value chain partners 
covered (by value of business done 
with such partners) under the 
awareness programs
Onboarding trainings for the value 
chain partners, are conducted as  the 
requirements arise per real time.
     EDC Training
    - Performing Transactions
    - Voiding Transaction
    - Batch Settlement
    - Basic Trouble Shooting 
     Redemption Portal Training
    - Transaction Redemption process
    - Voiding Transaction
    - Manual Transaction
    - Action steps for basic error codes
     Billing Process 
     Operational status of the outlet
     Operational hours
     New Hiring Check 
     Changes in outlet amenities 
     Understanding of the process and 
solution 
85% to 90%
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving  members of the Board? (Yes/No) 
If Yes, provide details of the same. 
	
The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for Directors & Senior Management. This Code encompasses guidelines for 
effectively handling situations that could give rise to conflicts of interest, particularly those involving members of the Board. 
Further, in terms of the applicable laws, the Directors and Senior Management Personnel are bound to disclose situations 
involving conflict of interest to the Board of Directors and the management, respectively.  The Company has the necessary 
governance structure in place to supervise transactions with related parties, including Directors and Senior Management 
Personnel to deal with situations involving conflict of interest. The Company receives an annual declaration from its Board of 
Directors and Senior Management confirming adherence to the Code of Conduct, which includes the provisions on dealing with 
conflict of interest.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
100
Dreamfolks Services Limited
101
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe.
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental 
and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D  and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
Current Financial Year 
Previous Financial Year
Details of improvements 
in the environmental and 
social impacts
R&D
The Company continues to make 
significant 
advancements 
in 
its 
delivery model by eliminating the 
need for plastic cards to access its 
platform. This initiative has resulted 
in a substantial reduction in plastic 
usage. Additionally, by offering web 
and QR code access, the Company 
has also reduced paper consumption 
by eliminating the need to generate 
physical transaction slips.
In the FY 23-24, through constant 
research and development, the Company 
has introduced significant changes in its 
delivery model, that eliminates the need 
to use plastic cards to use its platform. 
This initiative can lead to a significant 
reduction in plastic usage. Additionally, 
the Company has also introduced web 
access and QR code access, which 
reduces the use of paper by eliminating 
the need to generate the transaction slip. 
5% of the total cost is expended towards 
R&D towards attaining the environment 
efficient 
technology 
curated 
by 
DreamFolks.
- Reduction in Plastic Waste
- Lower Paper Consumption
Capex
2.	 a.  	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
	
Considering the Company’s operations, there is minimal procurement restricted to consumption for operational purposes 
only. However, there is a sustainable sourcing Policy that outlines companies’ values towards local and ecofriendly 
procurement of items like electronic equipment, daily consumables, furniture, stationery etc. 
	
b. 	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
Not Quantifiable
3.	 Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and  disposing at the end of life, for 
(a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	
While Company ensures that all e-waste is properly recycled but considering its procurement needs it doesn’t have a specific 
procedure in place to safely reclaim any kind of products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life. But company is in 
the process of understanding and taking action to become more responsible regarding waste management techniques.
4.	 Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the 
waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control 
Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Not Applicable
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) 
or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
NIC Code
Name of Product/
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
Contributed
Boundary for 
which the Life 
Cycle Perspective 
/ Assessment was 
conducted
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No) If yes, 
provide the web-
link
Not Applicable
2. If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your 
products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly 
describe the same  along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product/ Service
Description of the risk/ concern
Action Taken
Not Applicable
3.	 Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
None
4.	 Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely 
disposed, as per the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
Not Applicable
E-waste
Hazardous Waste
Other waste
5.	 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as 
percentage of products sold) for each product category
Not Applicable
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
102
Dreamfolks Services Limited
103
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Essential Indicators
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
1.	 a.   Details of measures for the well-being of employees*:
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity 
Insurance
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
% 
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male
92
92
100%
92
100%
Nil
Nil
Nil
Female
18
18
100%
18
100%
18
100%
Total
110
110
100%
110
100%
18
100%
Other than Permanent Employees
Male
Nil
Female
Total
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
Insurance
Accident 
Insurance
Maternity 
Insurance
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
% 
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent Employees
Male
Nil
Female
Total
Other than Permanent Employees
Male
1
1
100%
1
100%
Nil
Nil
Nil
Female
1
1
100%
1
100%
1
100%
Total
2
2
100%
2
100%
1
100%
	
b.   Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
	
c.   Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including  permanent and other than permanent) 
in the following format –
Current FY 24-25* Previous FY 23-24
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the Company
0.025
0.024
	
*For calculating the spending on measures towards wellbeing of employees and workers, the Company has considered the 
expenses incurred towards employees/workers Health Insurance, Life Insurance, Medical Expenses, Sports Activities etc.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2. Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
Benefits
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100
Nil
Y
100
Nil
Y
Gratuity
100
Nil
N.A.
100
Nil
N.A.
ESI
0
Nil
N.A.
1.2
Nil
Y
NPS
12.72
Nil
Y
17
Nil
Y
3.	 Accessibility of workplaces 
	
Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of 
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
The Company’s Corporate Office is situated at leased premises. The office premises are accessible to differently abled persons, 
as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.
4.	 Does the entity have an equal opportunity Policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a 
web-link to the Policy.
	
Yes, the Company is inclusive of everyone irrespective of any attributes. If any employee has different/special requirements, 
Company without a second thought would be providing the facility at its own cost. 
5.	 Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Permanent Employees
Permanent Workers
Gender
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
Nil
Female
Total
6.	 Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and workers? 
If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
N/A
Other than Permanent Workers
The Company has robust grievance redressal mechanism for addressing the 
grievances of its employees and workers. Employees are encouraged to raise their 
grievances through a proper channel outlined in the Policy. The Company aims to 
ensure that all grievances are redressed at the earliest.
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
N/A 
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
104
Dreamfolks Services Limited
105
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
7.	 Membership of employees and workers in association(s) or Unions recognized by the  listed entity:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Category
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (B)
% (B / A)
Total 
employees 
/ workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (D)
% (D / C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
None of the Company’s employees are affiliated with any associations or unions. Nevertheless, the 
Company does not restrict the possibility of its employees’ forming associations or unions.
Male
Female
Total Permanent 
Worker
Male
Female
8.	 Details of training given to employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Category
Total
(A)
On Health and 
Safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total
(D)
On Health and 
Safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Male
92
92
100
92
100
68
68
100
68
100
Female
18
18
100
18
100
15
15
100
15
100
Total
110
110
100
110
100
83
83
100
83
100
Workers*
Male
Nil
Female
Total
*Other than permanent workers not considered.
9.	 Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Male
92
92
100
68
68
100
Female
18
18
100
15
15
100
Total
110
110
100
83
83
100
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Workers*
Male
Nil
Female
Total
*other than permanent employees, workers are not considered.
10.	Health and safety management system:
a.	 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been  implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If 
yes, the coverage such system?
	
The Company is mindful of the health and safety of its employees. The necessary safety provisions have been created in the 
office premises in the form of a clearly outlined fire exit plan, operational fire alarm, clear directional signage, and emergency 
evacuation route maps. Regular mock drill training is also conducted for the employees. The Company ensures a healthy 
work environment by proper waste management, ensuring regular access to clean & well-maintained restrooms and clean 
water facilities. Safety and Health Management are integrated into the Company’s annual business planning process and 
cascaded down from the Apex level to divisional and departmental levels to ensure employee health and safety and place 
accountability and responsibility at all levels. 
b.	 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by 
the entity?
	
The HR department continuously monitors such instances & there are no formal processes in this regard. 
c.	 Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such 
risks. (Y/N)
	
As previously mentioned, the employees are encouraged to raise their grievance in all matters connected with their work. On 
receiving such complaints, necessary efforts are made to redress them.
d.	 Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)
	
The Company doesn’t provide any non-occupational medical and health care services apart from insurance facilities. 
11.	Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 24-25
FY 23-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one 
million-person hours worked)
Employee
No such instances have been recorded. 
Considering the Company’s operations, 
employees experience no such safety 
related incidents or work-related injuries. 
Additionally, the Company does not have any 
employed workers.
Worker
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employee
Worker
No. of fatalities
Employee
Worker
High consequence work-related injury or ill-
health (excluding fatalities)
Employee
Worker
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
106
Dreamfolks Services Limited
107
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
12.	Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
	
Please refer 10(a) of Health and Safety management system.
13.	Number of  complaints on the following made by  employees and workers:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
NIL
NIL
Health & Safety
NIL
NIL
14.	Assessments for the year: 
% of your plants and offices that were assessed  
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and Safety practices
100 
Working Conditions
100
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant 
risks / concerns  arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
N/A
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees (Y/N) (B) 
Workers (Y/N). 
	
Yes. The employees of the Company are covered under the Health & Accident Insurance Policies, which provide a compensatory 
package in the event of death.  
2.	 Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues that have been deducted and deposited by 
the value chain partners.
	
N/A 
3.	 Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury / ill-health / fatalities 
(as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or 
whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/workers
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members 
have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
4.	 Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of 
career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
	
The Company never had to assist any employee through any such transitions; however, the Company remains open to the idea 
and would make necessary arrangements as the situation arises. 
5.	 Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that 
were assessed
Health and safety practices
Nil
Working Conditions
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments 
of health and safety practices and working conditions  of value chain partners.
	
Nil  
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.	 Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
The Company follows a process that ensures transparency in identifying the stakeholders. The Company communicates its 
business purpose and objectives to its stakeholders and assess, evaluates and then incorporate those in their decision-making 
process. The process of stakeholder engagement involves identifying key internal and external stakeholders followed by 
analysing the impact of each stakeholder groups on the Company’s business. 
	
The key stakeholders of the Company include Management, Employees, Shareholders, Vendors, Customers, Industry associates, 
Central & State Governments.
2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group. 
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of Communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community, Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website, Other)
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ others – 
please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Employees 
No
Email, Meetings, Town
Halls and other F2F meetings, 
Employee engagement surveys
Regularly
Performance Management
Induction Programs
Skill Development
Annual Official Trip
Town Hall
Festival Celebration
Sports Activities
CSR Projects
Personal development and 
growth
Health and safety
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
108
Dreamfolks Services Limited
109
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of Communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community, Meetings, Notice 
Board, Website, Other)
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ others – 
please specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
topics and concerns raised 
during such engagement
Customers 
No
Meetings, emails, Customer 
Call Centre, Advertisements 
and Website
Regularly
Business relationships, 
Product information, 
Knowledge support
Vendors/
Suppliers 
No
Emails, Telephonic and 
Meetings
Regularly
Business Relationships, 
Payments, Quality Services
Shareholders/
Investors 
No
Emails, Newspapers, Press 
Release, One to One & Group 
Meetings, Annual General 
Meeting and Stock Exchanges
Regularly
Financial performance, 
Business Growth, Business 
updates, Approvals and 
Regulatory Compliances
Industry 
Associates 
No
Emails, Telephonic and 
Meetings 
Need based
Policy Framing
Government 
No
Industry Forums
Need based
Policy Framing 
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social 
topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
 	 The Company regularly conducts a Investor meeting and earnings conference calls through its investor relationship agency. 
The call is attended by Senior Management Personnel of the Company. 
 	 In the shareholders’ meetings, the Members are encouraged to share their feedback with the Board of Directors, freely.
 	 The Company regularly obtains feedback from its employees on various matters connected with employment. 
 	 The Company wherever required, participates in the industry forums to raise their concerns and provide feedback, to the 
Central and State Governments.
 	 Moreover, there are grievance redressal mechanisms as well as open channel for raising queries seeking information or 
communicating suggestion through dedicated email IDs listed on Company’s website.
2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social 
topics (Yes / No). If so provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were 
incorporated into Policies and activities of the entity. 
	
Yes, the Company does make necessary interventions from time to time on the basis of suggestions received from its stakeholders. 
Basis the inputs received from the employees, the Company has introduced a waste management Policy and Carbon Emission 
Policy within the organization. Further, sensor taps are fitted in the washrooms, to conserve water and minimize water usage.
3.	 Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder groups.
	
The Company doesn’t have direct engagement with diverse ethnicities and cultural groups owing to its business operations 
except through its CSR projects. 
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	 Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues  and  Policy(ies) of the entity, in the 
following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total (A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Permanent
110
110
100
83
83
100
Other than 
permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Employees
110
110
100
83
83
100
Workers
Permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
Other than 
permanent
2
2
100
2
2
100
Total Workers
2
2
100
2
2
100
2.	 Details of minimum wages paid to employees and  workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Permanent
110
0
0
110
100
83
0
0
83
100
Male
92
0
0
92
100
68
0
0
68
100
Female
18
0
0
18
100
15
0
0
15
100
Other than 
Permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Workers
Permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
110
Dreamfolks Services Limited
111
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Category
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Other than 
Permanent
2
0
0
2
100
2
0
0
2
100
Male
1
0
0
1
100
1
0
0
1
100
Female
1
0
0
1
100
1
0
0
1
100
3.	 Details of remuneration /salary/wages, in the following format
a.	 Median remuneration / wages:
	
Note :
	
1.	 *Remuneration does not include perquisites under the Income Tax Act. 
	
2.	 Under the details of the Directors, only Executive Directors have been considered for above Table.
	
3. Only employees and KMP existing as on March 31,2025 have been considered.
b.	 Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
38
38
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
Salary/ Wages of respective 
category
Number
Median remuneration/ 
Salary/ Wages of respective 
category
*Board of Directors 
(BoD)
1
 88,66,083 
1 
5,58,90,105 
*Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP)
2
53,03,875 
1 
5,58,90,105 
Employees other than 
BoD and KMP
90
8,00,212 
17 
9,24,712 
Workers
1
2,59,080
1
  2,59,080
4.	 Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human- rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
The HR department is responsible for addressing human rights related issues within the Company. 
5.	 Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
 Such issues are handled through the grievance redressal mechanism implemented within the Company. 
6.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers: 
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of the year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of the year
Remarks
Sexual harassment
Nil
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour/ Involuntary Labour
Wages
Other Human Rights related issues
7. Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013, in the following format:
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013 (“POSH”).
Nil
Nil
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees/ workers
Complaints on POSH upheld
8.	 Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
The Company has a well-defined gender-neutral POSH Policy and an internal complaints committee under the provisions 
of POSH. The Company also conducts programs to create awareness around issues connected with discrimination and 
harassment. All grievances related to discrimination and harassment are handled with utmost importance in accordance with 
the procedures laid in this connection. The Company also encourages its employees to raise such issues without fear of any 
discrimination and victimization. 
9.	 Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
Basis the nature of business and service offerings made by the Company, the contract entered are primarily service contracts, 
and hence, do not mandate/ contain any such provisions as of now, however, post proper monitoring in the future the company 
is open to include such clauses.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
112
Dreamfolks Services Limited
113
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
10.	Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and Offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory 
authorities or third parties)
Child Labour
100%
Forced/involuntary labour
Sexual Harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others – please specify
11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 10 above.
	
No instances requiring any corrective actions were reported.
Leadership Indicators
1. Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/ complaint.
	
No instances were reported that require modification. The Company regularly reviews its existing processes in all respects. 
2.	 Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
	
Not Available
3. Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Yes
4.	 Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that 
were assessed
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Child Labour
Forced Labour / Involuntary Labour
Wages
Others – Please Specify
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
	
Nil 
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment 
Essential Indicators
1.	 Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 24-25
FY 23-24
From renewable Sources
Total electricity consumption (A) 
Nil 
Nil
Total fuel consumption (B) 
Nil
Nil
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
Nil 
Nil
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C) 
Nil 
Nil
From non- renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
126128.55 MJ
124066.404 
Total fuel consumption (E)
Nil
Nil
Energy consumption through other sources (F) 
6020.20 MJ 
14,380 
Total energy consumed from non- renewable sources (D+ E+ F)
132148.80 MJ 
138,446 
Total energy consumed (A + B+ C+ D+ E+ F)
132148.80 MJ 
138,446 
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy consumed/ Revenue 
from operations)
10.23 MJ/ INR Million 
12.2 MJ/INR Million
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) (Total energy consumed/ Revenue from operations adjusted 
from PPP)
211.33 MJ/INR 
Million 
273.6MJ/INR Million
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
-
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
N/A 
N/A
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
2. Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and 
Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have 
been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
	
N/A
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
The Calculation has been made in Mega Joules
Annual Report 2024-25
114
Dreamfolks Services Limited
115
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
3.	 Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter 
FY 24-25
FY 23-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)
Surface water 
0
0
(ii)
Groundwater 
0
0
(iii)
Third party water 
807
565
(iv)
Seawater / desalinated water 
0
0
(v)
Others  
0
0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
807
565
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)  
161.40
565
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Total water consumption/ 
revenue from operations)
0.012 KL/INR Million 
0.0498 KL/INR Million
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP) (Total water consumption/ revenue from 
operations adjusted for PPP)
0.2581 KL/ INR Million 
 1.1171 KL /INR Million
Water intensity in terms of physical output
N/A
N/A
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
N/A 
N/A
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency. 
	
No
4.	 Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in Kilolitres)
(i)
To Surface water
 - No treatment
 - With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(ii)
To Groundwater
 - No treatment
 - With treatment- please specify level of treatment
(iii)
To Seawater
 - No treatment
 - With treatment- please specify level of treatment
(iv)
Sent to third- parties
 - No treatment
 - With treatment- please specify level of treatment
(v)
others
645.60*
 - No treatment
 - With treatment- please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (in Kilolitres)
645.60
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
*Our Corporate office is located at a leased premise with an STP installed in its basement. All the water is discharged in the STP, where it 
gets treated on secondary level. Therefore, it is not possible to measure the water discharge. Therefore, we have assumed ‘80-20 rule’ as 
per CGWB Guideline stating 20% consumption in lieu of 80% discharge.
5.	 Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation. 
	
The Company being located at a leased premise doesn’t have any specific mechanism for ZLD. Further, as a part of the office 
design appropriate elements are incorporated such as rainwater harvesting pits, sewage treatment plant, sprinkler systems, 
water-efficient landscaping etc. which enhances water sustainability. 
6.	 Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format: 
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 24-25
FY 23-24
NOx 
The Company is situated at leased premises. Acknowledging there could be 
some footprint in terms of GHG emission, the Company has not been able to 
identify the exact quantum considering the scattered data around the same. 
However, considering the nature of operations, the GHG footprint is not 
questionable or emitted in a quantity that goes beyond statutory norms. 
SOx 
Particulate matter (PM)
Persistent organic pollutants (POP) 
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
Others – please specify
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency. 
      	 No
7.	 Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format: 
Parameter
Unit
FY 24-25
FY 23-24
Total Scope 1 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs,  SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2  equivalent 
16.07
37.199
Total Scope 2 emissions 
(Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
25.47
24.67
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of 
turnover 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions / Revenue 
from operations)
-
0.0032 Metric 
tonnes of CO2 
Equivalent/ INR 
Million
0.0021 Metric 
tonnes of CO2 
Equivalent/ INR 
Million
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per 
rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power 
Parity (PPP) 
(Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/ Revenue 
from operations adjusted for PPP)
-
0.0664 Metric 
tonnes of CO2 
Equivalent/ INR 
Million
0.0487 Metric 
tonnes of CO2 
Equivalent/ INR 
Million
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
116
Dreamfolks Services Limited
117
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Parameter
Unit
FY 24-25
FY 23-24
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms 
of physical output
-
-
-
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
-
N/A
N/A
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
8.	 Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
	
The Company is situated at leased premises. Acknowledging there could be some footprint in terms of GHG emission, 
the Company has not been    able to identify the exact quantum considering the scattered data around the same. However, 
considering the nature of operations, the GHG footprint is not questionable or emitted in a quantity that goes beyond statutory 
norms.  
9.	 Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 24-25
FY 23-24
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A) 
0.0172 
0.2564
E-waste (B)  
Nil
Nil
Bio-medical waste (C)
Nil 
Nil
Construction and demolition waste (D)
Nil
Nil
Battery waste (E)  
Nil
Nil
Radioactive waste (F)  
Nil
Nil
Other Hazardous waste. Please Specify, if any.  (G)
Nil
Nil
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. 
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
Nil
Nil
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H) 
0.0172
0.256 
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste generated/ 
Revenue from operations)
0.0000013 Metric tonnes 
/ INR Million
0.0000225 Metric tonnes 
/ INR Million
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP) (Total waste generated / Revenue from 
operations adjusted for PPP)
0.000027 Metric tonnes / 
INR Million
0.000013058 Metric 
tonnes / INR Million
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
Nil
Nil
Waste intensity (optional) the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity.
N/A
N/A
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Parameter
FY 24-25
FY 23-24
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations 
(in metric tonnes)
Category of waste 
(i)    Recycled 
Garbage collection is through an external agency 
called ECOGREEN.
(ii)   Re-used 
(iii) Other recovery operations 
Total  
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste 
(i)    Incineration 
The garbage is collected through an authorised 
government vendor named ECOGREEN which is 
responsible for disposing the waste on a designated 
landfill. This category may not be quantified by the 
Company at the current stage.
(ii)   Landfilling 
(iii) Other disposal operations 
Total 
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency. 
	
No
10. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
Company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 
manage such wastes. 
	
We have comprehensive waste management practices with a waste management Policy on our intranet, including source 
segregation and diversion of organic waste to vermicomposting. Single-use plastics have been eliminated from our food courts 
and amenities, and we actively partner with tenants to promote recycling through product kiosks and awareness events.
11. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals 
/ clearances are required, please specify details in the following format: 
S. 
No.
Location of operations/
offices
Types of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval 
/ clearance are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, the 
reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
N/A
12.	Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year: 
Name and brief 
details of project 
EIA Notification 
No.
Date
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes / No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes / No)
Relevant Web 
link
 N/A
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
118
Dreamfolks Services Limited
119
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
13.	Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, and Environment protection act 
and rules thereunder (Y/N).  If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format: 
Serial Number
Specify the law 
/ regulation / 
guidelines which was 
not complied with
Provide details of the 
non-Compliance
Any fines / penalties 
/ action taken by 
regulatory agencies 
such as pollution 
control boards or by 
courts
Corrective taken, if 
any action
Yes, the Company complies with all the applicable environmental laws/regulations
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres): 
	
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:  
(i)	 Name of the area 
(ii)	 Nature of operations 
(iii)	Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 24-25
FY 23-24
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)
Surface water
N/A
(ii)
Groundwater 
(iii)
Third party water 
(iv)
Seawater / desalinated water 
(v)
Others  
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres) 
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover) 
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity 
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Parameter
FY 24-25
FY 23-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i)
Into Surface water 
 N/A
 - No treatment
 - With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(ii)
Into Groundwater 
 - No treatment
 - With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(iii)
Into Seawater 
 - No treatment
 - With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(iv)
Sent to third parties  
 - No treatment
 - With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
(v)
Others 
 - No treatment
 - With treatment – please specify level of treatment 
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)  
               Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency. 
	
	
No
2.	 Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format: 
Parameter
Unit
FY 24-25
FY 23-24
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
Considering the level of quantification 
required for Scope 3 calculation, the 
Company currently is not evaluating the 
emission and intensity. However, the 
Company shall start assessing the same 
from the coming year.
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover 
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity 
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency. 
	
No
3.	 With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of Essential Indicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation 
activities.  
	
N/A    
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
120
Dreamfolks Services Limited
121
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
4. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as 
well as outcome of such initiatives, as  per the following format: 
	
The Company has undertaken the following measure during the last couple of years prior to FY24-25, which continue to benefit 
the Company in the manner described below: 
Sr. 
No
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, 
may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative
LED lights
The Company has installed LED lights 
within the office premises
	 High Energy Efficiency: LED (Light Emitting 
Diode) lights are highly energy-efficient 
compared to traditional incandescent or 
fluorescent bulbs.
	 Low Power Consumption: LED lights 
require significantly less power to produce 
the same amount of light as traditional bulbs.
	 Long Lifespan: LED lights have a much 
longer lifespan compared to traditional 
bulbs.
Use of compostable 
plastic bags
-
	 Environmental Friendliness: Compostable 
garbage bags are designed to break down 
and decompose naturally over time through 
biological processes.
	 Reduced Plastic Waste: By using 
compostable garbage bags, the reliance on 
traditional plastic bags is reduced. 
	 Landfill Management: Biodegradable 
garbage bags can facilitate more efficient 
waste management in landfills.
Water Faucets rather 
than the Water Taps
-
Efficiency in water usage and reduction of 
wastage
5.	 Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.  
	
DreamFolks’ Business Continuity Plan (“BCP”) is intended to safeguard the Company’s and its clients’ assets and give the 
Company the ability to resume effective operations at a level and in a time frame that enable it to comply with legal and regulatory 
requirements. All of the Member firm’s operations are covered by the BCP, which also offers a sufficient plan for each business 
area in each place where the firm has a presence. The BCP makes sure that adequate alternative facilities are accessible, that 
key personnel are on hand (and multi-skilled to serve in multiple roles), and that essential technology, outside services, crucial 
records, and other items are replicated and available in another place.
	
The plan’s goal is to give the Company the ability to operate at a predetermined level of commercial activity that satisfies both its 
commitment to its clients and its legal, fiduciary, and regulatory requirements. The BCP includes a recovery period and considers 
how the size of the disruption and external circumstances may limit how quickly things may get back to normal. BCP contains 
all the detailed risk assessments and impact analysis with respect to its risk matrix, evaluation is conducted. It also contains 
prevention measures, mitigation recovery strategies and procedures.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
6. Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
	
No significant effects are expected to arise from the organization’s value chain operations.
7.	 Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts. 
   	
Assessment for value chain partner has not been conducted.
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory Policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
1. a)   Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
       As of March 31, 2025, the Company is a member of Economic Times India Leadership Council. 
	
b)   List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ 
associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/ associations 
(State/National)
The Company is not affiliated with any top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations.
2.	 Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anticompetitive conduct by the entity, 
based on adverse Orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective active taken
Nil
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Details of public Policy positions advocated by the entity:
Sr. No
Public Policy 
advocated
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in public 
domain? (Yes/No)
Frequency of Review 
by Board (Annually/ 
Half yearly/ Quarterly / 
Others – please specify)
Web Link, If 
available
The Company has not advocated any public Policy positions as of now for the advancements of their interest.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
122
Dreamfolks Services Limited
123
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development 
Essential Indicators
1.	 Details of Social Impact Assessments (‘SIA’) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year.
Name and Brief 
details of project
SIA Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No)
Relevant Web 
Link
Considering the nature of operations, there is not requirement of undertaking SIA.
S. No
Name of Project 
for which R&R is 
ongoing
State
District
No. pf Project 
Affected 
Families (PAFs)
5 of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid to 
PAFs in the FY 
(in INR)
N/A
2.	 Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your 
entity, in the following format:
3.	 Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
Since the Company’s operations have no direct or indirect impacts on such communities, it does not have any such mechanism 
as of now. 
4.	 Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 24-25
FY 23-24
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
46
48
Sourced directly from within the district and neighbouring districts 
21
24
5.	 Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed on a 
permanent or non-permanent / on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost 
Location
FY 24-25
FY 23-24
Rural
-
-
Semi-Urban
-
-
Urban
-
-
Metropolitan
100%
100%
(Place to be categorized as per Reserve Bank of India Classification System - rural / semi-urban / urban / metropolitan)
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Leadership Indicators
1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
N/A
2.	 Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies: 
S. No
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In INR)
The Company has not undertaken any CSR projects in the aspirational districts identified by government bodies.
3.	 (a)	
Do you have a preferential procurement Policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No) – No 
	
       	
Considering the nature and quantity of procurement, the Company doesn’t have any preferential procurement Policy. 
	
(b) 	
From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure? 
	
       	
N/A
	
(c)   	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? 
	
       	
N/A
4. Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year), based on traditional knowledge: 
	
N/A
5.	 Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse Order in intellectual property related disputes 
wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective Action taken
Nil
6. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
Sr.  
No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted from CSR projects
% of beneficiaries from vulnerable 
and marginalized groups
1.
Project  Saksham
Students of: 
	 Govt. Model Sanskriti Primary School, Village Tigra, 
Gurugram (550 Beneficiaries). 
	 Sanshil Foundation, Charity for education skill 
development centre, Bagiya , Sector-50 Gurugram (340 
beneficiaries) and 
	 Govt Girl Senior Secondary School, village Badshahpur 
(1800 beneficiaries).
100%
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
124
Dreamfolks Services Limited
125
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1.	 Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
The Company is engaged into B2B business, and their clients and partners can reach out to them via their relationship managers 
directly. In addition, consumers can send in their complaints calling our toll-free no. or by writing to the Company’s helpdesk. All 
complaints are logged in their system and responded based on defined SLAs. There is an automated feedback mechanism set on 
their IVR.
 	
Helpdesk number: 1800 1234 109 
	
Helpdesk email ID: helpdesk@dreamfolks.in
2.	 Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
 Nil 
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and/or safe disposal
3.	 Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2024-25
Remarks
FY 2023-24
Remarks
Received 
during the 
Year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during the 
Year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data Privacy
No such complaints have been received in the current as well as previous FY.
Advertising
Cyber-security
Delivery of essential services
Restrictive Trade Practices
Unfair Trade Practices
Other
4.	 Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Forced recalls
N/A
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
5.	 Does the entity have a framework/ Policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide 
a web-link of the  Policy.
	
Yes. The Company is very conscious about the protection of its data and has water-tight Policies on Cyber Security and Data 
Privacy that were further reviewed this FY and the suggestions were inculcated in the revised versions. The Company is further 
compliant with updated versions of; 
	 ISO 27001
	 PCIDSS
	 SOC1 Type 2
	 SOC 2 Type 2
	
Considering the sensitive nature of the Policies, the Company would not be disclosing its weblink. 
6.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action 
taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
	
N/A
7.	 Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a.	 Number of instances of data breaches – NIL
b.	 Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers – NIL
c.	 Impact, if any, of the data breaches – N/A
Leadership Indicators
1.	 Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if 
available).
	
The Company’s Information relating to all the services are available at its official website: www.dreamfolks.com and web & 
mobile applications.  A person can also reach out to the Company through the Helpdesk number - 1800 1234 109
2.	 Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
	
The terms and conditions of the contracts are discussed in detail before execution for corporate clients. For individual customers, 
the sales teams makes every effort to ensure that all relevant informations about the services are disclosed upfront.   
3.	 Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
	
The Company regularly reviews various risk associated with its operations through its risk management system. For situations 
arising out of disruption/discontinuation of essential services, the Company has necessary systems to deal with it. Necessary 
notifications would be sent to all clients as per the agreed processes and parallelly, the account managers will also reach out to 
the clients in such cases.   
4.	 Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/
No/N/A) If yes, provide details in brief. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating 
to the major products / services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/
No)
	
N/A
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
126
Dreamfolks Services Limited
127
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
BOARD’S REPORT
BOARD’S REPORT
Dear Members,
Your Board of Directors are pleased to present the 17th Annual Report on the business performance and operations of Dreamfolks 
Services Limited (“Company”) along with the Audited Financial Statements (consolidated as well as standalone) for the financial 
year ended March 31, 2025.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 
The Audited Financial Statements of your Company as on March 31, 2025, are prepared in accordance with the relevant/applicable 
Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind AS”) and the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”).
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of Audited Financial Statements of the Company and its 
subsidiaries, as approved by their respective Board of Directors.
The Financial highlights are summarized below:
(in INR Million)
Particulars
Consolidated
Standalone
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2025
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue from Operations
 12,918.82
11,350.12
 12,918.82
11,349.46
Other Income
 85.60
33.26
 89.55
33.17
Total Income
 13,004.42
11,383.38
 13,008.37
11,382.63
Cost of services
 11,417.80
9,981.71
 11,415.82
9,975.46
Employee benefits expenses
 425.72
284.85
 397.06
282.09
Finance costs
 35.86
10.18
 35.86
10.12
Depreciation and amortization 
expenses
 38.34
37.02
 38.29
37.00
Other expenses
 187.85
145.09
 179.04
140.61
Total Expenses
 12,105.57
10,458.85
 12,066.07
10,445.28
Profit/ (Loss) before Tax (PBT)
 898.85
924.53
 942.30
937.35
Profit/ (Loss) after Tax (PAT)
 650.50
686.37
 696.83
696.83
Attributable to
 
 
 
 
- Owners
 654.29
690.04
 696.83
696.83
- Non-controlling interest
 (3.79)
(3.67)
 
 
Total Comprehensive Income
 650.24
684.62
 695.91
695.17
Attributable to:
 
 
 
 
- Owners
 654.03
688.29
 695.91
695.17
- Non-controlling interest
 (3.79)
(3.67)
 
 
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
	
Consolidated income, comprising Revenue from Operations and other income, for FY 2024-25 was INR 13,004.42 Million as 
against INR 11,383.38 Million in FY 2023-24;
	
Consolidated Profit before Tax for the FY 2024-25 was INR 898.85 Million vis-à-vis INR 924.53 Million in FY 2023-24; and
	
Consolidated Profit after Tax for the FY 2024-25 was INR 650.50 Million compared to INR 686.37 Million in FY 2023-24.
COMPANY’S PERFORMANCE & FUTURE OUTLOOK
We are India’s leading travel and lifestyle services aggregator, 
offering a broad suite of solutions through our proprietary 
technology platform. Our agile tech capabilities allows us to 
build scalable, customised offerings for our clients, card issuers, 
card networks and enterprises. We proudly manage lounge 
and travel benefit programs for some of the most prominent 
banks and card networks in India, offering seamless access to 
premium experiences across 3,000+ global touchpoints.
DreamFolks offers a comprehensive range of services 
designed to enhance and personalise every aspect of the travel 
and lifestyle experience. We have consistently expanded our 
portfolio to include a diverse set of value-added services. Over 
the years, we have moved far beyond lounges to become a true 
enabler of premium travel and lifestyle experiences. 
A detailed analysis and insight into the financial performance 
and operations of your Company for the year under review and 
future outlook, is appearing under the Management Discussion 
and Analysis section, which forms part of this Annual Report.
FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE
1.	
DIVIDEND
	
In terms of Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“SEBI LODR Regulations”) the Board of 
Directors of the Company (the ‘Board’) formulated 
and adopted the Dividend Distribution Policy (the 
‘Policy’). The Policy that balances the dual objectives of 
rewarding shareholders through dividends, whilst also 
ensuring availability of sufficient funds for growth of the 
Company. The Policy  is available on the following weblink 
https://www.dreamfolks.com/files/policy/Dividend-
Distribution-policy.pdf. 
	
The Board has not recommended any Dividend for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025.
2.	
TRANSFER TO RESERVES
	
The closing balance of the retained earnings of the 
Company for FY 2024-25, after all appropriations and 
adjustments was INR 2715.47 Million. Further, during 
the year under review, no amount has been transferred 
to the Reserve of the Company.
3.	
LIQUIDITY 
	
The Company’s liquidity position, on a standalone basis, is 
INR 1,465.66 Million as on March 31, 2025, comprising 
INR 303.33 Million in cash and cash equivalents, 
INR 897.70 Million invested in debt mutual funds and 
INR 264.63 in Other Bank balance.
4.	
SHARE CAPITAL
	
During the year under review, there has been no change 
in the Authorised share capital of the Company. Further, 
the issued, subscribed and paid-up equity share capital 
of the Company as at March 31, 2025 stood at INR 
10,65,39,724/- consisting of 5,32,69,862 equity shares 
of INR 2/- each fully paid up whereas the paid-up equity 
share capital of the Company as at March 31, 2024 stood 
at INR 10,60,51,824/- consisting of 5,30,25,912 equity 
shares of INR 2/- each fully paid up. The increase in the 
paid up share capital has been on account of issue of 
equity shares arising out of Employees’ Stock Options 
allotment.
5.	
SUBSIDIARIES
	
On March 31, 2025, the Company has two (2) subsidiaries. 
There are no associates or joint venture companies within 
the meaning of Section 2(6) of the the Act.
	
The Company holds 60% equity shares in Golfklik Private 
Limited, formerly known as Vidsur Golf Private Limited.
	
The Company had incorporated a wholly owned 
subsidiary, Dreamfolks Services Pte. Ltd. ("'DSPL") on 
April 27, 2023 as a Private Limited Company by shares 
under the laws of Singapore. 
	
During the period under review, there was no change 
in the nature of business of subsidiary companies. The 
Minutes of the Board Meetings along with the report on 
significant transactions of the subsidiaries are periodically 
placed before the Board of Directors of the Company. 
The Audit Committee of the Company also reviews the 
Financials of the subsidiary companies.
	
The Company at its Board meeting dated December 13, 
2023 inter-alia, considered and approved the proposal for 
voluntary striking off of Dreamfolks Hospitality Private 
Limited, a subsidiary of the Company. Subsequently, 
Dreamfolks Hospitality Private Limited had filed an 
application on March 12, 2024, with the concerned 
Registrar of Company (ROC) regarding the strike-off of its 
name from the records of the ROC. The same was approved 
by the concerned ROC vide its Order dated April 3, 2024, 
consequently, Dreamfolks Hospitality Private Limited 
ceased to be subsidiary of the Company. Dreamfolks 
Hospitality Private Limited was not a material subsidiary 
of the Company and therefore, it did not have a material 
impact on the consolidated financials of the Company.
Annual Report 2024-25
128
Dreamfolks Services Limited
129
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
A report on the performance and financial position of 
each of the subsidiaries for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2025 in prescribed Form AOC -1 as per the 
Act is set out in Annexure- 1.
	
The Annual Financial Statements of the subsidiaries are 
available under investors section on the website of the 
Company at https://www.dreamfolks.com/results-and-
reports.html#tab-7. 
	
The Company has formulated a Policy for determining 
material subsidiaries. The said Policy is also available on 
the website of the Company at https://s3.ap-south-1.
amazonaws.com/df.imagesv1/website-content/Policy-
for-determining-material-subsidiaries.pdf.  
	
No subsidiary, associate or joint venture has been 
acquired or ceased/ sold/ liquidated during the financial 
year ended March 31, 2025 except for voluntary 
striking-off of Dreamfolks Hospitality Private Limited as 
mentioned above.
6.	
MATERIAL 
CHANGES 
AND 
COMMITMENTS 
AFFECTING THE FINANCIAL POSITION
	
While no material changes/commitments have occurred 
after the end of financial year 2024-25 and till the date 
of this report, which affects the financial position of your 
Company, kindly note that some of the program run by the 
Company  for Axis Bank and ICICI Bank  have been closed 
w.e.f. July 01, 2025. The activation of new programs/ 
deactivation of existing programs is part of our regular 
business operations but considering that they are large 
clients, impact of the aforesaid is likely to be material in 
nature. The  Company is currently evaluating the exact 
potential impact and  is also taking requisite actions for 
mitigating the above.
	
The Company remains committed to adhering to 
the highest standards of corporate governance and 
will continue to inform the stakeholders through the 
platforms of Stock Exchanges of any material events in a 
timely manner as required under applicable laws.
7.	
PUBLIC DEPOSITS
	
During the year under review, your Company has not 
accepted any Deposit under Chapter V of the Act read 
together with the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) 
Rules, 2014. There are no unclaimed or unpaid deposits 
remaining with the Company at the end of the Financial 
Year 2024-25.
8.	
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
	
In compliance with the requirements of the Act and the 
SEBI LODR Regulations, your Company has formulated 
a Policy on Related Party Transactions which is also 
available on Company’s website at https://s3.ap-south-1.
amazonaws.com/df.imagesv1/website-content/Policy-
on-Related-Party-Transactions_Dreamfolks-Services-
Limited.pdf. 
	
The Policy intends to ensure that proper reporting, 
approval and disclosure processes are in place for all 
transactions between the Company and its Related 
Parties. All Related Party Transactions are placed 
before the Audit Committee for review and approval. 
Prior omnibus approval is obtained for Related Party 
Transactions which are of repetitive nature and / or 
entered in the ordinary course  of  business  and are at 
arm’s length.
	
All related party transactions entered during the year 
were in ordinary course of the business and on arm’s 
length basis. No Material Related Party Transaction was 
entered during the Financial Year by your Company.
	
Accordingly, the disclosure of Related Party Transactions 
as required under Section 134(3) (h) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 in Form AOC-2 is not applicable. Reference 
of the Members is invited to the note no. 43 of the 
Standalone Financial Statements, which sets out the 
related party disclosures as per the IND-AS 24.
9.	
LOANS AND INVESTMENTS
	
The Company has extended loans during Financial Year 
2024-25 within the meaning of Section 186 of the Act 
read with the Companies (Meetings of Board and its 
Powers) Rules, 2014 and SEBI LODR Regulations. The 
details of such loans along with the purpose for which 
such loans are proposed to be utilized by the recipient 
of the loan are set out in Note No. 13 to the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company.
	
The Company does not fall in the category provided 
under Section 186(11) of the Act.
Brief details of such transactions are given hereunder:
Number of transactions: Loan advanced in three Tranches
Corporate identity number (CIN) or foreign company 
registration number (FCRN) or Limited Liability Partnership 
number (LLPIN) or Foreign Limited Liability Partnership 
number (FLLPIN) or Permanent Account  Number  (PAN)/
Passport  for individuals or registration number
202316256N
Name of the Party
DREAMFOLKS SERVICES PTE. LTD.
Type of person (Individual / Entity)
Entity 
Nature of transaction
Loan 
In case of loan, rate of interest would be enquired
One year Government security plus fifty (50) basis points
Brief on the transaction
Inter Corporate loan agreement for working capital and other 
business purposes 
Amount (in INR)
INR  4,78,52,244
Date of passing Board resolution
May 29, 2024
Whether the threshold of 60% of paid-up share capital, free 
reserves and securities premium account or 100% of its free 
reserves  and  securities  premium  account breached?
No
Whether the transaction falls under the purview of proviso to 
Section 186(3) and Company is not required to pass SR.
Yes
SRN of MGT-14 
AA8421920
10.	 DISCLOSURE RELATED TO INSOLVENCY AND 
BANKRUPTCY
	
No application has been made under the Insolvency and 
Bankruptcy Code; hence the requirement to disclose the 
details of application made or any proceeding pending 
under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 during 
the year along with their status as at the end of the 
financial year is not applicable.
11.	 NO DIFFERENCE IN VALUATION
	
The requirement to disclose the details of difference 
between amount of the valuation done at the time of 
onetime settlement and the valuation done while taking 
loan from the Banks or Financial Institutions along with 
the reasons thereof, is not applicable.
BOARD GOVERNANCE
12.	 DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
I.	
Directors
	
The composition of the Board represents an 
optimal mix of professionalism, knowledge and 
experience and enables the Board to discharge its 
responsibilities and provide effective leadership to 
the business. The Board of your Company comprises 
highly experienced persons of repute, eminence and 
has a good and diverse mix of Executive and Non-
Executive Directors. The Board composition is in 
conformity with the applicable provisions of the Act 
and SEBI LODR Regulations, as amended from time 
to time. As on March 31, 2025, the Board comprised 
of eight (8) Directors out of which four (4) are 
Independent Directors [including two (2) Woman 
Director (Independent)], two (2) are Non-Executive 
Directors and the rest of the two (2) are Executive 
Directors. The Chairperson of the Board is Woman 
Director (Managing Director). 
	
Selection 
of 
New 
Directors 
and 
Board 
Membership Criteria
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
(‘NRC’) engages with the Board to evaluate the 
appropriate characteristics, skills and experience 
for the Board as a whole as well as for its individual 
Members with the objective of having a Board with 
diverse backgrounds and experience in business, 
BOARD’S REPORT
BOARD’S REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
130
Dreamfolks Services Limited
131
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
finance, governance, etc. The NRC, basis such 
evaluation, determines the role and capabilities 
required for appointment of Directors. Endeavour 
is made to have individuals on the Board, with a 
diverse set of personalities, demographics, ideally 
representing a wide cross-section of industries, 
professions, 
backgrounds, 
occupations 
and 
functions, and possessing a blend of skills, domain 
and functional knowledge, experiences, educational 
qualifications. Thereafter, the NRC recommends to 
the Board the selection of new Directors.
	
The appointment on the Board are being made 
on merit considering the skills, experience, and 
competencies required for effective functioning 
and independence of the Board, and also personal 
qualities of integrity and ethical conduct, team-
playing capabilities and other positive attributes of 
the Director.
	
Induction to the Board:
	
Ms. Monica Widhani (DIN: 07674403), was 
appointed as Additional Director (Independent) 
by the Board of Directors w.e.f. September 06, 
2024. The Members of the Company accorded 
their approval for the appointment of Ms. Monica 
Widhani as Independent Director of the Company, 
through postal ballot vide special resolution on 
November 27, 2024.
	
Mr. Sunil Kulkarni (DIN: 02714177), was appointed 
as Additional Director (Independent) by the Board of 
Directors w.e.f. November 21, 2024. The Members 
of the Company accorded their approval for the 
appointment of Mr. Sunil Kulkarni as Independent 
Director of the Company, through postal ballot vide 
special resolution on February 13, 2025.
	
In the opinion of the Board, the Independent 
Directors of the Company appointed during the 
financial year are the person of integrity and possess 
requisite expertise, skills and experience (including 
the proficiency) required for their role as well as 
fulfils the conditions specified in the Act read with 
the Schedules and Rules issued thereunder as well 
as the SEBI LODR Regulations and are independent 
from Management. The Independent Directors 
bring with them the core competencies, attributes 
and skills which will be of immense benefit to the 
Company.
	
Re-appointment of Directors retiring by rotation:
	
In accordance with the provisions of the Section 152 
of the Act read with the Companies (Appointment 
and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014, 
Mr. Dinesh Nagpal (DIN: 01105914) retires by 
rotation at the ensuing Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) and being eligible, offers himself for 
re-appointment. The Board recommends re-
appointment of Mr. Dinesh Nagpal, for approval of 
the Members at the ensuing AGM. The enabling 
resolution for the re-appointment of Mr. Dinesh 
Nagpal forms part of the Notice convening the 
ensuing AGM.
	
Further, a brief profile of Mr. Dinesh Nagpal and 
disclosures 
required 
pursuant 
to 
Regulation 
36 of the SEBI LODR Regulations read with 
the Secretarial Standards on General Meeting 
('SS-2') with respect to proposed re-appointment 
are given in the Notice convening the 17th AGM of 
your Company.
	
Proposed Re-appointment: 
	
In terms of the provisions of Sections 196, 203 and 
other applicable provisions, if any, read with Schedule 
V of the Act and the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014, and other applicable Regulations, if any, of 
the SEBI LODR Regulations (including any statutory 
modifications and re-enactment thereof, for the 
time being in force), it is proposed to re-appoint 
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat (DIN: 06849062) as 
Chairperson & Managing Director (CMD) of the 
Company for a further period of five years, on expiry 
of her present term of office i.e. with effect from 
February 19, 2026 through February 18, 2031 
and not liable to retire by rotation. The Board basis 
recommendations of the NRC and her performance 
evaluation, recommends the re-appointment of 
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat, for approval of the 
Members at the ensuing AGM. The enabling 
resolution for the re-appointment of Ms. Liberatha 
Peter Kallat forms part of the Notice convening the 
ensuing AGM.
	
Further, a brief profile of Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat 
and disclosures required pursuant to Regulation 
36 of the SEBI LODR Regulations, schedule V of of 
the Act and the SS-2 with respect to proposed re-
appointment are given in the Notice of convening 
the 17th AGM of your Company.
	
Cessation:
	
Mr. 
Sudhir 
Jain 
(DIN: 
00010445) 
and 
Mr. Sharadchandra Damodar Abhyankar (DIN: 
00108866), had completed the second term 
of  their  office as Independent Directors of 
the Company on November 29, 2024 (close of 
business hours) and consequently, ceased to be the 
Independent Directors of the Company & Members 
of the respective Board Committees with effect 
from November 29, 2024. The Board placed on 
record their sincere appreciation for the stellar 
contributions made by them as Members of the 
Board.
	
For further details in this connection, please refer to 
the Corporate Governance Report.
	
Directors’ Declaration:
	
None of the Directors of the Company are 
disqualified as per the provisions of Section 164 of 
the Act. The Directors of the Company have made 
necessary disclosures under Section 184 and other 
relevant provisions of the Act and the SEBI LODR 
Regulations.
	
Independent Directors’ Declaration:
	
The Independent Directors of the Company have 
confirmed the following:
a.	
they meet the criteria of independence as 
prescribed under the provisions of the Act, 
read with the applicable Schedule and Rules 
made thereunder and SEBI LODR Regulations, 
b.	
they have registered themselves on the data 
bank of Independent Directors maintained by 
Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs, and
c.	
they have complied with the Code for 
Independent Directors prescribed under 
Schedule IV to the Act.
	
In the opinion of the Board, there has been no 
change in the circumstances which may affect 
their status as Independent Directors of the 
Company. Further, the Board is of the opinion that 
the Independent Directors of the Company hold 
highest standards of integrity and possess requisite 
expertise and experience required to fulfil their 
duties as Independent Directors.
	
Code of Conduct:
	
The Company is guided by the Code of Conduct 
in taking decisions, conducting business with a 
firm commitment towards values, while meeting 
stakeholders’ expectations. This is aimed at 
enhancing the organization’s brand and reputation. 
It is imperative that the affairs of the Company are 
managed in a fair and transparent manner. Further, 
all the Directors have confirmed adherence to the 
Company’s ‘Code of Conduct’.
	
Board Diversity:
	
Your Company recognizes that Board diversity 
is a pre-requisite to meet the challenges of 
globalization, 
ever 
evolving 
technology 
and 
balanced care of all stakeholders and therefore, 
has appointed Directors from diverse backgrounds 
including Women Director. The Board of your 
Company comprises highly experienced persons of 
repute, eminence and has a good and diverse mix of 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
	
The Company has Policy on Board Diversity in place, 
which is available on the website of the Company at 
https://www.dreamfolks.com/files/policy/Policy-
on-Board-Diversity.pdf.
	
Familiarization Programme
	
Your 
Company 
conducts 
induction 
and 
familiarization programme for the Directors. The 
Company, through such programme, familiarizes 
the Directors with the background of the Company, 
nature of the industry in which it operates, business 
model, business operations, etc. The programme 
also includes interactive sessions with leadership 
team for better understanding of business strategy, 
operational 
performance, 
product 
offerings, 
marketing initiatives etc. This enables the Directors 
to get a deep understanding of the Company, its 
people, values and culture and facilitates their active 
participation in overseeing the performance of the 
Management.
BOARD’S REPORT
BOARD’S REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
132
Dreamfolks Services Limited
133
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
II.	
Key Managerial Personnel
	
In accordance with the provisions of Sections 2(51), 
203 of the Act read with Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014, the following were the Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company as on March 31, 2025:
1.	
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat - Chairperson & 
Managing Director;
2.	
Mr. Balaji Srinivasan - Executive Director & 
Chief Technology Officer; and
3.	
Mr. Harshit Gupta - Company Secretary and 
Compliance Officer.
	
Following were the notable changes in the key 
managerial personnel of your Company:
	
Appointments:
	
On the recommendation of NRC, the Board of 
Directors appointed Mr. Harshit Gupta as Company 
Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Company 
w.e.f. September 06, 2024, at its meeting held on 
September 05, 2024. 
	
Further, 
the 
Board 
of 
Directors 
appointed 
Mr. Shekhar Sood as Chief Financial Officer of the 
Company w.e.f. April 30, 2025 at its meeting held on 
April 30, 2025, basis recommendations of the NRC. 
	
Cessations:
	
Ms. Rangoli Aggarwal had resigned from the 
position of Company Secretary & Compliance 
Office (KMP), w.e.f. August 30, 2024, which was 
duly accepted by the Board at its meeting held 
on August 08, 2024. The Board placed on record 
their appreciation for the contributions made by 
Ms. Rangoli Aggarwal during her tenure as Company 
Secretary & Compliance Officer of the Company.
	
Ms. Giya Diwaan had resigned from the position 
of Chief Financial Officer (KMP), w.e.f. February 
14, 2025, which was duly accepted by the Board 
at its meeting held on February 14, 2025.  The 
Board placed on record their appreciation for the 
contributions made by Ms. Giya Diwaan during her 
tenure as Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
13.	 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
	
As on the date of this report, following Board Committees 
are in place, which were delegated requisite powers to 
discharge their functions:
a.	
Audit Committee
b.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee
c.	
Risk Management Committee
d.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
e.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
	
The composition and other related information of 
the above Committees are stated in the Corporate 
Governance Report, which forms an integral part of this 
Annual Report.
	
Further, during the year under review all the 
recommendations made by the aforesaid Committees 
were duly accepted by the Board.
14.	 BOARD’S EVALUATION
	
In line with the requirements under the Act and the SEBI 
LODR Regulations, the Board of Directors  have  carried 
out  an  annual  evaluation of its own performance, Board 
Committees, and Individual Directors.
	
A structured questionnaire was prepared after taking 
into consideration the inputs received from NRC and 
Guidance notes issued by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India, in this regard, covering various aspects 
of the Board’s functioning such as adequacy of the 
composition of the Board and its Committees, Board 
culture, execution and performance of specific duties, 
obligations and governance. A separate exercise was 
carried out to evaluate the performance of individual 
Directors, who were evaluated on parameters such as 
level of engagement and contribution, independence of 
judgment, safeguarding the interest of the Company and 
its minority shareholders etc. 
	
The feedback and results of the questionnaire were 
collated and consolidated report was  shared  with the 
NRC & Board for improvements  and  its  effectiveness at 
their respective meetings. The Directors expressed their 
satisfaction with the evaluation process.
	
Further, the evaluation process confirms that the Board 
and its Committees continue to operate effectively, 
and the performance of the Directors including the 
Chairperson is satisfactory. The Board would endeavor to 
use the outcome of the evaluation process constructively, 
to improve its own effectiveness and deliver superior 
performance. 
	
Separate meeting of Independent Directors was held on 
March 27, 2025 to:
	
Review the performance of the Non – Independent 
Directors and the Board as a whole,
	
Review the performance of the Chairperson of 
the Company considering the views of the other 
Directors of the Company, and
	
Assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow 
of information between the Company management 
and the Board that is necessary for the Board to 
effectively and reasonably perform their duties.
15.	 NUMBER OF MEETINGS OF THE BOARD AND ITS 
COMMITTEES
	
The Board met 8 (Eight) times during the Financial Year 
2024-25. The details of the meetings of  the  Board as 
well as Committees thereof and Directors attending the 
same are given in the Corporate Governance Report, 
which forms an integral part of the Annual Report.
16.	 DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
	
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) of the Act, the Board of 
Directors to the best of their knowledge and ability, 
confirm that:
I.	
in the preparation  of  the annual  accounts  for the 
Financial Year ended March 31, 2025, the applicable 
accounting standards have been followed and there 
are no material departures from the same;
II.	
such accounting policies have been selected and 
applied consistently and judgments and estimates 
have been made that are reasonable and prudent so 
as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of your Company as at March 31, 2025 and of the 
profit of the Company for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2025;
III.	
proper and sufficient care has been taken for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
IV.	
the annual accounts have been prepared on a going 
concern’ basis;
V.	
proper internal financial controls laid down by the 
Directors were followed by the Company and that 
such internal financial controls are adequate and 
operate effectively; and
VI.	 proper systems have been devised to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
	
Based on the framework of internal financial controls and 
compliance systems established and maintained by the 
Company, work performed by the internal, statutory and 
secretarial auditors, external consultants and the reviews 
performed by management and the relevant Board 
Committees, including the Audit Committee, the Board 
is of the opinion that the Company’s internal financial 
controls were adequate and effective during the financial 
year 2024-25.
HUMAN RESOURCE GOVERNANCE
17.	 EMPLOYEES STOCK OPTION PLAN / SCHEME
	
Employees’ Stock Options represent a reward system 
based on the overall performance of the individual 
employee and the Company.
	
In order to reward and retain the key employees and to 
create a sense of ownership and participation amongst 
them, the Members of the Company at their meeting held 
on September 29, 2021 had approved the Dreamfolks 
Employees Stock Option Plan 2021 (“ESOP 2021 / Plan”) 
which was ratified by Members post Listing through 
Postal Ballot Resolution  dated November 20, 2022.
	
Further, during the period under review, the Company’s 
NRC pursuant to ESOP 2021, approved the allotment 
of 48,650 (Forty Eight Thousand Six Hundred and 
Fifty) shares at its meeting held on August 08, 2024 
and 1,95,300 (One Lakh Ninety-Five Thousand Three 
Hundred) shares by means of resolution passed by way 
of Circulation  dated December 06, 2024, aggregating 
to a total of 2,43,950 Shares (Two Lakhs Forty Three 
Thousand Nine Hundred and Fifty) to the Employees of 
the Company.
	
The Company has received a Compliance certificate 
from M/s. DMK Associates, Secretarial Auditor of the 
Company as required  under  Regulation  13  of  SEBI 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 (“SEBI SBEB & SE Regulations”) 
confirming that the ESOP 2021 has been implemented 
in accordance with the said Regulations and resolution 
passed by Shareholders of Company. 
	
Applicable disclosure as stipulated under the SEBI 
SBEB & SE Regulations with regard to the ESOP 2021 
is available on the Company’s website at https://www.
dreamfolks.com/company-announcements.html#tab-3. 
BOARD’S REPORT
BOARD’S REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
134
Dreamfolks Services Limited
135
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
18.	 PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES AND RELATED 
DISCLOSURES
	
Disclosures pertaining to remuneration and other 
details as required under Section 197(12) of the Act 
read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 are 
provided in the prescribed format and annexed herewith 
as Annexure- 2 to this Report.
	
The statement containing particulars of employees as 
required under Section 197(12) of the Act read with 
Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, 
forms part of this Annual Report. Further, the Report 
is being sent to the Members excluding the aforesaid 
annexure. In terms of Section 136 of the Act, any Member 
interested in obtaining a copy thereof may write to 
the Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of the 
Company at compliance@dreamfolks.in.
19.	 WHISTLE	
BLOWER 
POLICY 
AND 
VIGIL 
MECHANISM
	
In compliance with the provisions of Section 177 of the 
Act and Regulation 22 of the SEBI LODR Regulations, 
the Company  has in place  the Vigil Mechanism / Whistle 
Blower Policy for Directors, employees and  other 
stakeholders  which  provides a platform to them for raising 
their voice about any breach of code of conduct, financial 
irregularities, illegal or unethical practices, unethical 
behaviour, actual or suspected fraud, any incident of leak or 
suspected leak of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information. 
Adequate safeguards are provided against victimization to 
those who use such mechanism and direct access to the 
Chairperson of the Audit Committee in appropriate cases 
is provided. The Policy ensures that strict confidentiality is 
maintained whilst dealing with concerns and also that no 
discrimination is made against any person. The Policy may 
be accessed on the Company’s website at https://www.
dreamfolks.com/files/policy/Policy-on-Vigil-Mechanism_
Dreamfolks-Services-Limited_v1.10.pdf. 
20.	 DISCLOSURE UNDER THE SEXUAL HARASSMENT 
OF 
WOMEN 
AT 
WORKPLACE 
(PREVENTION, 
PROHIBITION AND REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013
	
The Company has zero tolerance towards sexual 
harassment at the workplace. The Company has adopted 
a Policy on prevention, prohibition and redressal of sexual 
harassment at workplace in line with the provisions of the 
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH Act”) and 
the Rules made thereunder.
	
In light with the provisions the POSH Act, the Company 
has duly constituted Internal Complaints Committee 
(“IC”). IC is in place for all works and offices of the 
Company to redress complaints received regarding 
sexual harassment. The Company’s Policy in this regard, 
is available on the employee’s intranet. The Company 
conducts regular training sessions for employees and 
Members of IC and has also rolled-out an online module 
for employees to increase awareness.  No instance or 
complaint was reported to IC during the year under 
review. Further, the details w.r.t. complaint under the 
POSH Act are given below:
a)	
number of complaints of sexual harassment received 
in the year: Nil 
b) 	
number of complaints disposed off during the 
year: Nil
c) 	
number of cases pending for more than ninety 
days: Nil
21.	 STATEMENT 
W.R.T. 
COMPLIANCE 
WITH 
THE 
PROVISION RELATING TO MATERNITY BENEFIT 
ACT, 1961
	
The Company is committed to ensuring a safe, supportive, 
and inclusive workplace for all women employees. All 
eligible women employees have been extended the 
benefits under the said Act, including maternity leave, 
nursing breaks, and other statutory entitlements as 
prescribed. The Company has duly complied with 
the provisions of the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961, as 
amended from time to time.
	
The Company continuously strives to maintain a work 
environment that upholds the rights and well-being of its 
women workforce in accordance with applicable laws.
22.	 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AS ON THE CLOSURE OF 
FINANCIAL YEAR
	
	 Female: 18
	
	 Male: 92
	
	 Transgender: 0
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
23.	 REMUNERATION POLICY
	
The Company is committed to deal with all stakeholders 
with full transparency and fairness, ensuring adherence to 
all laws and regulations and achieving highest standards 
of corporate governance. The Company considers its 
human resources and talent as critically valuable assets.
	
In compliance with the provisions of Section 178 of the Act 
read with the SEBI LODR Regulations, the Board had on 
the recommendation of the NRC of the Company, framed 
Nomination and Remuneration Policy (‘NR Policy’) for 
selection and appointment of Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnel, Senior Management and their remuneration.
	
The Company strives to ensure that:
	
the level and composition of remuneration is 
reasonable and sufficient to attract, retain and 
motivate Directors of the quality required to run the 
Company successfully;
	
relationship 
between 
remuneration 
and 
performance is clear and meets appropriate 
performance benchmarks; and
	
remuneration to Directors, KMPs and Senior 
Management involves a balance between fixed and 
incentive pay, reflecting short, medium and long-
term performance objectives appropriate to the 
working of the Company and its goals.
	
The NR Policy lays down the criteria for determining the 
qualifications, positive attributes and independence for 
Directors and to provide guidelines for the appointment 
and remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
(KMPs) and Senior Management of the Company.
	
The salient features of the NR Policy are that it lays down 
the parameters:
	
Based on which payment of remuneration (including 
sitting fees) shall be made to Independent Directors 
(‘IDs’) and Non-Executive Directors (‘NEDs’).
	
Based on which remuneration (including fixed salary, 
benefits and perquisites, bonus/performance linked 
incentive/ commission, retirement benefits) shall be 
given to Executive Directors, KMPs and SMPs
	
The NR Policy of the Company is available on the 
website of the Company and can be accessed at https://
www.dreamfolks.com/files/policy/nomination_and_
remuneration_policy.pdf. 
	
During the year under review, there has been no change 
to the Policy.
24.	 ANNUAL RETURN
	
As required under Section 92(3) of the Act read with the 
Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 
2014 and Section 134(3)(a) of the Act, the Annual Return 
of the Company is available on the Company’s website at 
https://s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/df.imagesv1/
website-content/Annual-Return-FY-2024-2025.pdf. 
25.	 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
	
Through Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR” ) there is a 
formation of a dynamic relationship between a Company on 
one hand & the society and environment on the other. CSR 
is traditionally driven by a moral obligation which resonates 
with the Policy of the Company.  The Board of Directors 
of your Company has formulated and adopted a Policy on 
Corporate Social Responsibility which can be accessed 
at 
https://www.dreamfolks.com/files/policy/Policy-on-
Corporate-Social-Responsibility_Dreamfolks-Services-
Limited_v1.pdf. The Company aims to develop the required 
capability and self-reliance of beneficiaries at the grass roots, 
especially of children and women, in the belief that these are 
pre-requisites for social and economic development.
	
The annual report on CSR activities containing salient 
features of the Policy and changes therein, if any, 
composition of CSR committee and disclosure as per 
Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014 (“CSR Rules”) is annexed herewith as 
Annexure–4 and forms part of this report.
Financial year ended
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Profit before tax (In INR)
 93,73,49,525 
97,46,01,253 
20,47,10,000
Net Profit computed u/s 198 adjusted as per Rule 2(1)(f) of 
the Companies (CSR Policy) Rules, 2014 (in INR)
95,23,71,154
97,16,37,307
 20,47,10,000
	
Other relevant Details:
1.	
Details on Policy development and implementation by Company on CSR initiatives taken during year. During the FY 
2024-25, the provisions of CSR were applicable to the Company basis the following:
a)	
Turnover (in INR actuals) for FY 2023-24: 11,34,94,61,265
b)	
Net worth (in INR actuals) for FY 2023-24: 2,37,08,20,200
c)	
Net profits for last three financial years:
BOARD’S REPORT
BOARD’S REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
136
Dreamfolks Services Limited
137
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
2.	
Amount spent in local area (in INR ): 1,00,00,010
3.	
Manner in which the amount spent during the 
financial year is detailed below in the table: 
a.	
Number of CSR activities: Two CSR activities 
were undertaken for Eradication of hunger, 
poverty, and malnutrition, Promotion of 
healthcare, Support for children's education 
under project “Saksham” in the following 
Schools:
1.	
Govt. Model Sanskriti Primary School, 
Village Tigra, Gurugram
2.	
Sanshil 
Foundation 
- 
Charity 
for 
Education, Skill Development Centre, 
Bagiya, Sector-50, Gurugram
3.	
Govt. Girls Senior Secondary School, 
Village Badshahpur
S. 
No.
CSR 
project or 
activity 
identified
Sector in 
which the 
Project is 
Covered
Projects or 
programs-
Specify the 
State/Union 
Territory 
where the 
Project/
Program was 
Undertaken
Projects or 
programs-
Specify 
the district 
where 
projects or 
programs 
was 
undertaken
Amount 
outlay 
(budget)
project or 
programs 
wise (in 
INR)
Amount 
spent on 
the projects 
or programs 
(in INR)
Expenditure on 
Administrative 
overheads  
(in INR)
Mode of 
Amount  
spent
1
Project 
Saksham
Education
Haryana 
Gurugram
1.41,91,457
1,00,00,010
Nil
Implementation 
agency 
	
Give details (name, address and email address) of 
implementing agency(ies): 
	
Global Social Welfare Organisation
	
Address: Shop No 227, Plot 26, 2nd  Floor, Vikas 
Royal, Arcade, Road No 44, Community Center, 
Rani Bagh, Pitam Pura, Delhi-110034
	
E-mail: - globalsocialwelfare11@gmail.com
	
The implementation and monitoring of CSR 
activities is in compliance with CSR objectives and 
Policy of the Company read with Section 135 of the 
Act and the CSR Rules.
26.	 MANAGEMENT 
DISCUSSION 
AND 
ANALYSIS 
REPORT
	
The Management Discussion and Analysis Report on the 
financial performance and results of operations of the 
Company, as required under Regulation 34 (2) (e) of the 
SEBI LODR Regulations, is provided in a separate section 
and forms an integral part of this report. It inter-alia 
gives details of the overall industry structure, economic 
developments, performance and state of affairs of your 
Company’s business, risks and concerns, and material 
developments during the financial year under review.
27.	 BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY 
REPORT
	
The Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, 
as stipulated under Regulation 34 (2) (f) of the SEBI 
LODR Regulations, describing the initiatives taken by 
the Company from Environment, Social and Governance 
perspective is provided in a separate section and forms an 
integral part of the Annual Report.
28.	 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
	
Your Company is committed to maintain the highest 
standards of Corporate Governance and adhere to 
the Corporate Governance requirements set out by 
Securities and Exchange Board of India. Separate report 
on Corporate Governance in terms of SEBI LODR 
Regulations, forms an integral part of this Annual Report.
	
Certificate from M/s. DMK Associates, Company 
Secretaries confirming compliance with the conditions of 
corporate governance in terms of SEBI LODR Regulations 
is also attached to the Corporate Governance Report.
29.	 CONSERVATION 
OF 
ENERGY, 
TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION AND THE FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS AND OUTGO
	
The initiatives on energy conservation, assimilation of 
technology and the dynamics of foreign exchange inflows 
and outflows as mandated under Section 134 of the Act, 
in conjunction with the Companies (Accounts) Rules of 
2014, the Company’s efforts are outlined below:
(A)	 Energy Conservation Efforts: 
(i)	
Strategies and Impacts on Energy Conservation
	
The Company is dedicated to continually 
exploring and adopting advanced technologies 
and 
methodologies 
to 
enhance 
energy 
efficiency across its infrastructure.
(ii)	
Leveraging Alternative Energy Sources
	
Considering 
the 
Company’s 
non-
manufacturing operations, specific details 
related to alternate energy utilization are 
deemed to be inapplicable.
(iii)	 Capital Investments towards Energy Conservation 
Equipment
	
During the fiscal year ending on March 31, 
2025, the Company did not allocate capital 
investments towards energy conservation 
equipment.
(B)	 Technology Absorption:
(i)	
Efforts to Assimilate Technology
	
As a leading player in the payment aggregator 
sector, the Company employs state-of-the-art 
technological solutions to drive its operations.
(ii)	
Realized 
Benefits 
from 
Technological 
Incorporation
	
Given 
the 
non-manufacturing 
scope, 
details regarding benefits such as product 
enhancement, 
cost 
efficiency, 
product 
development, or import substitution should be 
more relevant.
	
The expenditure incurred on Research and 
Development: Not Applicable.
(C)	  Foreign exchange earnings and outgo:
S. 
No. 
Particulars
FY 2024-25
FY 2023-24
Amount (In INR Million)
1
Foreign Exchange 
Earnings
887.03
343.07
2
Foreign Exchange 
Outgo
477.98
327.25
30.	 SIGNIFICANT/ MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY THE 
REGULATORS
	
There are no significant/ material Orders passed by the 
Regulators or Courts or Tribunals impacting the going 
concern status of your Company and its operations in 
future.
31.	 COMPLIANCE OF SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
	
During the year under review, applicable provisions 
of Secretarial Standards i.e., SS-1 and SS-2, relating 
to ‘Meetings of the Board of Directors’ and ‘General 
Meetings’, respectively have been followed by the 
Company.
AUDIT AND AUDITORS
32.	 AUDITORS AND AUDITORS’ REPORT
I.	
Statutory Auditors
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section  139  of the 
Act and the Rules framed thereunder, S. S. Kothari 
Mehta & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (FRN 
000756N /N500441), were appointed as Statutory 
Auditors of the Company from the conclusion of 
13th AGM of the Company which was held on 
November 20, 2021 till the conclusion of 18th  AGM.
	
The Audit Report on the Standalone Financial 
Statements of the Company for the period 
under review does not contain any qualification, 
reservation, adverse remark or disclaimer.
	
The Auditors of the Company have not reported 
any fraud as specified under the second proviso of 
Section 143(12) of the Act (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) for the time 
being in force).
II.	
Secretarial Auditors
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the 
Act read with the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014, your Company had appointed M/s. DMK 
Associates, Company Secretaries (“Secretarial 
Auditors”) to conduct the Secretarial Audit of your 
Company for the Financial Year 2024-25.
Note: Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR Account as per section 135(6) as on 28-03-2025 was INR 41,91,457.
BOARD’S REPORT
BOARD’S REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
138
Dreamfolks Services Limited
139
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
The Secretarial Audit Report for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025 is annexed herewith 
as Annexure-3 and forms an integral part of this 
Annual Report. The Secretarial Audit Report does 
not contain any qualifications, reservations, adverse 
remarks or disclaimer. 
	
During the FY 2024-25 the BSE Limited ("BSE") and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited ("NSE") 
had imposed fine on the Company w.r.t. alleged 
violations of the Regulation 18(1), Regulation 19, 
Regulation 20 and Regulation 21(2) of SEBI LODR 
Regulations. The Company vide its application 
dated March 28, 2025 had applied for waiver of 
fines to BSE and NSE in relation to fines levied by 
them on the grounds that the timeline for filing up 
the vacancy in any Committee was notified by SEBI 
through an amendment in SEBI LODR Regulations 
on December 12, 2024. Therefore, during the 
period of the vacancy i.e. from November 30, 2024 
to December 02, 2024, there was no effective 
provision in SEBI LODR Regulations, which 
specified the time period for filling up of vacancy 
in the Committees, nor specified that in case of 
expiry of term of Director, the resultant vacancy 
arising in Committees shall be filled not later than 
the date it is created. Further, Regulation 17(1E) 
of the SEBI LODR Regulations, prior to the said 
amendment, only specified for the timeline for filling 
in the vacancy in the office of a Director. It did not 
specify the timeline for filing up the vacancy in any 
Committee(s). 
	
Thereafter, the matter was placed before the 
Relevant Authority of the NSE and the request 
for waiver of fines was considered favorably. The 
corresponding communication of the BSE is still 
awaited. 
	
The Secretarial Auditor of the Company has not 
reported any fraud as specified under the second 
proviso of Section 143(12) of the Act.
	
Further, the Board of Directors of the Company 
at their Meeting held on May 23, 2025, (based on 
the recommendations of the Audit Committee), 
approved the appointment of DMK Associates, 
Company Secretaries, a Peer Reviewed Firm, having 
Firm Registration No. P2006DE003100 as the 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company for a term of 
five (5) consecutive financial years commencing 
from FY 2025-26 to 2029-2030, subject to the 
approval of the shareholders of the Company at the 
ensuing AGM.
III.	
Maintenance of Cost Records and Cost Auditors
	
In terms of Section 148 of the Act read with 
Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, 
the Company is not required to maintain cost 
accounting records and get them audited.
RISK & RELATED GOVERNANCE
33.	 RISK MANAGEMENT
	
Your Company has a Risk Management Committee 
which monitors and reviews the risk management plan 
/ process of your Company. The Company has adequate 
risk management procedures in place. The major risks 
are assessed through a systematic procedure of risk 
identification and classification. Risks are prioritised 
according to significance and likelihood.
	
The Risk Management Committee is responsible for 
overseeing the risk management processes with respect 
to all probable risks that the organization could face 
such as strategic, financial, liquidity, security including 
cyber security, regulatory, legal, reputational and other 
risks. The Committee ensures that there is a sound Risk 
Management Policy to address such risks. There are no 
elements of risk which, in the opinion of the Board may 
threaten the existence of the Company and the Policy 
contains requisite details for identification of such kind of 
risk, if any. A detailed statement indicating development 
and implementation of a Risk Management Policy of the 
Company, including identification of various elements of 
risk, is appearing under the Management Discussion and 
Analysis Report.
	
The details of the Risk Management Committee are given 
in the Corporate Governance Report which forms an 
integral part of this Annual Report.
	
Risk Management Policy of the Company is available on 
the  website  of  the  Company  and  can be accessed at 
https://www.dreamfolks.com/files/policy/Policy-on-Risk-
Management_Dreamfolks-Services-Limited_v1.10.pdf. 
34.	 INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS SYSTEMS AND 
THEIR ADEQUACY
	
Your Company has in place an adequate internal 
financial control framework with reference to financial 
and operating controls thereby ensuring orderly and 
efficient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to the Company’s policies, safeguarding of its assets, 
prevention and detection of frauds and errors, accuracy 
and completeness of accounting records, and timely 
preparation of reliable financial information.
	
The Company has also in place Internal control system 
which is supplemented by an extensive program of 
internal audits and their review by the management. 
The internal audit function is carried out by professional 
external audit firm, who conduct comprehensive risk 
focused audits and evaluates the effectiveness of the 
internal control structure across locations and functions 
on a regular basis.
	
During the Financial Year 2024-25, such controls were 
tested and no reportable material weakness in the design 
or operation was observed.
	
The Board of Directors have in the Directors 
Responsibility Statement confirmed the same to this 
effect.
GENERAL 
35.	 GENERAL
	
Your Company further confirms that:
1.	
The Company had  not  issued shares with 
Differential rights as to Voting, sweat equity shares, 
nor purchased nor had given loan to purchase its 
own securities;
2.	
There is no change in nature of business during the 
year; 
3.	
The Company has shifted its Registered Office w.e.f. 
February 07, 2024 from the erstwhile 22, DDA 
Flats Panchsheel Park, Shivalik Road, New Delhi, 
Delhi, India, 110017 to the present Registered 
Office being situated at 26, DDA Flats Panchsheel 
Park, Shivalik Road, New Delhi, 110017; and
4.	
The Company has shifted its Corporate Office from 
501, Tower-2, Fifth Floor, Worldmark, Sector-65, 
Gurugram-122018, Haryana, to at 301-307, 3rd 
Floor, Tower B, Good Earth Trade Tower, Maidawas 
Road, Sector 62, Gurugram -122001, Haryana.
36.	 AWARDS/ACCOLADES AND RECOGNITION
	
DreamFolks and its leadership has been consistently 
recognized for excellence across technology, leadership, 
innovation, customer experience, and travel experiences. 
These accolades reflect the Company's relentless 
focus on delivering premium experiences and driving 
innovation across the industry.
	
List of Awards:
a.	
Dreamfolks Services Limited was named Best User 
Experience Solution Provider at the 8th Annual 
India Banking Summit & Awards 2024
b.	
The Company won Best Banking Card Service 
Provider of the Year at the 11th edition of The 
Payments Reloaded Awards 2024
c.	
Received the Business Innovation Award at the 
14th edition of Entrepreneur Awards 2024
d.	
Ms. 
Liberatha 
Kallat, 
Chairperson 
& 
MD, 
DreamFolks, 
was 
conferred 
the 
Business 
Leadership Award at the Indian Achievers’ Awards 
2024
e.	
DreamFolks was recognised as the Iconic Brands of 
India 2024 by ET Now
f.	
Ms. Liberatha Kallat, Chairperson & MD, was 
felicitated as India’s Impactful CEOs 2024 by 
Times Now
g.	
DreamFolks was recognized with the Deloitte India 
Technology Fast 50 Awards 2024 in the category - 
Travel & Hospitality Tech at the 19th edition of the 
Deloitte Technology Fast 50 India programme
h.	
The Company received the Excellence in Premium 
Travel & Lifestyle Solutions award at the TAFI 
(Travel Agents Federation of India) Convention 
2025 in Vietnam
i.	
Ms. Liberatha Kallat was honoured as CEO of 
the Year at the Indian Achievers' Awards 2025, 
organized by the Indian Achievers’ Forum
j.	
DreamFolks won the award for Most Innovative 
Emerging Technology Implementation at the 
9th Annual India Banking Summit & Awards 2025, 
organized by Synnex Group
k.	
The Company bagged the Customer Experience 
Solution of the Year (Gold category) at the 5th 
edition of the BW BusinessWorld Fintech Awards 
2025
BOARD’S REPORT
BOARD’S REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
140
Dreamfolks Services Limited
141
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT & APPRECIATION
	
Your Directors express their sincere appreciation for 
the assistance and co-operation received from the 
Government authorities, financial institutions, banks, 
customers, vendors and Members during the year under 
review. This has enabled your Company to provide 
higher levels of consumer delight through continuous 
improvement in existing products, and introduction of 
new products.
Annexure-1
Form AOC-1
[Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 129 read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014]
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of Subsidiaries/ associate companies/ joint ventures
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
Details of Subsidiaries
(Information in respect of each subsidiary to be presented with amounts in Rs)
1.	
Number of subsidiaries: 2
Sl. No.
Particulars
Details
1.
CIN/ any other registration number of 
subsidiary company
202316256N
U92111DL2006PTC153784
2.
Name of the subsidiary
Dreamfolks Services PTE. Ltd.
Golfklik Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Vidsur 
Golf Private limited)
3.
The date since when subsidiary was acquired/ 
Incorporated
April 27, 2023
March 02, 2023
4.
Provisions pursuant to which the company has 
become a subsidiary (Section 2(87)(i)/Section 
2(87)(ii))
2(87)(ii)
2(87)(ii)
5.
Reporting period for the subsidiary 
concerned, if different from the holding 
company’s reporting period
Same as Dreamfolks Services Limited  
i.e. April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025
6.
Reporting currency and Exchange rate as on 
the last date of the relevant financial year in 
the case of foreign subsidiaries:-
INR (Indian Rupees),  
1 SGD=62.52 INR
INR (Indian Rupees)
7.
Share capital
31,72,077
1,00,000
8.
Reserves & surplus
(3,75,34,820)
(87,32,478)
9.
Total assets
1,41,26,644
1,02,09,124
10.
Total Liabilities
4,84,89,387
1,88,41,602
11.
Investments
Nil
Nil
12.
Turnover
Nil
9,72,72,000
13.
Profit / Loss before taxation
(3,62,11,960)
(65,89,571)
14.
Provision for taxation
Nil
28,79,836
15.
Profit after taxation
(3,62,11,960)
(94,69,407)
16.
Proposed Dividend
Nil
Nil
17.
Extent of shareholding (in %)
100%
60%
2.	
 Number of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations: N.A.
Sl. No.
CIN /any other registration number
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations
N.A.
Sl. No.
CIN /any other registration number
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations
N.A.
3.	
Number of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or have ceased to be a subsidiary during the year: N.A.
Note: Dreamfolks Hospitality Private Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, had filed an application as on March 12, 2024, with the 
concerned Registrar of Company (ROC) regarding the strike-off of its name from the records of the ROC. The same was approved by the 
concerned ROC vide its order dated April 03, 2024.
	
Your Directors also wish to place on record their deep 
sense of appreciation for the committed services by the 
employees. Our resilience to meet challenges was made 
possible by their hard work, solidarity, co-operation and 
support.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Date: August 07, 2025 
Place: Gurugram
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Chairperson & Managing Director
DIN: 06849062
BOARD’S REPORT
Annual Report 2024-25
142
Dreamfolks Services Limited
143
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Part “B”: Associates and Joint Ventures
Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Associate Companies and Joint Ventures: Nil
1.
Name of Associate/Joint Venture
N.A.
2.
Latest audited Balance Sheet Date
3.
Date on which the Associate or Joint Venture was associated or acquired
4.
Shares of Associate/Joint Ventures held by the company on the year end
A.
Number
B.
Amount of lnvestment in Associates/Joint Venture
C.
Extent of Holding %
5.
Description of how there is significant influence
6.
Reason why the associate/joint venture is not consolidated
7.
Net worth attributable to Shareholding as per latest audited Balance Sheet
8.
Profit / Loss for the year
A.
Considered in Consolidation
B.
Not Considered in Consolidation
5. 	
Number of associates or joint ventures which are yet to commence operations: N.A.
4. 	
Number of Associate / Joint Venture
Sl. No.
CIN /any other registration number
Names of Associates and Joint Ventures which are yet to commence 
operations
N.A.
Sl. No.
CIN /any other registration number
Names of Associates and Joint Ventures
N.A.
6.	
Number of associates or joint ventures which have been liquidated or have ceased to be associate or joint venture during 
the year: N.A.
Annexure-2
Details under Section 197(12) of The Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of The Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
Rule
Particulars
(i)
The Ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median 
remuneration of the employees of the Company for the financial 
year
a
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat, 
Chairperson & Managing Director
63.36
b
Mr. Balaji Srinivasan,  
Executive Director &  
Chief Technology Officer 
10.05
(ii)
The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, 
Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer and Company 
Secretary and Compliance Officer in the financial year
a
Ms Liberatha Peter Kallat, 
Chairperson & Managing Director
15% 
b
Mr. Balaji Srinivasan, Executive 
Director & Chief Technology 
Officer
10% 
c
&Ms. Giya Diwaan, Chief Financial 
Officer
10%
d
*Ms. Rangoli Aggarwal, Company 
Secretary & Compliance Officer
10%
e
#Mr. Harshit Gupta, Company 
Secretary and Compliance Officer
NA
(iii)
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of 
employees in the financial year
15 %
(iv)
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the 
Company
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the 
Company as of March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 
were 110 and 83 respectively.
(v)
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of 
employees other than the  managerial  personnel in the last 
financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in 
the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point 
out if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the 
managerial remuneration
Average percentage increase made in the salaries of 
employees other than the managerial personnel  in 
last financial year was 14.8% and change in Managerial 
remuneration was 13.4%.
(vi)
It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration is as per the Remuneration policy of the Company
#Mr. Harshit Gupta was appointed as Company Secretary and Compliance Officer w.e.f. September, 06, 2024
*Ms. Rangoli Aggarwal resigned from the position of Company Secretary & Compliance Officer w.e.f. August 30, 2024.
&Ms. Giya Diwaan resigned from the position of Chief Financial Officer w.e.f. February 14, 2025.
Note:
1.	
The Independent Directors and Non-executive Directors received only Sitting fees for attending Board and Committee 
meetings.
2.	
For the purpose of computation of Median remuneration, details of employees as on March 31, 2025 have been considered. 
3.	
Remuneration of Directors does not include perquisites under the Income Tax Act including ESOPs.
4. 	
The statement containing names of top ten employees in terms of remuneration drawn and the particulars of employees as 
required under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, forms part of this Report.
Annexure-1
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Dreamfolks Services Limited
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Mukesh Yadav
Chairperson and Managing Director
Director
DIN: 06849062
DIN: 01105819
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: August 07, 2025
Date: August 07, 2025
Shekhar Sood
Harshit Gupta
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
M.No.: 514643
M.No.: A41111
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: August 07, 2025
Date: August 07, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
144
Dreamfolks Services Limited
145
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Further, the report along with Financial Statements are being sent to the Members excluding the aforesaid annexure. In terms of 
Section 136 of the Act, the said annexure is open for inspection and any Member interested in obtaining a copy of the same may 
write to the Company Secretary and Compliance Officer.
Annexure-3
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 24A of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To,
The Members
Dreamfolks Services Limited 
CIN: L51909DL2008PLC177181 
26, DDA Flats Panchsheel Park,
Shivalik Road, Panchsheel Enclave, 
New Delhi-110017
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate 
practices by DREAMFOLKS SERVICES LIMITED (hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner 
that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conduct/statutory compliances and expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, Minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the Company and also the information provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during the 
conduct  of  Secretarial  Audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial 
year ended on March 31, 2025 (“Audit Period”) complied with the statutory provisions listed hereunder and also  that  the  Company 
has proper Board-processes  and  compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter along with Annexure-A attached to this report:
We have examined the books, papers, Minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for the 
financial year ended March 31, 2025 according to the provisions of:
I.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) and the Rules made thereunder;
II.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the Rules made thereunder;
III.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
IV.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder   to   the extent of Foreign Direct 
Investment (“FDI”), Overseas Direct Investments (“ODI”) and External Commercial Borrowings (“ECB”). (No fresh FDI was 
and ECB was taken by the Company during the Audit Period)
V.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) 
as amended from time to time: -
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; 
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; 
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; (Not 
applicable to the Company during the Audit Period)
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021; 
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not 
applicable to the Company during the Audit Period); 
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 
regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client; (Not applicable to the Company during the Audit Period)
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable to the 
Company during the Audit Period)
Annexure-2
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Dreamfolks Services Limited
Date: August 07, 2025 
Place: Gurugram
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Chairperson & Managing Director
DIN: 06849062
Annual Report 2024-25
146
Dreamfolks Services Limited
147
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not applicable to the Company 
during the Audit Period)
i.	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (herein 
after referred as “SEBI LODR Regulations”);
VI.	 The Company is in the business of Airport lounge access aggregator and providing an end-to-end technology solution for 
designing and delivering services that enhance the airport experiences and as per the information provided and confirmed by 
the Management, no sector specific law is applicable on the Company.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
(i)	
Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (SS-1 and SS-2).
(ii)	
The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with the BSE Limited ("BSE") and National Stock Exchange of India 
("NSE").
During the audit period under review, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc. mentioned above. 
However, the constitution of the Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”), Risk Management 
Committee (“RMC”), and Stakeholders Relationship Committee (“SRC”) as alleged as per the notices served upon the Company 
by the BSE and NSE was not in accordance with Regulations 18(1), 19, 20, and 21(2) of the SEBI LODR Regulations for a period of 
three days, i.e., from November 30, 2024 to December 2, 2024. In respect of the said alleged non-compliances, NSE and BSE had 
levied fines of `6,000 (excluding 18% GST) each for violation of the respective regulations.
The Company, seeking a waiver of the aforementioned fines has not paid the fines on account of the  applications filed with NSE 
and BSE on March 28, 2025 ,submitting that, prior to the amendment dated December 12, 2024, the SEBI LODR Regulations did 
not prescribe any specific timeline for filling Committee vacancies caused due to the expiration of the term of office of any Director. 
This position was also acknowledged by SEBI’s Expert Committee in its report  namely “Recommendations for facilitating ease of 
doing business and harmonization of the provisions of ICDR and LODR Regulations” dated June 26,2024.   Subsequently, the NSE, 
considered the Company’s waiver application and vide its letter dated June 30, 2025, communicated its decision in favour of the 
Company and accordingly  no fines were required to be paid to NSE in this regard . Further, as of the date of this report, the waiver 
application with the BSE remains pending.
Based on the information received and records maintained, we further report that:
1.	
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of Executive, Non-Executive, Women and 
Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the period under 
review were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
2.	
In pursuance to the provisions of the Act, adequate notices and shorter Notice, as the case may be, were given to all the 
Directors to schedule the Board / Committee Meetings along with agenda and detailed notes on agenda and a system exists 
for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful 
participation at the meeting in compliance of the Act.
3.	
All decisions at Board & Committee(s) meetings are carried out with requisite majority and recorded in the Minutes of the 
meetings. Further, there is no case of views of the dissenting Members as per the recordings in the Minutes of the meetings of 
the Board & Committee(s) thereof.
Based on the compliance mechanism established by the Company, we further report that there are adequate systems and processes 
in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, 
rules, regulations and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period the Company has undertaken the following event / action which may be construed as 
major in pursuance of above referred laws, rules, regulations; guidelines, standards etc.:
1.	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board at its meeting held on August 08, 2024 had approved the allotment 
of 48,650 fully paid-up equity shares and vide resolution by circulation  on December 06, 2024 approved the allotment of 
1,95,300 fully paid-up equity shares having face value of INR 2/- each  to the employees of the Company pursuant to exercise 
of Options under Dreamfolks Employee Stock Option Plan 2021.
FOR DMK ASSOCIATES
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Place: New Delhi	 	
	
	
	
	
Date:  07.08.2025 
UDIN: F004140G000951515
(DEEPAK KUKREJA)
FCS, LLB., ACIS (UK), IP.
	
	
	
	
	
Partner 
C.P. No. 8265
FCS No. 4140
       	
	
Peer Review No. 6896/2025
Annexure-3
Annexure-3
Annual Report 2024-25
148
Dreamfolks Services Limited
149
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annexure-A
To,
The Members
Dreamfolks Services Limited 
CIN: L51909DL2008PLC177181 
26, DDA Flats Panchsheel Park,
Shivalik Road, Panchsheel Enclave 
New Delhi-110017
Sub: Our report for the Audit Period is to be read along with this letter
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our Audit.
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis 
of our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules, and regulations 
and happening of events etc.
5.	
The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of 
the management. Our examination was limited to the verification of the procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
Place: New Delhi	 	
	
	
	
	
Date:  07.08.2025
UDIN: F004140G000951515
FOR DMK ASSOCIATES
COMPANY SECRETARIES
(DEEPAK KUKREJA)
FCS, LLB., ACIS (UK), IP.
	
	
	
	
	
Partner 
C.P. No. 8265
FCS No. 4140
       	
	
Peer Review No. 6896/2025
Annexure-4
Annual Report on CSR Activities 
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025
1.	
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) POLICY OVERVIEW:
	
Every company is vested with the privilege of existing within a societal framework. This privilege carries with it an inherent 
obligation to reciprocate by contributing a share of its rewards back to the society. As a corporate entity benefiting from 
societal resources, we acknowledge our joint obligation to return these benefits to the community.
	
The essence of our CSR Policy is centered on enhancing the living standards of the communities we engage with by creating 
sustainable value for all stakeholders. Consequently, our CSR initiatives are aligned with the stipulations outlined in Schedule 
VII of the Act, aiming to serve society and communities. Our efforts are geared towards making a tangible, enduring difference 
in community members' lives while offering our employees avenues for participating in these noble endeavors through 
volunteerism.
	
The Company plays a very significant role in improving the quality of the society within which it operates. The Company 
can flourish only if it operates in a healthy, orderly, just society that grants freedom and scope to individuals and their lawful 
enterprises.
	
The CSR Policy, as endorsed by the CSR Committee, has been approved by the Board of Directors. This Policy is available for 
review on our Corporate Website at https://www.dreamfolks.in/corporate-governance.html
	
Our CSR initiatives predominantly focus on supporting children's education and safeguarding the rights concerning girls' 
protection, safety, and welfare. We dedicate our programs and projects to the following areas including but not limited to:
	
Promotion of Healthcare
	
Eradication of Hunger, poverty & malnutrition
	
Support for children education
2.	
COMPOSITION OF CSR COMMITTEE:
S. 
No.
Name of Director
Designation / Nature of Directorship
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
held during the year
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
attended during the year
a)
Mr. Dinesh Nagpal1
Chairperson of the Committee 
and Non-Executive Director of the 
Company
-
-
b)
Ms. Monica Widhani2
Member of the Committee and 
Independent Director
-
-
c)
Ms. Liberatha Peter 
Kallat
Member of the Committee and 
Chairperson & Managing Director of 
the Company
-
-
d)
Ms. Prerna Kohli
Member of the Committee and 
Independent Director
-
-
	
1Mr. Dinesh Nagpal was appointed as the Chairperson of the Committee w.e.f. December 03, 2024 , replacing Ms. Liberatha 
Peter Kallat, who continues to be the Member of the Committee.
	
2Ms. Monica Widhani was appointed as a Member of the Committee w.e.f. December 03, 2024.
	
During the Financial Year 2024-25, no meeting of the CSR Committee was held, however, the CSR Committee had passed 
certain resolutions by way of Circulation on July 08, 2024.
Annual Report 2024-25
150
Dreamfolks Services Limited
151
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
3.	
Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the Board are disclosed on the website of the 
Company
1.	
CSR Policy and CSR Projects of the Company
      	
https://www.dreamfolks.in/corporate-governance.html
2.	
Composition of CSR Committee
       	 https://www.dreamfolks.in/corporate-governance
4.	
Provide the Executive Summary alongwith the along with web-link(s) of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in 
pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable;
	
Impact assessment of CSR projects was not applicable on the Company, during the financial year under review.
5.	
(a)	 Average net profit of the company as per section 135(5): INR 70,95,72,820/-
	
(b)	 Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5): INR 1,41,91,457/-
	
(c)	 Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years. Nil
	
(d)	 Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any- Nil
	
(e)	 Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c): INR 1,41,91,457/-
6.	
(a)	 Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): INR 1,00,00,010/-
	
(b)	 Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: NIL
	
(c)	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: NA
	
(d)	 Total amount spent for the Financial Year (a+b+c): INR 1,00,00,010/-
	
(e)	 CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year: 
Total Amount Spent 
for the Financial Year 
(in INR)
Amount Unspent (in INR)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the 
Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
1,00,00,010
41,91,457
28-03-2025
Nil 
	
(f) 	 Excess amount for set off, if any Nil
Sl. 
No.
Particular
Amount (in INR)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per section 135(5)
Nil
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial 
years, if any
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
7. 	
Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
Sl. 
No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year
Amount 
transferred 
to Unspent 
CSR Account 
under 
section 135 
(6) (in INR)
Balance Amount 
in Unspent CSR 
Account under 
subsection (6) of 
section 135 (in 
INR)
Amount 
spent 
in the 
reporting 
Financial 
Year  
(in INR)
Amount transferred 
to any fund specified 
under Schedule VII as 
per section 135(6), if 
any
Amount 
remaining 
to be 
spent in 
succeeding 
financial 
years (in 
INR)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount 
(in Rs)
Date of 
transfer
1.
2023-24
14,03,416
Nil
14,03,416
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
2.
2022-23
26,46,022
Nil
26,46,022
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
3
2021-22
46,09,224
Nil
46,09,224
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Total
86,58,662
Nil
86,58,662
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
8. 	
Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year: No
Sl.No.
Short particulars of the 
property or assets(s) 
[including complete address 
and location of the property]
Pincode 
of the 
property 
or 
assets(s)
Date of 
Creation
Amount 
of CSR 
amount 
spent
Details of entity/ Authority beneficiary of 
the registered owner
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
CSR 
Registration 
Number, if 
applicable
Name
Registered 
Address
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
9. 	
Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5): N.A.
Dinesh Nagpal 
Chairperson CSR Committee & Non-Executive Director
DIN: 01105914 
 Liberatha Peter Kallat 
Chairperson & Managing Director
DIN: 06849062
Date: August 07, 2025
Place: Gurugram
Annexure-4
Annexure-4
Annual Report 2024-25
152
Dreamfolks Services Limited
153
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
I.	
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
	
Corporate Governance is about creating and enhancing long term sustainable value for all our stakeholders viz. investors, 
customers, regulators, vendors, employees, environment and the society at large, through ethical corporate behaviour. It 
implies the furtherance of business and growth through governance practices with the highest standards of professionalism, 
integrity, accountability, fairness, transparency, social responsiveness and business ethics. Effective corporate governance 
practices constitute the strong foundation on which successful commercial enterprises are built to last. Our Company's 
approach to Corporate Governance stems from a legacy of fair, ethical, and transparent governance practices. Board and its 
Committees diligently oversees business progress, ensuring coherence with the Company’s vision and strategic planning to 
achieve set objectives moreover, the Board prioritizes transparency by considering stakeholders’ concerns in decision-making 
processes related to material issues and conducting due diligence for effective management. We hold steadfastly to values such 
as employee empowerment, integrity, safety for our workforce and communities, transparent decision-making processes, and 
fair and ethical dealings with everyone involved. The Company ensures that it evolves and follows the Corporate Governance 
guidelines and best practices diligently. Our commitment to Corporate Governance transcends regulatory compliance — it 
reflects a deep-rooted commitment to integrity, transparency, and responsible leadership.
	
We take pride in surpassing the requirements of regulatory frameworks. Our corporate structure, business operations, 
disclosure practices and systems are meticulously aligned with our corporate governance principles. Our performance is 
driven by a robust system and oriented toward safeguarding the interests of all our stakeholders. 
II.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
	
The Company fully complies with the Corporate Governance requirements stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27 read with 
Schedule V and clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI LODR Regulations”), as applicable. 
	
Our Board composition comprises of experts in various domains such as corporate governance, hospitality, customer service, 
tech industry, legal & compliances, finance and accounts. Our Board has an appropriate mix of Executive, Non-Executive 
and Independent Director(s) to maintain its independence and separate its functions of governance and management. Brief 
profile of each of the Directors is available on the Company’s website at https://www.dreamfolks.com/corporate-governance.
html#tab-1. 
	
During the year under review, none of the Independent Director has resigned from the position of Independent Director 
of the Company.
	
As on March 31, 2025, the Board of Directors of your Company comprised of 8 (eight) Directors including 3 (three) Woman 
Director, out of the total number of Directors, 2 (two) are Executive, 6 (six) are Non-Executive Directors  including 4 (four) 
Independent Directors of which 2 (two) are Woman Independent Directors.
Name of Director
Category
Attendance
No. of other Directorships and Committee 
Memberships/ Chairmanships
Name of the Listed Companies where Company’s 
Director is also a Director
Board Meetings
Last AGM 
held on 
24.09.2024
Directorships*
Committee
Memberships 
**
Committee 
Chairmanships**
Name of Listed Company
Category of 
Directorship
Entitled
Attended
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat 
(DIN: 06849062)
Chairperson & Managing 
Director
8
8
Yes
5
Nil
Nil
Nil
NA
Mr. Mukesh Yadav (DIN: 
01105819)
Non-Executive Director 
&  Non-Independent 
Director
8
8
Yes
7
Nil
Nil
Nil
NA
Mr. Dinesh Nagpal  (DIN: 
01105914)
Non-Executive Director 
& Non-Independent 
Director
8
8
Yes
11
Nil
Nil
Nil
NA
Mr. Balaji Srinivasan (DIN: 
03512187)
Executive Director & CTO
8
8
Yes
1
Nil
Nil
Nil
NA
Ms. Prerna Kohli (DIN: 
03463093)
Independent Non-
Executive Director
8
8
Yes
1
Nil
Nil
Nil
NA
Mr. Ravindra Pandey (DIN: 
07188637)
Independent Non-
Executive Director
8
8
Yes
8
5
2
Welspun Corp Limited 
Welspun Specialty Solutions Limited
Independent 
Director
Ms. Monica Widhani# 
(DIN: 07674403)
Independent Non-
Executive Director
4
2
Yes
4
7
3
H.G. Infra Engineering Limited 
ABB India Limited
Gujrat Pipavav Port Limited
AstraZeneca Pharma India Limited
Independent 
Director
Mr. Sunil Kulkarni## (DIN: 
02714177)
Independent Non-
Executive Director
2
2
N.A.
11
1
1
RNFI Services Limited 
MOS Utility  Limited
Independent 
Director
Mr. Sharadchandra 
Damodar Abhyankar$ 
(DIN: 00108866)
Independent Non-
Executive Director
6
3
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
Mr. Sudhir Jain$ (DIN: 
00010445)
Independent Non-
Executive Director
6
6
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
Notes:
*Excludes foreign companies and companies under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”).
**For the purpose of considering the limit of Committee Memberships and Chairmanships of Director in Committee, Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of other Indian Public 
Companies have only been considered.
#Ms. Monica Widhani was appointed as an Independent Director with effect from September 06, 2024 for a term of three consecutive years from September 06, 2024 through September 05, 2027.
##Mr. Sunil Kulkarni was appointed as an Independent Director with effect from November 21, 2024 for a term of two consecutive years from November 21, 2024 through November 20, 2026.
$Mr. Sharadchandra Damodar Abhyankar and Mr. Sudhir Jain had completed their respective 2nd term of two consecutive years on November 29, 2024 and had consequently ceased to be the Directors on 
the Board of the Company and Members of the various Board Committees of the Company w.e.f. closing of business hours on November 29, 2024.
The names and categories of Directors on the Board during the Financial Year 2024-25, their attendance at Board Meetings held during the Financial Year 2024-25 and at the last Annual 
General Meeting and the number of Directorship and Committees Chairmanship/ Membership held by them as on March 31, 2025 are given hereunder:
Annual Report 2024-25
154
Dreamfolks Services Limited
155
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Executive (25%)
Non Executive (75%)
Female (37.5%)
Male (62.5%)
Board Diversity
Core skills/ expertise/ competencies of Board of Directors
In the context of your Company’s business, the Board of Directors have identified the following:
i.	
Core skills/ expertise/ competencies for it to function effectively; and
ii.	
Directors who possess such core skills/ expertise/ competencies.
S. No.
Skills/ Expertise/ Competencies
Brief Descriptions
1
Leadership Experience
Strong management and leadership experience in leading well-governed large 
organizations in the areas of business development, strategic planning, mergers 
& acquisitions and mentor the leadership team to channelize its energy/efforts in 
appropriate direction, act as a role model in good governance and ethical conduct 
of business, while encouraging the organisation to maximise stakeholders value.
2
Industry knowledge and experience
In depth knowledge in businesses in the Hospitality Industry.
3
Technology & Innovation
Information Technology expertise with knowledge of current and emerging 
technologies.
4
Corporate Governance & ESG
Experience in developing and implementing good corporate governance practices, 
maintaining accountability of Board and its management, managing stakeholders’ 
interest and responsibility towards customers, employees, suppliers, regulatory 
bodies etc. to support the Company’s legal compliance systems and governance 
policies/ practices.
5
Expertise/ Experience in Finance & 
Accounts/ Audit/ Risk Management 
areas
Knowledge and skills in accounting and finance, business judgment, general 
management practices and processes, crisis response and management, industry 
knowledge, macro- economic perspectives, human resources, labour laws, 
international markets, sales and marketing, and risk management.
Given below is a list of core skills, expertise and competencies of the individual Directors:
Name of Director(s)
Skills/ Expertise/ Competencies
Business 
Leadership
Regulatory, 
legal and Risk 
Management
Technology & 
Innovation
Corporate 
Governance & 
ESG
Financial 
Expertise
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat


-


Mr. Mukesh Yadav


-


Mr. Dinesh Nagpal


-
-

Mr. Balaji Srinivasan




-
Ms. Prerna Kohli

-
-

-
Mr. Ravindra Pandey





Ms. Monica Widhani#


-


Mr. Sunil Kulkarni#





#Ms. Monica Widhani and Mr. Sunil Kulkarni were appointed as Independent Directors of the Company w.e.f. September 06, 2024 and 
November 21, 2024 respectively. Further, the  Members of the Company, through postal ballot by way of e-voting, had passed special 
resolution w.r.t. the appointment of Ms. Monica Widhani and Mr. Sunil Kulkarni as Independent Directors of the Company on November 27, 
2024 and February 13, 2025, respectively.
Number of Board Meetings
The Board meets at least once a quarter to review the quarterly financial results and to transact other agenda items. Additional 
meetings are held when necessary. The recommendations of the Committees are placed before the Board for necessary approvals. 
All Committee recommendations placed before the Board during the year under review were unanimously accepted by the Board.
During the Financial Year 2024-25, eight (8) meetings of the Board of Directors were held, and the maximum time gap between 
two consecutive meetings did not exceed one hundred and twenty (120) days. Requisite quorum was present for all the meetings.
S. No
Quarter
Date(s) on which meeting(s) were held
1
Q1
May 28, 2024
2
May 29, 2024
3
Q2
August 08, 2024
4
September 05, 2024
5
Q3
November 08, 2024
6
November 20, 2024
7
Q4
February 07, 2025
8
February 14, 2025
Further, attendance of Directors in Board meetings are as follows:
Names of Members
May 28, 
2024
May 29, 
2024
August 08 
2024
September 
05, 2024
November 
08, 2024
November 
20, 2024
February 
07, 2025
February 
14, 2025
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat 
(DIN: 06849062)








Mr. Mukesh Yadav  
(DIN: 01105819)








Mr. Dinesh Nagpal  
(DIN: 01105914)








Mr. Balaji Srinivasan  
(DIN: 03512187)








Ms. Prerna Kohli  
(DIN: 03463093)








Mr. Ravindra Pandey  
(DIN: 07188637)








Ms. Monica Widhani  
(DIN: 07674403)
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
LOA
LOA


Mr. Sunil Kulkarni 
(DIN: 02714177)
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A


Mr. Sharadchandra 
Damodar Abhyankar 
(DIN: 00108866)
LOA
LOA



LOA
N/A
N/A
Mr. Sudhir Jain 
(DIN: 00010445)






N/A
N/A
None of the Directors are related to each other.
The number of Directorships, Chairmanships and Committee Memberships of each Director is in compliance with the relevant 
provisions of the Act and SEBI LODR Regulations read with SS-1, as amended from time to time.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report 2024-25
156
Dreamfolks Services Limited
157
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Shareholding of Non- Executive Directors of the Company as on March 31, 2025
As on March 31, 2025, shareholding of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company were as follows:
S. No.
Name
No. of shares
1.
Mr. Mukesh Yadav
1,12,33,600
2.
Mr. Dinesh Nagpal
1,07,11,200
Total
2,19,44,800
Further, none of the Non-Executive Directors hold any convertible instruments of the Company.
Familiarization Programme for the Independent Directors
The Company organizes Familiarization Programmes for the Independent Directors to provide them with an opportunity to 
familiarize themselves with the Company, its management and its operations in order to gain a clear understanding of their roles and 
responsibilities. They have the full opportunities at all times to interact with Senior Management Personnels and are provided with 
all the documents required/ sought by them for enabling them to have a good understanding of the Company, its various operations 
and the industry of which it is a part.
The initiatives undertaken by the Company in this respect has been disclosed on the website of the Company and can be accessed 
through the following link at https://s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/df.imagesv1/website-content/Familiarization-Programme-
Independent-Directors.pdf.
Confirmation of Independence
All the Independent Directors of the Company have given declaration/ disclosures under Section 149(7) of the Act and Regulation 
25(8) of the SEBI LODR Regulations and have confirmed that they fulfil the independence criteria as specified under section 149(6) 
of the Act and Regulation 16 of the SEBI LODR Regulations and have also confirmed that they are not aware of any  circumstance 
or situation, which exist or may be reasonably anticipated, that could impair or impact their ability to discharge their duties with an 
objective & independent judgement and without any external influence.
Further, the Board, after taking these declaration/ disclosures on record and acknowledging the veracity of the same, concluded 
that the Independent Directors are persons of integrity and possess the relevant expertise and experience to qualify as Independent 
Directors of the Company and are Independent of the Company’s Management.
III.	
AUDIT COMMITTEE:
	
Your Company has duly constituted the Audit Committee (“AC”) on November 30, 2021 and its composition meets the 
requirements of Section 177 of the Act and Regulation 18 of the SEBI LODR Regulations. As on date of the report, AC of the 
Board of Directors comprises four Members, including three Independent Directors. All Members of the AC are financially 
literate and have accounting or related financial management expertise. The AC acts as the link between the Statutory Auditor 
& Internal Auditor and the Board of Directors of the Company.
	
The terms of reference of the AC are in accordance with the Act, SEBI LODR Regulations and other SEBI Regulations, including 
but not limited to, oversight of Company’s financial reporting process and disclosure of financial information to ensure that the 
financial statements are correct, sufficient and credible; recommending the appointment, re-appointment, remuneration and 
terms of appointment of auditors and approval of payment for other services rendered by statutory auditors reviewing with 
the management quarterly results and annual financial statements before submission to the Board for approval; approval or 
subsequent material modifications of transactions with related parties; review and monitor the auditor’s independence and 
performance and effectiveness of audit process; scrutiny of intercorporate loans and investments; valuation of undertakings 
or assets of the Company, whenever it is necessary; evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management system; 
reviewing with the management, performance of statutory and internal auditors and adequacy of the internal control systems; 
and reviewing the functioning of the whistle blower mechanism. Further, the detailed terms of reference of the AC is available 
on the Company’s website at https://s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/df.imagesv1/website-content/Terms-of-Reference-
Board-Committees-Dreamfolks-Services-Limited-25mar26.pdf. 
The AC further reviews the processes and controls including compliance with laws, Code of Conduct and Insider Trading Code, 
Whistle Blower Policy and related cases thereto. The Audit Committee reviews the consolidated financial statements of the 
Company and the investments made by its unlisted subsidiary companies. 
Pursuant to Regulation 23 of SEBI LODR Regulations, Members of the AC, who are Independent Directors, approve related 
party transactions of the Company. 
During the year under review, there were no instances when the recommendations of the AC were not accepted by the Board.
During the Financial Year 2024-25, the AC met 8 (Eight) times on May 28, 2024, May 29, 2024, August 08, 2024, September 
05, 2024, November 08, 2024, November 20, 2024, February 07, 2025 and March 27, 2025. The maximum time gap between 
two consecutive meetings did not exceed one hundred and twenty (120) days. Requisite quorum was present for all the 
meetings.
The composition of the AC and the attendance details of the Members as on March 31, 2025 are given below: 
Names of Members
Category
Position
No. of meetings
Entitled
Attended
Mr. Ravindra Pandey*
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman
8
8
Mr. Mukesh Yadav
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Member
8
8
Mr. Sunil Kulkarni#
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
2
2
Ms. Liberatha Peter 
Kallat&
Chairperson & Managing Director
Member
8
8
Ms. Monica Widhani #
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
2
2
Ms. Prerna Kohli&
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
8
8
Mr. Sharadchandra 
Damodar Abhyankar$
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairperson
6
3
Mr. Sudhir Jain$
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
6
6
*Mr. Ravindra Pandey was appointed as Chairperson of the AC w.e.f. December 03, 2024.
#Ms. Monica Widhani and Mr. Sunil Kulkarni were appointed as Members of the AC w.e.f. December 03, 2024.
$Mr. Sharadchandra Damodar Abhyankar and Mr. Sudhir Jain ceased to be Members of the AC w.e.f. November 29, 2024 consequent 
to completion of their tenure as Independent Directors.
&Ms. Prerna Kohli and Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat ceased to be the Member of the AC w.e.f. April 04, 2025, consequent to reconstitution 
of the AC.
Mr. Harshit Gupta, Company Secretary and  Compliance Officer of the Company, is the Secretary of the AC.
In addition to the Members of the AC, these meetings were also attended by Chief Financial Officer, Internal Auditors and 
Statutory Auditors and other executives as and when considered necessary for providing inputs to the AC.
Further, attendance of Directors at the Audit Committee Meetings are as follows: 
Names of Members
May 28, 
2024
May 29, 
2024
August 
08 2024
September 
05, 2024
November 
08, 2024
November 
20, 2024
February 
07, 2025
March 27, 
2025
Mr. Ravindra Pandey








Mr. Mukesh Yadav








Mr. Sunil Kulkarni
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A


Ms. Liberatha Peter 
Kallat








Ms. Monica Widhani 
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A


REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report 2024-25
158
Dreamfolks Services Limited
159
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Names of Members
May 28, 
2024
May 29, 
2024
August 
08 2024
September 
05, 2024
November 
08, 2024
November 
20, 2024
February 
07, 2025
March 27, 
2025
Ms. Prerna Kohli








Mr. Sharadchandra 
Damodar Abhyankar
LOA
LOA



LOA
N/A
N/A
Mr. Sudhir Jain






N/A
N/A
IV.	
NOMINATION & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
	
Your Company had duly constituted Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) on November 30, 2021 and its 
composition meets the requirements of Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 19 of the SEBI LODR Regulations. NRC of the 
Board of Directors comprises three Members including two Independent Directors. Chairperson of NRC is an Independent 
Director.
	
The terms of reference of NRC are in accordance with the requirements of the Act and SEBI LODR Regulations, including but 
not limited to, identifying persons who are qualified to become Directors and who may be appointed in senior management 
in accordance with the criteria laid down and recommend to the Board their appointment and removal; for appointment of 
IDs, evaluate balance of skill, knowledge and experience and prepare roles and capabilities; carry out evaluation of every 
Director’s performance; formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, positives attributes and independence of a 
Director; and recommend to the Board a Policy relating to the remuneration for the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and 
other employees; all remuneration in whatever form, payable to senior management, and administration and superintendence 
of the “Dreamfolks Employee Stock Option Plan 2021”. Further, the detailed terms of reference of the NRC is available on 
the Company’s website at https://s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/df.imagesv1/website-content/Terms-of-Reference-Board-
Committees-Dreamfolks-Services-Limited-25mar26.pdf.
	
The Board had on the recommendation of the NRC of the Company, framed Nomination and Remuneration Policy (‘NR Policy’) 
for selection and appointment of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, Senior Management and their remuneration. During 
the year under review, there has been no change to the Policy. The NR Policy has been hosted on Company’s website at https://
www.dreamfolks.com/files/policy/nomination_and_remuneration_policy.pdf. 
	
During the Financial Year 2024-25, the NRC had met 4 (Four) times on May 29, 2024, August 08, 2024, September 05, 2024 
and November 20, 2024. Requisite quorum was present for all the meetings.
	
The composition of the NRC and the attendance details of the Members as on March 31, 2025 are given below: -
Names of Members
Category
Position
No. of meetings
Entitled
Attended
Ms. Monica Widhani*
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairperson
NA
NA
Mr. Sunil Kulkarni*
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
NA
NA
Mr. Mukesh Yadav
Non-Executive - Non-Independent Director
Member
4
4
Mr. Ravindra Pandey#
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
4
4
Mr. Sudhir Jain$
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairperson
4
4
*Ms. Monica Widhani and Mr. Sunil Kulkarni were appointed as Members of the NRC w.e.f. December 03, 2024. Further, no meeting of 
NRC was held subsequent to the appointment of Ms. Widhani and Mr. Kulkarni.
#Mr. Ravindra Pandey ceased  to be Member of NRC w.e.f. December 03, 2024, consequent to reconstitution of the Committee.
$Mr. Sudhir Jain ceased to be Member of the NRC w.e.f. November 29, 2024 consequent to completion of his tenure as Independent 
Director of the Company.
	
Mr. Harshit Gupta, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Company, is the Secretary of the NRC.
	
Further, attendance of Directors in Nomination and Remuneration Committee Meetings are as follows:
Names of Members
May 29, 2024
August 08, 2024
September 05, 2024
November 20, 2024
Ms. Monica Widhani
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Mr. Sunil Kulkarni
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Mr. Mukesh Yadav




Mr. Ravindra Pandey




Mr. Sudhir Jain




	
Criteria for performance evaluation
	
The Company believes that an effective governance framework requires periodic evaluation of the functioning of the Board 
as a whole, its Committees and individual Director’s performance evaluation. Keeping this belief in mind, the Company on the 
recommendation of the NRC has established the Performance Evaluation criteria for:
	
a)	
Directors including Chairperson; 
	
b)	 Committees of the Board of Directors (viz. Audit Committee, Nomination &  Remuneration Committee, Stakeholders’ 
Relationship Committee, Risk Management Committee and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee); and
	
c)	
Board as a whole as required under the provisions of the Act and SEBI LODR Regulations.
	
The performance of every Director including Chairperson & Independent Directors, Board Committees and Board as a whole 
was evaluated by the NRC and Board. The performance evaluation of the Committees was also undertaken after considering 
inputs from Committee Members. The process followed for evaluation of performance of the Board, its Committees, individual 
Directors (including Independent Directors and the Chairperson) for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 along with 
criteria for the same, is outlined in the Board’s Report.
	
Some of the performance indicators for such evaluation include:
	
1.	
Attendance at Board Meetings/Committee Meetings.
	
2.	
Quality of participation in Meetings.
	
3.	
Ability to provide leadership.
	
4.	
Commitment to protect/enhance interests of all the stakeholders.
	
5.	
Contribution to the implementation of best governance practices.
	
6.	
Understanding critical issues affecting the Company.
	
7.	
Bringing relevant experience to the Board and using it effectively.
V.	
STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE
	
Your Company has a duly constituted Stakeholders Relationship Committee (“SRC”) on November 30, 2021 and its composition 
meets the requirements of Section 178 of the Act and Regulation 20 of the SEBI LODR Regulations. Further, the Chairperson 
of the SRC is a Non-Executive Director.
	
The terms of reference of SRC are in accordance with the requirements of the Act and the SEBI LODR Regulations, including 
but not limited to, resolving grievances of the security holders of the Company; review of measures taken for effective exercise 
of voting rights by shareholders; review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the Company in respect of various 
services rendered by the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent; and review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the 
Company for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/annual reports/
statutory notices by the shareholders of the Company. Further, the detailed terms of reference of the SRC is available on the 
Company’s website at https://s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/df.imagesv1/website-content/Terms-of-Reference-Board-Com-
mittees-Dreamfolks-Services-Limited-25mar26.pdf.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report 2024-25
160
Dreamfolks Services Limited
161
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
During the Financial Year 2024-25, the SRC met once on March 27, 2025. Requisite quorum was present for the said meeting.
	
The composition of the SRC and the attendance details of the Members are given below:
Names of Members
Category
Position
No. of meetings
Entitled
Attended
Mr. Mukesh Yadav
Non-Executive – Non-Independent Director
Chairperson
1
1
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat
Chairperson & Managing Director
Member
1
1
Mr. Sunil Kulkarni*
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
1
1
Mr. Balaji Srinivasan
Executive Director
Member
1
1
Mr. Sudhir Jain#
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
NA
NA
*Mr. Sunil Kulkarni was appointed as Member of the SRC  w.e.f. December 03, 2024.
#Mr. Sudhir Jain ceased to be a Member of the SRC w.e.f. November 29, 2024 consequent to completion of his tenure as Independent 
Director of the Company.
Mr. Harshit Gupta, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Company, is the Secretary of the SRC .
Further attendance of Directors in Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee Meeting is as follows:
Names of Members
March 27, 2025
Mr. Mukesh Yadav

Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat

Mr. Sunil Kulkarni

Mr. Balaji Srinivasan

Mr. Sudhir Jain
NA
VI.	 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE
	Your Company has a duly constituted Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (“CSR Committee”) on November 30, 2021 
and its   composition meets the requirements of Section 135 of the Act.
	The terms of reference of the CSR Committee are in accordance with the requirements of the Act , including but not limited 
to, formulation of CSR Policy indicating the activities to be undertaken by the Company covered under Schedule VII to the 
Act; recommending to the Board the CSR Policy & amount of expenditure on CSR activities; and to monitor the CSR Policy of 
the Company from time to time. Further, the detailed terms of reference of the CSR Committee is available on the Company’s 
website at https://s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/df.imagesv1/website-content/Terms-of-Reference-Board-Committees-
Dreamfolks-Services-Limited-25mar26.pdf.
	During the Financial Year 2024-25, no meeting of the CSR Committee was held, however, the CSR Committee had passed 
certain resolutions by way of Circulation on July 08, 2024.
	The composition of the CSR Committee as on March 31, 2025 is given below: -
Names of Members
Category
Position
Mr. Dinesh Nagpal* 
Non-executive Non-Independent Director
Chairperson
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat*
Chairperson & Managing Director
Member
Ms. Monica Widhani#
 Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
Ms. Prerna Kohli
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
	
Mr. Harshit Gupta, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Company, is the Secretary of the CSR Committee.
VII.	 RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
	
Your Company has constituted Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) on November 30, 2021 and its composition meets the 
requirements of the Regulation 21 of SEBI LODR Regulations. RMC is vested with the responsibility to oversee risk assessment 
and mitigation process in the Company. The detailed terms of reference of the RMC is available on the Company’s website at 
https://s3.ap-south-1.amazonaws.com/df.imagesv1/website-content/Terms-of-Reference-Board-Committees-Dreamfolks-
Services-Limited-25mar26.pdf.
	
During the Financial Year 2024-25, the RMC had met 2 (two) times, on September 30, 2024 and March 27, 2025. Requisite 
quorum was present for all the meetings.
	
The Composition of the RMC and the attendance details of the Members are given below:
Names of Members
Category
Position
No. of meetings
Entitled
Attended
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat
Chairperson & Managing Director
Chairperson
2
2
Ms. Monica Widhani*
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
1
1
Mr. Mukesh Yadav
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
Member
2
2
Mr. Balaji Srinivasan 
Executive Director
Member
2
2
Ms. Giya Diwaan$
Chief Financial Officer
Member
1
1
Mr. Sharadchandra 
Damodar Abhyankar#
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
1
1
*Ms. Monica Widhani was appointed as Member of the RMC w.e.f. December 03, 2024.
#Mr. Sharadchandra Damodar Abhyankar ceased to be a Member of the RMC w.e.f. November 29, 2024 and consequent to 
completion of his tenure as Independent Director of the Company.
$Ms. Giya Diwaan resigned from the position of Chief Financial Officer w.e.f. February 14, 2025 and consequently ceased to 
be a Member of RMC.
Mr. Harshit Gupta, Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Company, is the Secretary of the RMC.
Further, attendance of Members in Risk Management Committee Meetings are as follows:
Names of Members
September 30, 2024
March 27, 2025
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat


Ms. Monica Widhani
NA

Mr. Mukesh Yadav


Mr. Balaji Srinivasan 


Ms. Giya Diwaan

N.A.
Mr. Sharadchandra Damodar Abhyankar

N.A.
	
*Mr. Dinesh Nagpal was appointed as Chairperson of the CSR Committee replacing Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat who continues to be the 
Member of the Committee w.e.f. December 03, 2024.
	
#Ms. Monica Widhani was appointed as Member of the CSR Committee w.e.f. December 03, 2024.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report 2024-25
162
Dreamfolks Services Limited
163
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Name of Director
Salary
Performance 
Linked Incen-
tive
Perquisites
Contribution 
towards 
Provident 
Fund/NPS
Sitting 
Fees
Severance 
Fee
Service 
Contract
Notice 
Period
Total 
(Amount in 
INR)
Ms. Liberatha Peter 
Kallat
4,74,28,884
 
46,66,910 
37,94,311 
N.A 
 
 
6 Months 
5,58,90,105
Mr. Balaji Srini-
vasan*
76,18,974 
11,85,600 
5,83,63,598 
7,49,610 
 N.A
 
 
3 Months 
6,79,17,782
*1,75,000 ESOP options were exercised by Mr. Balaji Srinivasan during the financial year 2024-25, pursuant to Dreamfolks Employee 
Stock Option Plan 2021.
The above figures do not include leave encashment and gratuity, which is paid/ payable as per Company Policy applicable for all 
employees.
Criteria for making payments to Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors of the Company are paid sitting fees for attending Board/ Committee meetings in accordance with 
the limits prescribed under the Act.
The Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company, inter alia, disclosing detailed criteria for making payments to Non-
Executive Directors of the Company is placed on Company’s website and can be accessed at https://www.dreamfolks.com/
files/policy/nomination_and_remuneration_policy.pdf. 
The table below gives details of Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025:
Name of Director
Sitting Fees
Severance Fee
Service 
Contract
Notice Period
Total 
(Amount in INR)
Mr. Mukesh Yadav
6,85,000
-
-
-
6,85,000
Mr. Dinesh Nagpal
400,000
-
-
-
4,00,000
Mr. Sudhir Jain
4,80,000
-
-
-
4,80,000 
Mr. Sharadchandra Damodar 
Abhyankar
2,25,000
-
-
-
2,25,000
Mr. Ravindra Pandey
6,55,000
-
-
-
655,000
Ms. Prerna Kohli
5,75,000
-
-
-
5,75,000
Ms. Monica Widhani
1,70,000
-
-
-
1,70,000
Mr. Sunil Kulkarni
1,70,000
-
-
-
1,70,000
IX.	 GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
	
Details of Annual General Meetings held during the last three years, are as under:
Financial 
Year
Date and Time
Venue
No. of Special Resolutions 
set out at the AGM
2023-24
September 24, 2024 at 
11:30 A.M.
Through Video Conferencing (VC) / Other Audio 
Visual Means (OAVM) 
Nil
2022-23
September 06, 2023 at 
11:30 A.M.
Through Video Conferencing (VC) / Other Audio 
Visual Means (OAVM)
3
2021-22
June 07, 2022 at 04:00 
P.M.
501, 5th Floor, Tower-2, Worldmark, Sector-65, 
Gurgaon, Haryana 122 018
Nil
Postal ballot and extra-ordinary general meeting
Apart from the Annual General Meeting, following Postal Ballots were conducted during the year 2024-25, wherein the 
following resolutions were passed:
Particulars
Day, Date & Time
Venue/Mode
Brief description of Special Resolutions
Postal Ballot
Notice dated October 23, 2024 and result 
dated November 27, 2024
-
1. Appointment of Ms. Monica Widhani 
(DIN: 07674403) as an Independent 
Director of the Company
Postal Ballot
Notice dated November 20, 2024 and 
result dated February 13, 2025
-
2. Appointment of Mr. Sunil Kulkarni (DIN: 
02714177) as an Independent Director of 
the Company
Voting result of the above referred resolutions passed through postal ballot is reproduced below:
Particulars of Resolution
Votes in favour of Resolution
Votes against Resolution
1. Appointment of  Ms. Monica Widhani 
(DIN:07674403) as an Independent Director of the 
Company
3,69,72,838 votes  
(90.6364%)
38,19,656 votes  
(9.3636%)
2. Appointment of Mr. Sunil Kulkarni (DIN:02714177) 
as an Independent Director of the Company
4,02,95,583  
(99.9804%)
7,895  
(0.0196%)
The Special resolutions were passed with requisite majority.
	
Procedure for postal ballot: 
	
In compliance with the Regulation 44 of SEBI LODR Regulations and Section 108, 110 and other applicable provisions of the 
Act read with Rules made thereunder, the Company had provided electronic voting facility to all its Members to cast their vote 
electronically. The Company had engaged the services of National Securities Depository Limited for the purpose of providing 
e-voting facility.
	
The Company in compliance with the provisions of the Act and General Circular No(s) 14/2020 dated April 08, 2020, 17/2020 
dated April 13, 2020, 22/2020 dated June 15, 2020, 33/2020 dated September 28, 2020, 39/2020 dated December 31, 
2020, 10/2021 dated June 23, 2021, 20/2021 dated December 08, 2021, 03/2022 dated May 05, 2022, 11/2022 dated 
December 28, 2022, 09/2023 dated September 25, 2023 and 09/2024 dated September 19, 2024, respectively (‘MCA 
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
VIII.	REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS:
	
The table below gives details of Remuneration of Executive Directors for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2025.
Annual Report 2024-25
164
Dreamfolks Services Limited
165
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Circulars’) issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs and relevant Circulars issued by SEBI in this regard, had sent the Postal 
Ballot Notices dated October 23, 2024 and November 20, 2024, respectively, in electronic form. The Company also published 
Public Notices in Newspapers on  October 29, 2024 and January 15, 2025, respectively, intimating the dispatch of the Notice 
of Postal Ballot through electronic mode only and intimating the other requirements as mandated under the applicable rules.
	
Mr. Deepak Kukreja, Partner of DMK Associates, Company Secretaries, was appointed as the Scrutinizer’s for the 
aforementioned Postal Ballots and results of the same were declared by Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat on November 27, 2024 
and February 13, 2025, respectively. The results of Postal Ballots were communicated to the Stock Exchanges and also hosted 
on the website of the Company at www.dreamfolks.com and on the website of NSDL at www.evoting.nsdl.com. 
	
As on the date of this report, no resolution is proposed to be passed through Postal Ballot.
X.	
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
	
The quarterly/ half-yearly/ annual financial results of the Company are intimated to the Stock Exchanges immediately after the 
conclusion of Board Meeting at which they are approved. The results along with press releases/ presentations made by the 
Company to Analysts/ Investors are also hosted on the website of the Company viz www.dreamfolks.com.
	
The Company’s website also displays all official press releases. The results and other publications of the Company are also 
published in English and Hindi language newspapers normally in Financial Express/ Business Standard (English) and Jansatta /
Business Standard (Hindi).
	
The Company organizes investor conference calls to discuss its financial results every quarter, wherein queries of the investor 
were answered by the Executive Management of the Company. The audio recording and transcripts of the Earnings Conference 
Call are hosted on our website and on the Stock Exchanges.
	
All price-sensitive information and matters that are material to shareholders were disclosed to the Stock Exchanges, where the 
securities of the Company are listed.
XI.	 GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
(a)	
Corporate Identification Number: L51909DL2008PLC177181
(b)	
Annual General Meeting:
	
The 17th Annual General Meeting of the Company is scheduled to be held as under: - 
	
Date and Time: September 29, 2025 at 11:30 A.M. (IST).
	
Venue: The Company is conducting meeting through VC/ OAVM pursuant to the MCA Circulars and relevant SEBI 
Circulars.
(c)	
Financial Year:
	
The Company follows the Financial Year from April 01 to March 31. The Financial Year of the Company for which this 
report has been prepared is April 01, 2024 to March 31, 2025.
(d)	
Financial Calendar 2025-26
First Quarter Results 
Declared as on August 07, 2025
Second Quarter Results (Tentative)
On or before November 14, 2025
Third Quarter Results  (Tentative)
On or before February 14, 2026
Audited Annual Results for the financial year ending on 
March 31, 2026 (Tentative)
On or before May 30, 2026
(e)	
Final Dividend Payment: The Board has not recommended any Dividend for the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
(f)	
Listing on Stock Exchanges:
	
The Equity Shares of the Company are listed on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) and BSE Limited 
(“BSE”) (collectively referred to as “Stock Exchanges”) on September 06, 2022.
Name of Stock Exchanges
Security Code/ Symbol
Address
BSE Limited
543591
BSE Limited, P. J. Towers, Dalal Street, Mumbai – 
400001
National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited
DREAMFOLKS
National Stock Exchange of India Limited Exchange 
Plaza, 5th Floor, Plot No. C – 1, Block G, Bandra Kurla 
Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai- 400051
(g)	
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents:	
	
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (Formerly known as Link Intime India Private Limited): 
	
Noble Heights, 1st Floor, Plot NH 2, C-1 Block LSC, Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri, New Delhi - 110058
	
Telephone: 011-49411000
	
Email: delhi@in.mpms.mufg.com 
	
Website: https://in.mpms.mufg.com/  
(h)	
Share Transfer System:
	
As mandated by SEBI, securities of listed companies can only be transferred in dematerialized form. In view of the same, 
the entire share capital of the Company except one share is in dematerialised form. The shares can be transferred by 
shareholders through their Depository Participants.
(i)	
Distribution of shareholding as on March 31, 2025:
i.	
Distribution of Equity Shareholding
Slab
Shareholders
No. of Shares
Number
% to total
Shares
% to total
1 – 500
1,20,691
96.4178
80,33,800
15.0813
501 – 1,000
2,732
2.1825
20,33,472
3.8173
1,001 – 2,000
1,050
0.8388
15,17,086
2.8479
2,001 – 3,000
282
0.2253
7,04,038
1.3216
3,001 – 4,000  
123
0.0983
4,36,472
0.8194
4,001 – 5,000 
101
0.0807
4,71,715
0.8855
5,001 – 10,000
117
0.0935
8,44,929
1.5861
10,001 – above
79
0.0631
3,92,28,350
73.6408
Total
1,25,175
100
5,32,69,862
100
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report 2024-25
166
Dreamfolks Services Limited
167
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Sr. 
No.
Category
No. of Shares held
% of Shareholding
1
Promoter and Promoter Group
3,50,07,532
65.7173
2
Mutual Fund
16,61,694
3.1194
3
Insurance Companies
1,97,407
0.3706
4
FPI and FII & Foreign Company (including Foreign National)
5,23,171
0.9821
5
Resident Individuals (including Trusts & HUF)
1,43,65,066
26.9667
6
Bodies Corporate
8,27,426
1.5532
7
Non - Resident Indians
6,87,529
1.2906
8
Clearing Members
37
0.0001
Total
5,32,69,862
100 
ii.	
Categories of Equity Shareholders as on March 31, 2025 
(j)	
Dematerialisation of Shares and Liquidity
	
As on March 31, 2025, only 1 (one) equity shares held in physical form and rest of the equity share capital of your 
Company is held in dematerialised form with NSDL and CDSL under International Securities Identification Number 
(ISIN) – INE0JS101016.  
(k)	
Outstanding GDRs/ ADRs/ Warrants or Convertible Instruments
	
No GDRs/ ADRs/Warrants has been issued by the Company or Convertible Instruments has been issued by the Company.
(l)	
Commodity price risk or foreign risk and hedging activities
	
The Company does not have commodity price risk nor does the Company engage in hedging activities.
(m)	 Plant Locations
	
The Company does not have any manufacturing or processing plants.
(n)	
Address for Correspondence:
Registered Office
Corporate Office
Dreamfolks Services Limited 
26, DDA Flats Panchsheel Park, Shivalik Road New Delhi 
110017
*301-307, 3rd Floor, Tower B, Good Earth Trade Tower, 
Maidawas Road, Sector 62, Gurugram -122001, Haryana 
India  
Ph: 0124-4037306
E-mail: compliance@dreamfolks.in
E-mail: compliance@dreamfolks.in
	
*The Corporate Office of the Company shifted from 501, Tower-2, Fifth Floor, Worldmark Sector-65, Gurugram – 122018 Haryana 
India  to 301-307, 3rd Floor, Tower B, Good Earth Trade Tower, Maidawas Road, Sector 62, Gurugram -122001, Haryana India
	
Your Company has also designated investor.support@dreamfolks.in as an exclusive email for Analysts and Institutional 
Investors and other Investors for the purpose of registering their complaints and the same has been displayed on 
Company’s website also.
(o)	
List of Credit Ratings: During the year under review , Crisil Ratings Limited (“CRISIL”), had reaffirmed its ratings for the 
Company on total bank loan facility as under:
Total Bank Loan Facilities
Revised Ratings
Previous Ratings
95 Crore Rupees
CRISIL BBB+/Stable 
CRISIL BBB+/Stable
	
Further, during the current financial year, CRISIL vide their letter dated May 21, 2025 rated on total Bank Loan Facilities 
for INR145 Crore; CRISIL  reaffirmed the Long term rating i.e.  CRISIL BBB+/ Stable (Long Term) and assigned the Short 
term rating i.e. CRISIL A2 (Short Term). The aforementioned letter along with, details of other amendments/reaffirmation 
in the credit rating during the current financial year can be accessed at the Stock Exchanges and the website of the 
Company at https://www.dreamfolks.com/investor-information.html#tab-2.
	
With reference to the Company’s intimation dated July 1, 2025, regarding the closure of certain programs by specific clients, 
CRISIL had undertaken a review of the above credit ratings. CRISIL vide letter dated July 9, 2025, had communicated on 
the Company’s credit ratings at BBB+ (Long Term /watch negative) and A2 (Short Term /watch negative), on the overall 
sanctioned bank facilities at INR 145 crore.
XII.	  DISCLOSURES
 (a)	 Related Party Transactions (RPTs)
	
The Company has not entered into any significant material transactions with the related parties that may have potential 
conflict with the interests of the Company at large. Transactions with related parties are being disclosed in Note 43 to the 
Standalone Financial Statements of the Company forming part of the Annual Report and are transacted after obtaining 
applicable approval(s), wherever required.
	
The details of related party disclosures with respect to the loans/advances/investments with the subsidiaries or associates 
or any other entity in which Directors are interested at the year-end as well as transactions of the Company with any 
person or entity belonging to the promoter/promoter group which hold(s) 10% or more shareholding in the listed entity 
and outstanding amount thereof during the year, as required under Schedule V of the SEBI LODR Regulations have been 
mentioned in the Note No. 43 of the Standalone financial year ended  March 31, 2025. 
	
The Board of Directors on the recommendation of Audit Committee have formulated the Policy on dealing with RPTs 
which is disclosed on website of the Company and can be accessed through the following link: https://s3.ap-south-1.
amazonaws.com/df.imagesv1/website-content/Policy-on-Related-Party-Transactions_Dreamfolks-Services-Limited.pdf. 
 (b)	 Loans and Advances in the nature of Loans to Firms/ Companies in which Directors are interested by Name and 
Amount:
	
N.A. 
 (c)	 Non-Compliances by the Company
	
During the last three years, there were no strictures or penalties imposed on the Company either by the Stock Exchanges 
or SEBI, or any other statutory authority for non-compliance of any matter related to capital markets except for the 
following as reported as under:
•	
For the FY 2023-24, the Secretarial Auditors reported that the composition of Board of Directors was not in 
accordance with the Regulation 17(1) of SEBI LODR Regulations for a period of 42 days i.e. from October 17, 2023 
till November 27, 2023, due to the resignation of Mrs. Aditi Balbir, Independent Woman Director of the Company 
w.e.f. July 17, 2023, for which a fine of INR 2,47,800/- (inclusive of 18% GST) each was levied by BSE & NSE on 
the Company in terms of SEBI Circular no. SEBI / HO/ CFD/ CMD/ PRIP/2020/12 dated 22.01.2020 which has 
been duly paid by the Company. Also, your Company sought an exemption from the SEBI via filing an application 
with requisite fee and a copy of which was forwarded to the Stock Exchanges in this regard and the Company’s 
Management in response to the above, stated that the Company was evaluating various candidates but couldn’t find 
a suitable candidate to be appointed as an Independent Woman Director. Further, necessary Communication has 
been made in this regard by the Company to all its stakeholders vide its letter dated October 15, 2023 though BSE, 
NSE and Company’s Website. The new Independent Woman Director have been appointed w.e.f. November 28, 
2023.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report 2024-25
168
Dreamfolks Services Limited
169
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
•	
During the FY 2024-25 the BSE and NSE had imposed fine on the Company w.r.t. alleged violations of the Regulation 
18(1), Regulation 19, Regulation 20 and Regulation 21(2) of SEBI LODR Regulations. The Company vide its application 
dated March 28, 2025 had applied for waiver of fines with the designated Stock Exchange in relation to fines levied 
by them on the grounds that the timeline for filing up the vacancy in any Committee was notified by SEBI through 
an amendment in SEBI LODR Regulations on December 12, 2024. Therefore, during the period of the vacancy i.e. 
from November 30, 2024 to December 02, 2024, there was no effective provision in SEBI LODR Regulations, which 
specified the time period for filling up of vacancy in the Committees, nor specified that in case of expiry of term of 
Director, the resultant vacancy arising in Committees shall be filled not later than the date it is created. Further, 
Regulation 17(1E) of the SEBI LODR Regulations, prior to the said amendment, specified for the timeline for filling in 
the vacancy in the office of a Director. It did not specify the timeline for filing up the vacancy in any Committee(s). 
	
Thereafter, the matter was placed before the Relevant Authority of the NSE and the request for waiver of fines was 
considered favorably. The corresponding communication of the BSE is still awaited.
(d)	
Details of Senior Management Personnel
	
Your Company is having following officers in senior management position in the Company :
Name
Current Designation
Date of joining the Company
Date of Cessation
Mr. Sandeep Sonawane
Chief Business Officer
April 05, 2023
-
Mr. Shekhar Sood
Chief Financial Officer
April 30, 2025
- 
Mr. Sanyam Nagpal1
Vice President – Business
March 01, 2023
-
Mr. Probal Sinha2
Vice President- HR and Admin
September 21, 2017
-
Mr. Harshit Gupta
Company Secretary and Compliance 
Officer
September 02, 2024
-
Ms. Rangoli Aggarwal
Company Secretary and Compliance 
Officer
October 19, 2021
August 30, 2024
Ms. Giya Diwaan
Chief Financial Officer
September 24, 2021
February 14, 2025
	
1Mr. Sanyam Nagpal was designated as the Senior Management Personnel w.e.f. February 07, 2025.
	
2Mr. Probal Sinha was designated  as Senior Management Personnel w.e.f. March 26, 2025. 
(e)	
Vigil Mechanism and Whistle Blower Policy
	
In Compliance with the provisions of Section 177 of the Act and Regulation 22 of the SEBI LODR Regulations, the 
Company  has in place  the Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy for Directors, employees and  other  stakeholders 
which  provides a platform to them for raising their voice about any breach of code of conduct, financial irregularities, 
illegal or unethical practices, unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud, any incident of leak or suspected leak of 
Unpublished Price Sensitive Information. Adequate safeguards are provided against victimization to those who use such 
mechanism and direct access to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee in appropriate cases is provided. This Policy 
ensures that strict confidentiality is maintained whilst dealing with concerns and also that no discrimination is made 
against any person. The Policy may be accessed on the Company’s website at https://www.dreamfolks.com/files/policy/
Policy-on-Vigil-Mechanism_Dreamfolks-Services-Limited_v1.10.pdf. 
(f)	
Subsidiary Companies
	
Your Company does not have any material subsidiary company in terms of Regulation 16(c) of SEBI LODR Regulation. 
However, the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the AC of the Company formulated a Policy for determining 
“material” subsidiaries. The said Policy has been placed on the website of the Company and can be accessed at https://
www.dreamfolks.in/corporate-governance.html.
	
Further, the Minutes of the Board Meetings along with the report on significant transactions of the subsidiaries are 
periodically placed before the Board of Directors of the Company. The Audit Committee of the Company also reviews 
the Financials of the subsidiary companies.
(g)	
Practicing CS Certification
	
A certificate from a Company Secretary in Practice that as on March 31, 2025, none of the Directors on the Board of the 
Company have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Director of Company by the SEBI/ 
MCA or any such statutory authority is annexed to this Report as Annexure–A.
(h)	
Recommendation of Committee(s) of the Board of Directors
	
During the year, all recommendations of the Committees of the Board of Directors, which are mandatorily required, were 
accepted by the Board.
(i)	
Statutory Auditor Fee
	
The total fee for all the services paid by the Company and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the statutory auditor 
and all entities in the network firm/network entity of which the statutory auditor is a part of, during the Financial Year 
2024-25 is INR 3.98 Million.
(j)	
Disclosure under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 
2013
	
In compliance of the terms of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder, the Company has in place a Policy to prevent and deal with sexual harassment at 
workplace.
	
Following is the status of Complaints received under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 during the Financial Year 2024-25:
a.	
number of complaints filed during the financial year - 0
b.	
number of complaints disposed of during the financial year - 0
c.	
number of complaints pending as at end of the financial year. – 0
(k)	
Detail of compliance with the corporate governance requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and clause (b) 
to (i) of sub - regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of SEBI LODR Regulations
	
The Company is in compliance to the extent with the applicable corporate governance requirements specified in 
Regulations 17 to 27 and clause (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) including disclosure requirements of Schedule V of SEBI 
LODR Regulation.
(l)	
Disclosures with respect to demat suspense account/ unclaimed suspense account
	
There are no shares which are lying in demat suspense account/ unclaimed suspense account as on March 31, 2025.
(m)	 Insider Trading
	
In terms of the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI PIT Regulations”), the Company has a 
comprehensive Code of Conduct for regulating, monitoring and reporting of trading by Insiders. The said Code lays down 
guidelines which provide for the procedure to be followed and disclosures whilst dealing with shares of the Company. 
Further, in terms of the SEBI PIT Regulations, the Company has in place a Code of Practices and Procedures of Fair 
Disclosures of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information.
(n)	
Board Procedures
	
The Board meets at least once a quarter to review the financial results and operations of the Company. In addition to the 
above, the Board also meets as and when necessary to address specific issues concerning the business of your Company.
	
The Board Meetings are governed by a structured Agenda. The agenda along with detailed explanatory notes and 
supporting material are circulated in advance before each meeting to all the Directors to facilitate effective discussion 
and decision making. The Board has access to any information within your Company which includes the information as 
specified in Schedule II of the SEBI LODR Regulations.
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report 2024-25
170
Dreamfolks Services Limited
171
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
(o)	
Independent Directors’ Meeting
	
In accordance with the provisions of Schedule IV (Code for Independent Directors) of the Act and Regulation 25 of the 
SEBI LODR Regulations, meeting of the Independent Directors of the Company was held on March 27, 2025, without 
the presence of Non-Independent Directors and Members of Management, and where in all Independent Directors were 
present.
(p)	
Mandatory requirements
	
To the extent applicable, during the year under review the Company has complied all the mandatory requirements of the 
SEBI LODR Regulations.
(q)	
Non- mandatory requirements:
	
The Company has adopted the following non-mandatory requirements regarding Corporate Governance:-
i.	
Audit qualifications
	
There was no audit qualification on your Company’s Standalone financial statements, during the year under review.
ii.	
Reporting of Internal Auditor
	
The Internal Auditors of the Company directly reports to the Audit Committee of the Company.
(r)	
Other Disclosures
i.	
In terms of Regulation 30A of the SEBI LODR Regulations, there no such agreements which are required to be 
disclosed in the Annual Report.
ii.	
The Company has prepared the financial statements to comply in all material respects with the Accounting Standards 
notified under Section 133 of the Act, read with Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
XIII.	 CODE OF CONDUCT
	
The Board of Directors has laid down a Code of Conduct, which is applicable to all Directors and Senior Management personnel 
of the Company. The Code has also been hosted on the website of the Company. All Board Members and Senior Management 
Personnel have affirmed with the compliance with the Code of Conduct for the Financial Year 2024-25.
	
An annual declaration signed by the Chairman & Managing Director of the Company affirming compliance to the Code by the 
Board of Directors and the Senior Management is annexed to this Report as Annexure–B. The Code of Conduct is available on 
website of the Company and can be accessed at  https://www.dreamfolks.com/files/policy/CODEOF-2_.pdf. 
XIV.	 UTILIZATION OF FUNDS RAISED THROUGH PREFERENTIAL ALLOTMENT OR QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONS 
PLACEMENT AS SPECIFIED UNDER REGULATION 32 (7A) : 
	
Not applicable
XV.	 ONLINE DISPUTE MECHANISM
	
Members may kindly note that in accordance with SEBI Circular reference SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD- 1/P/CIR/2023/131 
dated July 31, 2023 and subsequent Circular(s) issued by SEBI in this behalf, the Company has registered on the newly 
launched SMART ODR Portal (Securities Market Approach for Resolution through Online Disputes Resolution Portal). This 
platform aims to enhance investor grievance resolution by providing access to Online Dispute Resolution Institutions for 
addressing complaints. Members can access the SMART ODR Portal via the following link: https://smartodr.in/login.
	
Members may feel free to utilize this online conciliation and/or arbitration facility, as outlined in the Circular, to resolve any 
outstanding disputes between Members and the Company (including RTA). 
In case of any query / assistance, Members are requested to contact our RTA.
XVI.	SPECIFIC INFORMATION ABOUT PHYSICAL SHAREHOLDERS:
	
SEBI vide Circular no. SEBI/ HO/ MIRSD/ MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR /2023/37 dated 16.03.2023 and further subsequent 
Circulars issued in this regard, in supersession of SEBI Circular no. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/ CIR/2021/655 dated 
November 03, 2021 has instructed to mandatorily furnish PAN, KYC details and Nomination by holders of physical securities. 
In other words, it shall be mandatory for all holders of physical securities in listed companies to furnish PAN, Nomination, 
Contact details, Bank A/c details and Specimen signature for their corresponding folio numbers. Accordingly, it is once again 
reiterated that it is mandatory for all holders and claimants of physical securities to furnish PAN details to RTA.
	
Pursuant to the above SEBI Circulars, the shareholders are requested to furnish valid PAN, email address, mobile number, 
Bank account details and nomination details immediately in the below mentioned forms to the RTA:
	
All above Forms ISR-1, ISR-2, ISR-3, SH-13 and SH-14 are available on our website https://www.dreamfolks.com/investor-
information.html. 
XVII. CEO/ CFO CERTIFICATION
	
In compliance with Regulation 17(8) of the SEBI LODR Regulations, a certificate from Managing Director & Chairperson and 
Chief Financial Officer of the Company to the Board of Director as specified in Part B of Schedule II of the said Regulation is 
annexed to this Report as Annexure–C.
XVIII. COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
	
In compliance with SEBI LODR Regulations, a certificate on Corporate Governance issued by Company Secretary in Practice 
is annexed to this Report as Annexure–D.
XIX. The details of shareholders’ complaints received and resolved during the financial year ended march 31, 2025
Sr. No.
Form
Purpose
(i)
Form ISR-1
To register/update PAN, KYC details
(ii)
Form ISR-2
To Confirm Signature of securities holder by the Bank
(iii)
Form ISR-3
Declaration Form for opting-out of Nomination
(iv)
Form SH-13
Nomination Form
(v)
Form SH-14
Cancellation or Variation of Nomination (if any)
Particulars
No. of Investor Complaints
Number of Shareholders’ complaints outstanding as at April 01, 2024
0
Number of shareholders’ complaints received during the Financial Year
1
Number of shareholders’ complaints resolved to the satisfaction of shareholders during 
the Financial Year
1
Number of pending shareholders’ complaints as at March 31, 2025
0
	
(The Company received a compliant w.r.t. non-receipt of Annual Report for the FY 2023-24 and the same was dispatched to the 
shareholder and the complaint of the shareholder stands resolved.)
XX.	 COMPANY SECRETARY AND COMPLIANCE OFFICER
	
Mr. Harshit Gupta, Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer of the Company. His contact details are as follows:
	
Dreamfolks Services Limited
	
Unit No. 301-307, Tower B, Good Earth Trade Tower, Sector-62, Gurgaon-122001, Haryana, India
	
Ph: 0124-4037306
	
E-mail: compliance@dreamfolks.in
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Dreamfolks Services Limited
Date: August 07, 2025 
Place: Gurugram
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Chairperson & Managing Director
DIN: 06849062
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Annual Report 2024-25
172
Dreamfolks Services Limited
173
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annexure-A
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To
The Members
Dreamfolks Services Limited
CIN: L51909DL2008PLC177181
26, DDA Flats Panchsheel Park, 
Shivalik Road, Panchsheel Enclave 
New Delhi-110017 
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of DREAMFOLKS 
SERVICES LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the Company’), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this 
Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number i.e. 
DIN status at the portal of Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) at www.mca.gov.in, as considered necessary and explanations 
furnished to us by the Company & its officers, We hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated 
below for the Financial Year ended  March 31, 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as 
Directors of companies, by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory 
Authority.
Sr. No.
Name of Director
DIN
*Date of Appointment
1.
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat 
06849062
21.03.2014
2.
Mr. Mukesh Yadav
01105819
02.01.2011
3.
Mr. Dinesh Nagpal
01105914
02.01.2011
4.
Mr. Balaji Srinivasan 
03512187
19.10.2021
5.
Ms. Prerna Kohli
03463093
28.11.2023
6.
Mr. Ravindra Pandey
07188637
28.11.2023
7.
Ms. Monica Widhani
07674403
06.09.2024
8.
Mr. Sunil Kulkarni
02714177
21.11.2024
* The date of appointment is as per the master data of the Company appearing at the MCA portal.
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This Certificate is neither an assurance as 
to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs 
of the Company.
FOR DMK ASSOCIATES
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Place: New Delhi	 	
	
	
	
	
Date:  07.08.2025
UDIN: F004140G000951493
(DEEPAK KUKREJA)
FCS, LLB., ACIS (UK), IP.
Partner 
C.P. No. 8265
FCS No. 4140
 Peer Review No. 6896/2025
Annexure-B
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE TO THE BOARD PURSUANT TO REGULATION 17(8) OF SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND 
DISCLOUSURE REQUIREMENTS)  REGULATIONS, 2015
This is to certify that:
A.	
We have reviewed financial statements and the cash flow statement for the year and that to the best of our knowledge and 
belief:
(i)	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material facts or contain statements that 
might be misleading; and
(ii)	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which are 
fraudulent, illegal or violative of the company’s code of conduct.
C.	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and we have evaluated the 
effectiveness of the internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and we have disclosed to the 
auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls, if any, of which we are aware and 
the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies. 
D.	
We have indicated to the auditors and Audit Committee:
(i)	
significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
(ii)	
significant changes in accounting policies during the year and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to financial 
statement; and
(iii)	 that no instances of fraud have come to our notice.
For Dreamfolks Services Limited
Liberatha Peter Kallat	
                                               
Chairperson & Managing Director                        
DIN: 06849062	
 
Shekhar Sood
Chief Financial Officer
Date: May 23, 2025
Place: Gurugram
Annual Report 2024-25
174
Dreamfolks Services Limited
175
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annexure-C
DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE BY BOARD MEMBERS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL WITH
THE CODE OF CONDUCT
(Pursuant to Para D of Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To
The Members 
Dreamfolks Services Limited
I, Liberatha Peter Kallat, Chairperson & Managing Director of the Company, hereby certify that the Board of Directors of the 
Company and the Senior Management Personnel have affirmed the compliance with the code of conduct adopted by the Company 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, in terms of Para D of Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
Annexure-D
PRACTICING COMPANY SECRETARIES’  
CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
(Pursuant to Paragraph E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members
DREAMFOLKS SERVICES LIMITED
CIN: L51909DL2008PLC177181
26,DDA FLATS PANCHSHEEL PARK, 
SHIVALIK ROAD, PANCHSHEEL ENCLAVE 
NEW DELHI-110017
We have examined the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance by DREAMFOLKS SERVICES LIMITED (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Company”) for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) 
to (i) and (t) of sub regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and Paragraph C, D  & E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI LODR Regulations”), as amended from time to 
time.	
The compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management of the Company. Our examination 
was limited to the review of procedures and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance with 
conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and the representations made by 
the Management, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the 
SEBI LODR Regulations for the year ended March 31, 2025. However, the constitution of the Audit Committee, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”), Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) and Stakeholders Relationship Committee (“SRC”), as 
alleged as per the notices served upon the Company by the BSE Limited (‘BSE’) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited (‘NSE’), 
was not in accordance with Regulations 18(1), 19, 20, and 21(2) of the SEBI LODR Regulations for a period of three days, i.e. from 
November 30, 2024 to December 02, 2024. In respect of the aforesaid alleged non-compliances, NSE and BSE had levied fines of 
`6,000 (excluding 18% GST) each for violation of the respective regulations. 
The Company seeking a waiver of the aforementioned fines had not paid the fines on account of the waiver applications filed with 
NSE and BSE on March 28, 2025, submitting that, prior to the amendment dated December 12, 2024, the SEBI LODR Regulations 
did not prescribe any specific timeline for filling Committee vacancies caused due to the expiration of the term of office of any 
Director. This position was also acknowledged by SEBI’s Expert Committee in its report namely “Recommendations for facilitating 
ease of doing business and harmonization of the provisions of ICDR and LODR Regulations” dated June 26, 2024. Subsequently, 
the NSE considered the Company’s waiver application and vide its letter dated June 30, 2025,  communicated its decision in favour 
of the Company  and accordingly,  no fines were required to be paid to NSE in this regard. Further, as of the date of this report, the 
waiver application with the BSE remains pending. 
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
FOR DMK ASSOCIATES
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Place: New Delhi	 	
	
	
	
Date:  07.08.2025
UDIN: F004140G000951460
(DEEPAK KUKREJA)
FCS, LLB., ACIS (UK), IP. 
Partner 
C.P. No. 8265
FCS No. 4140 
Peer Review No. 6896/2025
For Dreamfolks Services Limited
Liberatha Peter Kallat	
                                               
Chairperson & Managing Director                  
DIN: 06849062	
 
Date: August 07, 2025
Place: Gurugram
Annual Report 2024-25
176
Dreamfolks Services Limited
177
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notice
of aforesaid re-appointment including the remuneration 
payable from time to time as per the provisions of the Act, 
Rules thereto, Schedule V of the Act and applicable provisions 
of the  SEBI LODR Regulations (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof from time to time) 
without requiring to obtain any further approval of Members.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of giving 
effect to the foregoing resolution, the Board, Key Managerial 
Personnel(s) or any other person so authorised by the Board, 
be and are hereby authorised to do all such acts, matters, 
deeds and things, as it may in its absolute discretion deem 
necessary, expedient, proper or desirable, including but not 
limited to settling any question, difficulty or doubt that may 
arise in respect of aforesaid resolution, without requiring to 
obtain any further approval of Members of the Company to 
the end and intent that they shall be deemed to have given 
their approval thereto and/or matters connected therewith or 
ancillary or incidental thereto, expressly by the authority of 
this resolution.”
5.	
To consider and appoint M/s. DMK Associates, 
Company Secretaries as Secretarial Auditor of the 
Company
 
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT  pursuant to the provisions of 
Regulation 
24A 
of 
the 
SEBI 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 
2015 
(“SEBI LODR Regulations”), read with Section 204 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), Rule 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014 (including any statutory amendment(s), 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being 
in force), Circulars issued thereunder from time to time, and 
based on the due recommendation of the Audit Committee 
and the Board of Directors, approval of the Members of the 
Company be and hereby accorded for the appointment 
of M/s DMK Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries 
(Firm Registration No. P2006DE003100 and Peer Review 
Certificate no. 6896/2025), as the Secretarial Auditor of 
the Company to conduct Secretarial Audit of the Company 
to hold office as such for a first term of five (5) consecutive 
years commencing from Financial Year 2025-26 to Financial 
Year 2029-30 at such professional fees as mentioned in the 
explanatory statement plus applicable taxes and other out-
of-pocket expenses as may be determined by the Board of 
Directors of the Company (based on the recommendation(s) 
of the Audit Committee), from time to time, and, as mutually 
agreed between the Board and the Secretarial Auditors.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT for the purpose of giving effect 
to the foregoing resolution, the Board of Directors (which 
in term shall include the Audit Committee of the Board 
and/or any duly constituted Committee of the Board), Key 
Managerial Personnel(s) or any other person so authorised by 
the Board, be and are hereby authorised to do all such acts, 
matters, deeds and things, as it may in its absolute discretion 
deem necessary, expedient, proper or desirable, including but 
not limited to settling any question, difficulty or doubt that 
may arise in respect of aforesaid resolution, without requiring 
to obtain any further approval of Members of the Company 
to the end and intent that they shall be deemed to have given 
their approval thereto and/or matters connected therewith or 
ancillary or incidental thereto, expressly by the authority of 
this resolution.”
By Order of the Board of Directors 
For Dreamfolks Services Limited 
Place: Gurugram   
Date: August 07, 2025 
Harshit Gupta 
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer 
 M. No.: A41111
NOTICE
NOTICE is hereby given that the 17th Annual General Meeting of 
the Members of Dreamfolks Services Limited (“the Company”) 
will be held on Monday, September 29, 2025 at 11:30 A.M. 
(IST) through Video Conferencing (VC) / Other Audio Visual 
Means (OAVM), to transact the following business:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1.	
To consider and adopt the Audited Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025 together with the report 
of Board of Directors and Auditors' thereon
 
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT the Audited Standalone Financial 
Statements of the Company comprising of the Balance Sheet 
as at March 31, 2025, the Statement of Profit & Loss, Cash 
Flow Statement and Statement of Changes in Equity, for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2025, together with the 
notes thereto, report of the Board of Directors and Auditors’ 
Report thereon, be and are hereby considered and adopted.”
2.	
To consider and adopt the Audited Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Company for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2025 together with the 
Auditors' Report thereon
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT the Audited Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Company comprising of the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit & Loss, Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, together with 
the Notes thereto and Auditors’ Report thereon, be and are 
hereby considered and adopted.”
3.	
To consider and re-appoint Mr. Dinesh Nagpal 
(DIN: 01105914) Non-Executive Director, who retires 
by rotation and being eligible, offers himself for re-
appointment
 
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 152 
and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, 
and the Rules made thereunder (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time 
being in force), Mr. Dinesh Nagpal (DIN: 01105914), Non- 
Executive Director, who retires by rotation at this Annual 
General Meeting and being eligible for such re-appointment, 
be and is hereby re-appointed as Non- Executive Director, 
liable to retire by rotation.”
SPECIAL BUSINESS:
4.	
To consider and re-appoint Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat 
(DIN: 06849062) as Chairperson & Managing Director 
and approve the remuneration payable to her
 
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as Special Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 
196, 197, 198, 203 and other applicable provisions, if any, 
read with Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the 
Act’), and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, and in terms of 
Regulation 17 and other applicable Regulations, if any, of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI 
LODR Regulations”) (including any statutory modification(s) 
and re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force) 
and Articles of Association of the Company, the consent of 
the Members be and is hereby accorded to re-appoint Ms. 
Liberatha Peter Kallat (DIN: 06849062) as Chairperson & 
Managing Director (Whole-time Key Managerial Personnel 
u/s 203 of the Act) of the Company for a further period of five 
years, on expiry of her present term of office i.e. with effect 
from February 19, 2026 through February 18, 2031, not 
liable to retire by rotation, upon the terms and conditions of 
the said re-appointment, as recommended by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board of 
Directors (‘Board’) from time to time and further mutually 
agreed between Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat and the Company, 
including the remuneration as detailed in the explanatory 
statement.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
the Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act, consent of 
the Members be and is hereby accorded for the payment of the 
remuneration including benefits, amenities and perquisites as 
detailed in the explanatory statement for the period of three 
years effective from February 19, 2026.
	
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of the Company 
(which term shall be deemed to include any duly authorized 
Committee thereof, for the time being exercising the powers 
conferred on the Board by this Resolution) be and are hereby 
authorized to alter, revise and vary the terms and conditions 
Annual Report 2024-25
178
Dreamfolks Services Limited
179
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Notes for Members’ Attention:
Virtual Meeting
1. 
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’), inter alia, 
vide its General Circular No(s). 14/2020 dated April 8, 
2020, 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, 20/2020 dated 
May 5, 2020, and subsequent Circulars issued in this 
regard, the latest being General Circular No. 09/2024 
dated September 19, 2024 (collectively referred to as 
‘MCA Circulars’), has permitted the holding of the Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) through Video Conferencing 
(‘VC’) or through Other Audio-Visual Means (‘OAVM’), 
without the physical presence of the Members at a 
common venue.  
 
Further, the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(‘SEBI’) vide its Circular(s) dated May 12, 2020, January 
15, 2021, May 13, 2022, January 5, 2023, October 6, 
2023, October 7, 2023 and October 3, 2024 (‘SEBI 
Circulars’) and other applicable Circulars issued in this 
regard, has provided relaxations from compliance with 
certain provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI 
LODR Regulations”)
 
In compliance with the applicable provisions of 
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), SEBI LODR 
Regulations, MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, the 17th 
AGM of the Company is being held through VC/OAVM 
on Monday, September 29, 2025, at 11:30 A.M. (IST). The 
proceedings of the AGM will be deemed to be conducted 
at the Registered Office of the Company situated at 26, 
DDA Flats, Panchsheel Park, Shivalik Road, New Delhi - 
110017.
2. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a Member entitled 
to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a 
proxy to attend and vote on its behalf and the proxy need 
not be a Member of the Company. Since this AGM is 
being held pursuant to the MCA Circulars read with the 
SEBI Circulars, through VC/OAVM, physical attendance 
of Members has been dispensed with.
 
Accordingly, the facility for appointment of proxies by the 
Members will not be available for this AGM and hence 
the proxy form, attendance slip and route map of AGM 
are not annexed to this Notice.
3. 
The Members attending the AGM through VC/OAVM 
shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum 
under Section 103 of the Act.
4. 
Mr. Deepak Kukreja (FCS 4140), Practicing Company 
Secretary, Partner of M/s DMK Associates, on failing 
him, Ms. Monika Kohli (FCS 5480), Practicing Company 
Secretary, Partner of M/s DMK Associates, will act as the 
Scrutinizer to scrutinize the voting during the AGM and 
remote e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
Authorised Representative
5. 
Institutional shareholders / Corporate Members (i.e. 
other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required to 
send scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format) of the relevant 
Board Resolution/ Authority letter etc. with attested 
specimen signature of the duly authorized signatory(ies) 
who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail 
to 
Deepak.kukreja@dmkassociates.in 
with 
a 
copy 
marked to evoting@nsdl.com. Institutional shareholders 
/ Corporate Members (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, 
NRI etc.) can also upload their Board Resolution / Power 
of Attorney / Authority Letter etc. by clicking on "Upload 
Board Resolution / Authority Letter" displayed under 
"e-Voting" tab in their login
Dispatch of Annual Report
6. 
Pursuant to Sections 101 and 136 of the Act read with 
relevant Rules made thereunder and Regulation 36 
of SEBI LODR Regulations and in terms of Circulars, 
Company will send Annual Report along with Notice of 
the AGM and other communications through electronic 
mode to those Members who have registered their e-mail 
address.
7. 
Members who have not yet registered their e-mail 
addresses are requested to register the same with their 
Depository Participants (“DP”) in case the shares are 
held by them in electronic form and with MUFG Intime 
India Private Limited (formerly Link Intime India Private 
Limited) in case the shares are held by them in physical 
form. For temporary registration of email for the purpose 
of receiving this Notice along with Annual Report for 
FY 2024-25 Members may write to compliance@
dreamfolks.in along with requisite proof of his/her 
membership.
8. 
Additionally, as per SEBI LODR Regulations, the 
Company is also sending a letter to shareholders whose 
e-mail addresses are not registered with Company/ RTA/ 
depositories/ DP providing the weblink, including the 
exact path of Company’s website where the complete 
details of the Notice and Annual Report for F.Y. 2024-25 
is available.
9. 
In accordance with the Circulars issued by MCA and SEBI, 
the Notice calling the AGM along with Annual Report has 
been uploaded on the website of the Company   at   www.
dreamfolks.com. The Notice can also be accessed from 
the websites of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.
bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com respectively and 
the AGM Notice is also available on the website of NSDL 
(agency for providing the Remote e-Voting facility) i.e. 
www.evoting.nsdl.com. Any person seeking hard copy of 
this Notice along with the Annual Report for FY 2024-25 
may write to us at compliance@dreamfolks.in.
 
Contact details of Share Transfer Agent of the Company 
is as under:
 
MUFG Intime India Private Limited
 
(formerly known as Link Intime India Private Limited),
 
Noble Heights, 1st Floor, Plot NH 2,
 
C-1 Block LSC, Near Savitri Market,
 
Janakpuri, New Delhi - 110058
	
Tel: 011 - 49411000
	
Email: delhi@in.mpms.mufg.com
Details of Directors seeking appointment/ re-appointment
10. The Statement pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, 
setting out the material facts concerning the business with 
respect to Item No(s). 4 and 5 forms part of this Notice. 
The relevant information pursuant to Regulation(s) 
36 and other relevant provisions of the  SEBI LODR 
Regulations and disclosure requirements in terms of 
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (‘SS-2’) issued 
by The Institute of Company Secretaries of India, in 
respect of Director retiring by rotation and seeking re-
appointment at this AGM is furnished as Annexure to 
this Notice.
Explanatory Statement
11. The Statement pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, 
setting out the material facts concerning the Special 
Business with respect to Item No(s). 4 and 5 forms part 
of this Notice. An Explanatory Statement relating to 
certain items of Special Business i.e. Item Nos. 4 to 5, to 
be transacted at the AGM is annexed hereto.
Procedure for inspection of documents
12. During the AGM, Members may access the Register 
of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel and their 
shareholding maintained under Section 170 of the Act, 
the Register of Contracts or Arrangements maintained 
under Section 189 of the Act, further, documents 
referred to in the accompanying Notice of the 17th AGM 
and the Explanatory Statement shall be available at the 
Corporate Office of the Company situated at 301-307, 
3rd Floor, Tower B, Good Earth Trade Tower, Maidawas 
Road, Sector 62, Gurugram -122001, Haryana, India for 
inspection without any fee on all working days except 
Saturday, during normal business hours 09:00 A.M. to 
05:00 P.M. (IST) till the date of AGM.
Procedure for joining AGM through VC/OAVM and Remote 
E-voting
13. The Members can join the AGM through the VC/OAVM 
mode 15 minutes before and after the scheduled time 
of the commencement of the Meeting by following 
the procedure mentioned in the Notice. The facility of 
participation at the AGM through VC/OAVM will be 
made available for 1000 members on first come first 
served basis. This will not include large Shareholders 
(Shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding), 
Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel, the Chairpersons of the Audit 
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
and Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Auditors etc. 
who are allowed to attend the AGM without restriction 
on account of first come first served basis.
14. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Act 
read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 (as amended)  the Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued by the ICSI 
and Regulation 44 of SEBI LODR Regulations, and the 
Circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs from 
time to time the Company is providing facility of remote 
e-Voting to its Members in respect of the business to be 
transacted at the AGM. For this purpose, the Company 
has entered into an agreement with National Securities 
Depository Limited (NSDL) for facilitating voting through 
electronic means, as the authorized agency. The facility 
of casting votes by a Member using remote e-Voting 
system as well as e-voting on the date of the AGM will be 
provided by NSDL.
15. In line with the provisions of the Act read with applicable 
provisions of SEBI LODR Regulations and applicable 
Circulars issued thereunder, the Notice calling the AGM 
has been uploaded on the website of the Company at 
www.dreamfolks.com. The Notice can also be accessed 
from the websites of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.
bseindia.com  and www.nseindia.com respectively and 
the AGM Notice is also available on the website of NSDL 
(agency for providing the Remote e-Voting facility) i.e. 
www.evoting.nsdl.com.
Notice
Annual Report 2024-25
180
Dreamfolks Services Limited
181
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
16. This AGM has been convened through VC/OAVM in 
compliance with applicable provisions of the Act and SEBI 
LODR Regulations read with MCA and SEBI Circular 
issued from time to time 
17.	 THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR REMOTE 
E-VOTING AND JOINING GENERAL MEETING ARE 
AS UNDER:-
	
The remote e-voting period begins on Friday, 
September 26, 2025 at 09:00 A.M. (IST) and ends on 
Sunday, September 28, 2025 at 05:00 P.M. (IST) The 
remote e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL for 
voting thereafter. Once the vote on a resolution is cast 
by the Member, the Member shall not be allowed to 
change it subsequently. The Members, whose names 
appear in the Register of Members / Beneficial Owners 
as on the cut-off date i.e. Monday, September 22, 2025, 
may cast their vote electronically. The voting right of 
shareholders shall be in proportion to their share in 
the paid-up equity share capital of the Company as on 
the cut-off date, being Monday, September 22, 2025.
	
A person who is not a Member as on the cut-off date 
should treat this Notice of 17th AGM for information 
purpose only.
	
Any person, who acquires shares of the Company and 
becomes Member of the Company after the Company 
sends the Notice of the 17th AGM by E-mail and 
holds shares as on the cut-off date i.e. on Monday 
September 22, 2025 may obtain the User ID and 
password by sending a request to E-mail address 
evoting@nsdl.com. However, if he/she is already 
registered with NSDL for remote e-voting then he/she 
can use his/her existing user ID and password for casting 
his/her vote. In the case of forgot password, the same 
can be reset by using “Forgot User Details/Password?” 
or “Physical User Reset Password” option available on 
www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
The Members who have cast their vote by remote 
e-voting prior to the AGM may also attend the AGM 
but shall not be entitled to cast their vote again.
	
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-Voting 
system?
	
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting system 
consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
	
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-Voting system
A)	
Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting 
for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode
 
In terms of SEBI Circular dated December 9, 2020 on 
e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are 
allowed to vote through their demat account maintained 
with 
Depositories 
and 
Depository 
Participants. 
Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number 
and email Id in their demat accounts in order to access 
e-Voting facility.
 
Login method for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL.
For OTP based login you can click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/evoting/
evotinglogin.jsp. You will have to enter your 8-digit DP ID,8-digit Client Id, PAN No., Verification 
code and generate OTP. Enter the OTP received on registered email id/mobile number and 
click on login. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site 
wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on Company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. 
NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.
com either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page click on 
the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section, this will 
prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you 
will be able to see e-Voting services under Value added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” 
under e-Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on Company name or 
e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be re-directed to e-Voting website of NSDL 
for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting 
during the meeting.
Notice
Type of shareholders
 Login Method
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at 
https://eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://
eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp.
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. Once the home page 
of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/
Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen 
digit demat account number hold with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown 
on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site 
wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on Company name or e-Voting service provider i.e. 
NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. 
Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by 
scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
NSDL Mobile App is available on
Individual 
Shareholders 
holding securities in demat 
mode with CDSL
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing 
user id and password. Option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any 
further authentication. The users to login Easi /Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then use your existing 
my easi username & password.
After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible 
companies where the e-voting is in progress as per the information provided by Company. On 
clicking the e-voting option, the user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service 
provider for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting. Additionally, there are also links provided to access the system of 
all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting service providers’ website 
directly.
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website 
www.cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration 
option.
Individual 
Shareholders 
(holding securities in demat 
mode) login through their 
depository participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository 
Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility. upon logging in, you will be able to 
see e-Voting option. Click on e-Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository 
site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click on Company 
name or e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website 
of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & 
voting during the meeting.
Notice
Annual Report 2024-25
182
Dreamfolks Services Limited
183
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through 
Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by 
sending a request at  evoting@nsdl.com or call at 022 - 4886 7000
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by 
sending a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 
1800-21-09911
B) Login Method for e-Voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
1. 
Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ 
either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. 
2. 
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/
Member’ section.
3. 
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the 
screen.
 
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your 
existing IDEAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your log-in credentials, click on e-Voting and you can 
proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.
4. 
Your User ID details are given below :
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat (NSDL or CDSL) 
or Physical
Your User ID is:
a) For Members who hold shares in demat account with 
NSDL.
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 
12****** then your user ID is IN300***12******.
b) For Members who hold shares in demat account with 
CDSL.
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then 
your user ID is 12**************
c) For Members holding shares in Physical Form.
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with 
the Company
For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 
101456 then user ID is 101456001***
5. 
Password details for shareholders other than Individual shareholders are given below: 
a) 
If you are already registered for e-Voting, then you can use your existing password to login and cast your vote.
Notice
b) 
If you are using NSDL e-Voting system for the first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’ which was 
communicated to you. Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the 
system will force you to change your password.
c) 
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
(i) 
If your email ID is registered in your demat account or with the Company, your ‘initial password’ is 
communicated to you on your email ID. Trace the email sent to you from NSDL from your mailbox. Open the 
email and open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open the .pdf file. The password to open the .pdf file is your 8 
digit client ID for NSDL account, last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL account or folio number for shares held in 
physical form. The .pdf file contains your ‘User ID’ and your ‘initial password’. 
(ii) 
If your email ID is not registered, please follow steps mentioned below in process for those shareholders 
whose email ids are not registered. 
6 
 If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the “Initial password” or have forgotten your password:
a) 
 Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?”(If you are holding shares in your demat account with NSDL or CDSL) 
option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
b) 
 Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are holding shares in physical mode) option available on www.evoting.nsdl.
com.
c) 
If you are still unable to get the password by aforesaid two options, you can send a request at evoting@nsdl.com 
mentioning your demat account number/folio number, your PAN, your name and your registered address etc.
d) 
Members can also use the OTP (One Time Password) based login for casting the votes on the e-Voting system of 
NSDL.
7. 
After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
8. 
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
9. 
After you click on the “Login” button, Home page of e-Voting will open.
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system.
How to cast your vote electronically and join General Meeting on NSDL e-Voting system?
1. 
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see all 
the companies “EVEN” in which you are holding shares 
and whose voting cycle and General Meeting is in active 
status.
2. 
Select “EVEN” of Company for which you wish to cast 
your vote during the remote e-Voting period and casting 
your vote during the General Meeting. For joining virtual 
meeting, you need to click on “VC/OAVM” link placed 
under “Join Meeting”.
3. 
Now you are ready for e-Voting as the Voting page opens.
4. 
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent 
or dissent, verify/modify the number of shares for which 
you wish to cast your vote and click on “Submit” and also 
“Confirm” when prompted.
5. 
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast successfully” 
will be displayed. 
6. 
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you by 
clicking on the print option on the confirmation page.
7. 
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will 
not be allowed to modify your vote.
General Guidelines for shareholders
1. 
Institutional shareholders / Corporate Members (i.e. 
other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required to 
send scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format) of the relevant 
Board Resolution/ Authority letter etc. with attested 
specimen signature of the duly authorized signatory(ies) 
who are authorized to vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail to 
Deepak.kukreja@dmkassociates.in  with a copy marked 
to evoting@nsdl.com. Institutional shareholders (i.e. 
other than individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload 
their Board Resolution / Power of Attorney / Authority 
Letter etc. by clicking on "Upload Board Resolution / 
Authority Letter" displayed under "e-Voting" tab in their 
login.
Notice
Annual Report 2024-25
184
Dreamfolks Services Limited
185
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
2. 
It is strongly recommended not to share your password 
with any other person and take utmost care to keep your 
password confidential. Login to the e-voting website will 
be disabled upon five unsuccessful attempts to key in the 
correct password. In such an event, you will need to go 
through the “Forgot User Details/Password?” or “Physical 
User Reset Password?” option available on www.evoting.
nsdl.com to reset the password. 
3. 
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQs) for Shareholders and e-voting 
user manual for Shareholders available at the download 
section of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on.: 022 - 4886 
7000 or send a request to Ms. Pallavi Mhatre - Senior 
Manager at evoting@nsdl.com.
Process for those shareholders whose email ids are not 
registered with the depositories for procuring user id and 
password and registration of e mail ids for e-voting for the 
resolutions set out in this notice:
1. 
In case shares are held in physical mode please provide 
Folio No., Name of shareholder, scanned copy of the share 
certificate (front and back), PAN (self attested scanned 
copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self attested scanned copy 
of Aadhar Card) by email to Compliance@dreamfolks.in. 
2. 
In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide 
DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 digit beneficiary 
ID), Name, client master or copy of Consolidated Account 
statement, PAN (self attested scanned copy of PAN card), 
AADHAR (self attested scanned copy of Aadhar Card) 
to  Compliance@dreamfolks.in.  If you are an Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode, you are 
requested to refer to the login method explained at step 
1 (A) i.e. Login method for e-Voting and joining virtual 
meeting for Individual shareholders holding securities 
in demat mode.
3. 
Alternatively shareholder/Members may send a request 
to evoting@nsdl.com for procuring user id and password 
for e-voting by providing above mentioned documents.
4. 
In terms of SEBI Circular dated December 9, 2020 on 
e-Voting facility provided by Listed Companies, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are 
allowed to vote through their demat account maintained 
with 
Depositories 
and 
Depository 
Participants. 
Shareholders are required to update their mobile number 
and email ID correctly in their demat account in order to 
access e-Voting facility.
18.	 THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR e-VOTING 
ON THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:-
1. 
The procedure for e-Voting on the day of the AGM is 
same as the instructions mentioned above for remote 
e-voting.
2. 
Only those Members/ shareholders, who will be present 
in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and have not 
casted their vote on the Resolutions through remote 
e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so, 
shall be eligible to vote through e-Voting system in the 
AGM.
3. 
Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting will 
be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will not be 
eligible to vote at the AGM.
4. 
The details of the person who may be contacted for any 
grievances connected with the facility for e-Voting on the 
day of the AGM shall be the same person mentioned for 
Remote e-voting.
19.	 INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING 
THE EGM/AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS 
UNDER:
a) 
Member will be provided with a facility to attend the 
AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL e-Voting 
system. Members may access by following the steps 
mentioned above for Access to NSDL e-Voting system. 
After successful login, you can see link of “VC/OAVM” 
placed under “Join meeting” menu against Company 
name. You are requested to click on VC/OAVM link 
placed under Join Meeting menu. The link for VC/OAVM 
will be available in Shareholder/Member login where the 
EVEN of Company will be displayed. Please note that the 
Members who do not have the User ID and Password for 
e-Voting or have forgotten the User ID and Password 
may retrieve the same by following the remote e-Voting 
instructions mentioned in the Notice to avoid last minute 
rush.
b) 
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through 
Laptops for better experience.
c) 
Further, Members will be required to allow Camera 
access and use Internet with a good speed to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
d) 
Please note that Participants Connecting from Mobile 
Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via 
Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due 
Notice
to fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore 
recommended to use Stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to 
mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
Speaker Registration 
20. Members who would like to express their views/ask 
questions as a speaker at the Meeting may pre-register 
themselves by sending a request from their registered 
e-mail address mentioning their names, DP ID and Client 
ID/folio number, PAN and mobile number at Compliance@
dreamfolks.com between Monday, September 22, 2025 
(09:00 A.M. (IST)) and Friday, September 26, 2025 (05:00 
P.M. (IST)). Only those Members who have pre-registered 
themselves as a speaker will be allowed to express their 
views/ask questions during the AGM. The Company 
reserves the right to restrict the number of speakers 
depending on the availability of time for the AGM.
SEBI mandate on issuance of securities only in demat mode
21. Regulation 40 of SEBI LODR Regulations, as amended, 
mandates that transfer, transmission and transposition 
of securities of listed companies held in physical form 
shall be effected only in demat mode. Further, SEBI vide 
its Circular dated January 25, 2022, has clarified that 
listed companies, with immediate effect, shall issue 
securities only in demat mode while processing any 
investor 
service 
requests 
including 
transmission, 
issuance of duplicate shares, deletion of name, exchange 
of shares, etc. In view of this as also to eliminate all risks 
associated with physical shares and for ease of portfolio 
management, Members holding shares in physical form 
are requested to consider converting their holdings to 
demat mode.
Online Dispute Resolution Mechanism 
22. SEBI vide Circular nos. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD1/P/ 
CIR/2023/131 dated July 31, 2023 and SEBI/HO/
OIAE/ OIAE_IAD-1/P/CIR/2023/135 dated August 
4, 2023, SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-3/P/CIR/2023/191 
dated December 20, 2023 read with master Circular 
no.SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-3/P/CIR/2023/195 
dated December 28, 2023, as amended, has established 
a common Online Dispute Resolution Portal (‘ODR 
Portal’) for resolution of disputes arising in the Indian 
Securities Market. Pursuant to the said Circulars, post 
exhausting the option to resolve their grievances with the 
RTA/ Company directly and through existing SCORES 
platform, the investors can initiate dispute resolution 
through the ODR Portal (https://smartodr.in/login) and 
the same can also be accessed through the Company’s 
website www.dreamfolks.com. 
E-voting results
23. The Results shall be declared by the Chairman or the 
person authorized by him in writing not later than 2 (Two) 
working days of conclusion of the AGM of the Company. 
The Results declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report 
shall be placed on the Company’s website (https://www.
dreamfolks.com/) and on the website of NSDL (https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com/) and forward the same to the 
stock exchanges immediately after the result is declared 
by the Chairperson or the person authorized by her.
KYC compliance
24. Securities and Exchange Board of India (‘SEBI”), vide 
its Circular bearing reference nos. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/
MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/37 dated March 16, 2023 
(now rescinded by Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/POD-1/P/CIR/2024/37 for Registrars to an 
Issue and Share Transfer Agents dated May 07, 2024) 
read with  Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/POD 1/P/
CIR/2023/181 dated November 17, 2023 and SEBI/HO/
MIRSD/POD 1/P/CIR/2024/81 dated June 10, 2024, 
mandated that the security holders (holding securities in 
physical form) are required to update following details for 
their corresponding folio numbers:
a) 
PAN 
b) 
Contact Details: Postal Address with PIN and 
Mobile Number 
c) 
Bank Account Details (Bank and Branch name, bank 
account number, IFS code) 
d) 
Specimen signature
The security holder(s), whose folio(s) do not have all the above 
details updated, shall be eligible:
1. 
to lodge grievance or avail any service request from the 
RTA only after furnishing PAN, Contact Details including 
Mobile Number, Bank Account Details and Specimen 
Signature.
2. 
for any payment including dividend, interest or 
redemption in respect of such folios, only through 
electronic mode with effect from April 01, 2024. 
 
Updation of PAN and KYC shall be made through Form 
ISR-1 and in case of registration/updation of specimen 
signature additional, Form ISR-2 for Banker’s attestation 
of the signature of the same bank account, along with 
Notice
Annual Report 2024-25
186
Dreamfolks Services Limited
187
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
the necessary attachments / documents as stated in the 
forms itself is required to be furnished. The said form 
can be downloaded from the website of our RTA viz 
https://in.mpms.mufg.com/. While filling up the form, 
please strike out the portion(s), which are not applicable 
to you.
 
Further, PAN to be furnished should be linked with 
Aadhaar. In case the same is not so linked, it is requested 
to do the same immediately. In the event such linkage 
is not done then PAN will be deemed to be invalid and 
consequently folio of such physical security holders will 
be treated in the same manner as applicable in case of 
folios for which no PAN has been furnished.
 
It is also requested to provide/update ‘choice of 
nomination’ for ensuring smooth transmission of 
securities, if required and as well as to prevent 
accumulation of unclaimed assets in securities market. 
While updating Email ID is optional, the security holders 
are requested to register email id also to avail online 
services
 
For appointing a nominee it is requested to furnish Form 
SH-13. A copy of the said form is available at our RTA’s 
website viz. https://in.mpms.mufg.com/  While filling up 
the form, please strike out the portion(s) which are not 
applicable to you.
 
In case a shareholder do not wish to nominate any person 
as nominee  with respect to the physical shares held by 
you, then please furnish declaration for opting out of 
nomination in Form ISR -3, which  can  be downloaded 
from our RTA’s website viz. https://in.mpms.mufg.com/. 
 
For cancelling / change of nomination at a later date with 
respect to the physical shares held, please furnish Form 
SH-14. A copy of the said Form can also be downloaded 
from our RTA’s website at https://in.mpms.mufg.com/. 
Above-mentioned documents shall be submitted to 
RTA/Company.
 
Members holding shares in electronic form are, 
therefore, requested to submit PAN and other KYC 
related documents to their depository participants with 
whom they are maintaining their demat accounts.
 
The unclaimed/unpaid dividend(s) will be credited to 
the shareholder’s bank account only after the KYC is 
updated. A copy of the above mentioned forms can 
also be downloaded from the website of the Company 
www.dreamfolks.com. 
25.  The Members who have not so far received/claimed 
the interim dividend for FY 2023-24 and dividend for 
FY 2023-24 are requested to correspond with the RTA 
as mentioned above, or with the Company Secretary at 
compliance@dreamfolks.in.
 
Members are requested to note that dividends that are 
not claimed within seven years from the date of transfer 
to the Company’s Unpaid Dividend Account, will, as per 
Section 124 of the Act be transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF). Shares on which 
dividend remains unclaimed for seven consecutive years 
are also required to be transferred to the IEPF as per 
Section 124 of the Act and the applicable rules. In view 
of this, members/claimants are requested to claim their 
dividends from the Company, within the stipulated 
timeline.
26.  To prevent fraudulent transactions, Members are advised 
to exercise due diligence and notify the Company of any 
change in address or staying abroad or demise of any 
Member as soon as possible. Members are also advised 
not to leave their demat account(s) dormant for a long 
period.
 
The statement of holdings should be obtained from the 
concerned Depository Participants and holdings should 
be verified periodically
Notice
EXPLANATORY STATEMENTS PURSUANT TO SECTION 102(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 AND SEBI (LISTING 
OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
Item No. 4
Background:
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat has been associated with the 
Company as a Director since March 21, 2014. She was last 
re-appointed as Managing Director of the Company at her 
present term w.e.f. February 19, 2021 for a period of five years 
which is due for its expiry on February 18, 2026.  Ms. Liberatha 
was appointed as Chairperson and Designated as Chairperson 
and Managing Director of the Company w.e.f. November 30, 
2021 through February 18, 2026. 
On 
the 
recommendations 
of 
the 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”), the Board of Directors 
(“Board”) at its meeting held on August 07, 2025, approved the 
re-appointment of Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat as Chairperson & 
Managing Director (CMD) of the Company for a further period 
of five years, on expiry of her present term of office i.e. with 
effect from February 19, 2026 through February 18, 2031, 
subject to approval of the Shareholders, on the terms and 
conditions mentioned herein.
The Board, while re-appointing Ms. Liberatha as the 
Chairperson and Managing Director of the Company, 
considered her background, experience and contributions 
to the Company during her past and current tenures as the 
Chairperson and Managing Director of the Company. She is 
also serving as Managing Director of the Pockket Payment 
Technologies Private Limited, wherein she doesn’t draw any 
remuneration. 
Profile & Contribution to the Company:
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat, is currently the Promoter and 
Chairperson & Managing Director of the Company and has 
been instrumental in driving the Company from its inception 
to its current position as a leading player in the Indian airport 
services aggregation industry.
Ms. Liberatha’s expertise stems from her experience with 
Global Airport Lounges, where she gained deep insights into 
the intricacies of airport services. Her extensive background 
in the hospitality industry includes roles with blue chip 
companies like Indian Hotels Company Limited, Taj Hotels & 
Resorts Limited, PepsiCo, and Pernod Ricard India.
During the Financial Year 2024-25, she has received 
numerous awards for her exceptional leadership including:
 
Conferred with the Business Leadership Award at the 
Indian Achievers’ Awards 2024
 
Felicitated as India’s Impactful CEOs 2024 by Times 
Now
 
Honoured as CEO of the Year at the Indian Achievers' 
Awards 2025, organized by the Indian Achievers’ Forum
Under her leadership, Dreamfolks Services Limited 
(“Dreamfolks/ Company”) has been honoured with 
numerous awards including:
	
Best User Experience Solution Provider at the 8th 
Annual India Banking Summit & Awards 2024
	
Best Banking Card Service Provider of the Year at the 
11th edition of The Payments Reloaded Awards 2024
	
Business Innovation Award at the 14th edition of 
Entrepreneur Awards 2024
	
Iconic Brands of India 2024 by ET Now
	
Deloitte India Technology Fast 50 Awards 2024 in the 
category - Travel & Hospitality Tech at the 19th edition of 
the Deloitte Technology Fast 50 India programme
	
Excellence in Premium Travel & Lifestyle Solutions 
award at the TAFI (Travel Agents Federation of India) 
Convention 2025 in Vietnam
	
Most Innovative Emerging Technology Implementation 
at the 9th Annual India Banking Summit & Awards 2025, 
organized by Synnex Group
	
Customer Experience Solution of the Year (Gold 
category) at the 5th edition of the BW BusinessWorld 
Fintech Awards 2025
Under her leadership, DreamFolks has built a robust network 
of clients and operators. A significant part of her focus has 
been on enhancing the Company's technology capabilities by 
creating a scalable, in-house platform that enables clients to 
offer customized services to their customers. Ms. Liberatha’s 
commitment to building lasting client relationships through 
ongoing engagement is a cornerstone of DreamFolks' success. 
Her contribution in the growth of the Company has been 
tremendous. Under her leadership, the revenue from 
operations of the Company increased from INR 7732.52 Mn 
(FY 23) to INR 12,918.82 Mn (FY 25) registering a CAGR 
of 29.2%. The Net Worth of the Company increased from 
INR 1567.23 Mn to INR 3058.45 Mn registering a CAGR of 
39.7%. She has been constantly engaged in strengthening the 
leadership team and has tremendously contributed to the 
tangible & intangible assets to the Company during the year.
Terms of Re-Appointment:
The main terms and conditions relating to the re-appointment 
of Ms. Liberatha’s as Chairperson and Managing Director 
(“CMD”) are as follows:
Annual Report 2024-25
188
Dreamfolks Services Limited
189
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
1.	
Period: Appointment for a period of 5 years, i.e. from 
February 19, 2026 through February 18, 2031 and 
remuneration for a period of 3 years commencing from 
February 19, 2026.
2.	
Nature of Duties: The CMD shall devote her whole 
time and attention to the business of the Company 
and perform such duties as may be entrusted to her by 
the Board of Directors of the Company from time to 
time and separately communicated to her and exercise 
such powers as may be assigned to her, subject to the 
superintendence, control and directions of the Board of 
Directors in connection with and in the best interests of 
the business of the Company and the business of one or 
more of its associated companies and/or subsidiaries or 
sister concerns, including performing duties as assigned 
to the CMD from time to time by serving on the Boards 
of such associated companies and/or subsidiaries, sister 
concerns or any other Executive Body or any Committee 
of such a Company.
3.	
A. 	  Remuneration:
a)	
Basic Salary:
 
Current Basic Salary of INR 30,30,180 per 
month, with suitable annual increments 
effective April 1, each year, as may be decided 
by the Board based on the recommendation of 
the NRC.
b)	
House Rent Allowance (HRA):
 
Current HRA of INR 15,15,090 per month, 
with suitable annual revisions effective April 
1, each year, as may be decided by the Board 
based on the recommendation of the NRC.
c)	
Benefits, perquisites and allowances:
 
Details of Benefits, Perquisites and Allowances 
are as follows:
a. 
Other perquisites and allowances: @ 5% 
of Basic and  HRA
b. 
Contribution to Provident Fund: @12% 
of Basic Salary 
c. 
Entitlement of Gratuity as per Company 
Policy
d. 
The CMD shall be entitled to leave, 
in accordance with the Rules of the 
Company. Privilege Leave earned but 
not availed by her would be encashable 
in accordance with the Rules of the 
Company.
d)	
Bonus/Performance Linked Incentive
 
Ms. Liberatha shall be entitled to Bonus/
Performance Linked Incentive not exceeding 
100% of the salary (Basic + HRA) at the 
discretion of the Board annually based on 
performance criteria laid down by the Board 
and/or Committee thereof. 
 
The overall parameters considered by the NRC and 
the Board, includes the following:
1.	
Pioneer in Industry Creation
 
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat has been 
instrumental in establishing the airport 
services aggregation industry in India.
2.	
Leadership
Notice
Company’s Performance
Particulars
FY2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2024-25
Revenue from 
operations
Consolidated
7,732.52
11,350.12
12,918.82
Standalone
7,732.40
11,349.46
12,918.82
EBITDA
Consolidated
1,022.19
973.27
973.04
Standalone
1,022.43
985.97
1,016.45
Profit After Tax
Consolidated
725.27
686.37
650.50
Standalone
725.46
696.83
696.83
Net worth
Consolidated
1,571.09
2,364.13
3,006.09
Standalone
1,567.23
2,370.82
3,058.45
 
The details of Company’s performance over past 3 years are given below:
INR in Million
 
Demonstration 
of 
value-based 
leadership by setting tone at the top and 
exemplifying the Company’s core values 
in conduct, communication, and decision-
making.
 
Steering 
the 
organization 
through 
various challenges with resilience and 
vision.
 
Pioneering the Company’s journey from 
founding to a landmark IPO, establishing 
a strong market presence
3.	
Strategic
 
Stakeholder centricity and deepening 
business in strategic markets.
 
Overseeing strict compliance to safety 
protocols, 
facilitate 
safe 
working 
practices, an ensure a psychologically 
safe environment for the workforce in all 
locations.
 
Preparing the organization to achieve 
leadership in the areas of digital & 
technology.
 
Enhancing its global presence and 
reinforced it’s position in the industry. 
 
Advancing 
Company’s 
ethos 
and 
interventions 
on 
CSR 
and 
making 
meaningful 
& 
positive 
impact 
on 
communities.
4.	
Financial Matrix
 
Focus 
on 
growth, 
sustenance 
and 
excellence of the Company. Consistently 
delivered strong financial performance 
and enhanced net worth of the Company.
 
Focus 
on 
deleveraging, 
balance 
sheet management and maintaining 
competitive financial metrics.
 
In a nutshell, the NRC and the Board 
acknowledges her unwavering dedication, 
extensive experience and strong execution 
capabilities, which make her well suited to 
continue leading the Company. 
 
In recommending the Bonus/Performance 
Linked Incentive to Ms. Liberatha, the NRC 
and the Board will also considered her 
commitment to advance the Company’s 
interest and towards truly fostering a culture 
of leadership with trust.
 
In recommending the Bonus/Performance 
Linked Incentive, the NRC and the Board also 
considers:
 
the reasonableness and sufficiency of 
Bonus/Performance 
Linked 
Incentive 
for the role played by Ms. Liberatha 
in managing the Company, including 
responding to the challenges faced by the 
Company.
 
the market competitiveness and that 
the pay-out is reflective of the size and 
complexity of business. 
 
The NRC and the Board are judicious in 
its recommendations and approval of the 
Bonus/Performance Linked Incentive pay-
outs. The NRC and the Board ensures that 
its recommendations and pay-outs inherently 
have a good balance between fixed and 
incentive pay reflecting short, medium, and 
long-term performance objectives appropriate 
to the working of the Company and in achieving 
its strategic objectives.
Notice
Actual Remuneration paid to Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat, Chairperson & Managing Director
Particulars 
FY 2022-23 
FY 2023-24 
FY 2024-25 
Salary ( Basic and HRA) 
3,17,25,000 
   4,12,42,500  
4,74,28,884 
Perquisites 
24,67,744 
       51,45,850  
46,66,910 
PF Contribution 
25,38,000 
       32,99,400  
37,94,311 
Total 
3,67,30,744 
   4,96,87,750  
5,58,90,105 
INR
Annual Report 2024-25
190
Dreamfolks Services Limited
191
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Note -1: The above figures do not include leave encashment 
and gratuity, which is paid/ payable as per Company Policy 
applicable for all employees.
Note -2: Incentive for FY 2023-24 has been voluntarily waived 
off by CMD.
Note-3: For FY 2024-25, Incentive of INR 4,74,28,875 was 
paid in May 2025.
As can be seen from the above table, the total remuneration 
paid to Ms. Liberatha is reasonable, balanced, and is reflective 
of the role performed by Ms. Liberatha as the CMD.
B. Minimum Remuneration:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained 
where in any financial year during the tenure of Ms. Liberatha, 
the Company has no profits, or its profits are inadequate, the 
Company will pay her remuneration by way of salary, benefits 
and perquisites and allowances, Bonus/Performance Linked 
Incentive as approved by the Board.
4. Other Terms of Appointment:
The terms and conditions of the re-appointment of the CMD 
as also provided in the Agreement between the Company 
and the CMD may be altered and varied from time to time 
by the Board as it may, in its discretion deem fit, irrespective 
of the limits stipulated under Schedule V to the Act or any 
amendments made hereinafter in this regard in such manner 
as may be agreed to between the Board and the CMD, subject 
to such approvals as may be required.
Further, the annual increments effective April 1, each year, as 
may be decided by the Board based on the recommendation of 
the NRC, not exceeding 20%.
Proposal for seeking approval:
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 197 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (the “Act”), approval of the Members of the Company 
by way of a Special Resolution is required to be obtained if the 
annual remuneration payable to Executive Directors, exceed 
the thresholds specified therein. 
Further, in terms of the Schedule V of the Act, where in any 
financial year during the currency of tenure of a managerial 
person, Company has no profits or its profits are inadequate, 
it may, pay remuneration to the managerial person exceeding 
the threshold specified therein with the approval of the 
Shareholders by way of a Special Resolution. Also, pursuant 
to the provisions of Regulation 17(6)(e) of the SEBI LODR 
Regulations approval of the Members of the Company by 
way of a Special Resolution is required to be obtained if the 
fees or compensation payable to Executive Directors who 
are promoters or members of the promoter group, exceed 
the thresholds specified therein. Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat, 
being one of the promoters of the Company and the proposed 
remuneration exceeds the specified threshold limits. 
The resolution seeks the approval of the Members by way of 
special resolution under Section 196, 197 & Schedule V of the 
Act and Regulation 17(6)(e) of the SEBI LODR Regulations 
for the re-appointment of Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat as 
Chairperson & Managing Director (CMD) of the Company for 
a further period of five years, on expiry of her present term of 
office i.e. with effect from February 19, 2026 through February 
18, 2031 including, but not limited to payment of remuneration 
for the period of three years as CMD i.e. February 19, 2026 
through February 18, 2029 including remuneration payable in 
case of inadequate or no profit. 
Ms. Liberatha satisfies all the conditions set out in the relevant 
provisions of the Act for being eligible for his re-appointment. 
The Company has also received from Ms. Liberatha (i) consent 
to act as Director in Form DIR-2; (ii) intimation in Form DIR-
8, to the effect that she is not disqualified to be appointed as 
Director under Section 164 of the Act; (iii) declaration to the 
effect that she is qualified to be appointed as CMD pursuant 
to the requirements of the Act and SEBI LODR Regulations; 
and (iv) certificate stating that she is not debarred from 
appointment pursuant to any Order of SEBI or any other 
Authority. The Company has also received notice in writing 
under the provisions of Section 160 of the Act from a Member 
proposing his candidature for the office of Director of the 
Company. Ms. Liberatha, being eligible, offers herself for 
reappointment. Employment Contract of Ms. Liberatha shall 
be available for inspection as mentioned in Notes section of 
this Notice.
The Company, as on date, is not in default in payment of dues 
to any bank or public financial institution or to non-convertible 
debenture holders or to any other secured financial creditor, 
and accordingly their prior approval is not required for 
approving the proposed special resolution.
A brief profile and other details relating to the re-appointment 
of Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat as Chairperson and Managing 
Director as specified under Regulation 36 of SEBI LODR 
Regulations and SS-2 is annexed as Annexure-1 and further 
details as specified under Part -II of the Schedule V to the Act is 
annexed as Annexure-2 to this Notice.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company or their respective relatives, except Ms. Liberatha, to 
whom the resolution relates, is concerned or interested in the 
Resolution mentioned at Item No. 4 of the Notice.
Notice
The Board commends the Special resolution set forth at Item 
No. 4 for the approval of the Members.
Item No. 5
Reference to law:
Pursuant to amended provisions of  Regulation 24A of 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI LODR Regulations”),  with effect 
from April 1, 2025 read with applicable Circulars issued 
thereunder and Section 204 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“Act”) read with Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 
(including any re-enactment(s) or modification(s) thereto for 
the time being in force) the Company is required to appoint 
a Practicing Company Secretary for not more than one term 
of five consecutive years or a firm of Practicing Company 
Secretaries as Secretarial Auditors for not more than two terms 
of five consecutive years, with the approval of the Members 
at its Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) and such Secretarial 
Auditors(s) must be a peer reviewed Company Secretary 
and should not have incurred any of the disqualifications as 
specified under the SEBI LODR Regulations and applicable 
Circulars issued by SEBI in this regard. Further, as per the 
said Regulation, any association of the individual or the firm 
as the Secretarial Auditor of the Company before March 31, 
2025 shall not be considered for the purpose of calculating the 
tenure of the Secretarial Auditor(s).
Appointment and Remuneration:
Considering the above mentioned requirements and basis 
the recommendation of Audit Committee, the Board of 
Directors (“Board”) of the Company at its meeting held 
on May 23, 2025 had approved the appointment of M/s 
DMK Associates, Company Secretaries, a Peer Reviewed 
Firm, as the Secretarial Auditor of the Company for the first 
term of five (5) consecutive financial years commencing 
from Financial Year (FY) 2025-26 to FY 2029-30, subject 
to the approval of the Members at the ensuing Annual 
General Meeting, at a remuneration of INR 3 lakhs 
(Rupees Three Lakhs only) in respect of Secretarial Audit 
to be undertaken for the FY 2025-26 payable plus GST as 
applicable and reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses 
incurred. The remuneration to be paid to Secretarial Auditors 
for the remaining term i.e. from FY2026-27 through FY2029-
30 shall be mutually agreed between the Board and the 
Secretarial Auditors, based on recommendation(s) of the 
Audit Committee, from time to time. The remuneration for 
FY2026-27 through FY2029-30 shall be decided considering 
changes in scope of audit and to meet inflationary costs of 
providing the audit service.
Other Services:
Besides carrying out the secretarial audit and issuing the 
secretarial audit report, the Company may also obtain 
other permitted services including but not limited to the 
certifications which are to be mandatorily received from the 
Secretarial Auditors or practicing Company Secretaries, under 
various statutory regulations from time to time, for which the 
auditors will be remunerated separately on mutually agreed 
terms, between the Board of the Company and the Secretarial 
Auditors. 
Basis for recommendation:
The 
Board 
while 
approving 
and 
recommending 
the 
appointment of the Secretarial Auditor has considered and 
evaluated various factors such as experience, competency of 
the audit team, efficiency in conduct of audit, their expertise 
in listing compliances and capability to serve the Company, 
independence etc.
M/s. DMK associates has been the Secretarial Auditor 
of the Company since FY 2022-23 and have consistently 
demonstrated diligence, integrity, and professionalism in their 
role. Their valuable guidance has significantly contributed 
to strengthening the Company’s compliance framework and 
aligning corporate governance practices with best industry 
standards.
Profile:
M/s. DMK Associates, Company Secretaries, is a peer 
reviewed firm of Practicing Company Secretaries (Peer 
Review 
No. 
6896/2025 
& 
Firm 
Registration 
No. 
P2006DE003100), established and registered with the 
Institute of Companies Secretaries of India in the year 2005 is 
one of the most reputed firms amongst professionals, several 
Companies including Listed Companies, multinationals and is 
best known for its client retention, high integrity, dedication, 
sincerity, quality of service and professionalism. The firm 
has been engaged in Secretarial Audits of various prominent 
Companies and their expertise has earned the trust of industry 
leaders across sectors like FMCG, Manufacturing, Real estate, 
Power and Energy, Aggregators, Public utilities and so on. The 
firm’s client centric approach, with experienced professionals 
and proficient solutions to complex problems prides itself 
on superior client retention, integrity, dedication, and 
professionalism, making them a trusted partner in navigating 
the complexities of corporate law.
Notice
Annual Report 2024-25
192
Dreamfolks Services Limited
193
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Confirmation:
M/s. DMK Associates, Practicing Company Secretaries 
has given their consent to act as Secretarial Auditor of the 
Company, confirmed their independence  and that they 
are qualified to act as Secretarial Auditor pursuant to the 
requirement of the Act, SEBI LODR Regulations and any other 
Law for time being in force. They have confirmed that they 
hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) and they do 
not incur any disqualification specified under SEBI Circular 
No. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/ 
CFDPoD/CIR/P/2024/185 
dated 
December 31, 2024 and that their aforesaid appointment 
(if approved) would be within the limits specified by ICSI 
and  shall be in accordance with Section 204 and other 
applicable provisions of the Act, Rules framed thereunder 
and the applicable provisions of the SEBI LODR Regulations. 
Furthermore, in terms of the amended Regulations, M/s. DMK 
Associates, Company Secretaries has provided a confirmation 
that they have subjected themselves to the peer review 
process of the ICSI and hold a valid peer review certificate. No 
Orders have been passed against M/s. DMK Associates, 
Company Secretaries by ICSI/SEBI/MCA/any other competent 
authority / Court, both in India or outside India, in past 5 (five) 
years.
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company and their relatives, are concerned or interested 
(financially or otherwise) in the Resolution set out at Item No. 
5 of the accompanying Notice.
The Board commends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item 
No. 5 for the approval of Members.
Notice
By Order of the Board of Directors 
For Dreamfolks Services Limited 
Place: Gurugram   
Date: August 07, 2025 
Harshit Gupta 
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer 
 M. No.: A41111
ANNEXURES
Annexure-1
Disclosure relating to Director pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI LODR Regulations and Clause 1.2.5 of the 
Secretarial Standards on General Meetings (SS-2)
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat
DIN: 06849062
Brief profile of Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat
Ms. Liberatha’s expertise stems from her experience with Global Airport Lounges, 
where she gained deep insights into the intricacies of airport services. Her extensive 
background in the hospitality industry includes roles with blue chip companies like 
Indian Hotels Company Limited, Taj Hotels & Resorts Limited, PepsiCo, and Pernod 
Ricard India.
During the Financial Year 2024-25, she has received numerous awards for her 
exceptional leadership including:
 
Business Leadership Award by Indian Achievers’ Awards 2024
 
Honoured as CEO of the Year at the Indian Achievers’ Awards 2025, organized 
by the Indian Achievers’ Forum
 
India's Impactful CEOs 2024 by Times Now
Under her leadership, DreamFolks has built a robust network of clients and operators. A significant part of her focus has been on 
enhancing the Company's technology capabilities by creating a scalable, in-house platform that enables clients to offer customized 
services to their customers. Liberatha’s commitment to building lasting client relationships through ongoing engagement is a 
cornerstone of DreamFolks' success. 
Her contribution in the growth of the Company has been tremendous and we had our best ever year with the revenue from operations 
growing by 14% from INR 11,350 Mn in FY24 to INR 12,919 Mn in FY25. She has been constantly engaged in strengthening the 
leadership team and has tremendously contributed to the tangible & intangible assets to the Company during the year.
Date of Birth and Age
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat was born on February 02, 1976 and as on date of this Notice is 49 years of age.
Date of first appointment on the Board
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat has been associated with the Company as a Director since March 21, 2014. 
Qualification
Ms. Liberatha holds a bachelor’s degree in science from Andhra University.
Nature of her expertise in specific functional areas and Experience
Ms. Liberatha has vast experience in the fields of Hospitality and Business Administration. 
Directorships held in Other Companies
She holds Directorships in following Companies other than Dreamfolks Services Limited:
Indian Companies
 
LMD Estate Private Limited
 
DLM Technologies Private Limited
 
Pockket Payment Technologies Private Limited
 
Redberyl Lifestyle Services Private Limited
 
Golfklik Private Limited
 
Inimeg Consultants Private Limited
Annual Report 2024-25
194
Dreamfolks Services Limited
195
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Foreign Companies
 
Dreamfolks Services Pte. Limited
Chairmanship/Membership of Committees held by Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat
She holds Chairmanship/Membership in following Committees:
Dreamfolks Services Limited:
 
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee- Member
 
Risk Management Committee- Chairperson
 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee- Member
Relationship with other Directors and Key Managerial Personnels: Nil
Number of Equity Shares held in the Company either directly or as a beneficial owner: 1,30,62,432
Number of Board Meetings attended during the Financial Year
Ms. Liberatha had attended all the Board meetings held during the current financial year as on date of this Notice, i.e. 4 Board 
Meetings. 
Further, during the financial Year 2024-25, she had attended all the 8 Board meetings held during the financial year.
Terms and conditions of re-appointment
Ms. Liberatha is proposed to be appointed as Chairperson & Managing Director, not liable to retire by rotation on such terms 
and conditions as approved by Board of Directors on the recommendation of NRC in such manner as may be agreed between 
the Board and Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat and as detailed in the explanatory statement hereinabove subject to the approval of the 
Shareholders.
Remuneration last drawn (FY2024- 25)
Please refer to explanatory statement to item no. 4.
Remuneration proposed to be paid
Please refer to explanatory statement to item no. 4.
Listed entities from which the Director has resigned in the past three years: Nil
Annexure-1
Annexure-2
STATEMENT OF INFORMATION AS PER SECTION II OF PART II OF SCHEDULE V OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 
S.  
No.
Particulars
I.
General Information
1
Nature of Industry
Service Industry
2
Date or expected date of commencement of 
commercial production
Dreamfolks Services Limited (“Company/ DreamFolks”) was 
incorporated on April 24, 2008. Date of incorporation may be 
considered for commencement of operations.
3
In case of new Companies, expected date of 
commencement of activities as per project approved 
by Financial Institutions appearing in the Prospectus
Not Applicable
4
Financial Performance based on given indicators 
(Last Three Years)
Please refer explanatory statement for Item no. 4
5
Foreign Investments or collaborations, if any
During the Financial year 2023-24, DreamFolks and Plaza Premium 
Group entered into a strategic collaboration to expand global lounge 
network and enhance travel experience for Indian passengers. 
(intimated by the Company vide Press Release dated July 12, 2023)
II.
Information about Appointee
1
Name of Appointee
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat
2
Background details
Please refer explanatory statement for Item no. 4
3
Past Remuneration
Please refer explanatory statement for Item no. 4
4
Recognition or Awards
Please refer explanatory statement for Item no. 4
5
Job Profile and suitability
Ms. Kallat leads the Board and facilitates effective liaison between 
the Board and the Company’s management. She is responsible for 
ensuring that robust governance procedures are established and 
deeply embedded in the Company’s culture.
With her extensive background in the hospitality industry, she has 
been instrumental in driving DreamFolks’ growth trajectory. She 
spearheaded the development of a scalable, in-house platform that 
enables clients to deliver customized services to their customers. 
Her emphasis on nurturing long-term client relationships 
through consistent engagement continues to be a cornerstone of 
DreamFolks’ success. Given her qualifications, vision, and proven 
expertise, she is exceptionally well-suited for the responsibilities 
entrusted to her by the Board of Directors.
6
Remuneration Proposed
Please refer explanatory statement for Item no. 4
7
Comparative Remuneration profile with respect to 
industry, size of the Company, profile of the position 
and person
The remuneration as proposed of Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat is 
comparable to that drawn by the peers in the similar capacity in the 
industry and is commensurate with the size of the Company and 
nature of its businesses.
8
Pecuniary relationship directly or indirectly with the 
Company or relationship with Managerial Personnel, 
if any
Besides the remuneration paid/payable (including shareholding), 
Ms. Liberatha Peter Kallat does not have any pecuniary relationship 
with the Company or relationship with the Managerial Personnel.
III.
Other information
1
Reason of loss or inadequate profits
While the Company has reported profits, there may be factors that 
could result in inadequacy of profits, such as the dynamic business 
environment and increasing competition in the industry.
2
Steps taken or proposed to be taken for improvement
Not applicable
3
Expected increase in productivity and profits in 
measurable terms
Not applicable
Annual Report 2024-25
196
Dreamfolks Services Limited
197
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Disclosure relating to Director pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI LODR Regulations and Clause 1.2.5 of the 
Secretarial Standards on General Meetings (SS-2)
Mr. Dinesh Nagpal
DIN: 01105914
Brief profile of Mr. Dinesh Nagpal
Mr. Dinesh Nagpal, aged 58 years, is the Promoter and Non-Executive Director 
of the Company. He holds a Bachelors degree in Arts from Maharishi Dayanand 
University, Rohtak. He has been associated with the Company since 2011. He has 
been associated with a residential project ‘Amangani Peaceful Homes’ located in 
Rewari, Gurugram. He has more than 20 years of experience and has been Director 
of companies such as Ankur Propmart Private Limited, Urban Land Management 
Private Limited and Yashna Infratech Private Limited.
Date of Birth and Age
Mr. Dinesh Nagpal was born on April 15, 1966 and as on date of this Notice is 59 years of age.
Date of first appointment on the Board
Mr. Dinesh Nagpal has been associated with the Company as a Director since January 02, 2011. 
Qualification
He holds a Bachelors degree in Arts from Maharishi Dayanand University, Rohtak.
Nature of his expertise in specific functional areas and Experience
Mr. Dinesh Nagpal has vast experience in the fields of Business Administration.
Directorships held in Other Companies
He holds Directorships in following Companies other than Dreamfolks Services Limited:
 
SSGK Warehousing Private Limited
 
Manmantra Skin Care Private Limited
 
Yashna Infratech Private Limited
 
Urban Land Management Private Limited
 
DLM Technologies Private Limited
 
Primrose Buildworth Private Limited
 
Whistling Heights Resorts Private Limited
 
Pockket Payment Technologies Private Limited
 
Primrose Buildtech Private Limited
 
LMD Estate Private Limited
 
Ankur Propmart Private Limited
 
Inimeg Consultants Private Limited
Annexure-3
Chairmanship/Membership of Committees held by Mr. Dinesh Nagpal
He holds Chairmanship/Membership in following Committees:
Dreamfolks Services Limited:
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee- Chairperson
Relationship with other Directors and Key Managerial Personnels: Nil
Number of Equity Shares held in the Company either directly or as a beneficial owner: 1,07,11,200
Number of Board Meetings attended during the Financial Year
Mr. Dinesh had attended all the Board meetings held during the current financial year as on date of this Notice, i.e. 4 Board Meetings.
Further, during the financial Year 2024-25, he had attended all the 8 Board meetings held during the financial year.
Terms and conditions of re-appointment
Mr. Dinesh being the Director liable to retire by rotation is proposed to be re- appointed as Non-Executive Director, liable to retire 
by rotation.
Remuneration last drawn (FY2024- 25)
Sitting fees for attending Board and Committee meetings - INR 4,00,000
Remuneration proposed to be paid
Mr. Dinesh Nagpal will be entitled for payment of sitting fees as per sitting fees structure approved by the Board.
Listed entities from which the Director has resigned in the past three years: Nil
Annexure-2
Annual Report 2024-25
198
Dreamfolks Services Limited
199
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
To the 
Members of 
Dreamfolks Services Limited 
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial 
statements of Dreamfolks Services Limited (the “Company”), 
which comprise the standalone balance sheet as at March 
31, 2025, and the standalone statement of profit and loss 
(including other comprehensive income), the standalone 
statement of changes in equity and the standalone statement 
of cash flows for the year then ended on that date and notes 
to the standalone financial statements, including a summary 
of the material accounting policies and other explanatory 
information (hereinafter referred to as the “standalone 
financial statements”). 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting standards  prescribed under section 133 of the Act 
(“Ind AS”) and other accounting principles generally accepted 
in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 
2025, and its profit (including other comprehensive income), 
changes in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that 
date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements 
in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs), as 
specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities 
under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the 
Company in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) read 
together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to 
our audit of the standalone financial statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the 
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone 
financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon and we do not provide a separate opinion on 
these matters. We have determined that there are no key audit 
matters to be communicated in our report.
Information 
Other 
than 
the 
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Company’s annual 
report but does not include the standalone financial statements 
and our auditor’s report thereon. The above information 
is expected to be made available to us after the date of this 
Auditor’s Report. 
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not 
cover the other information and we do not express any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon. 
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it become available and in doing 
so, consider whether such other information is materially 
inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or 
our knowledge obtained during the course of our audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
When we read the other information, if we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance.
Management’s and Board of Director’s Responsibilities for 
the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the 
Act with respect to the preparation of the standalone financial 
statements that give a true and fair view of the financial 
position, financial performance including other comprehensive 
income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in 
accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted 
in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) 
specified under section 133 of the Act read with the relevant 
Rules issued thereunder. 
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate 
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for 
preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; 
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of 
the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and 
presentation of the standalone financial statements that give 
a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the 
Management and the Board of Directors are responsible for 
assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the  Board 
of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or to 
cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing 
the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the standalone financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with the SAs will always detect a material misstatement when 
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control. 
	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Company has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls.
	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and 
related disclosures in the standalone financial statements 
made by the Management and Board of Directors.
	
Conclude on the appropriateness of Management and 
Board of Directors use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If 
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are 
required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the 
related disclosures in the standalone financial statements 
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Company to 
cease to continue as a going concern. 
	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
Annual Report 2024-25
200
Dreamfolks Services Limited
201
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements 
of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law 
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter 
or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that 
a matter should not be communicated in our report because 
the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such 
communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (the “Order”) issued by the Central Government 
of India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of 
the Act, we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the 
matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to 
the extent applicable.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our knowledge 
and belief were necessary for the purposes of our 
audit;
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books except 
for the matters stated in paragraph 2(i)(vi) below on 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
(c)	
The standalone balance sheet, the standalone 
statement of profit and loss (including the other 
comprehensive income), the standalone statement 
of changes in equity and the standalone statement 
of cash flows dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the books of account.
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Ind AS specified under 
section 133 of the Act.
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on March 31, 2025 taken 
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the 
directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164 (2) of the Act;
(f)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to the standalone 
financial statements of the Company and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to 
our separate Report in “Annexure B” to this report. 
Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on 
the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements.
(g)	
The modification relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith 
are as stated in the paragraph 2(b) above on 
reporting under Section 143(3)(b) of the Act and 
paragraph 2(i)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 
11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014;
(h)	
In our opinion, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the managerial 
remuneration for the year ended March 31, 2025 
has been paid/ provided by the Company to its 
directors in accordance with the provisions of 
section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act;
(i)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us:
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations as at March 31, 2025 on 
its financial position in its standalone financial 
statements – Refer Note 37 of notes to the 
standalone financial statements;
ii.	
The Company did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts for 
which there were any material foreseeable 
losses;
iii.	
There are no amounts which are required to 
be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Company.
iv.   a)  	 The management has represented that, 
to the best of its knowledge and belief as 
disclosed in  note no – 48 (vi) of  notes to 
the standalone financial statements, no 
funds have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds or 
share premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) by the Company to or in any other 
person or entities, including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
b) 	
The management of the Company has 
represented that, to the best of its 
knowledge and belief as disclosed in  note 
no – 48 (vii) of  notes to the standalone 
financial statements,  no funds have 
been received by the Company from 
any person or entities, including foreign 
entities (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, 
whether 
recorded 
in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Parties 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
c)	
Based on such audit procedures that 
have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us 
to believe that the representations under 
sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as 
provided under (a) and (b) above, contain 
any material misstatement.
v.	
The final dividend paid by the Company during 
the year, in respect of the same declared for 
the previous year, is in accordance with section 
123 of the Act to the extent it applies to 
payment of dividend. As stated in note – 42 of 
notes to the standalone financial statements. 
	
However, the Company has neither declared 
nor paid any interim dividend during the 
current financial year.
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Annual Report 2024-25
202
Dreamfolks Services Limited
203
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the 
standalone financial statements of Dreamfolks Services Limited 
(the “Company”) for the year ended March 31, 2025
Report on the matters specified in paragraph 3 of the 
Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (the “Order”) 
issued by the Central Government of India in terms of 
section 143(11) of the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) as 
referred to in paragraph 1 of ‘Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report even date.
(j)	
(a) (A) The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars, including quantitative 
details and situation of property, plant and 
equipment.
	
(a) (B) The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of intangibles assets.
(b) 	 According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of our examination of the records of 
the Company, property, plant and equipment have been 
physically verified by the management during the year 
and no material discrepancies were identified on such 
verification.
(c)	
According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the title deeds of all the immovable properties 
(other than properties where the Company is the lessee 
and the lease agreements are duly executed in favor of the 
lessee) disclosed in the standalone financial statements 
are held in the name of the Company.
(d)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of our examination of the records of 
the Company, the Company has not revalued its property, 
plant and equipment (including right of use assets) 
investment property or intangible assets during the year 
ended March 31, 2025. Accordingly, the requirement to 
report under clause 3(i)(d) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company. 
(e)	
According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of our examination of the records of 
the Company, there are no proceedings initiated or are 
pending against the Company for holding any benami 
property under the Prohibition of Benami Property 
Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made thereunder.
 (ii)	 (a) According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company does not have 
any inventory and, accordingly, the requirement to 
report on clause 3(ii)(a) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
	
(b) As disclosed in note no – 45A of notes to the 
standalone financial statements, the Company has 
been sanctioned working capital limits in excess 
of Rs. five crores in aggregate from banks and/or 
financial institutions during the year on the basis of 
security of current assets of the Company. Based on 
the records examined by us in the normal course of 
audit of standalone financial statements, the quarterly 
returns/statements filed by the Company with such 
banks and financial institutions are not in agreement 
with the audited/ unaudited books of accounts of the 
Company. Detail of the same is given below:
Quarter ended
Amount reported in 
the quarterly return/ 
statement (Rs. in Million)
Amount as per Books 
(Rs. in Million)
Difference 
(Rs. in 
Million)
Reasons for material variances
Trade Receivables
The difference is due to following:
a) Submissions being made to 
Bank basis provisional financial 
information prior to Company’s 
financial reporting closure 
process.
b) Difference in Category of 
Trade receivables reported in 
Financials and statement.
c) Classification of Trade payables 
in Books and Bank Statement.
June 2024
3,115.15
3,124.87
(9.72)
September 2024
3,884.01
4,063.50
(179.49)
December 2024
2,878.63
3,233.00
(354.37)
March 2025
2,896.98
2,943.12
(46.14)
Trade payable
June 2024
1,728.74
1,750.71
(21.97)
September 2024
1,738.00
1,759.94
(21.94)
December 2024
1,839.27
1,887.25
(47.98)
March 2025
1,640.36
1,645.54
(5.19)
Advance to vendors
June 2024
94.87
114.62
(19.75)
September 2024
39.45
46.92
(7.47)
December 2024
84.42
90.60
(6.18)
March 2025
67.88
45.48
22.40
vi.	
Based on our examination, which included test checks, the Company has used an accounting software for maintaining 
its books of accounts for the financial year ended March 31, 2025 which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit 
log) facility except audit trail functionality at the database level due to inherent limitations of the software and the 
same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the accounting software systems. 
Further, during the course of our audit we did not come across any instance of audit trail feature being tampered 
with and the audit trail has been preserved by the Company as per the statutory requirements for record retention 
(refer note no – 52 of notes to the standalone financial statement).
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm’s Registration No. 000756N/N500441
Sunil Wahal 
Partner 
Membership No. 087294
Place: Gurgaon 
Date: May 23, 2025 
UDIN: 25087294BMLBJH3551
Annual Report 2024-25
204
Dreamfolks Services Limited
205
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
(iii) (a) 	
According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, during the year, the Company has made investments in a Company and other parties during the year. The 
Company has not made any investments in firms or limited liability partnerships. The Company has not provided guarantee 
or security or granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans, secured or unsecured, to companies, firms, limited 
liability partnerships, or any other parties during the year except mentioned below:
Particulars
Loans
a). Aggregate loan amount granted/ provided during the year:
- Subsidiary
47.85
b). Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date (including opening balance) in respect of 
above cases:
- Subsidiary
47.85
(b)  	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on the audit procedures conducted 
by us, in our opinion the investments made and the 
terms and conditions of the grant of loans during the 
year are, prima facie, not prejudicial to the interest 
of the Company. The Company has not provided any 
guarantee and security during the year.
(c) 	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on our examination of the records 
of the Company, in respect of loans granted by the 
Company, in our opinion, the terms and conditions 
for the repayment of principal and payment of 
interest, wherever applicable, have been stipulated 
and such loans are repayable on demand. However, 
no such demand has been made during the year. 
There have been no defaults in the repayment of 
principal or interest by the parties to whom the 
loans have been granted. Further, the Company has 
not granted any advances in the nature of loans to 
any party during the year.
(d)   	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination of 
the records of the Company, there is no overdue 
amount for more than ninety days in respect of 
loans given. Further, the Company has not given any 
advances in the nature of loans to any party during 
the year. 
(e)   	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, there is no loan or advance 
in the nature of loan granted falling due during the 
year, which has been renewed or extended or fresh 
loans granted to settle the overdue of existing loans 
given to same parties.
(f)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination of 
the records of the Company, in our opinion, the 
Company has not granted any loans or advances in 
the nature of loans either repayable on demand or 
without specifying any terms or period of repayment 
except for the following loans to its related parties 
as defined in clause (76) of Section 2 of the Act :
Particulars
All Parties
Promoters
Related 
parties
Aggregate amount of loans/ advances in nature of loans: 
- Repayable on demand (including opening balance) (A) 
47.85
-
47.85
- Agreement does not specify any terms or period of repayment (B)
-
-
-
Total (A+B)
47.85
-
47.85
 Percentage of loans/ advances in nature of loans to the total loans
100%
   -
100%
(Amount in Rs millions)
Annexure A
iv) 	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of records of 
the Company, in respect of loan given and investments 
made by the Company, in our opinion the provisions of 
Section 185 and 186 of the Act have been complied. The 
Company has not provided any guarantees or given any 
security.	
(v)    	 According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of our examination of the records of 
the Company, the Company has neither accepted any 
deposits from the public nor accepted any amounts which 
are deemed to be deposits within the meaning of sections 
73 to 76 of the Act and the rules made thereunder, to 
the extent applicable. Accordingly, the requirement to 
report on clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
(vi)     According to the information and explanations given 
to us, the Central Government has not prescribed 
maintenance of cost records under Section 148 of the 
Act for the Company’s activities. Hence, the provisions 
of clause 3(vi) of the Order are not applicable to the 
Company.
(vii)  (a)        According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination of 
Name of the Statue
Nature of 
dues
Amount (Rs 
in Million)
Amount 
paid under 
protest (Rs in 
Million)
Period 
to which 
amount 
relates
Forum where dispute is 
pending
CGST Act, 2017/
WBGST Act, 2017
GST
23.32
1.09
2017-18
GST Appellate Tribunal 
CGST Act, 2017/
WBGST Act, 2017
GST
83.47
7.59
2018-19 to 
2020-21
GST 1st Appellate Authority
CGST Act, 2017/
GST Act, 2017
GST
14.86
1.35
2019-20
GST 1st Appellate Authority
CGST Act / SGST 
Act 2017
GST
0.60
-
2020-21
Office of the 
Superintendent of Central 
Tax (Adjudicating Authority)
the records of the Company, in our opinion amounts 
deducted / accrued in the books of account in 
respect of undisputed statutory dues including 
goods and services tax, provident fund, employees’ 
state insurance, income-tax, sales-tax, service tax, 
duty of custom, duty of excise, value added tax, cess 
and other statutory dues applicable have generally 
been regularly deposited by the Company with the 
appropriate authorities. 
	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, no undisputed amounts 
payable in respect of these statutory dues were 
outstanding, at the year end, for a period of more 
than six months from the date they became payable.
(b) 	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination of 
the records of the Company, there are no statutory 
dues relating to goods and services tax, provident 
fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax, sale-
tax, service tax, duty of custom, duty of excise, value 
added tax, cess and other statutory dues which have 
not been deposited with the appropriate authorities 
on account of any dispute except the following:
viii)   According to the information and explanations given to 
us and on the basis of our examination of the records 
of the Company, the Company has not surrendered or 
disclosed any transaction, previously unrecorded as 
income in the books of account, in the tax assessments 
under the Income Tax Act, 1961 as income during the 
year. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 
3(viii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(ix)     (a)      According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on the basis of our examination 
of the records of the Company, the Company 
has not defaulted in repayment of loans or other 
borrowings or in the payment of interest thereon to 
any lender. Accordingly, the requirement to report 
Annexure A
Annual Report 2024-25
206
Dreamfolks Services Limited
207
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
on clause 3(ix)(a) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
(b)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, the Company has not been 
declared willful defaulter by any bank or financial 
institution or government or any government 
authority.
(c)	
According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, term loans were applied 
for the purpose for which the loans were obtained.
(d)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on an overall examination of the 
standalone financial statements of the Company, we 
report that no funds raised on short-term basis have 
been used for long-term purposes by the Company.
(e)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and on an overall examination of   the 
standalone financial statements of the Company, we 
report that the Company has not taken any funds 
from any entity or person on account of or to meet 
the obligations of its subsidiaries, associates or joint 
ventures.
 (f)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us and procedures performed by us, we 
report that the Company has not raised loans 
during the year on the pledge of securities held in its 
subsidiaries, joint ventures or associate companies. 
Hence, the requirement to report on clause (ix)(f) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(x) (a) The Company has not raised any money by way of 
initial public offer or further public offer (including 
debt instruments) during the year and hence reporting 
under clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
(b) According to the information and explanations given to us 
and on the basis of our examination of the records of the 
Company, the Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares/fully or partially 
or optionally convertible debentures during the year 
under audit and hence, the requirement to report 
on clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
(xi)  (a)        In our opinion, and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, we report that no fraud by 
the Company or no fraud on the Company has been 
noticed or reported during the year.
(b)  	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us, no report under sub-section (12) of Section 
143 of the Act has been filed by the cost auditor/ 
secretarial auditor or by us in Form ADT - 4 as 
prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central Government.
(c) As represented to us by the management, there are no 
whistle blower complaints received by the Company 
during the year.
(xii)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us, the Company is not a Nidhi Company as per the 
provisions of the Act and accordingly, clause 3(xii)) of the 
Order are not applicable to the Company.
(xiii) 	According to the information and explanations and 
records made available by the management of the 
Company and audit procedures performed, the Company 
is in compliance with Sections 177 and 188 of the Act 
where applicable, for all transactions with the related 
parties and the details of related party transactions have 
been disclosed in the standalone financial statements as 
required by the applicable Indian Accounting Standards.
(xiv) (a)  Based on information and explanations provided to us 
and our audit procedures, in our opinion, the Company 
has an adequate internal audit system commensurate 
with the size and the nature of its business.
(b)  We have considered, the internal audit reports provided to 
us for the year under audit and till date, when performing 
our audit.
(xv)  	In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has not entered 
into any non-cash transactions with its directors or 
persons connected with its directors and hence the 
requirement to report on clause 3(xv) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
(xvi) (a)          According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the provisions of section 45-IA of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) are 
not applicable to the Company and accordingly, 
the requirement to report on clause (xvi)(a) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
Annexure A
(b) 	 The Company has not conducted any Non-Banking 
Financial or Housing Finance activities without 
obtaining a valid Certificate of Registration (CoR) 
from the Reserve Bank of India as per the Reserve 
Bank of India Act, 1934.
(c)  	 The Company is not a Core Investment Company 
as defined in the regulations made by Reserve Bank 
of India. Accordingly, the requirement to report on 
clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company
(d)  	 The Company is not part of any group (as per the 
provisions of the Core Investment Companies 
(Reserve Bank Directions, 2016 as amended). 
Accordingly, the requirement of clause 3(xvi)(d) are 
not applicable to the Company.
(xvii) The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current 
and in the immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii)There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
during the year and accordingly requirement to report 
on Clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
(xix) 	On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed in note no – 
38 of notes to the standalone financial statements, ageing 
and expected dates of realization of financial assets 
and payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying the standalone financial statements, our 
knowledge of the Board of Directors and management 
plans and based on our examination of the evidence 
supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our 
attention, which causes us to believe that any material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that 
Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing 
at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due 
within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. 
We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the 
future viability of the Company. We further state that 
our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the 
audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any 
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of 
one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged 
by the Company as and when they fall due.
(xx) (a)     In respect of other than ongoing projects, there 
are no unspent amounts towards Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) that are required to be 
transferred to a fund specified in Schedule VII of the 
Act, in compliance with second proviso to sub section 
5 of section 135 of the Act. This matter has been 
disclosed in note no – 31 of notes to the standalone 
financial statements. 
(b) 	 All the amounts that are unspent under sub-section 
(5) of Section 135 of the Act, pursuant to any 
ongoing project, has been transferred to special 
account in compliance with provision of sub-section 
(6) of Section 135 of the said Act. The matter has 
been disclosed in note no – 46 of notes to the 
standalone financial statements.
(xxi)	 The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is not 
applicable in respect of audit of standalone financial 
statements. Accordingly, no comment in respect of the 
said clause has been included in this report.
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm’s Registration No. 000756N/N500441
Sunil Wahal 
Partner 
Membership No. 087294 
Place: Gurgaon 
Date: May 23, 2025 
UDIN: 25087294BMLBJH3551
Annexure A
Annual Report 2024-25
208
Dreamfolks Services Limited
209
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the 
standalone financial statements of Dreamfolks Services Limited 
for the year ended March 31, 2025.
Report on the internal financial controls with reference to 
the aforesaid standalone financial statements under Clause 
(i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (the “Act”)
(Referred to in paragraph 2(f) of ‘Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report even date)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to the standalone financial statements of Dreamfolks Services 
Limited (the “Company”) as of March 31, 2025, in conjunction 
with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the 
Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s and Board of Director’s Responsibilities for 
Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s Management and the Board of Directors are 
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls with reference to the standalone financial statements 
based on the internal financial controls over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to Company’s policies, the safeguarding 
of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as 
required under the Act. 
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's 
internal financial controls with reference to the standalone 
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our 
audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and Standard 
on Auditing prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to 
the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to the standalone financial statements. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to the standalone financial 
statements were established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to the standalone financial statements and their 
operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to the standalone financial statements included 
obtaining an understanding of such internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements, assessing 
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
controls based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial 
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Standalone Financial Statements
A Company's internal financial controls with reference to 
the standalone financial statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of the standalone 
financial statements for external purposes in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. A Company's 
internal financial controls with reference to the standalone 
financial statements includes those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in 
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions 
and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of standalone financial 
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company 
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of 
management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of 
the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the 
standalone financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to the Standalone Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to the standalone financial statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to error or 
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to 
standalone financial statements to future periods are subject 
to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to the 
standalone financial statements and such internal financial 
controls with reference to the  standalone financial statements 
were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the 
internal financial controls with reference to the standalone 
financial statements criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal controls 
stated in the Guidance Note.
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm’s Registration No. 000756N/N500441
Sunil Wahal 
Partner 
Membership No. 087294 
Place: Gurgaon 
Date: May 23, 2025 
UDIN: 25087294BMLBJH3551
Annexure B
Annual Report 2024-25
210
Dreamfolks Services Limited
211
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Particulars
Note
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
ASSETS
Non - current assets
Property, plant and equipment
4
 18.94 
 31.23 
Intangible assets
5A
 1.70 
 15.60 
Right of use assets
4
 108.34 
 43.71 
Investment property
6
 15.42 
 16.21 
Intangible assets under development
5B
 2.42 
 2.99 
Financial assets
(i)
Investments
7(a)
 18.20 
 15.00 
(ii)
Other financial assets
8(a)
 108.47 
 46.48 
Deferred tax assets (net)
10
 62.86 
 42.30 
Other non-current assets
11(a)
 - 
 1.88 
Total non - current assets
 336.35 
 215.40 
Current assets
Financial assets
(i)
Investments
7(b)
 897.70 
 438.68 
(ii)
Trade receivables
12
 2,943.12 
 2,649.85 
(iii)
Loans
13
 47.85 
 - 
(iv)
Cash and cash equivalents
14
 303.33 
 277.80 
(v)
Other bank balances other than (iv) above
15
 268.89 
 291.94 
(vi)
Other financial assets
8(b)
 57.46 
 102.94 
Current tax assets (net)
9
 86.83 
 96.89 
Other current assets
11(b)
 95.83 
 112.78 
Total current assets
 4,701.01 
 3,970.88 
Total assets
 5,037.36 
 4,186.28 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity Share capital
16
 106.54 
 106.05 
Other equity
17
 2,951.91 
 2,264.77 
Total equity
 3,058.45 
 2,370.82 
Liabilities
Non - current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings
18(a)
 0.74 
 2.13 
(ii)
Lease liability
19(a)
 90.53 
 48.25 
Provisions
22(a)
 54.27 
 41.38 
Standalone Balance Sheet
as at March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Particulars
Note
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Total non-current liabilities
 145.54 
 91.76 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings
18(b)
 1.39 
 2.30 
(ii)
Lease liability
19(b)
 13.66 
 8.40 
(iii)
Trade payables
20
 - Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 457.43 
 76.91 
 - Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 1,188.11 
 1,548.45 
(iv)
Other financial liabilities
21
 94.95 
 19.53 
Other current liabilities
23
 70.50 
 64.13 
Provisions
22(b)
 7.33 
 3.98 
Total current liabilities
 1,833.37 
 1,723.70 
Total equity and liabilities
 5,037.36 
 4,186.28 
Material accounting policies
3
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Dreamfolks Services Limited
As per our report of even date attached
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Mukesh Yadav
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP
Chairperson and Managing Director
Director
Chartered Accountants
DIN: 06849062
DIN: 01105819
Firm Reg. No. 000756N/N500441
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Sunil Wahal
Shekhar Sood
Harshit Gupta
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 087294
M.No.: 514643
M.No.: A41111
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Standalone Balance Sheet
as at March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
212
Dreamfolks Services Limited
213
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Particulars
Note
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Income
Revenue from operations
24
 12,918.82 
 11,349.46 
Other income
25
 89.55 
 33.17 
Total income
 13,008.37 
 11,382.63 
Expenses
Cost of services
26
 11,415.82 
 9,975.46 
Employee benefits expenses
27
 397.06 
 282.09 
Finance cost
28
 35.86 
 10.12 
Depreciation and amortization expenses
29
 38.29 
 37.00 
Other expenses
30
 179.04 
 140.61 
Total expenses
 12,066.07 
 10,445.28 
Profit before tax
 942.30 
 937.35 
Tax expense
31
Current tax
 267.52 
 258.03 
Tax expense related to earlier years
 (1.80)
 (0.56)
Deferred tax (credit)/charge
 (20.25)
 (16.95)
Total tax expenses
 245.47 
 240.52 
Profit after tax for the year
 696.83 
 696.83 
Other comprehensive income 
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
 - Remeasurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit obligation
 (1.23)
 (2.22)
 - Income tax relating to the above item
 0.31 
 0.56 
Total other comprehensive income for the year
 (0.92)
 (1.66)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 695.91 
 695.17 
Earnings per equity share
32
Basic
 13.12 
 13 .14
Diluted
12.96
12.73
Face value per share
 2 
 2 
Material accounting policies
3
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Dreamfolks Services Limited
As per our report of even date attached
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Mukesh Yadav
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP
Chairperson and Managing Director
Director
Chartered Accountants
DIN: 06849062
DIN: 01105819
Firm Reg. No. 000756N/N500441
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Sunil Wahal
Shekhar Sood
Harshit Gupta
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 087294
M.No.: 514643
M.No.: A41111
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
A.
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before tax
 942.30 
 937.35 
Adjustments for:-
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 38.29 
 37.00 
Share based payment expenses (ESOP)
 47.80 
 60.09 
Assets written off
 10.18 
 - 
Unrealised foreign exchange (gain)/loss
 (0.43)
 1.63 
Provision for impairment of investments
 - 
 0.05 
Amortisation of security deposits
 0.46 
 0.40 
Gain on termination of lease
 (13.73)
 - 
Loss allowance on trade receivables
 - 
 0.29 
Bad debts
 2.47 
 - 
Finance costs
 35.86 
 10.12 
Interest income
 (25.97)
 (20.46)
(Gain)/loss on sale on financials instruments measured at FVTPL
 (22.78)
 (11.99)
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment
 (4.13)
 - 
Operating profit before working capital changes
 1,010.32 
 1,014.48 
Adjustments for working capital changes:
Increase in trade payables
 22.02 
 231.34 
Increase/(decrease) in other financial liabilities*
 56.83 
 (18.39)
Increase in provisions
 18.02 
 4.02 
Increase in other liabilities
 3.36 
 1.55 
(Increase) in trade receivables
 (295.74)
 (631.26)
Decrease in other financial assets
 35.68 
 23.76 
Decrease/(increase) in bank deposits and other bank balances**
 (2.84)
 1.23 
(Increase)/decrease in other assets
 18.84 
 (73.40)
Change in working capital
 (143.83)
 (461.15)
Cash generated from operating activities post working capital changes
 866.49 
 553.33 
Income taxes paid (net of refund)
 (250.37)
 (337.73)
Net cash generated from operating activities (A)
 616.12 
 215.60 
B.
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant & equipment
 (10.73)
 (12.09)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant & equipment
 5.14 
 - 
Purchase of intangible assets under development
 (1.41)
 (2.99)
Loan given to subsidiary
 (49.39)
 - 
Investment in bank deposits (having original maturity more than 3 months)
 (116.73)
 (161.84)
Standalone Statement of Cash Flow 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
214
Dreamfolks Services Limited
215
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Proceeds from maturity of bank deposits (having original maturity more 
than 3 months)
 80.15 
 - 
Investment in debt funds
 (5,945.00)
 (3,040.00)
Proceeds from redemption of debt funds
 5,508.76 
 3,057.43 
Investment in subsidiary
 - 
 (7.50)
Interest received
 20.88 
 16.57 
Net cash used in investing activities (B)
 (508.33)
 (150.42)
C.
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from long term borrowings
 - 
 4.00 
Repayment of long term borrowings
 (2.30)
 (9.80)
Proceeds from exercise of share options (ESOP)
 23.53 
 74.84 
Payment of lease liabilities
 (13.58)
 (12.04)
Dividend paid
 (79.61)
 (26.51)
Other finance cost paid
 (10.30)
 (4.23)
Net cash generated  from / (used in) financing activities (C )
 (82.26)
 26.26 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents ( A+B+C)
 25.53 
 91.44 
Cash and cash equivalents (opening balance)
 277.80 
 186.36 
Cash and cash equivalents (closing balance)
 303.33 
 277.80 
* Other financial liabilities includes an amount of INR Nil (March 31, 2024: INR 2 Million) pertains to payable to selling 
shareholders. 	
	
	
	
** Other bank balances includes an amount of INR Nil (March 31, 2024 : INR 2 Million) pertains to amount held on behalf of selling 
shareholders who were a part of offer for sale listing of the Company. This balance is restricted bank balance which is not available 
with the Company for its normal operating, investing and financing activities.
Notes:
1.	
Components of Cash & Cash Equivalents
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash on hand
 0.00 
 0.27 
Balances with banks
- in current accounts
 153.33 
 105.14 
- deposits with original maturity of less than or equal to 3 months
 150.00 
 172.39 
Net cash & cash equivalents
 303.33 
 277.80 
Standalone Statement of Cash Flow 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
2	
Change in liabilities arising from financing activities:
Particulars
As at 
April 01, 2024
Net cash flow 
changes
Non cash changes
As at 
March 31, 2025
Non-current borrowings including 
current maturities (refer note 18)
 4.43 
 (12.60)
 10.30 
 2.13 
Lease liabilities (refer note 33)
 56.65 
 (13.58)
 61.11 
 104.18 
Particulars
As at 
April 01, 2023
Net cash flow 
changes
Non cash changes
As at 
March 31, 2024
Non-current borrowings including 
current maturities (refer note 18)
 10.23 
 (10.03)
 4.23 
 4.43 
Lease liabilities (refer note 33)
 62.76 
 (12.04)
 5.93 
 56.65 
Material accounting policies
3
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Dreamfolks Services Limited
As per our report of even date attached
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Mukesh Yadav
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP
Chairperson and Managing Director
Director
Chartered Accountants
DIN: 06849062
DIN: 01105819
Firm Reg. No. 000756N/N500441
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Sunil Wahal
Shekhar Sood
Harshit Gupta
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 087294
M.No.: 514643
M.No.: A41111
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Standalone Statement of Cash Flow 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
216
Dreamfolks Services Limited
217
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
1.	
Corporate Information
	
Dreamfolks 
Services 
Limited 
(the 
‘Company’) 
is 
incorporated and domiciled in India under the provisions 
of the Companies Act applicable in India. The registered 
office of the Company is located at 26, DDA Flats, 
Panchsheel Park, Shivalik Road, Panchsheel Enclave, New 
Delhi- 110017 India.
	
The Company primarily integrates global card networks 
operating in India, card issuers, and corporate clients 
including airline companies with various airport lounge 
operators, transport operators and other airport 
service providers on a unified technology platform. The 
Company is engaged in providing benefit management 
services through a proprietary technology platform that 
empowers clients such as banks, card networks, airlines, 
and corporations to tailor airport and lifestyle service 
offerings for their end customers.
	
These standalone financial statements are adopted by 
the Board of Directors during the meeting held on May 
23, 2025.
2.1	 Basis of Preparation
	
The financial statements of the Company is prepared to 
comply in all material respects with the Indian Accounting 
Standards (“Ind AS”) notified under the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended 
time to time	  and presentation requirements of Division 
II of Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS 
compliant Schedule III), as applicable to the financial 
statements and other relevant provisions of the Act. 
	
The financial statements of the Company have been 
prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the 
following assets and liabilities which have been measured 
at fair value or revalued amount:
	
Certain financial assets and liabilities measured 
at fair value (refer accounting policy regarding 
financial instruments), and
	
Contingent 
consideration. 
The 
company 
has 
prepared the financial statements on the basis that 
it will continue to operate as a going concern.
	
The accounting policies as set out in the following 
paragraphs of this note, have been consistently 
applied, by the Company, to all the periods presented 
in the said financial statements.
2.2	 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions
	
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity 
with the principles of Ind AS requires the management to 
make judgements, estimates and assumptions that effect 
the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and 
liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the 
end of the reporting period. Although these estimates are 
based on the management’s best knowledge of current 
events and actions, uncertainty about these assumptions 
and estimates could result in the outcomes requiring a 
material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets or 
liabilities in future periods. 
	
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed 
on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are 
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised 
if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of 
the revision and future periods if the revision affects both 
current and future periods. In particular, information 
about the significant areas of estimation, uncertainty 
and critical judgements in applying accounting policies 
that have the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the financial statements.
	
There are no assumptions and estimation uncertainties 
that have a significant risk of resulting in a material 
adjustment within the next financial year except for as 
disclosed in these financial statements. 
	
Information about significant areas of estimation /
uncertainty and judgements in applying accounting 
policies that have the most significant effect on the 
financial statements are as follows: - 
 
Impairment of financial assets 
	
The Company determines the allowance for credit losses 
based on policy for expected loss provision based on 
experiential realisations, current and estimated future 
economic conditions. The Company considered current 
and anticipated future economic conditions relating to 
industries the Company deals with and the countries 
where it operates. 
	
Property, plant and equipment
	
Property, plant and equipment represent a significant 
proportion of the asset base of the company. The useful 
lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment 
are determined by the management based on technical 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
assessment by internal team and external advisor. The 
charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after 
determining an estimate of an asset’s expected useful life 
and the expected residual value at the end of its life. The 
Company believes that the useful life best represents 
the period over which the Company expects to use these 
assets.
 
Contingent liabilities
	
Management judgment is required for estimating 
the possible outflow of resources, if any, in respect of 
contingencies/claim/litigations against the Company as it 
is not possible to predict the outcome of pending matters 
with accuracy.  
 
Income taxes
	
Management judgment is required for the calculation of 
provision for income taxes and deferred tax assets and 
liabilities. The Company reviews at each balance sheet 
date the carrying amount of deferred tax assets. The 
factors used in estimates may differ from actual outcome 
which could lead to significant adjustment to the amounts 
reported in the financial statements.
	
Leases
	
Judgment required to ascertain lease classification, lease 
term, incremental borrowing rate, lease and non-lease 
component and impairment of ROU
3.	
Summary of material accounting policies
3.1	 Current versus non- current classification
	
The Company presents assets and liabilities in the 
financial statements of assets and liabilities based on 
current/ non-current classification. An asset is treated as 
current when it is:
	
Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or 
consumed in normal operating cycle
	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading
	
It is expected to be realised within twelve months 
after the reporting period, or
	
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at 
least twelve months after the reporting period. All 
other assets are classified as non-current.
All other assets are classified as non-current. 
A liability is current when:
	
It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle
	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading
	
It is due to be settled within twelve months after the 
reporting period, or
	
There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve months 
after the reporting period.The Company classifies 
all other liabilities as non-current. Deferred tax 
assets and liabilities are classified as non-current 
assets and liabilities.The operating cycle is the time 
between the acquisition of assets for processing 
and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents. 
The Company has identified twelve months as its 
operating cycle.
3.2	 Foreign currencies
	
The Company’s financial statements are presented in INR, 
which is also its functional currency. Functional currency 
is the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the Company operates and is normally the 
currency in which the Company primarily generates and 
expends cash.
	
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the 
exchange rate prevailing on the date of transaction. 
Foreign currency rate fluctuations relating to monetary 
assets and liabilities are restated at the year-end rates. 
The net gain or loss arising on restatement/ settlement is 
recorded in Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Non‑monetary assets and non-monetary liabilities 
denominated in a foreign currency and measured at 
historical cost are translated at the exchange rate 
prevalent at the date of the transaction. The related 
revenue and expense are recognized using the same 
exchange rate.
3.3	 Fair value measurement
	
The Company measures financial instruments such as 
derivatives at fair value at each balance sheet date.
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
218
Dreamfolks Services Limited
219
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption 
that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the 
liability takes place either:
1.	
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
2.	
In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability The 
principal or the most advantageous market must be 
accessible by the Company.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants 
would use when pricing the asset or liability, 
assuming that market participants act in their 
economic best interest.
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset 
takes into account a market participant’s ability to 
generate economic benefits by using the asset in 
its highest and best use or by selling it to another 
market participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
The Company uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, 
maximising the use of relevant observable inputs 
and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the financial statements 
are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, 
described as follows, based on the lowest level input 
that is significant to the fair value measurement as a 
whole:
1.	
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
2.	
Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement is directly or indirectly 
observable.
3.	
Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair 
value measurement is unobservable.
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in 
the financial statements on a recurring basis, the 
Company determines whether transfers have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-
assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level 
input that is significant to the fair value measurement 
as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
	
External valuers may be required for valuation of 
significant assets and liabilities. Involvement of 
external valuers is decided on the basis of nature 
of transaction and complexity involved. Selection 
criteria include market knowledge, reputation, 
independence and whether professional standards 
are maintained.
	
At each reporting date, the finance team analyses 
the movements in the values of assets and liabilities 
which are required to be remeasured or re-assessed 
as per the Company’s accounting policies. For this 
analysis, the team verifies the major inputs applied 
in the latest valuation by agreeing the information 
in the valuation computation to contracts and 
other relevant documents. A change in fair value of 
assets and liabilities is also compared with relevant 
external sources to determine whether the change 
is reasonable.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company 
has determined classes of assets and liabilities on 
the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of 
the asset or liability and the level of the fair value 
hierarchy as explained above.
This note summarises accounting policy for fair value. 
Other fair value related disclosures are given in the 
relevant notes.
3.4	 Property, plant and equipment
	
An item of property, plant and equipment is recognised 
as an asset if it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Company and its 
cost can be measured reliably. This recognition principle 
is applied to costs incurred initially to acquire an item of 
property, plant and equipment and also to costs incurred 
subsequently to add to, replace part of, or service it. All 
other repair and maintenance costs, including regular 
servicing, are recognised in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss as incurred. Where an item of property, plant and 
equipment comprises major components having different 
useful lives, these components are accounted for as 
separate items. 
	
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its 
purchase price net of any trade discounts and rebates, 
any import duties and other taxes (other than those 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
subsequently recoverable from the tax authorities), any 
directly attributable expenditure on making the asset 
ready for its intended use, other incidental expenses 
and interest on borrowings attributable to acquisition of 
qualifying fixed assets up to the date the asset is ready for 
its intended use. Subsequent expenditure on fixed assets 
after its purchase / completion is capitalized only if such 
expenditure results in an increase in the future benefits 
from such asset beyond its previously assessed standard 
of performance. The Company depreciates property, 
plant and equipment over their estimated useful lives 
using the straight-line method. Depreciation methods 
and useful lives are reviewed periodically at each financial 
year end. The gain or loss arising on disposal of an item 
of property, plant and equipment is determined as the 
difference between sale proceeds and carrying value of 
such item and is recognised in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss.
3.5	  Intangible assets
	
Design, development and software costs are included in 
the balance sheet as intangible assets when it is probable 
that associated future economic benefits would flow 
to the Company. All other costs on the aforementioned 
are expensed in the statement of profit and loss as and 
when incurred. Intangible assets are stated at cost less 
accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment. 
The estimated useful life of an identifiable intangible asset 
is based on a number of factors including the effects of 
obsolescence, demand, competition, and other economic 
factors (such as the stability of the industry and known 
technological advances). Amortization methods and 
useful lives are reviewed periodically including at each 
financial year end.
	
Amortisation 
method: 
The 
Company 
amortizes 
intangible assets with a future useful life using the 
straight-line method over following period: 
3.6	 Investment property 
	
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, 
including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment 
loss, if any.
Class of assets
Useful life 
Computer Software
 3 years
	
The cost includes the cost of replacing parts and 
borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if 
the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts 
of the investment properties are required to be replaced 
at intervals, the Company depreciates them separately 
based on their specific useful lives. All other repair and 
maintenance costs are recognised in profit or loss as 
incurred.
	
The company depreciates building component of 
investment property over 30 years using written down 
value method from the date of original purchase.
	
The company, based on technical assessment made by 
technical expert and management estimate, depreciates 
the building over estimated useful lives which are 
different from the useful life prescribed in Schedule II to 
the Companies Act, 2013. The management believes that 
these estimated useful lives are realistic and reflect fair 
approximation of the period over which the assets are 
likely to be used.
	
Though the company measures investment properties 
using cost-based measurement, the fair value of 
investment properties are disclosed in the notes. Fair 
values are determined based on an annual evaluation 
performed by an accredited external independent 
valuer applying a valuation model recommended by the 
International Valuation Standards Committee.
	
Investment properties are derecognised either when 
they have been disposed of or when they are permanently 
withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is 
expected from their disposal. The difference between 
the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of 
the asset is recognised in profit or loss in the period 
of derecognition. In determining the amount of 
consideration from the derecognition of investment 
properties the Company considers the effects of variable 
consideration, existence of a significant financing 
component, non-cash consideration, and consideration 
payable to the buyer (if any).
	
Transfers are made to (or from) investment properties 
only when there is a change in use. Transfers between 
investment property, owner-occupied property and 
inventories do not change the carrying amount of the 
property transferred and they do not change the cost of 
that property for measurement or disclosure purposes.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
220
Dreamfolks Services Limited
221
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
3.7	 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
	
Depreciation is provided on the written down value 
method. The estimated useful life of each asset as 
prescribed under Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 
and based on technical assessment of internal experts 
(after considering the expected usage of the asset, 
expected physical wear and tear, technical and commercial 
obsolescence and understanding of past practices and 
general industry experience) are as depicted below: 
Particulars
Estimated useful life
Land and buildings
60
Furniture & fixtures
10
Computers
3
Office equipment
3-5 Years
Motor vehicles
8-10 Years
	
The residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and 
adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting 
period. Lease hold Improvements are amortised on a 
straight-line basis over the lease period. 
3.8	 Leases
	
The Company’s leased assets primarily consist of leases 
for office space. The Company assesses whether a 
contract contains a lease, at inception of a contract. A 
contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys 
the right to control the use of an identified asset for a 
period in exchange for consideration. To assess whether 
a contract conveys the right to control the use of an 
identified asset, the Company assesses whether: 
	
the contract involves the use of an identified asset 
	
the Company has substantially all of the economic 
benefits from use of the asset through the period of 
the lease; and
	
the Company has the right to direct the use of the 
asset.
1.	
Right of use assets
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Company recognizes a right-of-use asset (“ROU”) and a 
corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements in 
which it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve 
months or less (short-term leases) and low value leases. 
For these short-term and low-value leases, the Company 
recognizes the lease payments as an operating expense 
on a straight -line basis over the term of the lease. 
The right-of-use assets are initially recognized at cost, 
which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the 
commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct 
costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses. Right-of-use assets are depreciated 
from the commencement date on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and useful life of the 
underlying asset unless the lease transfers ownership of 
the underlying asset to the Company by the end of the 
lease term or the cost of the right-of-use asset reflect 
that the Company exercise a purchase option. The 
Company applies Ind AS 36 to determine whether a right-
of-use asset is impaired and accounts for any identified 
impairment loss as described in the accounting policy 
below on “Impairment of non- financial assets”.
2.	
Lease liabilities
The lease liability is initially measured at amortized cost at 
the present value of the future lease payments that 
are not paid at the commencement date. The lease 
payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit 
in the lease or, if not readily determinable, using the 
Company’s incremental borrowing rates. Lease liabilities 
are remeasured with a corresponding adjustment to the 
related right of use asset (or in profit or loss if the carrying 
amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to 
zero) if the Company changes its assessment of whether 
it will exercise an extension or a termination or a purchase 
option. The interest cost on lease liability (computed using 
effective interest method), is expensed in the statement 
of profit and loss. 
	
Lease liability and right-of-use asset have been separately 
presented in the Balance Sheet and lease payments have 
been classified as financing cash flows. The Company 
has applied a practical expedient wherein the Company 
has ignored the requirement to separate non- lease 
components (such as maintenance services) from the 
lease components. Instead, the Company has accounted 
for the entire contract as a single lease contract.
3.9	   Revenue recognition
	
The Company has revenue from its clients. The Company 
recognizes revenue when it satisfies performance 
obligations under the terms of its contracts, and control 
of its services is transferred to its client’s users in an 
amount that reflects the consideration the Company 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
expects to receive from its client in exchange for those 
services. This process involves identifying the client 
contract, determining the performance obligations in the 
contract, determining the contract price, allocating the 
contract price to the distinct performance obligations 
in the contract, and recognizing revenue when the 
performance obligations have been satisfied. 
	
The Company through its platform allows transactions 
between the customers of its clients and service operators 
enlisted with the platform. The Company earns revenue 
when the customers of its clients utilize services such as 
Lounge Access, Meet and Assist, Airport Transfers, Food 
and Beverages, Door-step Baggage and Spa & Wellness 
either through the DreamFolks App, DreamFolks Card, 
Issuer’s Card, Issuer’s Website, Issuer’s web or mobile 
Application (App) or Interactive voice response (IVR). 
Further it earns revenue by aggregating golf clubs across 
the globe including India to offer golf games and golf 
lessons to the customers of its clients who are primarily 
banks, card networks, and corporate enterprises.
	
Revenue is recognised in the accounting period in which 
the services are rendered. A receivable is recognised 
when the services are delivered as this is the point in time 
that the consideration is unconditional because only the 
passage of time is required before the payment is due
	
Amount received before the goods and services are 
delivered is recognised as a contract liability. 
	
Financing Components: The Company does not expect 
to have any contracts where the period between the 
transfer of the promised goods or services to the 
customer and payment by the customer exceeds one 
year. As a consequence, the Company does not adjust any 
of the transaction prices for the time value of money.
	
Other income
	
Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when 
it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the 
Company and the amount of income can be measured 
reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time proportion 
basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and 
effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through 
the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net 
carrying amount on initial recognition. 
3.10	  Retirement and other employee benefits
	
Employee benefits include provident fund, employee 
state insurance scheme, gratuity and compensated 
absences. 
	
Long-term employee benefits:
	
Defined contribution plans: The Company's contribution 
to provident fund and employee state insurance 
scheme are considered as defined contribution plans 
and are charged as an expense based on the amount of 
contribution required to be made and when services are 
rendered by the employees. 
	
Defined benefit plans: The Company has Defined Benefit 
Plan in the form of Gratuity. Liability for Defined Benefit 
Plans is provided on the basis of valuations, as at the 
balance sheet date, carried out by an independent 
actuary. The defined benefit obligation is calculated 
annually by independent actuary using the projected 
unit credit method. The present value of the defined 
benefit obligation is determined by discounting the 
estimated future cash outflows using discount rate 
(interest rates of government bonds) that have terms 
to maturity approximating to the terms of the gratuity. 
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience 
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in 
other comprehensive income. They are included in ‘Other 
comprehensive income’ (net of taxes) in the statement of 
changes in equity and in the balance sheet. Net interest 
is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net 
defined benefit liability or asset. The Company presents 
the first two components of defined benefit costs in profit 
or loss in the line item ‘Employee Benefits Expense’. 
	
Short-term employee benefits:
	
The undiscounted amount of short-term employee 
benefits expected to be paid in exchange for the services 
rendered by employees are recognised during the year 
when the employees render the service. These benefits 
include 
performance 
incentive 
and 
compensated 
absences which are expected to occur within twelve 
months after the end of the period in which the employee 
renders the related service. The cost of short-term 
compensated absences is accounted as under: 
	
in case of accumulated compensated absences, when 
employees render the services that increase their 
entitlement of future compensated absences; and
	
in case of non-accumulating compensated absences, 
when the absences occur.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
222
Dreamfolks Services Limited
223
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
3.11	  Share based payments 
	
Employees (including senior executives) of the Company 
receive remuneration in the form of share based payment 
transactions, whereby employees render services as 
consideration for equity instruments (equity-settled 
transactions). The cost of equity-settled transactions is 
determined by the fair value at the date when the grant 
is made using an appropriate valuation model. That cost 
is recognised, together with a corresponding increase 
in share Options outstanding reserves in equity, over 
the period in which the performance and/or service 
conditions are fulfilled in employee benefits expense. 
	
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled 
transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date 
reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired 
and the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity 
instruments that will ultimately vest. The statement of 
profit and loss expense or credit for a period represents 
the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at 
the beginning and end of that period and is recognised in 
employee benefits expense. 
	
When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, 
the minimum expense recognised is the expense had 
the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of 
the award are met. An additional expense is recognised 
for any modification that increases the total fair value 
of the share-based payment transaction or is otherwise 
beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of 
modification. Where an award is cancelled by the entity 
or by the counterparty, any remaining element of the 
fair value of the award is expensed immediately through 
profit or loss. 
	
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as 
additional share dilution in the computation of diluted 
earnings per share.
3.12	  Taxes
a.	
Current income tax
	
Current tax is the tax payable on the taxable profit 
for the year. Taxable profit differs from 'profit before 
tax' as reported in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
because of items of income or expense that are 
taxable or deductible in other years and items that 
are never taxable or deductible. The Company's 
current tax is calculated using tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of 
the reporting period, in accordance with the Income 
Tax Act, 1961. 
	
Current income tax relating to items recognised 
outside financial statements profit and loss is 
recognised outside financial statements profit 
and loss (either in other comprehensive income 
or in equity). Current tax items are recognised in 
correlation to the underlying transaction either in 
OCI or directly in equity. Management periodically 
evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with 
respect to situations in which applicable tax 
regulations are subject to interpretation and 
establishes provisions where appropriate.
	
Advance taxes and provisions for current income 
taxes are presented in the statement of assets 
and liabilities after off-setting advance tax paid 
and income tax provision arising in the same tax 
jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying units 
intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.
b.	
Deferred taxes
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized 
for the future tax consequences of temporary 
differences between the carrying values of assets 
and liabilities and their respective tax bases. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences and unused tax losses only 
if it is probable that future taxable amounts will be 
available to utilise those temporary differences and 
losses. 
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at the end of each reporting period and 
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to 
allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
	
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at 
the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period 
in which the liability is settled or the asset is realised, 
based on the tax rates (and tax laws) that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the 
reporting period. 
	
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and 
assets reflects the tax consequences that would 
follow from the manner in which the Company 
expects, at the end of the reporting period, to 
recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets 
and liabilities. 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when 
there is a legally enforceable right to offset current 
tax assets and liabilities and where the deferred tax 
balances relate to the same taxation authority. 
	
Current tax assets and tax liabilities are off set 
where the entity has a legally enforceable right 
to offset and intends either to settle on a net 
basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously. 
	
Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit 
or loss, except to the extent that it relates to 
items recognised in other comprehensive income 
or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also 
recognised in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity, respectively.
3.13	  Segment reporting
	
Operating segments are defined as components of an 
entity where discrete financial information is evaluated 
regularly by the chief operating decision maker 
(“CODM”) in deciding allocation of resources and in 
assessing performance. The Company’s Managing 
Director is its CODM. The Company’s CODM reviews 
financial information presented on a consolidated basis 
for the purposes of making operating decisions, allocating 
resources, and evaluating financial performance. Our 
business activity primarily falls within a single business 
and geographical segment, hence, the disclosure of 
segment-wise information is not applicable under Ind AS 
108- 'Operating Segments'. 
3.14	  Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share is computed using the weighted 
average number of equity shares outstanding during the 
period. Diluted earnings per share is computed using 
the weighted-average number of equity and dilutive 
equivalent shares outstanding during the period, except 
where the results would be anti-dilutive. 
	
The number of equity shares and potentially dilutive 
equity shares are adjusted retrospectively for all periods 
presented for any splits and bonus shares issues including 
for change effected prior to the approval of the financial 
Information by the Board of Directors.
3.15	  Provisions and contingent liabilities
1.  Provisions
	
Provisions are recognised when the Company 
has a present obligation (legal or constructive) 
as a result of a past event, it is probable that an 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits 
will be required to settle the obligation and a 
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. The expense relating to a provision is 
presented in the statement of profit and loss net of 
any reimbursement. If the effect of the time value of 
money is material, provisions are discounted using a 
current pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, 
the risks specific to the liability. When discounting 
is used, the increase in the provision due to the 
passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
2. 
Contingent liabilities
	
Contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events and the existence of which 
will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-
occurrence of one are more uncertain future events 
not wholly within the control of the Company, or is 
a present obligation that arises from past event but 
is not recognised because either it is not probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits will be required to settle the obligation, or 
a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation 
cannot be made. Contingent liabilities are disclosed 
and not recognised.
3.16	  Financial instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to 
a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or 
equity instrument of another entity. Transaction costs 
directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets 
or financial liabilities at fair value through statement of 
profit and loss are recognised immediately in statement 
of profit and loss.
1. 
Financial assets
	
All financial assets are recognised initially at 
fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not 
recorded at fair value through statement of profit 
and loss, transaction costs that are attributable 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
224
Dreamfolks Services Limited
225
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
to the acquisition of the financial asset. Purchases 
or sales of financial assets that require delivery of 
assets within a time frame established by regulation 
or convention in the market-place (regular way 
trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the 
date that the Company commits to purchase or sell 
the asset.
a.	
Classification and subsequent measurement: 
	
Debt instruments that meet the following 
conditions are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost less impairment loss (except 
for debt investments that are designated as 
at fair value through profit or loss on initial 
recognition) (i) the asset is held within a 
business model whose objective is to hold 
assets in order to collect contractual cash 
flows; and (ii) the contractual terms of the 
instrument give rise on specified dates to cash 
flows that are solely payments of principal and 
interest on the principal amount outstanding.
	
Debt instruments that meet the following 
conditions are subsequently measured at 
fair value through other comprehensive 
income (except for debt investments that are 
designated as at fair value through profit or loss 
on initial recognition) (i) the asset is held within 
a business model whose objective is achieved 
both by collecting contractual cash flows and 
selling financial assets; and (ii) the contractual 
terms of the instrument give rise on specified 
dates to cash flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding.
	
FVTPL is a residual category for debt 
instruments. Any debt instrument, which does 
not meet the criteria for categorization as 
at amortized cost or as FVTOCI, is classified 
as at FVTPL. Trade receivables, cash and 
cash equivalents, other bank balances, loans 
and other financial assets are classified for 
measurement at amortised cost.
	
Financial assets at amortised cost are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using effective interest method. The effective 
interest method is a method of calculating 
the amortised cost of an instrument and of 
allocating interest income over the relevant 
period. The effective interest rate is the rate 
that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts (including all fees paid or received that 
form an integral part of the effective interest 
rate, transaction costs and other premiums 
or discounts) through the expected life of 
the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a 
shorter period, to the net carrying amount on 
initial recognition.
b.	
Equity instruments:
	
The Company subsequently measures all 
equity investments in scope of Ind AS 109 
at fair value, with net changes in fair value 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
c.	
Derecognition
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part 
of a financial asset or part of a group of similar 
financial assets) is primarily derecognised 
(i.e. removed from the Company’s financial 
statements of assets and liabilities) when: 
i) The rights to receive cash flows from the 
asset have expired, or ii) The Company has 
transferred its rights to receive cash flows from 
the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay 
the received cash flows in full without material 
delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ 
arrangement; and either (a) the Company 
has transferred substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company has 
neither transferred nor retained substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset.
	
When the Company has transferred its rights to 
receive cash flows from an asset or has entered 
into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates 
if and to what extent it has retained the risks 
and rewards of ownership. When it has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all of the 
risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred 
control of the asset, the Company continues to 
recognise the transferred asset to the extent 
of the Company’s continuing involvement. 
In that case, the Company also recognises an 
associated liability. The transferred asset and 
the associated liability are measured on a basis 
that reflects the rights and obligations that the 
Company has retained.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form 
of a guarantee over the transferred asset is 
measured at the lower of the original carrying 
amount of the asset and the maximum amount 
of consideration that the Company could be 
required to repay.
d.	
Impairment of financial assets
	
The Company recognises loss allowances using 
the Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model for 
the financial assets which are not fair valued 
through profit and loss. Loss allowance for 
trade receivables with no significant financing 
component is measured at an amount equal 
to lifetime ECL. For all other financial assets, 
expected credit losses are measured at an 
amount equal to the 12-month ECL, unless 
there has been a significant increase in credit 
risk from initial recognition, in which case 
those financial assets are measured at lifetime 
ECL. The changes (incremental or reversal) in 
loss allowance computed using ECL model, are 
recognised as an impairment gain or loss in the 
statement of profit and loss. 
	
The Company recognises loss allowances 
for expected credit losses on financial assets 
measured at amortised cost. 
	
At each reporting date, the Company assesses 
whether financial assets carried at amortised 
cost are credit impaired. A financial asset is 
‘credit impaired’ when one or more events that 
have a detrimental impact on the estimated 
future cash flows of the financial asset have 
occurred. 
	
Evidence that a financial asset is credit 
impaired includes the following observable 
data:
	
significant financial difficulty of the 
borrower or issuer;
	
a breach of contract such as a default or 
past dues;
	
the restructuring of a loan or advance 
by the Company on terms that the 
Company would not consider otherwise; 
- it is probable that the borrower will 
enter bankruptcy or other financial 
reorganisation; or 
	
the disappearance of an active market for 
a security because of financial difficulties. 
	
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ 
for recognition of impairment loss allowance 
on trade receivables which do not contain 
a 
significant 
financing 
component. 
The 
application of simplified approach does not 
require the Company to track changes in 
credit risk. Rather, it recognises impairment 
loss allowance based on lifetime impairment 
pattern at each balance sheet date, right from 
its initial recognition. 
	
In all cases, the maximum period considered 
when estimating expected credit losses is the 
maximum contractual period over which the 
Company is exposed to credit risk. 
	
When determining whether the credit risk of 
a financial asset has increased significantly 
since initial recognition and when estimating 
expected credit losses, the Company considers 
reasonable and supportable information that 
is relevant and available without undue cost 
or effort. This includes both quantitative and 
qualitative information and analysis, based 
on the Company’s historical experience and 
informed credit assessment and including 
forward looking information. 
	
The Company considers a financial asset to be 
in default when: 
	
the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit 
obligations to the Company in full, 
without recourse by the Company to 
actions such as realising security (if any is 
held); or 
	
the financial asset is more than past due. 
	
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset 
is written off (either partially or in full) to the 
extent that there is no realistic prospect of 
recovery. This is generally the case when the 
Company determines that the counterparty 
does not have assets or sources of income that 
could generate sufficient cash flows to repay 
the amounts subject to write-off. However, 
financial assets that are written off could still 
be subject to enforcement activities in order 
to comply with the Company's procedures for 
recovery of amounts due.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
226
Dreamfolks Services Limited
227
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
2. 
Financial liabilities
	
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial 
recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit and loss, loans and borrowings, 
payables, as appropriate. 
a.	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
All financial liabilities are recognised 
initially at fair value and, in the case of 
loans and borrowings and payables, net 
of directly attributable transaction costs. 
The Company’s financial liabilities include 
Borrowings, Other Financial Liabilities, 
Trade Payables and Leases.
b.	
Subsequent measurement
	
All financial liabilities are subsequently 
measured at amortized cost using 
the effective interest method or at 
FVTPL. For financial liabilities that are 
denominated in a foreign currency 
and are measured at amortized cost at 
the end of each reporting period, the 
foreign exchange gains and losses are 
determined based on the amortized cost 
of the instruments and are recognized in 
‘Other income’. The fair value of financial 
liabilities denominated in a foreign 
currency is determined in that foreign 
currency and translated at the spot rate 
at the end of the reporting period. For 
financial liabilities that are measured as at 
FVTPL, the foreign exchange component 
forms part of the fair value gains or losses 
and is recognized in profit or loss. 
c.	
Derecognition
	
The Company derecognizes financial 
liabilities when, and only when, the 
Company’s obligations are discharged, 
cancelled or have expired. The difference 
between the carrying amount of the 
financial 
liability 
derecognized 
and 
the consideration paid and payable is 
recognized in statement of profit and 
loss.
d.	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities 
are offset and the net amount is reported 
in the statement of assets and liabilities 
if there is a currently enforceable legal 
right to offset the recognised amounts 
and there is an intention to settle on a net 
basis, to realise the assets and settle the 
liabilities simultaneously.
3.17	  Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed at 
each balance sheet date. If there is any indication of 
impairment based on internal / external factors, an 
impairment loss is recognised, i.e. wherever the carrying 
amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. 
	
For impairment testing, assets that do not generate 
independent cash inflows are Companied together into 
cash-generating units (CGUs). Each CGU represents the 
smallest Company of assets that generates cash inflows 
that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other 
assets or CGUs. 
	
The recoverable amount of a CGU (or an individual asset) 
is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs 
to sell. Value in use is based on the estimated future cash 
flows, discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the 
CGU (or the asset). 
	
The Company’s corporate assets (e.g., office building 
for providing support to various CGUs) do not generate 
independent cash inflows. To determine impairment of a 
corporate asset, recoverable amount is determined for 
the CGUs to which the corporate asset belongs.
	
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount 
of an asset or CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss. Impairment loss recognised 
in respect of a CGU is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU, 
and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other 
assets of the CGU (or group of CGUs) on a pro rata basis. 
	
An impairment loss in respect of assets for which has 
been recognised in prior periods, the Company reviews 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
at each reporting date whether there is any indication 
that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An 
impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in 
the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. 
Such a reversal is made only to the extent that the asset’s 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined, net of depreciation or 
amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
3.18	 Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they 
occur. Borrowing cost consist of interest and other costs 
that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing 
of funds. Borrowing cost also includes exchange 
differences to the extent regarded as an adjustment to 
the borrowing costs.
3.19	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the statement of assets 
and liabilities comprise cash at banks and on hand and 
short-term deposits with an original maturity of three 
months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk 
of changes in value. For the purpose of the statement of 
cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and 
short-term deposits, as defined above, net of outstanding 
bank overdrafts (if any) as they are considered an integral 
part of the Company’s cash management.
3.20	 Cash flow statement
	
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, 
whereby loss for the period is adjusted for the effects 
of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or 
accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or 
payments and item of income or expenses associated 
with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows 
from operating, investing and financing activities of the 
Company are segregated.
3.21	 Events occurring after the balance sheet date
	
Based on the nature of the event, the Company identifies 
the events occurring between the balance sheet date 
and the date on which the financial statements are 
approved as ‘Adjusting Event’ and ‘Non-adjusting 
event’. Adjustments to assets and liabilities are made 
for events occurring after the balance sheet date that 
provide additional information materially affecting the 
determination of the amounts relating to conditions 
existing at the balance sheet date or because of statutory 
requirements or because of their special nature. For non-
adjusting events, the Company may provide a disclosure 
in the financial statements considering the nature of the 
transaction.
3.22	 Functional and presentation currency 
	
The Company has determined the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the Company 
operates, i.e., the functional currency, to be Indian 
Rupees (INR). The financial statements are presented 
in Indian Rupees, which is the Company's functional and 
presentation currency. All amounts have been rounded 
to the nearest million up to two decimal places, unless 
otherwise stated. Consequent to rounding off, the 
numbers presented throughout the document may not 
add up precisely to the totals and percentages may not 
precisely reflect the absolute amounts. 
3.23	 Recent accounting pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards 
under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 
as issued from time to time. For the year ended 31 
March 2025, MCA has notified Ind AS – 117 Insurance 
Contracts and amendments to Ind AS 116 – Leases, 
relating to sale and leaseback transactions. The Company 
has reviewed the new pronouncements and based on 
its evaluation has determined that it does not have any 
material impact in its financial statements.
3.24	 Standards notified but not yet effected
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards 
under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules as issued from time to time. MCA has notified 
amendments to Ind AS 21 – The Effects of Changes in 
Foreign Exchange Rates with effect from 1 April 2025
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
228
Dreamfolks Services Limited
229
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
A.	
Total equity
Particulars
Equity share capital (A)
Reserve & surplus (B)
Other comprehensive income (C)
Total other 
equity        
(D=B+C)
Total 
equity 
(A+D)
Equity shares of INR 2 each 
issued, subscribed and fully 
paid up
Retained 
earnings
Security 
Premium
ESOP 
Reserve*   
Remeasurement gain & loss on 
defined benefit obligation
As at April 01, 2023
 104.50 
 1,427.93 
 -   
 36.58 
 (1.78)
 1,462.73 
 1,567.23 
Movement during the year
  -Profit for the year
 -   
 696.83 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 696.83 
 696.83 
  -Dividend paid (refer note 42)
 -   
 (26.51)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (26.51)
 (26.51)
  -Exercise of share options (refer note 41)
 1.55 
 -   
 13.60 
 (13.60)
 -   
 -   
 1.55 
  -Security premium received
 -   
 -   
 73.29 
 -   
 -   
 73.29 
 73.29 
  -Other comprehensive income, net of income tax
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (1.66)
 (1.66)
 (1.66)
  -Share based payment (ESOP)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 60.09 
 -   
 60.09 
 60.09 
As at March 31, 2024
 106.05 
 2,098.25 
 86.89 
 83.07 
 (3.44)
 2,264.77 
 2,370.82 
Movement during the year
  -Profit for the year
 -   
 696.83 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 696.83 
 696.83 
  -Dividend paid (refer note 42)
 -   
 (79.61)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (79.61)
 (79.61)
  -Exercise of share options (refer note 41)
 0.49 
 -   
 27.65 
 (27.65)
 -   
 -   
 0.49 
  -Security premium received
 -   
 -   
 23.04 
 -   
 -   
 23.04 
 23.04 
  -Other comprehensive income, net of income tax
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (0.92)
 (0.92)
 (0.92)
  -Share based payment (ESOP)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 47.80 
 -   
 47.80 
 47.80 
As at March 31, 2025
 106.54 
 2,715.47 
 137.58 
 103.22 
 (4.36)
 2,951.91 
 3,058.45 
* The share options-based payment reserve is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees under Employee stock option plan.
Material accounting policies	
3
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
As per our report of even date attached
Dreamfolks Services Limited
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm Reg. No. 000756N/N500441
Sunil Wahal
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Mukesh Yadav
Shekhar Sood
Harshit Gupta
Partner
Chairperson and Managing Director
Director
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 087294
DIN: 06849062
DIN: 01105819
M.No.: 514643
M.No.: A41111
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
4.	
Property, plant and equipment and right of use assets
Particulars
Property, plant and equipment
Right of use assets
 Plant and 
machinery 
 Leasehold 
improvements* 
Furniture & 
fixtures
Computers
Office 
equipment
Motor 
vehicles
Total 
Leasehold building 
(refer note 33)
Gross carrying amount
As at April 01, 2023
 -   
 17.56 
 6.99 
 7.71 
 7.55 
 53.68 
 93.49 
 73.39 
Additions for the year
 -   
 -   
 0.42 
 2.23 
 1.78 
 8.08 
 12.51 
 -   
Disposals/transferred/adjustment 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
As at March 31, 2024
 -   
 17.56 
 7.41 
 9.94 
 9.33 
 61.76 
 106.00 
 73.39 
Additions for the year
 2.52 
 -   
 0.28 
 1.81 
 4.41 
 1.47 
 10.48 
 108.81 
Disposals/transferred/adjustment 
 -   
 (17.56)
 (3.73)
 (2.91)
 (1.64)
 (10.80)
 (36.64)
 (73.39)
As at March 31, 2025
 2.52 
 -   
 3.96 
 8.84 
 12.10 
 52.43 
 79.85 
 108.81 
Accumulated depreciation
As at April 01, 2023
 -   
 4.27 
 4.16 
 5.98 
 3.49 
 45.17 
 63.07 
 20.47 
Charge for the year
 -   
 2.58 
 0.81 
 1.95 
 2.17 
 4.19 
 11.70 
 9.21 
Disposals/transferred/adjustment
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
As at March 31, 2024
 -   
 6.85 
 4.97 
 7.93 
 5.66 
 49.36 
 74.77 
 29.68 
Charge for the year
 0.80 
 2.58 
 0.70 
 1.91 
 2.05 
 3.93 
 11.96 
 9.66 
Disposals/transferred/adjustment
 -   
 (9.43)
 (2.39)
 (2.74)
 (1.48)
 (9.79)
 (25.83)
 (38.87)
As at March 31, 2025
 0.80 
 -   
 3.28 
 7.10 
 6.23 
 43.50 
 60.91 
 0.47 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2024
 -   
 10.71 
 2.44 
 2.01 
 3.67 
 12.40 
 31.23 
 43.71 
As at March 31, 2025
 1.72 
 -   
 0.68 
 1.74 
 5.87 
 8.93 
 18.94 
 108.34 
* During the year, the Company shifted to a new office premises. In accordance with the lease agreement, the previous office space was returned to the lessor in its original condition, 
resulting in the write-off of all leasehold improvements made therein. Consequently, the Company has recognised a loss on disposal of these assets in the standalone financial statements.
Notes to standalone financial statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
230
Dreamfolks Services Limited
231
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
5A	 Intangible assets
5B	 Intangible assets under development*	
Particulars
Software
Gross carrying amount
As at April 01, 2023
 46.90 
Additions
 - 
Disposals/adjustments
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 46.90 
Additions
 1.98 
Disposals/adjustments
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 48.88 
Accumulated amortisation
As at April 01, 2023
 16.05 
Amortise for the year
 15.25 
Disposals/adjustments
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 31.30 
Amortise for the year
 15.88 
Disposals/adjustments
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 47.18 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2024
 15.60 
As at March 31, 2025
 1.70 
Particulars
Software
As at April 01, 2023
 - 
Additions
 2.99 
Capitalised/transferred during the year
 - 
Disposals/adjustments
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 2.99 
Additions
 1.41 
Capitalised/transferred during the year
 (1.98)
Disposals/adjustments
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 2.42 
Intangible assets under development ageing schedule as on March 31, 2025
Particulars
Amount in intangible assets under development in progress for a year of
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Total
Projects in progress
 1.41 
 1.01 
 -   
 -   
 2.42 
Projects temporarily suspended
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
6.	
Investment property
	
Fair value of investment properties
The Company has an ongoing project of implementation of ERP with revised scope undertaken during the year. The projects 
remains on schedule for completion by December 31, 2025, and the total estimated cost remains within the original budget. 
There has been no overdue completion nor significant cost escalations compared to the initial project plan.
Intangible assets under development ageing schedule as on March 31, 2024
Particulars
Amount in intangible assets under development in progress for a year of
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Total
Projects in progress**
 2.99 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 2.99 
Projects temporarily suspended
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
* As at March 31, 2025, the Company has capital commitments of INR 1.25 millions (March 31, 2024: INR 2.35 millions) 
relating to implementaion of ERP Software. (refer note 37)
** includes implementation of ERP software alongwith development in Dreamfolks IT infrastructure.
Particulars
 Building 
 Total 
As at April 01 2023
 19.24 
 19.24 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Disposals/Transferred
 - 
 - 
As at March 31 2024
 19.24 
 19.24 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Disposals/Transferred
 - 
 - 
As at March 31 2025
 19.24 
 19.24 
Accumulated depreciation
As at April 01 2023
 2.19 
 2.19 
Charge for the year
 0.84 
 0.84 
As at March 31 2024
 3.03 
 3.03 
Charge for the year
 0.79 
 0.79 
Assets sold/ transferred
 - 
 - 
As at March 31 2025
 3.82 
 3.82 
Net block
As at March 31 2024
 16.21 
 16.21 
As at March 31 2025
 15.42 
 15.42 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Building
 24.94 
 24.55 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
232
Dreamfolks Services Limited
233
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Estimation of fair value	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company’s investment properties consist of two commercial properties in India.	
	
	
	
As at 31 March 2025, the fair values of the investment properties are INR 24.94 Million (March 31, 2024: INR 24.55 Million). 
These valuations are based on valuations performed by Ajay Kumar Sharma (B.E.), an accredited independent valuer. Ajay 
Kumar Sharma (B.E.). is a specialist in valuing these types of investment properties and is a registered valuer as defined under 
rule 2 of Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017. A valuation model in accordance with that recommended 
by the International Valuation Standards Committee has been applied.		
	
	
	
	
The Company has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment properties and no contractual obligations to purchase, 
construct or develop investment properties or for repairs, maintenance and enhancements.
Details of income and expenditure arising from Investment Properties
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Rental income derived from investment properties
 - 
 - 
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) arising 
from investment properties that generate rental income
 - 
 - 
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) arising 
from investment properties that did not generate rental income
0.00
 (0.52)
Profit arising from investment properties before depreciation and 
indirect expenses
 - 
 (0.52)
Less – Depreciation
 (0.79)
 (0.84)
Profit/(loss) arising from investment properties before indirect 
expenses
 (0.79)
 (1.36)
7.	
Investments
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)
Non - Current
Investment in equity instruments of subsidiaries (at cost)
Unquoted
Dreamfolks Hospitality Private Limited Nil equity shares of face value 
of INR 10/- each (March 31, 2024: 9,000 equity shares of face value of 
INR 10/- each)*
 - 
 0.05 
Golfklik Private Limited  6,000 equity shares of face value of INR 
10/- each (March 31, 2024: 6,000 equity shares of face value of INR 
10/- each)
 15.00 
 15.00 
Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited 37,678 equity shares of face value of 
USD 1/- each (March 31, 2024: 1 equity shares of face value of USD 
1/- each) (refer note 50)
 3.20 
 0.00 
 18.20 
 15.05 
Less: Provision for impairment in value of investments in DreamFolks 
Hospitality Private Limited
 - 
 (0.05)
 18.20 
 15.00 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Aggregate amount of quoted investments
 - 
 - 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 - 
 - 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 18.20 
 15.05 
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investments
 - 
 0.05 
b)	
Current
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Units
Amount
Units
Amount
Quoted investment measured at fair value 
through profit and loss (FVTPL)
Investment of mutual fund of Aditya Birla Sun Life 
Overnight Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
 3,73,537.85 
 515.90 
 70,990.12 
 91.94 
Investment of mutual fund of HDFC Overnight 
Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
 74,957.42 
 381.80 
 18,597.83 
 66.08 
Investment of mutual fund of Axis Overnight Fund - 
Growth - Regular Plan
 -   
 -   
 39,676.11 
 50.11 
Investment of mutual fund of ICICI Prudential 
Overnight Fund - Growth
 -   
 -   
 70,248.57 
 90.23 
Investment of mutual fund of Kotak Overnight 
Fund - Growth - Regular Plan
 -   
 -   
 39,424.70 
 50.11 
Investment of mutual fund of Nippon India 
Overnight Fund - Growth
 -   
 -   
 7,05,198.28 
 90.21 
 4,48,495.27 
 897.70 
 9,44,135.61 
 438.68 
Aggregate amount of quoted investments
 897.70 
 -   
 438.68 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 897.70 
 -
 438.68 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 -   
 -   
 -   
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of 
investments
 -   
 -   
 -   
8.	
Other financial assets	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)
Non - current
(Unsecured and considered good)
Security deposits
 8.47 
 3.75 
Bank deposits with more than 12 months maturity*
 100.00 
 39.53 
Share Application money pending for allotment (refer note 50)
 - 
 3.20 
 108.47 
 46.48 
* Dreamfolks Hospitality Private Limited, in which the Company had invested, was struck off from the Register of Companies. 
Accordingly, the Company has already recognised an impairment loss of ` 0.05 million on the said investment.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
234
Dreamfolks Services Limited
235
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
b)
Current
(Unsecured and considered good)
Security deposits
 55.29 
 70.35 
Unbilled receivable
 0.20 
 29.66 
Interest receivable
 1.97 
 2.93 
 57.46 
 102.94 
9.	
Current tax assets (net)	
10.	 Deferred tax assets (net)	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Income tax assets
Advance tax and TDS recoverable
 354.35 
 354.92 
Less: Current tax provision
 (267.52)
 (258.03)
 (267.52)
 (258.03)
 86.83 
 96.89 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax asset / (liabilities) in relation  to:
Provision for employee benefits
 31.74 
 13.14 
Lease liability
 26.23 
 14.26 
Right of use assets
 (27.27)
(11.00) 
Property, plant and equipment
 6.54 
 5.11 
ESOP
 25.98 
 20.92 
Provision for loss allowances for doubtful debts
 - 
 0.07 
Change of fair value of debt fund measured at FVTPL
 (1.19)
 (0.49)
Others
 0.83 
 0.29 
 62.86 
 42.30 
(i)	
Movement in deferred tax assets for the year ended March 31, 2025 is as follows:
Description
Opening as at 
April 01, 2024
Recognised in 
statement of 
profit and loss
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
Closing as at 
March 31, 2025
Deferred tax asset / (liabilities) in 
relation  to:
Provision for employee benefits
 13.14 
 18.29 
 0.31 
 31.74 
Lease liability
 14.26 
 11.97 
 - 
 26.23 
*includes INR 100 Million (March 31, 2024: INR 33.56 Million), deposits kept with banks against fund based facility and bank 
guarantees given to vendors/various authorities as margin money
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
11.	 Other assets	
(ii)	
Movement in deferred tax assets for the year ended March 31, 2024 is as follows:
Description
Opening as at 
April 01, 2024
Recognised in 
statement of 
profit and loss
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
Closing as at 
March 31, 2025
Right of use assets
 (11.00)
 (16.27)
 - 
 (27.27)
Property, plant and equipment
 5.11 
 1.43 
 - 
 6.54 
ESOP
 20.92 
 5.06 
 - 
 25.98 
Provision for loss allowances for 
doubtful debts
 0.07 
 (0.07)
 - 
 - 
Change of fair value of debt fund 
measured at FVTPL
 (0.49)
 (0.70)
 - 
 (1.19)
Others
 0.29 
 0.54 
 - 
 0.83 
 42.30 
 20.25 
 0.31 
 62.86 
Description
Opening as at 
April 01, 2023
Recognised in 
statement of 
profit and loss
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
Closing as at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax asset / (liabilities) in 
relation  to:
Provision for employee benefits
 9.91 
 2.67 
 0.56 
 13.14 
Lease liability
 15.80 
 (1.54)
 - 
 14.26 
Right of use assets
 (13.32)
 2.32 
 (11.00)
Property, plant and equipment
 3.19 
 1.92 
 - 
 5.11 
ESOP
 9.21 
 11.71 
 - 
 20.92 
Provision for allowances for 
expected credit loss
 - 
 0.07 
 - 
 0.07 
Change of fair value of debt fund 
measured at FVTPL
 - 
 (0.49)
 - 
 (0.49)
Others
 - 
 0.29 
 - 
 0.29 
 24.79 
 16.95 
 0.56 
 42.30 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)
Non-current
   Prepaid security deposit
 - 
 1.88 
 - 
 1.88 
b)
Current
Advances to vendors*
 45.48 
 87.25 
Balance with statutory authorities
 33.80 
 13.06 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
236
Dreamfolks Services Limited
237
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
   Prepaid expenses
 13.53 
 10.25 
   Advances to employees
 3.02 
 1.04 
   Other advances
 - 
 1.18 
 95.83 
 112.78 
* Includes related party balance of INR 17.02 Million (March 31, 2024: INR 7.27 Million), refer note 43
12.	 Trade receivables*	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Trade receivables considered good-unsecured
 2,943.12 
 2,649.85 
Trade receivables - credit impaired
 - 
 0.29 
 2,943.12 
 2,650.14 
Less: loss allowance
 - 
 (0.29)
 2,943.12 
 2,649.85 
* Includes related party balance of INR 0.09 Million (March 31, 2024: INR 0.70 Million), refer note 43 and also refer note 35 
for information about credit risk of trade receivables.
Trade receivables ageing schedule - March 31, 2025
Particulars
Unbilled 
receivable*
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
 Total** 
Less than 
6 months
 6 months 
to 1 year 
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
(i) Undisputed trade receivables – 
considered good
 0.20 
 1,866.37 
 1,062.55 
 12.14 
 1.94 
 0.12 
 -   
2,943.32 
(ii) Undisputed trade receivables –
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(iii) Undisputed trade receivables –
credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(iv) Disputed trade receivables –
considered good
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(v) Disputed trade receivables –
considered doubtful
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(vi) Disputed trade receivables –credit 
impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Gross Total
 0.20 
 1,866.37 
 1,062.55 
 12.14 
 1.94 
 0.12 
 -   
2,943.32 
Less: Loss allowance
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Total
 0.20 
 1,866.37 
 1,062.55 
 12.14 
 1.94 
 0.12 
 -   
2,943.32 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Trade receivables ageing schedule - March 31, 2024
Movement of impariment allowance (losss allowance for doubtful receivables)
Particulars
Unbilled 
receivable*
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
 More 
than 3 
years 
 Total** 
Less than 
6 months
 6 months 
to 1 year 
 1-2 
years 
 2-3 
years 
(i) Undisputed trade receivables – 
considered good
 29.66 
 1,381.11 
 1,257.64 
 10.64 
 0.46 
 -   
 -   
2,679.51 
(ii) Undisputed trade receivables –
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(iii) Undisputed trade receivables –
credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 0.29 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 0.29 
(iv) Disputed trade receivables –
considered good
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(v) Disputed trade receivables –
considered doubtful
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(vi) Disputed trade receivables –credit 
impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Gross Total
 29.66 
 1,381.11 
 1,257.64 
 10.93 
 0.46 
 -   
 -   
2,679.80 
Less: Loss allowance
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (0.29)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (0.29)
Total
 29.66 
 1,381.11 
 1,257.64 
 10.64 
 0.46 
 -   
 -   
2,679.51 
*Refer Note 8(b)
**includes Unbilled receivable disclosed under Other financial assets (refer note 8(b))
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 (0.29)
 - 
Amount accrued during the year
 - 
 (0.29)
Amount reversed during the year
 0.29 
 - 
Balance at the end of the year
 - 
 (0.29)
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Unsecured and considered good, unless otherwise stated
Current
Loan to related party: (refer note 43)
- to subsidiary company
 47.85 
 - 
 47.85 
 - 
13.	 Loans
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
238
Dreamfolks Services Limited
239
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Disclosure required under Sec 186(4) of the Companies Act 2013
Name of the 
Subsidiary
Rate of Interest
Purpose
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Dreamfolks Services 
Pte Limited
1 year yield of 
Government Security + 
0.5% Markup
The loan has been 
utilized for meeting 
their working capital 
requirements. 
 47.85 
 -   
 47.85 
 -   
14.	 Cash and cash equivalents
15.	 Other bank balances
16.	 Equity share capital
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash on hand
 0.00 
 0.27 
Balances with banks
- in current accounts
 153.33 
 105.14 
- in deposits account with maturity upto three months
 150.00 
 172.39 
 303.33 
 277.80 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balances with bank
-  in deposit accounts with maturity more than 3 months but less than 12 
months*
 264.63 
 288.52 
- Balance in escrow account for OFS proceeds
 - 
 2.00 
- Balance in escrow account for corporate social responsibility
 4.19 
 1.40 
- Balance in unclaimed divided account
 0.07 
 0.02 
 268.89 
 291.94 
* includes INR 264.63 Million (March 31, 2024: INR 238.62 Million), deposits kept with banks against fund based facility and 
bank guarantees given to vendors/various authorities as margin money.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Authorised equity share capital
75,000,000 equity shares of INR 2 each (March 31, 2024: 75,000,000 
equity shares of INR 2 each)
 150.00 
 150.00 
 150.00 
 150.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
53,269,862 equity shares of INR 2 each (March 31, 2024: 53,025,912 
equity shares of INR 2 each)
 106.54 
 106.05 
 106.54 
 106.05 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Notes:
(a)	
Reconciliation of the number of shares and amount outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year:
(c)	
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company 
(d)	
Details of shareholding of promoters
	
Details of shareholding of promoters
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
No. of shares
Amount
No. of shares
Amount
Equity shares outstanding at the 
beginning of the year
 5,30,25,912 
 106.05 
 5,22,50,000 
 104.50 
  Share options (ESOP) exercised 
during the year (refer note 41)
 2,43,950 
 0.49 
 7,75,912 
 1.55 
Equity shares outstanding at the 
end of the year
 5,32,69,862 
 106.54 
 5,30,25,912 
 106.05 
Name of the shareholder
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
% holding 
No of Shares
% holding 
No of Shares
Liberatha Peter Kallat
24.52%
 1,30,62,432 
24.63%
 1,30,62,432 
Dinesh Nagpal
20.11%
 1,07,11,200 
20.20%
 1,07,11,200 
Mukesh Yadav
21.09%
 1,12,33,600 
21.19%
 1,12,33,600 
(b)	
Terms and rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having nominal value of INR 2/- each (March 31, 2024: Rs. 2/- each). Each 
holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors, if any, is subject 
to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. In the event of liquidation of the Company, the 
holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the company, after distribution of all preferential 
amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the Shareholders.	
Name of the shareholder
As at March 31, 2025
No. of shares
Amount
% change
Liberatha Peter Kallat
 1,30,62,432 
 26.12 
-0.11%
Dinesh Nagpal
 1,07,11,200 
 21.42 
-0.09%
Mukesh Yadav
 1,12,33,600 
 22.47 
-0.10%
Name of the shareholder
As at March 31, 2024
No. of shares
Amount
% change
Liberatha Peter Kallat
 1,30,62,432 
 26.12 
-0.37%
Dinesh Nagpal
 1,07,11,200 
 21.42 
-0.30%
Mukesh Yadav
 1,12,33,600 
 22.47 
-0.31%
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
240
Dreamfolks Services Limited
241
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
(e) 	 Shares reserved for issue under employee stock option scheme is set out in Note 40 and Note 41.
(f) 	
The Company for the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date has not:
(i)	
Allotted any class of shares as fully paid pursuant to contract(s) without payment being received in cash except  as 
mentioned in sr. no.(ii) below
(ii) 	 Allotted fully paid up shares by way of bonus shares except for  28.5 Million shares of INR 2 each in bonus issue 
during the financial year 2021-22.
(iii)	 Bought back any class of shares.
(g)	
As per the records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members and other declarations received from 
shareholders regarding beneficial interest, the above shareholding represents both legal and beneficial ownership of 
shares.
17.	 Other equity
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Retained earnings
 2,715.47 
 2,098.25 
Security Premium
 137.58 
 86.89 
ESOP reserves
 103.22 
 83.07 
Other comprehensive income
 (4.36)
 (3.45)
Total Equity
 2,951.91 
 2,264.77 
(i)
Retained earnings
Opening balance
 2,098.25 
 1,427.93 
Add: Profit for the period/year
 696.83 
 696.83 
Less: Dividend paid during the period
 (79.61)
 (26.51)
Closing Balance 
 2,715.47 
 2,098.25 
(ii)
Security Premium
Opening balance
 86.89 
 - 
Add: Security premium on issue of shares under Employee Stock 
option plan
 23.04 
 73.29 
Add: Exercise of employee stock option scheme
 27.65 
 13.60 
Closing Balance 
 137.58 
 86.89 
(iii)
ESOP reserves
Opening balance
 83.07 
 36.58 
Add: Share Based Payment
 47.80 
 60.09 
Less: Exercise of employee stock option scheme
 (27.65)
 (13.60)
Closing Balance 
 103.22 
 83.07 
(iv)
Other comprehensive income
Opening balance
 (3.44)
 (1.78)
Less: Re-measurement loss on defined benefit obligation, net of tax
 (0.92)
 (1.66)
Closing Balance 
 (4.36)
 (3.45)
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Description of nature and purpose of each reserve
i)	
Retained earnings - Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned/incurred till date, less any transfers 
to general reserve, dividends or other distributions paid to shareholders.	
	
	
	
	
ii)	
Securities premium - Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised 
only for limited purposes such as issuance of fully paid bonus shares, writing off preliminary expenses, writing off expenses 
related to share/debenture issues, providing for premium on redemption of preference shares or debentures, and buying 
back company shares in accordance with the provisions of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
iii)	
ESOP reserves - The share options-based payment reserve is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options 
issued to employees under Employee stock option plan. The Company transfers the amount from this reserve to security 
premium account upon exercise of stock option by employees. In case of forfeiture, the Company transfer the amount 
from this reserve to retained earning. Refer note 40 for further details.	
	
	
	
(iv)	 Other comprehensive income: Other comprehensive income  include re-measurement loss / (gain) on defined benefit 
plans, net of taxes that will not be reclassified to Statement of Profit and Loss.
18.	 Borrowings
19.	 Lease liabilities*	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)
Non current
(Secured, at amortised cost)
Vehicle loans from bank
 0.74 
 2.13 
 0.74 
 2.13 
b)
Current
(Secured, at amortised cost)
Current maturities of non-current borrowings
 1.39 
 2.30 
 1.39 
 2.30 
Note:
i)	
The loan is secured by hypothecation of vehicle purchase under the loan agreement carrying interest rate of 8.95% p.a 
and repayable in 36 installments, with final installment due on September 05, 2026. 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)
Non current
Lease liability
 90.53 
 48.25 
 90.53 
 48.25 
b)
Current
Current maturities of lease liability
 13.66 
 8.40 
 13.66 
 8.40 
* Refer note 33
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
242
Dreamfolks Services Limited
243
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
20.	 Trade payables	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current
i. total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 457.43 
 76.91 
ii. total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 1,188.11 
 1,548.45 
 1,645.54 
 1,625.36 
a)	
Details of Dues to Micro and Small and Medium Enterprises as per MSMED Act, 2006
	
The identification of Micro and Small  Enterprises is based on the Management's knowledge of their status. Disclosure is 
based on the information available with the Company regarding the status of the suppliers as defined under ‘The Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006’.	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any 
supplier as at the end of each accounting year
 457.43 
 76.91 
Principal amount due to micro and small enterprises
 457.43 
 76.91 
Interest due on above
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the 
MSMED Act 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the 
supplier beyond the appointed day during each accounting year.
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the 
year) but without adding the interest  specified under the MSMED Act 2006
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each 
accounting year
 0.10 
 0.10 
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the 
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually 
paid to the small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible 
expenditure under section 23 of the MSMED Act 2006
 - 
 - 
b)	
Trade Payables ageing:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Outstanding for following years from due date of payment
Unbilled 
dues
Less than 
one year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More 
than 3 
years
Total
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 19.76 
 437.61 
 -   
 0.05 
 0.01 
 457.43 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 154.76 
 1,032.97 
 0.19 
 0.19 
 -   
 1,188.11 
Disputed dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Disputed dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Total
 174.52 
 1,470.59 
 0.19 
 0.24 
 0.01 
 1,645.54 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for following years from due date of payment
Unbilled 
dues
Less than 
one year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More 
than 3 
years
Total
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 21.57 
 55.29 
 0.04 
 -   
 0.01 
 76.91 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 116.77 
 1,428.86 
 0.32 
 0.05 
 2.45 
 1,548.45 
Disputed dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Disputed dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -
 -   
Total
 138.34 
 1,484.15 
 0.37 
 0.05 
 2.45 
 1,625.36 
c)	
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are settled within normally operating cycle of the company.
21.	 Other financial liabilities
22.	 Provisions
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
   Security deposit- received
 2.97 
 2.97 
   Employee related payables
 64.96 
 12.72 
   Expense payable*
 26.95 
 1.82 
   Interest accrued on overdraft
 - 
 0.00 
   Payable to selling shareholders
 - 
 2.00 
   Unclaimed dividend payable
 0.07 
 0.02 
 94.95 
 19.53 
* includes related party balance of INR 0.02 Millions (March 31, 2024: INR Nil), refer note 43
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)
Non Current
Provisions for employee benefits (refer note 39)
   Gratuity 
 31.82 
 24.44 
   Leave encashment 
 22.45 
 16.94 
 54.27 
 41.38 
b)
Current
Provisions for employee benefits (refer note 39)
   Gratuity 
 1.69 
 1.18 
   Leave encashment 
 5.64 
 2.80 
 7.33 
 3.98 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
244
Dreamfolks Services Limited
245
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
23.	 Other current liabilities
24.	 Revenue from operations	
24.1.	 Disaggregated revenue information	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
   Advance from customers
 5.63 
 1.06 
   Statutory dues
 53.23 
 43.25 
   Liability towards Corporate Social Responsibility
 4.19 
 1.40 
   Interest accrued and due on micro and small enterprises
 0.10 
 0.10 
   Others
 0.14 
 0.05 
   Unearned revenue
 7.21 
 18.27 
 70.50 
 64.13 
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue from contract with customers (refer note 24.1 - 24.3)
Sale of services
 12,918.82 
 11,349.46 
 12,918.82 
 11,349.46 
Notes:
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
i)    Timing of revenue recognition
       Service transferred at a point in time
 12,899.12 
 11,343.15 
       Service transferred over the period
 19.70 
 6.32 
 12,918.82 
 11,349.46 
ii)   Revenue by location of customers
       India 
 11,272.79 
 9,891.87 
       Outside India
 1,646.03 
 1,457.59 
 12,918.82 
 11,349.46 
iii)  Reconciliation of revenue recognised in statement of profit and loss 
with contracted price
       Revenue as per contracted price 
 12,918.82 
 11,349.46 
       Less: Discount
 - 
 - 
 12,918.82 
 11,349.46 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
24.2.	 Contract balances	
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Trade receivables
 2,943.12 
 2,649.85 
Contract assets
 0.20 
 29.66 
Contract liabilities
 7.21 
 18.27 
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 29.66 
 35.34 
Less: Invoice raised during the year
 (12,948.28)
 (11,355.15)
Add: Revenue recognised during the year
 12,918.82 
 11,349.46 
Balance at the end of the year (refer note 8(b))
 0.20 
 29.66 
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 18.27 
 - 
Less: Revenue recognised during the year from opening balance
 (13.23)
 - 
Add: Amount billed excluding revenue recognised during the year
 2.17 
 18.27 
Balance at the end of the year (refer note 23)
 7.21 
 18.27 
Contract assets
A contract asset is the right to consideration in exchange for services transferred to the customer. If the Company performs 
by transferring services to a customer before the customer pays consideration or before payment is due, a contract asset is 
recognized for the earned consideration that is conditional. The contract assets are transferred to receivables when the rights 
to consideration become unconditional. This usually occurs when the Company issues an invoice to the customers.
Contract liabilities
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer services to a customer for which the Company has received consideration from 
the customer. If a customer pays consideration before the Company transfers services to the customer, a contract liability is 
recognised when the payment is made. Contract liabilities are recognized as revenue when the Company performs under the 
contract.	
	
	
	
	
24.3.  Performance obligation	
Sale of services: The performance obligation in respect of services is satisfied either at a point in time or over time, depending 
on the nature of the service. For services where control is transferred continuously, revenue is recognised over time based 
on progress towards completion. In other cases, performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time upon completion and 
acceptance of the service by the clients. Payment is generally due upon completion or as per agreed contractual terms.	
* Three clients represents 10% or more of the total revenue of the company during the year ended March 2025 and March 
2024.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
246
Dreamfolks Services Limited
247
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
25.	 Other income
26.	 Cost of services
27.	 Employee benefits expenses	
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest income on:
- fixed deposits with banks
 19.93 
 18.04 
- income tax refund
 5.30 
 2.07 
-loan to subsidiary
 1.58 
 - 
-others
 3.92 
 - 
Other business support services
 2.42 
 - 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 4.13 
 - 
Gain on sale on financials instruments measured at FVTPL ;
- Profit on sale of debt dund
 18.06 
 10.06 
- On change of fair value of debt fund measured at FVTPL
 4.71 
 1.93 
Foreign exchange gain
 12.30 
 0.54 
Finance income on amortisation of security deposits
 0.75 
 0.34 
Liabilities written back
 2.44 
 - 
Gain on termination of lease
 13.73 
 - 
Miscellaneous income
 0.28 
 0.19 
 89.55 
 33.17 
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Cost of services rendered
 11,415.82 
 9,975.46 
 11,415.82 
 9,975.46 
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Salaries, wages and bonus
 312.62 
 195.43 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 11.34 
 9.47 
Gratuity expenses
 6.66 
 5.28 
Employee Stock Option Plan
 47.80 
 60.09 
Staff welfare expenses
 18.64 
 11.82 
 397.06 
 282.09 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
28.	 Finance costs
29.	 Depreciation and amortization expenses
30.	 Other expenses
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest expense
     -on term loans
 0.28 
 0.60 
     -on CC/OD facility
 8.66 
 1.21 
     -other
 20.18 
 - 
Interest on statutory dues
 0.36 
 0.17 
Other borrowing costs
     -processing cost
 1.00 
 2.21 
     -lease expenses
 5.38 
 5.93 
 35.86 
 10.12 
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation on property plant and equipment
 11.96 
 11.70 
Depreciation on investment property
 0.79 
 0.84 
Amortization of intangible assets
 15.88 
 15.25 
Depreciation on right to use assets
 9.66 
 9.21 
 38.29 
 37.00 
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Rent
 4.13 
 2.90 
Repair & maintenance expenses
 1.65 
 2.26 
Electricity and water expenses
 0.64 
 0.76 
Travelling and conveyance
 26.16 
 22.06 
Assets written off
 10.18 
 - 
Communication expenses
 2.45 
 2.32 
Information technology expenses
 29.49 
 19.85 
Insurance expenses
 5.26 
 4.08 
Provision for impairment of investments
 - 
 0.05 
Rates and taxes
 4.70 
 11.34 
Legal and professional fees
 26.12 
 21.92 
Auditor's remuneration and expenses (refer note 30A below)
 3.36 
 2.86 
Bank charges
 2.45 
 1.51 
Loss allowance on trade receivables
 - 
 0.29 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
248
Dreamfolks Services Limited
249
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Bad debts
 2.47 
 - 
Amortisation of security deposits
 0.46 
 0.40 
Postage and courier expenses
 0.87 
 0.43 
Printing & stationery
 1.79 
 1.90 
Office maintenance expenses
 5.59 
 5.04 
Corporate social responsibility expenses
 14.19 
 7.83 
Business promotion
 34.98 
 31.19 
Miscellaneous expenses
 2.10 
 1.62 
Total
 179.04 
 140.61 
30A	Auditor’s remuneration (exclusive of tax):
31.	 Tax expenses
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
As auditor:
Statutory audit fee
 1.35 
 1.15 
Tax audit fee
 0.30 
 0.25 
Limited review fee
 1.38 
 1.20 
In other capacity:
Other services
 0.11 
 0.10 
Reimbursement of expense
 0.22 
 0.16 
Total
 3.36 
 2.86 
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Income tax recognized in statement of profit and loss 
Current tax
 267.52 
 258.03 
Tax expense related to earlier years
 (1.80)
 (0.56)
Deferred tax (credit)/charge
 (20.25)
 (16.95)
Total income tax expense recognized in statement of profit and loss 
 245.47 
 240.52 
Income tax recognized in other comprehensive income
Remeasurement of defined benefit obligations
 - Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
 (0.31)
 (0.56)
Total income tax expense recognized in other comprehensive income
 (0.31)
 (0.56)
Reconciliation of income tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by applicable tax rate for respective year
Profit/(loss) before tax
 942.30 
 937.35 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
32.	 Earning per share
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Statutory tax rate applicable (%)
 25.17 
 25.17 
Income tax expense calculated at applicable statutory tax rate
 237.18 
 235.93 
Reconciliation Item
CSR expense
 3.57 
 1.97 
Other items
 1.26 
 0.01 
Effect of non deductible items
 3.46 
 2.61 
Total income tax expense recognized in statement of profit and loss
 245.47 
 240.52 
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Profit after tax for the year (In INR)
 696.83 
 696.83 
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating basic EPS (No.)
 5,31,19,436 
 5,30,13,192 
Add: Effect of potential dilutive shares (ESOPs)#
9,55,675
 21,23,338 
Less: Weighted average number of shares that would have been issued at 
average market price
2,99,349
 3,94,003 
Weighted average number of shares considered for computation of diluted 
EPS (No.)
5,37,75,762
 5,47,42,527 
Average market price per share (In INR)
307.95
 519.84 
Exercise price per option (In INR)
 96.46 
 96.46 
Basic EPS (In INR)
 13.12 
13.14
Diluted EPS (In INR)
12.96
12.73
# The Company granted stock options to the eligible employees of Company during the year ended March 31, 2022, March 31, 
2023 and March 31, 2024 which were considered in the above diluted EPS.	
33.	 Leases
	
The Company recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use assets representing the right to use the 
underlying assets.	
	
	
	
Operating lease commitments- Company as lessee	
	
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Company entered into a new lease agreement for office premises. Consequently, 
the Company has served a termination notice to the vendor for the existing lease, and accordingly the lease terminated. The 
new lease agreements have terms of five years.
a.	
Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities:
Particulars
 Office Premise 
As at April 01, 2023
 62.76 
Additions 
 - 
Deletions/Modification
 - 
Accretion of interest
 5.93 
Payments
 (12.04)
As at March 31, 2024
 56.65 
Additions 
 103.99 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
250
Dreamfolks Services Limited
251
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Particulars
 Office Premise 
Deletions/Modification
 (48.25)
Accretion of interest
 5.38 
Payments
 (13.58)
As at March 31, 2025
 104.19 
The effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 9.00% p.a.
b.	
The following are the amounts recognised in statement of profit or loss:
c.	
The following is the break up of current and non-current lease liability 
d.	
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s lease liabilities based on contracted undiscounted 
payments.
Particulars
For the year ended 
March, 31 2025
For the year ended 
March, 31 2024
Depreciation expense of right of use assets
 9.66 
 9.21 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 5.38 
 5.93 
Expense relating to leases of short-term  / low value assets (included 
in other expenses)
 4.13 
 2.90 
Total amount recognised in statement of profit or loss
 19.17 
 18.04 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current lease liabilities
 13.66 
 8.40 
Non-current lease liabilities
 90.53 
 48.25 
Total amount recognised in statement of profit or loss
 104.19 
 56.65 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Payable- not later than one year
 21.72 
 13.58 
Payable- later than one to five years
 108.26 
 58.08 
Payable- later more than five years
 - 
 - 
e.	
The Company has not revalued right of use assets during the year.
34.	 Financial risk management
	
Financial risk factors	 	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company's operational activities are expose it to various financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity 
risk. The Company realizes that these risks are inherent and integral aspect of business. The Company continues to focus 
on a system based approach to business risk management. The Company’s principal financial assets include trade and other 
receivables, and cash and cash equivalents that derive directly from its operations.
	
The Company ensures that its financial risk activities which are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that 
financial risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with the Company's policies and risk objectives. Risk 
management policies are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Company's activities.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
A	
Market risk:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of the future cash flows of the financial instruments will fluctuate because of 
changes in the prices of a financial instrument . The value of a financial instrument may change as a result of changes in 
the interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices and other market changes that effect 
market risk sensitive instruments.
i.	
Interest rate risk :	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates 
primarily to the Company’s long and short term borrowings obligations in the nature of term loan, cash credit 
facilities and working capital loans.
Particulars
Fixed Rate Borrowing
Variable Rate Borrowing
Total Borrowing
As at March 31, 2025
 2.13 
 - 
 2.13 
As at March 31, 2024
 3.40 
 1.03 
 4.43 
Interest rate sensitivity analysis shows that an decrease / increase of fifty basis points in the floating interest rates 
would result in decrease / increase in the Company’s profit / (loss) before tax by approximately INR Nil (March 31, 
2024: INR 0.01 Million).
Sensitivity on variable rate borrowings
Impact on profit & loss
 March 31, 2025
 March 31, 2024
Interest rate increase by 0.50%
 -   
 (0.01)
Interest rate decrease by 0.50%
 -   
 0.01 
ii.	
Foreign currency risk :	
	
	
	
	
The Indian Rupee is the Company’s most significant currency. As a consequence, the Company’s results are 
presented in Indian Rupee and exposures are managed against Indian Rupee accordingly. Foreign currency risk is 
the risk impact related to fair value or future cash flows of an exposure in foreign currency, which fluctuate due to 
changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company's exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates 
primarily to the foreign currency transactions on account of global operations and transactions in foreign currency 
with its customers.
Exposure in
Liabilities as at
Assets as at
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
SGD
 2.70 
 2.62 
 48.41 
 1.41 
THB
 10.68 
 -   
 9.61 
 -   
USD
 9.08 
 2.84 
 8.21 
 399.46 
EUR
 8.64 
 2.51 
 4.88 
 4.49 
QAR
 3.17 
 3.04 
 0.24 
 0.22 
AED
 9.31 
 2.67 
 6.90 
 0.44 
OMR
 3.06 
 0.00 
 0.15 
 0.14 
GBP
 0.35 
 0.16 
 1.15 
 1.04 
MYR
 2.08 
 -   
 -   
 -   
Others
 2.13 
 0.20 
 1.07 
 0.85 
Total
 51.20 
 14.04 
 80.62 
 408.05 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
252
Dreamfolks Services Limited
253
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The Company is principally exposed to risk against SGD, USD, THB & AED. Sensitivity of profit or loss arises mainly 
from SGD, USD, THB & AED denominated receivables and payables. 
As per management’s assessment of reasonable possible changes in the exchange rate of (+/-) 5% between USD- 
INR, SGD-INR, THB-INR & AED-INR currency pairs, sensitivity of profit or loss only on outstanding SGD, USD, THB 
& AED denominated monetary items at the period end is presented below:
Sensitivity at year end
Impact on profit & loss
 March 31, 2025
 March 31, 2024
Assets:
Weakening of INR by 5%
SGD
 2.42 
 0.07 
USD
 0.41 
 19.97 
THB
 0.48 
 -   
AED
 0.34 
 0.02 
Strengthening of INR by 5%
SGD
 (2.42)
 (0.07)
USD
 (0.41)
 (19.97)
THB
 (0.48)
 -   
AED
 (0.34)
 (0.02)
Liabilities:
Weakening of INR by 5%
SGD
 (0.14)
 (0.13)
USD
 (0.45)
 (0.14)
THB
 (0.53)
 -   
AED
 (0.47)
 (0.13)
Strengthening of INR by 5%
SGD
 0.14 
 0.13 
USD
 0.45 
 0.14 
THB
 0.53 
 -   
AED
 0.47 
 0.13 
As per management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk 
because the exposure at the end of the reporting period does not reflect the exposure during the year.
(iii)	 Commodity price risk		
	
	
	
	
	
The Company is not involved in the provision and sale of products and hence, the Company is not exposed to 
commodity price risk.
B	
Credit risk:	 	
	
	
	
	
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if client or counterparty to financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Company’s receivables from client and investment in mutual funds 
and deposits with banks.
	
To manage credit risk, the Company periodically reviews its receivables from client for any non-recoverability of the 
dues, taking in to account the inputs from business development team and ageing of trade receivables. The management 
establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its expected credit losses in respect of trade and other financial 
assets. The management uses a simplified approach for the purpose of computation of expected credit loss. While 
computing expected credit loss, the management consider historical credit loss experience adjusted with forward looking 
information.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
(i)	
Expected credit loss of trade receivables 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Upto 6 months
More than 6 
months
Upto 6 months
More than 6 
months
Gross carrying amount (A)
 2,928.92 
 14.21 
 2,638.75 
 11.39 
Expected credit loss (B)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (0.29)
Net carrying amount (A-B)
 2,928.92 
 14.21 
 2,638.75 
 11.08 
C	
Liquidity risk:
	
The risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities that are settled 
by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and 
banking facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and by matching the maturity profiles of 
financial assets and liabilities for the Company.
	
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contracted undiscounted 
payments (excluding transaction cost on borrowings).
Particulars
Carrying 
amount
Less than 
one year
Above 1 
year but less 
than 5 years
Above 5 
years
Total
I
As at March 31, 2025
Borrowings
 2.13 
 1.39 
 0.74 
 - 
 2.13 
Other financial liabilities
 94.95 
 94.95 
 - 
 - 
 94.95 
Trade payables
 1,645.54 
 1,645.54 
 - 
 - 
 1,645.54 
Leases
 104.19 
 21.72 
 108.26 
 - 
 129.98 
Total
 1,846.81 
 1,763.60 
 109.00 
 - 
 1,872.60 
II
As at March 31, 2024
Borrowings
 4.43 
 2.30 
 2.13 
 - 
 4.43 
Other financial liabilities
 19.53 
 19.53 
 - 
 - 
 19.53 
Trade payables
 1,625.36 
 1,625.36 
 - 
 - 
 1,625.36 
Leases
 56.66 
 13.58 
 58.08 
 - 
 71.66 
Total
 1,705.98 
 1,660.77 
 60.21 
 - 
 1,720.98 
The table below summarises the undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of reporting year.
Floating Rate
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
 Fund based facility (cash credit facility)* 
 1,300 
 800 
Total
 1,300 
 800 
 *Also refer Note 45
D	
Price risk:
	
The Company is exposed to price risk mainly related to procurement of services such as Lounge access, Meet and Assist, 
Golf course access etc. which can affect the direct cost of the Company. To manage this risk, the Company take steps to 
pursue longer term and fixed contracts, where considered necessary. Additionally, processes related to such risks are 
reviewed and controlled by management.	
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
254
Dreamfolks Services Limited
255
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
35.	 Financial Instruments - Disclosure	
	
	
	
	
	
	
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that are 
recognised and measured at fair value. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair value, 
the Company has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard.
A	
Financial Instruments by category
B	
Accounting classification and fair values	
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Amortised cost
FVTPL
Amortised cost
FVTPL
Financial assets
Investments
 18.20 
 897.70 
 15.00 
 438.68 
Loans
 47.85 
 -   
Trade receivables 
 2,943.12 
 -   
 2,649.85 
 -   
Cash and cash equivalents 
 303.33 
 -   
 277.80 
 -   
Other bank balances
 268.89 
 -   
 291.94 
 -   
Others financial asset
-  Non  current
 108.47 
 -   
 46.48 
 -   
-  Current
 57.46 
 -   
 102.94 
 -   
Total financial assets
 3,747.33 
 897.70 
 3,384.01 
 438.68 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
-  Non current
 0.74 
 -   
 2.13 
 -   
-  Current
 1.39 
 -   
 2.30 
 -   
Trade payables
-  Current
 1,645.54 
 -   
 1,625.36 
 -   
Other financial liabilities
-  Current
 94.95 
 -   
 19.53 
 -   
Lease liabilities
-  Non current
 90.53 
 -   
 48.25 
 -   
-  Current
 13.66 
 -   
 8.40 
 -   
Total financial liabilities
 1,846.81 
 -   
 1,705.97 
 -   
Particulars
Carrying Value
Fair Value
As at              
March 31, 2025
As at             
March 31, 2024
As at              
March 31, 2025
As at             
March 31, 2024
Financial assets carried at amortised 
cost
Trade receivables 
 2,943.12 
 2,649.85 
 2,943.12 
 2,649.85 
Loans
 47.85 
 -   
 47.85 
 -   
Cash and cash equivalents 
 303.33 
 277.80 
 303.33 
 277.80 
Other bank balances
 268.89 
 291.94 
 268.89 
 291.94 
Others financial asset
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Particulars
Carrying Value
Fair Value
As at              
March 31, 2025
As at             
March 31, 2024
As at              
March 31, 2025
As at             
March 31, 2024
-  Non current
 108.47 
 46.48 
 108.47 
 46.48 
-  Current
 57.46 
 102.94 
 57.46 
 102.94 
Financial assets carried at FVTPL
Investments
 897.70 
 438.68 
 897.70 
 438.68 
Total financial assets
 4,645.02 
 3,822.69 
 4,645.02 
 3,822.69 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Borrowings
-  Non current
 0.74 
 2.13 
 -   
 -   
-  Current
 1.39 
 2.30 
 1.39 
 2.30 
Trade payables
-  Current
 1,645.54 
 1,625.36 
 1,645.54 
 1,625.36 
Other financial liabilities
-  Current
 94.95 
 19.53 
 94.95 
 19.53 
Lease liabilities
-  Non current
 90.53 
 48.25 
 90.53 
 48.25 
-  Current
 13.66 
 8.40 
 13.66 
 8.40 
Total financial liabilities
 1,846.81 
 1,705.97 
 1,846.07 
 1,703.84 
C	
Fair Value Hierarchy
	
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that 
are recognised and measured at fair value. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining 
fair value, the Company has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting 
standard. The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances, Lease liability, other financial assets 
and other financial liabilities (which are not disclosed below) are considered to be the same as their fair values, due to 
their short term nature.
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Investments
 897.70 
 -   
 18.20 
 915.89 
Trade receivables *
 -   
 -   
 2,943.12 
 2,943.12 
Loans
 47.85 
 47.85 
Others financial asset
-  Non current
 -   
 -   
 8.47 
 8.47 
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 57.46 
 57.46 
Total financial assets
 897.70 
 -   
 3,075.10 
 3,972.80 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
-  Non current
 -   
 -   
 0.74 
 0.74 
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 1.39 
 1.39 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
256
Dreamfolks Services Limited
257
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Trade payables *
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 1,645.54 
 1,645.54 
Other financial liabilities
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 94.95 
 94.95 
Total financial liabilities
 -   
 -   
 1,742.62 
 1,742.62 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Investments
 438.68 
 -   
 15.00 
 453.68 
Trade receivables *
 -   
 -   
 2,649.85 
 2,649.85 
Loan
 -   
 -   
Others financial asset
-  Non current
 -   
 -   
 6.95 
 6.95 
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 102.94 
 102.94 
Total financial assets
 438.68 
 -   
 2,774.74 
 3,213.42 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 2.30 
 2.30 
Trade payables *
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 1,625.36 
 1,625.36 
Other financial liabilities
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 19.53 
 19.53 
Total financial liabilities
 -   
 -   
 1,647.19 
 1,647.19 
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in 
a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
* The carrying amounts are considered to approximate their fair values largely due to short term maturities of these 
instruments.	
	
	
	
	
Note:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
1	
There were no transfers between level 1 and level 2  and level 3 in any of the years reported above.
2	
The level 1 financial instruments are measured using quotes in active market.
36.	 Capital Management
	
The Company’s objectives while managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and optimise returns 
for its shareholders. For the purpose of the Company’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital and equity 
reserves attributable to the equity shareholders and net debt includes interest bearing loans and borrowings less cash and 
cash equivalents including other bank balances. The Company’s policy is to maintain a stable and strong capital structure with a 
focus on total equity so as to maintain investor, creditors and market confidence and to sustain future development and growth 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
of its business.
	
The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the 
requirements of the financial covenants. The Company’s funding requirements are met through internal accruals, short-term 
and long-term borrowings. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the 
years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
37.	 Contingent Liabilities, capital and other commitments :
38.	 Ratios to disclosed as per requirement of Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital 
account and not provided for (net of advances)
 1.25 
 2.35 
Other Commitments
 - 
 - 
(b) Contingent liabilities - Bank guarantees
 110.00 
 191.21 
(c) Indirect tax cases
 122.25 
 23.32 
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
As at  
March 31, 
2025
As at  
March 31, 
2024
Change
Explanation for 
change in the ratio 
by more than 25% 
as compared to the 
previous year:
(a) Current Ratio
Current Assets
Current 
liabilities
 2.56 
 2.30 
11.31%
Not applicable
(b) Debt-Equity Ratio
Borrowings
Shareholder's 
Equity
 0.00 
 0.00 
-62.76%
Decrease is mainly 
due to decrease in 
debts in current 
financial year
(c) Debt Service 
Coverage Ratio
Net profit after 
tax before 
interest and 
depreciation
Borrowings 
principal 
and interest 
and lease 
payments for 
the year
 29.45 
 33.71 
-12.63%
Not applicable
(d) Return on Equity 
Ratio
Net profits 
after taxs
Average 
Shareholder's 
equity
25.67%
35.39%
-27.47%
Decrease as profits 
were constant 
but average 
equity increased 
as compared to 
previous year.
(e) Trade Receivables 
turnover ratio
Revenue
Average trade 
receivables
 4.62 
 4.86 
-4.98%
Not applicable
(f) Trade payables 
turnover ratio
Cost of 
services
Average trade 
payables
 6.98 
6.61
5.61%
Not applicable
(g) Net capital turnover 
ratio
Revenue
Average 
Working 
Capital i.e. 
Current assets 
minus current 
liabilities
 5.05 
 6.14 
-17.74%
Not applicable
(h) Net profit ratio
Net profit after 
tax
Revenue
5.39%
6.14%
-12.15%
Not applicable
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
258
Dreamfolks Services Limited
259
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
As at  
March 31, 
2025
As at  
March 31, 
2024
Change
Explanation for 
change in the ratio 
by more than 25% 
as compared to the 
previous year:
(i) Return on Capital 
employed
Earnings 
before tax and 
interest
Capital 
employed i.e. 
Shareholders 
equity plus 
non current 
liabilities
31.97%
39.93%
-19.92%
Not applicable
(j) Return on investment
Gain on 
Investment 
sale of debt 
fund
Cost of 
Investment
7.08%
6.75%
4.89%
Not applicable
39	
Disclosures as required by Indian Accounting Standard 19 on Employee Benefits 
I.	
Defined contribution plans
	
The Company makes contribution in the form of provident funds as considered defined contribution plans and contribution 
to Employees Provided Fund Orgnisation.The Company has no further payment obligations once the contributions have 
been paid. Following are the schemes covered under defined contributions plans of the Company:
	
Provident Fund Plan & Employee Pension Scheme: The Company makes monthly contributions at prescribed rates 
towards Employee Provident Fund administered and managed by Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of 
India.	
	
Employee State Insurance: The Company makes prescribed monthly contributions towards Employees State Insurance 
Scheme and payment made to Employee State Insurance Corporation, Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of 
India.
	
The Company has charged the following costs in contribution to Provident and Other Funds in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss:
	
The Company has charged the following costs in contribution to Provident and Other Funds in the Statement of Profit 
and Loss:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Company’s contribution to provident fund
 8.73 
 7.79 
Administrative charges on above fund
 0.46 
 0.39 
Company’s contribution to employee state insurance scheme
 0.01 
 0.02 
Company's contribution to labour welfare fund
 0.11 
 0.09 
Company's contribution to national provident fund
 2.04 
 1.19 
 11.34 
 9.48 
II.	
Gratuity	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Company have an obligation towards gratuity, a defined benefit plan covering eligible employees as per the Payment 
of Gratuity Act, 1972. The plan provides for a lump-sum payment to vested employees at retirement, death while in 
employment or on termination of employment of an amount equivalent to 15 days salary payable for each completed year 
of service. Vesting occurs upon completion of five years of service. The gratuity benefits are unfunded.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
	
Gratuity liability is provided for on the basis of an actuarial valuation on projected unit credit method made at the end 
of each financial year. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated 
future cash outflows by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting year on government bonds that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related obligation.
III.	
Leave plan and compensated absences	
	
The Company has a leave encashment scheme with defined benefits for its employees. The Company makes provision 
for such liability in the books of accounts on the basis of year end actuarial valuation. No fund has been created for this 
scheme.	
	
	
	
IV.	
For summarizing the components of net benefit expense recognized in the statement of profit and loss and the funded 
status and amounts recognized in the balance sheet for the respective plans, the details are as under:
a.	
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation:
b.	
Changes in fair value of plan assets:
c.	
Net employee benefit expense recognized in statement of profit and loss:
Gratuity
Gratuity
Gratuity
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Opening defined benefit obligation
 25.62 
 18.12 
Interest cost
 1.85 
 1.33 
Total service cost
 4.81 
 3.95 
Benefits paid
 - 
 - 
Actuarial (gains)/losses on obligation
 1.23 
 2.22 
Closing defined benefit obligation
 33.51 
 25.62 
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Opening fair value of plan assets
 - 
 - 
Expected return
 - 
 - 
Contributions
 - 
 - 
Benefits paid
 - 
 - 
Actuarial (gains)/losses
 - 
 - 
Closing fair value of plan assets
 - 
 - 
Description
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Total service cost
 4.81 
 3.95 
Interest cost
 1.85 
 1.33 
Total expense
 6.66 
 5.28 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
260
Dreamfolks Services Limited
261
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Net employee benefit expense recognized in other comprehensive income
Gratuity
Gratuity
Gratuity
Gratuity
Description
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Net Actuarial (Gain)/ Loss
 1.23 
 2.22 
Net employee benefit expense recognized in statement of profit and loss
d.	
Amount recognised in the balance sheet:
e.	
The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity for the Company’s plans are shown below:
f.	
Sensitivity analysis of the defined benefit obligation:
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Present value of obligation as at the end of the year
 33.51 
 25.62 
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
 - 
 - 
Net asset/ (liability) recognized in balance sheet
 33.51 
 25.62 
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount rate (%)
6.99 p.a.
 7.22 p.a. 
Expected salary increase (%)
10.00 p.a.
 10.00 p.a. 
Average remaining working lives of employees
24.32 years
 23.18 years 
Average past service (years)
2.48 years
 2.42 years 
Demographic Assumptions
Retirement Age (year)
 58 years 
 58 years 
Mortality rates inclusive of provision for disability  
 100% of IALM 
(2012 - 14) 
 100% of IALM 
(2012 - 14) 
The estimate of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market. The above information 
is certified by Actuary.
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Impact of the change in discount rate
Present value of obligation at the end of the year
 33.51 
 25.62 
Impact due to increase of 0.50%
 (1.10)
 (0.91)
Impact due to decrease of 0.50%
 1.15 
 0.95 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Impact of the change in salary increase
Present value of obligation at the end of the year
 33.51 
 25.62 
Impact due to increase of 0.50%
 1.11 
 0.92 
Impact due to decrease of 0.50%
 (1.07)
 (0.89)
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligations
Expected contribution for the next annual reporting year.
Gratuity
Gratuity
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
0 to 1 Year
 1.69 
 1.18 
1 to 2 Year
 2.01 
 1.42 
2 to 3 Year
 1.98 
 1.38 
3 to 4 Year
 2.25 
 1.34 
4 to 5 Year
 2.12 
 1.53 
5 to 6 Year
 1.52 
 1.45 
6 Year onwards
 21.94 
 17.31 
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Service cost
 5.84 
 4.60 
Net interest cost
 2.34 
 1.85 
Expected expense for the next annual reporting year
 8.18 
 6.45 
40.	 Share - based payments
	
Employee Stock Option Plan 2021 namely “ESOP 2021” was adopted by the Board of Directors vide its resolution dated 
September 28, 2021 and by the shareholders vide its resolution dated September 29, 2021. Under the ESOP 2021, the 
Company granted stock options (""Grant 1"") to the eligible employees of Company which will vest over a period of 3 years 
from date of Grant and are exercisable for a period of 5 years once vested.
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Company has approved further grants (""Grant 2 and Grant 3"") under 
ESOP 2021 with related vesting conditions. Vesting of the options would be subject to continuous employment and certain 
performance parameters stipulated by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Company. Hence the options 
would vest with the passage of the time on meeting the performance parameters. However, the above performance condition 
is only considered in determining the numbers of instruments that will ultimately vest. Options have been granted with vesting 
period of up to 7 years and are exercisable for a period of 5 years once vested.  
	
The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using the Black- Scholes option pricing model, taking into 
account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted. 
	
There are no cash settlement alternatives. The Company does not have a past practice of cash settlement for these share 
options.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
262
Dreamfolks Services Limited
263
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions
 47.80 
 60.09 
Movements during the year 
The following table illustrates the number of, and movements in, share options during the year:
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Numbers
Numbers
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 21,23,338 
 28,70,750 
Granted during the year
 - 
 2,00,000 
Exercised during the year
 2,43,950 
 7,75,912 
Expired/ lapsed during the year
9,23,713
 1,71,500 
Outstanding at the end of the year
9,55,675
 21,23,338 
Exercisable at the end of the year
5,25,150
 7,75,913 
The following table list the inputs to the valuation model used for the plan for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 
2024:
Grant 1
Grant 2
Grant 3
Dividend yield (%)
0%
0%
0%
Volatility (%)
18.37%  - 22.30%
 18.37%  - 39.55% 
 18.37%  - 39.55% 
Attrition rate (%)
0%
20%
0%
Risk–free interest rate (%)
4.17% - 5.11%
 7.24% - 7.32% 
 7.24% - 7.32% 
Average expected life of options (years)
1.5 years  - 3.5 years
 1 years  - 7 years 
 1 years  - 5 years 
Weighted average share price (Rs. Per share)
 NA 
 Rs. 428.95 per share 
 Rs. 428.95 per share 
ESOP fair value at the grant date (Rupees)
Rs. 17.53 per share
 Rs. 368.29 per share 
 Rs. 368.29 per share 
Date of grant
29th September 
2021
 24th February 2023 
 05th June 2023 
Model used
Black Scholes Model
 Black Scholes Model 
 Black Scholes Model 
Exercise price (Rupees per share)
Rs 96.46 per share
 Rs 96.46 per share 
 Rs 96.46 per share 
41.	 During the year ended March 31, 2025, Nomination and remuneration committee of the Company had approved 
allotment of 243,950 equity shares of face value of INR 2/- each at applicable exercise price to eligible employees under 
the "Employee Stock Option Plan 2021". Accordingly, the Company had allotted 243,950 equity shares of face value of 
INR 2 each to the eligible employees and that leads to increase in paid up equity share capital from INR 106.05 millions to 
INR 106.54 millions.
	
During the previous year ended March 31, 2024, Nomination and remuneration committee of the Company had approved 
allotment of 775,912 equity shares of face value of INR 2/- each at applicable exercise price to eligible employees under 
the ""Employee Stock Option Plan 2021"". Accordingly, the Company had allotted 775,912 equity shares of face value of 
INR 2 each to the eligible employees and that leads to increase in paid up equity share capital from INR 104.50 millions to 
INR 106.05 millions.
42	
During the year ended March 31,2025, the Company had declared and paid final dividend of INR 1.50/- per equity 
share of face value INR 2/- each related to financial year ended March 31, 2024.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
	
During the previous year ended March 31,2024, the Company had declared and paid interim dividend of INR 0.50/- per 
equity share of face value INR 2/- each.	
	
	
	
	
	
43	
Related Party Transactions in accordance with Indian Accounting Standard (IND AS) -24
	
The related parties as per the terms of Ind AS-24,“Related Party Disclosures”, notified under section 133 of the Companies Act 
2013 (the Act) read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 (as amended from time to time)}, as disclosed 
below:
(a)
Related parties and nature of related party relationships where control exists
A)
Names of related parties and description of relationship:
I.
Enterprises under control of the entity
Subsidiary companies
Dreamfolks Hospitality Private Limited (struck off w.e.f April 03, 2024)
Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited (w.e.f April 27, 2023)
Golfklik Private Limited (w.e.f March 02, 2023)
(b)
Related parties and nature of related party relationship with whom transactions have taken place 
during the year
II.
Key Managerial Personnel
Liberatha Peter Kallat (Chairperson and Managing Director)
Balaji Srinivasan (Executive Director)
Giya Diwaan (Chief Financial Officer) (upto February 14, 2025)
Rangoli Aggarwal (Company Secretary) (upto August 30, 2024)
Harshit Gupta (Company Secretary) (w.e.f. September 06, 2024)
Mukesh Yadav (Non - Executive Director)
Dinesh Nagpal (Non - Executive Director)
Sharadchandra Damodar Abhayankar ( Independent Director ) (upto November 29, 2024)
Mario Anthony Nazareth, Independent Director (upto November 28, 2023)
Monica Widhani, Independent Director (w.e.f. September 06, 2024)
Sunil Kulkarni, Independent Director (w.e.f. November 21, 2024)
Aditi Balbir, Independent Director (upto July 17, 2023)
Sudhir Jain, Independent Director (upto November 29, 2024)
Prerna Kohli, Independent Director (w.e.f November 28, 2023)
Ravindra Pandey, Independent Director (w.e.f November 28, 2023)
Sanyam Nagpal (Relative of Director)
Sahil Yadav (Relative of Director)
III.
Enterprise over which company has significant influence
Pockket Payment Technologies Private Limited
Earth Raga Personal Care Private Limited
Redberyl Lifestyle Services Pvt Ltd (Since 13.02.2024)
Smiti Foundation
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
264
Dreamfolks Services Limited
265
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
B)	
Transactions with related parties during the year
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
a)
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) and Relatives
Remuneration*
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
 53.05 
 44.54 
Balaji Srinivasan
 10.04 
 8.68 
Giya Diwaan 
 10.28 
 9.13 
Rangoli Aggarwal
 0.95 
 1.71 
Harshit Gupta
 1.36 
 - 
Sanyam Nagpal
 1.72 
 0.67 
Sahil Yadav
 0.37 
 - 
*The remuneration to the key managerial personnel and their relatives does not include the provision made for gratuity 
and leave benefits, as they are determined on an actuarial basis for the Company as a whole.
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Reimbursements
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
 4.67 
 2.17 
Balaji Srinivasan
 0.50 
 0.63 
Giya Diwaan 
 0.54 
 0.87 
Rangoli Aggarwal
 0.23 
 0.54 
Harshit Gupta
 0.38 
 - 
Sanyam Nagpal
 - 
 0.53 
Expenses paid on the behalf of the company
Dinesh Nagpal  
 - 
 0.03 
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
 - 
 0.17 
Balaji Srinivasan
 - 
 0.01 
Giya Diwaan 
 0.12 
 - 
Rangoli Aggarwal
 0.00 
 - 
Sanyam Nagpal
 0.01 
 0.01 
Sitting fee
Mukesh Yadav
 0.69 
 0.49 
Dinesh Nagpal
 0.40 
 0.33 
Sharadchandra Damodar Abhayankar
 0.23 
 0.44 
Monica Widhani
 0.17 
 - 
Sunil Kulkarni
 0.17 
 - 
Mario Anthony Nazareth
 - 
 0.25 
Aditi Balbir
 - 
 0.18 
Sudhir Jain
 0.48 
 0.49 
Ravindra Pandey
 0.66 
 0.14 
Prerna Kohli
 0.58 
 0.08 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Loan/Advance given to Directors
Balaji Srinivasan
 0.50 
 - 
Amount paid by the company on the behalf of Independent 
Director
Prerna Kohli
 - 
 0.02 
Payment of IPO proceeds to selling shareholders
Mukesh Yadav 
 0.76 
 99.70 
Dinesh Nagpal  
 0.76 
 99.68 
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
 0.48 
 65.70 
Rent payment
Dinesh Nagpal
 0.27 
 0.74 
b)	
Enterprise over which company has significant influence
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Share application money pending for allotment*
Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited
 - 
 3.20 
Expenses paid on the behalf of the Subsidiary
Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited
 0.05 
 1.05 
Golfklik Private Limited
 - 
 0.54 
Dreamfolks Hospitality Private Limited
 - 
 0.07 
Expenses paid by the subsidiary on the behalf of the Company
Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited
 0.51 
 - 
Interest on intercorporate loan
Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited
 1.58 
 - 
Loan to subsidiary
Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited
 46.27 
 - 
Cost of services
Golfklik Private Limited
 97.27 
 20.96 
Advances given against services to be received
Golfklik Private Limited
 17.02 
 7.27 
Travelling expense
Redberyl Lifestyle Services Pvt Ltd
 7.82 
 - 
Business Promotion expense
Earth Raga Personal Care Private Limited
 - 
 0.05 
Staff welfare expense
Earth Raga Personal Care Private Limited
 0.18 
 - 
Sale of Services
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
266
Dreamfolks Services Limited
267
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Pockket Payment Technologies Private Limited 
 - 
 0.15 
Redberyl Lifestyle Services Pvt Ltd
 3.88 
 0.40 
Other Income- Other Support Services
Golfklik Private Limited
 2.42 
Contribution to a trust controlled by Directors of the Company in 
relation to CSR expenditure
Smiti Foundation
 1.40 
 7.88 
* Shares has been alloted during the year ended March 31, 2025
C)	
 Balances with related parties at the year end 
a)	
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Remuneration payable
 Balaji Srinivasan 
 - 
 0.15 
 Giya Diwaan
 2.19 
 - 
Reimbursement payable
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
 - 
 2.17 
Balaji Srinivasan 
 - 
 0.63 
Giya Diwaan
 - 
 0.58 
Expenses payable
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
 - 
 0.17 
Sanyam Nagpal
 - 
 0.00 
b)
Enterprise over which company has significant influence
 Other non-current financial assets (Share application 
money pending for allotment) 
 Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited 
 - 
 3.20 
 Equity investment in Subsidiary 
 Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited 
 3.20 
 - 
 Loan to subsidiary 
 Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited 
 47.85 
 - 
 Expense payable 
 Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited 
 (0.02)
 - 
 Advances to vendors 
 Golfklik Private Limited 
 17.02 
 7.27 
 Other current assets- Other advances 
 Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited 
 - 
 1.05 
 Trade receivables 
 Pockket Payment Technologies Private Limited  
 0.30 
 0.30 
 Redberyl Lifestyle Services Pvt Ltd 
 0.09 
 0.40 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
 Notes:
(i)	
Related parties and their relationships are as identified by the management and relied upon by the auditors. All 
transactions are conducted in the ordinary course of business and at arm's length.
(ii)	
Transactions with related parties during the year were based on terms that would be available to third parties. All 
other transactions were made in ordinary course of business and at arm’s length price.
(iii)	 All outstanding balances are unsecured and are repayable on demand.
(iv)	 Above transactions do not include the provision made for gratuity, as they are determined on an acturial basis for the 
Company as a whole. The decisions relating to the remuneration of the KMPs are taken by the Board of Directors of 
the Company, in accordance with shareholders approval, wherever necessary.
44.	 Segment information
	
An operating segment is a component of the Company that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and 
incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Company's other components and 
for which discrete financial information is available. All operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by Board 
of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and assess their performance. The Company’s 
business activity falls within a single segment, which is providing benefit management services through a proprietary technology 
platform, that empowers clients to tailor airport and lifestyles services offerings for their end customers, in terms of Ind AS 
108 on Segment Reporting.
	
In view of the management, there is only one reportable segment as envisaged by Indian Accounting Standard 108, 'Operating 
Segments' as prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with relevant rules issued thereunder. 
Accordingly, no disclosure for segment reporting has been made in the financial statements.
45.	 The Company has outstanding undrawn sanction limit of fund based and non fund based as given below:
Particulars
Bank
Interest rate
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
a) Fund based facility
Cash Credit/WCDL/Inland Bill 
Discounting#
ICICI Bank
9% / 8.5% / 8.4%
 400.00 
 400.00 
Cash Credit/WCDL
HDFC Bank
8.9% / 8.65%
 400.00 
 400.00 
Cash Credit/WCDL*
DBS Bank
9% p.a.
 500.00 
 - 
b) Non fund based facility
Bank guarantee
HDFC Bank
NA
 150.00 
 150.00 
#It includes bank gurantee
*Sanction limits are secured against fixed deposits and net current assets of the company
*It includes bank gurantee
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
268
Dreamfolks Services Limited
269
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
45A	Disclosure pursuant to the requirement as specified under Paragraph 6(L)(ix) (a) and (b) of the General instructions for 
the preparation of Balance Sheet of Schedule III of the Act.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2025, discrepancies between the quarterly statements Trade receivable, Trade payable and 
Advance to vendors filed by the company with banks and the books of accounts occurred due to the following reasons:
Quarter ended
Particulars
Amount reported 
in the quarterly 
statement/return
Amount as per 
Books
Difference
Reasons for material 
variances	
June 2024
Trade Receivables
 3,115.15 
 3,124.87 
 (9.72)
The difference is due to 
following: 
a) Submissions being made 
to Bank basis provisional 
financial information prior 
to Company's financial 
reporting closure process.
b) Difference in Category 
of Trade receiveable 
reported in Financials and 
statement.
c)  Classification of Trade 
payable in Books and 
Bank Statement."
September 2024
Trade Receivables
 3,884.01 
 4,063.50 
 (179.49)
December 2024
Trade Receivables
 2,878.63 
 3,233.00 
 (354.37)
March 2025
Trade Receivables
 2,896.98 
 2,943.12 
 (46.14)
June 2024
Trade payable
 1,728.74 
 1,750.71 
 (21.97)
September 2024
Trade payable
 1,738.00 
 1,759.94 
 (21.94)
December 2024
Trade payable
 1,839.27 
 1,887.25 
 (47.98)
March 2025
Trade payable
 1,640.36 
 1,645.54 
 (5.19)
June 2024
Advance to vendors
 94.87 
 114.62 
 (19.75)
September 2024
Advance to vendors
 39.45 
 46.92 
 (7.47)
December 2024
Advance to vendors
 84.42 
 90.60 
 (6.18)
March 2025
Advance to vendors
 67.88 
 45.48 
 22.40 
46	
In accordance with the provisions of section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), the Board of Directors of the Company 
had constituted a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee. During the year, the Committee has approved the budget 
outlay of Rs. 14.19 Million (March 31, 2024: Rs.7.83 Million)  for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). The Company has 
made payments in accordance with provisions of the Companies Act 2013 and rules made thereunder.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a) Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year
 14.19 
 7.83 
b) Amount approved by the Board to be spent during the year
 14.19 
 7.83 
c) Amount spent during the year:
i) Construction/acquisition of any asset
 - 
 - 
ii) On purposes other than (i) above
Health and Education
- pertaining to previous year
 1.40 
 2.65 
- pertaining to current year
 10.00 
 6.43 
Total CSR spend in actual
 11.40 
 9.08 
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
 14.19 
 7.83 
d)    Details of related party transactions:
        Contribution to Charitable Trust - Smiti Foundation
- pertaining to previous year
 1.40 
 1.45 
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
- pertaining to current year
 - 
 6.43 
e)    Details related to spent / unspent obligations:
i)   Contribution to Charitable Trust 
 1.40 
 6.43 
ii)  Unspent amount in relation to:
      -  ongoing project (Health and Education)
 4.19 
 1.40 
      -  other than ongoing project
 - 
 - 
Details of ongoing and other than ongoing project
Opening Balance 
with Company as 
on April 01, 2024
Amount required 
to be spent 
during the year 
Amount spent 
during the year 
from separate 
CSR bank A/c 
Amount spent 
during the year 
from Company’s 
bank A/c 
Deposited in 
Separate CSR 
Unspent A/c
Closing balance 
with Company 
in Separate CSR 
Unspent A/c
 1.40 
 14.19 
 1.40 
 10.00 
 4.19 
4.19
Opening Balance 
with Company as 
on April 01, 2023
Amount required 
to be spent 
during the year 
Amount spent 
during the year 
from separate 
CSR bank A/c 
Amount spent 
during the year 
from Company’s 
bank A/c 
Deposited in 
Separate CSR 
Unspent A/c
Closing balance 
with Company 
in Separate CSR 
Unspent A/c
 2.65 
 7.83 
 2.65 
 6.43 
 1.40 
1.40
47.	 In the opinion of the management there is no reduction in value of any assets, unless otherwise stated, in terms of requirement 
of Indian Accounting Standard – 36 “ Impairment of Assets”.
48.	 Statutory Information : 
(i)	
The Company do not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Company 
for holding any Benami property.
(ii)	
The Company do not have any transactions with struck off companies under Section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 or 
Section 560 of Companies Act, 1956.
(iii)	 The Company do not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with Registrar of Companies (ROC) 
beyond the statutory year.
(iv)	 The Company have not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
(v)	
The Company has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans to promoters, directors, KMPs and the related 
parties (as defined under Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person, that are repayable on 
demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment.
(vi)	 The Company have not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person or entity, including foreign entities 
(Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries); or
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
270
Dreamfolks Services Limited
271
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
(vii)	 The Company have not received any fund from any person or entity, including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries); or
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries,
viii)	 The Company do not have any such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey 
or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
(ix)	 The Company have not been declared a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender (as defined 
under the Companies Act, 2013) or consortium thereof, in accordance with the guidelines on wilful defaulters issued by 
the Reserve Bank of India.
(x)	
The Company has not revalued any of its property, plant and equipments or intangible assets during the year.
49.	 During the year ended March 31, 2024, a wholly owned subsidiary, Dreamfolks Service Pte Limited, has been incorporated 
with 1 Share of 1 USD by the Company in Singapore. The Subsidiary operates within the same line of business as the 
Dreamfolks Service Limited (The ""Holding Company""), focusing on  providing benefit management services through 
a technology platform, that empowers clients to tailor airport and lifestyles services offerings for their end customers. 
Further, during the year ended March 31,2024, the Company has made an additional investment in shares of  INR 3.20 Millions 
(SGD 0.5 Millions) in the subsidiary. The shares corresponding to this investment were alloted during the year ending March 
31, 2025. Accordingly, as on March 31, 2024, the amount has been presented under ""Other Non Current  Financial Assets"" 
as Share application money pending allotment.
50.	 In the previous year, bank charges were presented under ""Finance Costs."" During the current year, the Company 
has reclassified bank charges under ""Other Expenses"" to more appropriately reflect the nature of the expense. 
Accordingly, the comparative figures have been regrouped to conform to the current year's presentation. 
The management believes that the reclassification does not have any material impact on information presented in the balance 
sheet at the beginning of the preceding period, viz., 1 April 2023. Accordingly, the Company has not presented third balance 
sheet in the financial statements.
51.	 As per the MCA notification dated August 5, 2022, the Central Government has notified the Companies (Accounts) Fourth 
Amendment Rules, 2022. As per the amended rules, the Companies are required to maintain the back-up of the books of 
account and other relevant books and papers in electronic mode that should be accessible in India at all the time. Also, the 
Companies are required to create back-up of accounts on servers physically located in India on a daily basis. The books of 
account along with other relevant records and papers of the Company are maintained in electronic mode. These are readily 
accessible in India at all times and a back-up is maintained in servers situated in India and The Company and its officers have 
full access to the data in the servers.
52.	 The Company has used an accounting software for maintaining its books of accounts for the financial year ended March 31, 
2025 which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility except audit trail functionality at the database level due to 
inherent limitations of the software and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in 
the accounting software systems. Further, during the course of our audit we did not come across any instance of audit trail 
feature being tampered with and the audit trail has been preserved by the Company as per the statutory requirements for 
record retention.
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
53.	 Event after balance sheet date	
	
No events have occurred between the reporting date and the date of approval of the standalone financial statements (i.e., up to 
May 23, 2025) that would require adjustment to, or disclosure in, the financial statements in accordance with the requirements 
of Ind AS 10 – Events after the Reporting Period.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Dreamfolks Services Limited
As per our report of even date attached
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Mukesh Yadav
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP
Chairperson and Managing Director
Director
Chartered Accountants
DIN: 06849062
DIN: 01105819
Firm Reg. No. 000756N/N500441
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Sunil Wahal
Shekhar Sood
Harshit Gupta
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 087294
M.No.: 514643
M.No.: A41111
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Notes to Standalone Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
272
Dreamfolks Services Limited
273
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Standalone
Consolidated
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
To the
Members of
Dreamfolks Services Limited
Report on Audit of Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements of Dreamfolks Services Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Company” or “Holding Company”) and 
its subsidiaries, (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries 
together referred to as the “Group”), which comprise the 
consolidated balance sheet as at March 31, 2025, and the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss (including statement 
of other comprehensive income), the consolidated statement of 
changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows 
for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial 
statements, including a summary of the  material accounting 
policies and other explanatory information. (hereinafter 
referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration 
of reports of the other auditors on separate financial 
statements of the subsidiaries referred to in the Other 
Matters section below, the aforesaid  consolidated financial 
statements give the information required by the Companies 
Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required and give a 
true and fair view in conformity with the Indian Accounting 
standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act (“Ind AS”) 
and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of 
the consolidated state of affairs of the Group as at March 31, 
2025, and its consolidated profit (including consolidated other 
comprehensive income), consolidated changes in equity and its 
consolidated cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing 
(SAs), as specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our 
responsibilities under those Standards are further described in 
the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent 
of the Group in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”) read 
together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to 
our audit of the consolidated financial statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have 
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that 
the audit evidence we have obtained, and the audit evidence 
obtained by the other auditors in terms of their reports 
referred to in ‘Other Matters’ paragraph below is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming 
our opinion thereon and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters. We have determined that there are no Key 
audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Information Other than the Consolidated Financial 
Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors 
are responsible for the other information. The other information 
comprises the information included in the Holding Company’s 
annual report but does not include the consolidated financial 
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The above 
information is expected to be made available to us after the 
date of this auditor’s report. Our opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements does not cover the other information and 
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
identified above when it becomes available and, in doing 
so, consider whether such other information is materially 
inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, or 
our knowledge obtained during the course of our audit or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
When we read other information, if we conclude that there 
is a material misstatement therein, we are required to 
communicate the matter to those charged with governance.
Management’s and Board of Director’s Responsibilities for 
the Consolidated Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors 
are responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of 
the Act with respect to the preparation of these consolidated 
financial statements that give a true and fair view of the 
consolidated 
financial 
position, 
consolidated 
financial 
performance including consolidated other comprehensive 
income, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated 
cash flows of the Group in accordance with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under section 133 of 
the Act read with relevant Rules issued thereunder. 
The respective Management’s and Board of Director’s of 
the companies included in the Group are responsible for 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets 
of the Group and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the 
preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial 
statements that give a true and fair view and are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error 
which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the 
consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the 
Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the 
respective Management and Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group are responsible for assessing 
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the 
going concern basis of accounting unless Board of Directors 
either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or 
has no realistic alternative but to do so.
Those respective Management and the Board of Directors of 
the Companies included in the Group are also responsible for 
overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with the SAs will always detect a material misstatement when 
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgement and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from 
error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
control. 
	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to 
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)
(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Group has adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of 
such controls.
	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures in the consolidated financial 
statements made by the Management and Board of 
Directors.
	
Conclude on the appropriateness of Management and 
Board of Directors use of the going concern basis of 
accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, 
whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related 
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements 
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease 
to continue as a going concern. 
	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the consolidated financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 
the financial information of the entities or business 
activities within the Group of which we are the 
independent auditors, to express an opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements. We are responsible 
Annual Report 2024-25
274
Dreamfolks Services Limited
275
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
audit of the financial statements of such entities included 
in the consolidated financial statements of which we 
are the independent auditors. For the other entities 
included in the consolidated financial statements, which 
have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors 
remain responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audits carried out by them. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
	
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit.
	
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant 
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to 
communicate with them all relationships and other 
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
	
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore the 
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our 
auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes 
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely 
rare circumstances, we determine that a matter 
should not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such 
communication.
Other Matter
We did not audit the financial statements of one subsidiary, 
whose financial statements reflects total assets (before 
consolidation adjustments) of Rs 14.11 million as at March 31, 
2025, total revenues (before consolidation adjustment) of Rs. 
NIL, total net loss after tax (before consolidation adjustments) 
of Rs. 36.87 million, total comprehensive loss of Rs. 36.87 
million and net cash inflow (before consolidation adjustments) 
of Rs. 9.45 million for the year ended on that date, as considered 
in the consolidated financial statements. These financial 
statements and other financial information have been audited 
by other auditor whose financial statements, other financial 
information and auditor’s reports have been furnished to us 
by the Management. Our opinion on the consolidated financial 
statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures 
included in respect of this subsidiary and our report in terms of 
sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates 
to the aforesaid subsidiary is based solely on the audit report 
of the other auditor. 
The subsidiary is located outside India whose financial 
statements and other financial information have been prepared 
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in 
its country and which have been audited by other auditor under 
generally accepted auditing standard applicable in its country. 
The Holding Company’s management has converted the 
financial statement of such subsidiary to accounting principles 
generally accepted in India. We have audited the conversion 
adjustments made by the Holding Company’s management. 
Our opinion in so far as it relates to the financial information of 
such subsidiary located outside India is based on the report of 
the other auditor and the conversion adjustments prepared by 
the management of the Holding Company and audited by us. 
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements and our 
report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below is 
not modified in respect of this matter due to our reliance on 
the work done and report of the other auditor.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (the “Order”) issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the 
Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of report 
on separate financial statements and the other financial 
information of its subsidiary company incorporated in 
India, we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the 
matters specified in paragraphs 3(xxi) of the Order, to the 
extent applicable.
2.	
As required by section 143(3) of the Act, based on our 
audit and on the consideration of report of the other 
auditors on separate financial statements and the other 
financial information of subsidiary Company, as noted in 
the ‘Other Matter’ paragraph we report, to the extent 
applicable, that:
(a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit 
of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements;
(b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements have been kept 
so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books except for the matters stated in the paragraph 
2(i)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 11(g) of the 
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014;
(c)	
The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the consolidated statement 
of changes in equity and the consolidated statement 
of cash flows dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the relevant books of account and 
records maintained for the purpose of preparation 
of the consolidated financial statements;
(d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with the Ind AS specified under 
section 133 of the Act.
(e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Holding Company and 
its subsidiary as on March 31, 2025 and April 01, 
2025, taken on record by the Board of Directors of 
the Holding Company and its subsidiary company 
incorporated in India, none of the directors of 
the Group’s company, incorporated in India, is 
disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of section 164 (2) 
of the Act;
(f)	
The modification relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith 
are as stated in the paragraph 2(b) above on 
reporting under section 143(3)(b) of the Act and 
paragraph 2(i)(vi) below on reporting under Rule 
11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014;
(g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to the consolidated 
financial statements of the Holding Company and its 
subsidiary company incorporated in India and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our 
separate Report in “Annexure B” which is based on 
the auditor’s report of the Company incorporated in 
India. Our report expresses an unmodified opinion 
on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal financial controls with reference to 
the consolidated financial statements;
(h)	
In our opinion and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, the managerial 
remuneration for the year ended March 31, 
2025 paid/provided by the Holding Company and 
its   subsidiary company incorporated in India to 
their directors is in accordance with the requisite 
approvals mandated by provisions of section 197 
read with Schedule V of the Act;
(i)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given 
to us:
i.	
The consolidated financial statements disclose 
the impact of pending litigations on its 
consolidated financial position of the Group, 
in its consolidated financial statements refer 
note 39 of notes to the consolidated financial 
statements;
ii.	
The Group did not have any long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts for 
which there were any material foreseeable 
losses;
iii.	
There are no amounts which are required to 
be transferred to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Group.
iv.   (a)  The respective Managements of the 
Company and its subsidiaries, has 
represented to us and other auditors 
of such subsidiary that, to the best of 
their knowledge and belief, as disclosed 
in the note no - 48 (F) of notes to the 
consolidated financial statements, no 
funds have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources 
or kind of funds) by the Group to or in 
any other person or entities, including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall, whether, directly 
or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Group (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security 
or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries;
(b)   The respective Managements of the 
Company and its subsidiaries, has 
represented to us and to the other 
auditors of such subsidiary that, to the 
best of their knowledge and belief, as 
disclosed in the note no - 48 (G) of  notes 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Annual Report 2024-25
276
Dreamfolks Services Limited
277
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
to the consolidated financial statements, 
no funds have been received by the Group 
from any person or entities, including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the Group 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Parties 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
c)  Based on such audit procedures that 
have been considered reasonable and 
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us 
to believe that the representations under 
sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as 
provided under (a) and (b) above, contain 
any material misstatement.
v.	
The final dividend paid by the Holding 
Company during the year, in respect of the 
same declared for the previous year, is in 
accordance with section 123 of the Act to the 
extent it applies to payment of dividend. As 
stated in note 43 of notes to the consolidated 
financial statements. 
	
However, the Group has neither declared nor 
paid any interim dividend during the current 
financial year.
vi.	
Based on our examination, which included 
test checks, the Holding Company and its 
subsidiary which is incorporated in India has 
used an accounting software for maintaining 
its books of accounts for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2025 which have a feature 
of recording audit trail (edit log) facility except 
audit trail functionality at the database level 
due to inherent limitations of the software 
and the same has operated throughout the 
year for all relevant transactions recorded 
in the accounting software systems. Further, 
during the course of our audit we did not come 
across any instance of audit trail feature being 
tampered with and the audit trail has been 
preserved by the Group as per the statutory 
requirements for record retention (refer note 
no - 51 of note to the consolidated financial 
statements)
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm’s Registration No. 000756N/N500441
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm’s Registration No. 000756N/N500441
Sunil Wahal 
Partner 
Membership No. 087294 
Place: Gurgaon 
Date: May 23, 2025 
UDIN: 25087294BMLBJI6
Sunil Wahal 
Partner 
Membership No. 087294 
Place: Gurgaon 
Date: May 23, 2025 
UDIN: 25087294BMLBJI6099
Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the 
consolidated financial statements of Dreamfolks Services 
Limited for the year ended March 31, 2025
Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
The Consolidated Financial Statements includes the subsidiary which is incorporated outside India, hence reporting under CARO, 
2020 in respect of this subsidiary is not applicable.
(xxi) In our opinion and based on the information and explanations provided to us, following company incorporated in India and 
included in the consolidated financial statements has received adverse remarks, qualifications, or unfavorable comments in the 
reports issued by their respective auditors pursuant to the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (CARO).
S. 
No.
Name of entity
CIN
Holding company/ 
subsidiary/ associate
Clause number of the 
CARO report which is 
unfavorable or qualified or 
adverse
1
Golfklik Private Limited 
(formerly known as Vidsur 
Golf Private Limited)
U92111DL2006PTC153784
Subsidiary
Paragraph 3 Clause (ix) (d), 
& (xix)
Independent Auditor’s Report 
Annual Report 2024-25
278
Dreamfolks Services Limited
279
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the 
consolidated financial statements of Dreamfolks Services 
Limited for the year ended March 31, 2025.
Report on the internal financial controls with reference 
to the aforesaid consolidated financial statements under 
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (the “Act”)
(Referred to in paragraph 2(g) of ‘Report on Other Legal and 
Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report even date)
Our reporting on the internal financial control with reference 
to consolidated financial statement is not applicable in respect 
of one subsidiary incorporated outside India.
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of Dreamfolks Services Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Company” or “Holding Company”) as of 
and for the year ended March 31, 2025, we have audited 
the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiary (the 
Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as 
the “Group”), which are companies incorporated in India for 
the year ended on that date.
Management’s and Board of Director’s Responsibilities for 
Internal Financial Controls
The respective Company’s Management and the Board of 
Directors of Holding Company and its subsidiary company, 
which are companies incorporate in India,  are responsible 
for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
with reference to  consolidated financial statements based 
on the internal financial controls over financial reporting 
criteria established by the respective companies considering 
the essential components of internal controls stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These 
responsibilities include the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient 
conduct of its business, including adherence to respective 
company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the 
prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required under 
the Act. 
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit 
in accordance with the Guidance Note and Standard on 
Auditing prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the 
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements were established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements and their 
operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements included 
obtaining an understanding of such internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements, assessing 
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated 
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Group’s internal financial controls with 
reference to these consolidated financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements
A company's internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company's internal financial 
control with reference to consolidated financial statements 
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of consolidated financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts 
and expenditures of the company are being made only in 
accordance with authorizations of management and directors 
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance 
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized 
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that 
could have a material effect on the  consolidated financial 
statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
Reference to Consolidated Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to error or 
fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements to future periods are subject 
to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Holding Company and its subsidiary 
company, which are incorporated in India, have in all material 
respects, an adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements and such internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on 
the internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements criteria established by Group considering the 
essential components of such internal controls stated in the 
Guidance Note.
Our audit report on the adequacy and operating effectiveness 
of the internal financial controls over financial reporting is not 
modified in respect of above matters.
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP 
Chartered Accountants 
Firm’s Registration No. 000756N/N500441
Sunil Wahal 
Partner 
Membership No. 087294 
Place: Gurgaon 
Date: May 23, 2025 
UDIN: 25087294BMLBJI6099
Annexure B
Annual Report 2024-25
280
Dreamfolks Services Limited
281
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
as at March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Particulars
Note
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
ASSETS
Non - current assets
Property, plant and equipment
5
 19.02 
 31.23 
Intangible assets
6A
 1.70 
 15.60 
Right of use assets
5
 108.34 
 43.71 
Investment property
7
 15.42 
 16.21 
Intangible assets under development
6B
 2.42 
 2.99 
Goodwill
8
 8.87 
 8.87 
Financial assets
(i)
Other financial assets
10(a)
 108.47 
 43.28 
Deferred tax assets (net)
12
 62.86 
 45.17 
Other non-current assets
13(a)
 - 
 1.88 
Total non - current assets
 327.10 
 208.94 
Current assets
Financial assets
(i)
Investments
9
 897.70 
 438.68 
(ii)
Trade receivables
14
 2,943.12 
 2,649.92 
(iii)
Cash and cash equivalents
15
 317.59 
 283.98 
(iv)
Other bank balances other than (iii) above
16
 269.29 
 292.34 
(v)
Other financial assets
10(b)
 58.66 
 105.59 
Other current assets
13(b)
 85.21 
 109.64 
Current tax assets (net)
11
 88.78 
 97.03 
Total current assets
 4,660.35 
 3,977.18 
Total assets
 4,987.45 
 4,186.12 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital
17
 106.54 
 106.05 
Other equity
18
 2,903.00 
 2,257.74 
Total equity attributable to the owners of the Company
 3,009.54 
 2,363.79 
Non-controlling interest
 (3.45)
 0.34 
Total equity
 3,006.09 
 2,364.13 
Liabilities
Non - current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings
19(a)
 0.74 
 2.13 
(ii)
Lease liabilities
20(a)
 90.53 
 48.25 
Provisions
23(a)
 54.27 
 41.38 
Total non-current liabilities
 145.54 
 91.76 
Current liabilities
Particulars
Note
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings
19(b)
 1.39 
 2.30 
(ii)
Lease liabilities
20(b)
 13.66 
 8.40 
(iii)
Trade payables
21
- Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 457.44 
 77.06 
- Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 1,189.59 
 1,552.53 
(iv)
Other financial liabilities 
22
 95.85 
 21.03 
Other current liabilities
24
 70.56 
 64.93 
Provisions
23(b)
 7.33 
 3.98 
Total current liabilities
 1,835.82 
 1,730.23 
Total equity and liabilities
 4,987.45 
 4,186.12 
Material accounting policies
4
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Dreamfolks Services Limited
As per our report of even date attached
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Mukesh Yadav
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP
Chairperson and Managing Director
Director
Chartered Accountants
DIN: 06849062
DIN: 01105819
Firm Reg. No. 000756N/N500441
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Sunil Wahal
Shekhar Sood
Harshit Gupta
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 087294
M.No.: 514643
M.No.: A41111
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Annual Report 2024-25
282
Dreamfolks Services Limited
283
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Particulars
Note
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Income
Revenue from operations
25
 12,918.82 
 11,350.12 
Other income
26
 85.60 
 33.26 
Total income
 13,004.42 
 11,383.38 
Expenses
Cost of services
27
 11,417.80 
 9,981.71 
Employee benefits expenses
28
 425.72 
 284.85 
Finance costs
29
 35.86 
 10.18 
Depreciation and amortization expenses
30
 38.34 
 37.02 
Other expenses
31
 187.85 
 145.09 
Total expenses
 12,105.57 
 10,458.85 
Profit before tax
 898.85 
 924.53 
Tax expense
32
Current tax
 267.52 
 258.03 
Tax expense related to earlier years
 (1.80)
 (0.05)
Deferred tax (credit)/charge
 (17.37)
 (19.82)
Total tax expenses
 248.35 
 238.16 
Profit after tax for the year
 650.50 
 686.37 
Other comprehensive income 
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
 - Remeasurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit obligation
 (1.23)
 (2.22)
 - Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit 
and loss
 0.31 
 0.56 
Items that will  be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss
- Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
 0.66 
 (0.09)
Total other comprehensive income for the year
 (0.26)
 (1.75)
Total comprehensive income for the year
 650.24 
 684.62 
Profit/(loss) after tax for the year attributable to :
 - Owners 
 654.29 
 690.04 
 - Non-controlling interest
 (3.79)
 (3.67)
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year attributable to :
 - Owners 
 (0.26)
 (1.75)
 - Non-controlling interest
 - 
 - 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year attributable to :
 - Owners 
 654.03 
 688.29 
 - Non-controlling interest
 (3.79)
 (3.67)
Particulars
Note
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Earnings per equity share
33
Basic
 12.32 
 13 .02
Diluted
 12.17 
 12.61
Material accounting policies
4
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Dreamfolks Services Limited
As per our report of even date attached
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Mukesh Yadav
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP
Chairperson and Managing Director
Director
Chartered Accountants
DIN: 06849062
DIN: 01105819
Firm Reg. No. 000756N/N500441
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Sunil Wahal
Shekhar Sood
Harshit Gupta
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 087294
M.No.: 514643
M.No.: A41111
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Annual Report 2024-25
284
Dreamfolks Services Limited
285
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Consolidated Cash Flow 
Consolidated Cash Flow 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
A.
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before tax
 898.85 
 924.53 
Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:-
Depreciation / Amortization expense
 38.34 
 37.02 
Share based payment expenses (ESOP)
 47.80 
 60.09 
Assets written off
 10.18 
 - 
Advances write off
 0.03 
 - 
Unrealised forex (gain)/loss
 (1.97)
 1.56 
Amortisation of security deposits
 0.46 
 0.40 
Gain on termination of lease
 (13.73)
 - 
Provision for impairment allowance for doubtful receivables
 - 
 0.29 
Bad debts
 2.47 
 - 
Finance costs
 35.86 
 10.18 
Interest income
 (26.02)
 (20.49)
Gain on sale on financials instruments measured at FVTPL
 (22.78)
 (11.99)
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment
 (4.13)
 0.02 
Operating profit before working capital changes
 965.36 
 1,001.61 
Adjustments for working capital changes:
Increase in trade payables
 19.28 
 235.46 
Increase/(decrease) in other financial liabilities*
 55.16 
 (16.11)
Increase in provisions
 18.02 
 4.02 
Increase in other liabilities
 (4.64)
 8.60 
(Increase) in trade receivables
 (295.67)
 (631.33)
Decrease in other financial assets
 37.13 
 27.01 
(Increase)/decrease in bank deposits and other bank balances**
 (2.84)
 1.23 
(Increase)/decrease in other assets
 34.53 
 (72.49)
Change in working capital
 (139.03)
 (443.61)
Cash generated from operating activities post working capital changes
 826.33 
 558.00 
Income taxes paid (net of refund)
 (252.17)
 (339.06)
Net cash generated from operating activities (A)
 574.16 
 218.94 
B.
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant & equipment
 (10.85)
 (12.09)
Purchase of intangible assets under development
 (1.41)
 (2.99)
Proceed from sale of property, plant and machinery
 5.14 
 0.01 
Investment in bank deposits (having original maturity more than 3 months)
 (116.73)
 (162.24)
Proceeds from maturity of bank deposits (having original maturity more 
than 3 months)
 80.15 
 - 
Investment in debt funds
 (5,945.00)
 (3,040.00)
Proceeds from redemption of debt funds
 5,508.76 
 3,057.43 
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Acquistion of subsidiary
 - 
 (7.50)
Interest received
 20.94 
 16.57 
Net cash used in investing activities (B)
 (459.00)
 (150.81)
C.
Cash flow from financing activities
Repayment of long term borrowings
 (2.30)
 (9.80)
Proceeds from long term borrowings
 - 
 4.00 
Proceeds from issue of share capital (ESOP)
 23.53 
 74.84 
Payment of lease liabilities
 (13.58)
 (12.04)
Dividend paid
 (79.61)
 (26.51)
Other finance cost paid
 (10.30)
 (4.29)
Net cash generated  from / (used in) financing activities (C )
 (82.26)
 26.20 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents ( A+B+C)
 32.90 
 94.33 
Cash and cash equivalents (opening balance)
 283.98 
 189.65 
Add: Net foreign exchange difference
 0.71 
 - 
Cash and cash equivalents (closing balance)
 317.59 
 283.98 
*	
Other financial liabilities includes an amount of INR Nil (March 31, 2024: INR 2.00 million) pertains to payable to selling 
shareholders.
**	
Other bank balances includes an amount of INR Nil (March 31, 2023 :INR 2.00 million) pertains to amount held on behalf of 
selling shareholders who were a part of offer for sale listing of the Group. This balance is restricted bank balance which is not 
available with the Group for its normal operating, investing and financing activities.
Notes:
1.	
Components of cash & cash equivalents
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Cash on hand
 0.00 
 0.29 
Balances with banks
- in current accounts
 167.59 
 111.30 
- deposits with original maturity of less than or equal to 3 months
 150.00 
 172.39 
Net cash & cash equivalents
 317.59 
 283.98 
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
286
Dreamfolks Services Limited
287
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
2.	
Change in liabilities arising from financing activities:
Particulars
As at 
April 01, 2023
Net cash flow 
changes
Non cash changes
As at 
March 31, 2024
Non-current borrowings including 
current maturities (refer note 19)
 10.23 
 (10.10)
 4.29 
 4.43 
Lease liabilities (refer note 34)
 62.76 
 (12.04)
 5.93 
 56.65 
Particulars
As at 
April 01, 2024
Net cash flow 
changes
Non cash changes
As at 
March 31, 2025
Non-current borrowings including 
current maturities (refer note 19)
 4.43 
 (12.60)
 10.30 
 2.13 
Lease liabilities (refer note 34)
 56.65 
 (13.58)
 61.11 
 104.19 
Material accounting policies
4
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Dreamfolks Services Limited
As per our report of even date attached
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Mukesh Yadav
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP
Chairperson and Managing Director
Director
Chartered Accountants
DIN: 06849062
DIN: 01105819
Firm Reg. No. 000756N/N500441
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Sunil Wahal
Shekhar Sood
Harshit Gupta
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 087294
M.No.: 514643
M.No.: A41111
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Particulars
Attributable to the equity share holders of the parent
Total other 
equity  
(D=B+C)
Non-
controlling 
interest 
(E)
Total equity  
(A+D+E)
Equity share capital 
(A)
Reserve & surplus    (B)
Other comprehensive income (C)
Equity shares of 
INR 2 each issued, 
subscribed and fully 
paid up
Retained 
earnings
Security 
Premium
ESOP 
reserve*
Items that will not 
be reclassified to 
statement of profit 
and loss
Items that will  
be reclassified 
subsequently to 
profit and loss
Remeasurement 
gain & loss on 
defined benefit 
obligation
Exchange 
differences on 
translation of 
foreign operations
As at April 01, 2023
 104.50 
 1,427.78 
 -   
 36.58 
 (1.78)
 -   
 1,462.58 
 4.01 
 1,571.09 
Movement during the year
-Profit for the year
 -   
 690.04 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 690.04 
 (3.67)
 686.37 
-Dividend paid (refer note 44)
 -   
 (26.51)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (26.51)
 -   
 (26.51)
-Exercise of share options (refer note 43)
 1.55 
 -   
 13.60 
 (13.60)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 1.55 
-Share Premium received
 -   
 -   
 73.29 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 73.29 
 -   
 73.29 
-Other comprehensive income, net of Income tax
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
' - Remeasurement gain / (loss) on defined 
benefit obligation (Net of tax)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (1.66)
 -   
 (1.66)
 -   
 (1.66)
       '- Exchange differences on translation of 
foreign operations
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (0.09)
 (0.09)
 -   
 (0.09)
  -Share based payment (ESOP)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 60.09 
 -   
 -   
 60.09 
 -   
 60.09 
As at March 31, 2024
 106.05 
 2,091.31 
 86.89 
 83.07 
 (3.44)
 (0.09)
 2,257.74 
 0.34 
 2,364.13 
Movement during the year
-Profit for the year
 -   
 654.29 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 654.29 
 (3.79)
 650.50 
-Dividend paid (refer note 44)
 -   
 (79.61)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (79.61)
 -   
 (79.61)
-Exercise of share options (refer note 43)
 0.49 
 -   
 27.65 
 (27.65)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 0.49 
-Share Premium received
 -   
 -   
 23.04 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 23.04 
 -   
 23.04 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Total equity
Consolidated Cash Flow 
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
288
Dreamfolks Services Limited
289
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Particulars
Attributable to the equity share holders of the parent
Total other 
equity  
(D=B+C)
Non-
controlling 
interest 
(E)
Total equity  
(A+D+E)
Equity share capital 
(A)
Reserve & surplus    (B)
Other comprehensive income (C)
Equity shares of 
INR 2 each issued, 
subscribed and fully 
paid up
Retained 
earnings
Security 
Premium
ESOP 
reserve*
Items that will not 
be reclassified to 
statement of profit 
and loss
Items that will  
be reclassified 
subsequently to 
profit and loss
Remeasurement 
gain & loss on 
defined benefit 
obligation
Exchange 
differences on 
translation of 
foreign operations
-Other comprehensive income, net of Income tax
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
- Remeasurement gain / (loss) on defined benefit 
obligation (Net of tax)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (0.92)
 -   
 (0.92)
 -   
 (0.92)
- Exchange differences on translation of foreign 
operations
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 0.66 
 0.66 
 -   
 0.66 
- Share based payment (ESOP)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 47.80 
 -   
 -   
 47.80 
 -   
 47.80 
As at March 31, 2025
 106.54 
 2,665.99 
 137.58 
 103.22 
 (4.36)
 0.57 
 2,903.00 
 (3.45)
 3,006.09 
Material accounting policies	
4
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
As per our report of even date attached
Dreamfolks Services Limited
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP
CIN : L51909DL2008PLC177181
Chartered Accountants
Firm Reg. No. 000756N/N500441
Sunil Wahal
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Mukesh Yadav
Shekhar Sood
Harshit Gupta
Partner
Chairperson and Managing Director
Director
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 087294
DIN: 06849062
DIN: 01105819
M.No.: 514643
M.No.: A41111
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
1. 
Corporate Information
	
Dreamfolks Services Limited (the ‘Company’ or the 
'Holding Company') is incorporated and domiciled in 
India under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
applicable in India. The registered office of the Company 
is located at 26, DDA Flats, Panchsheel Park, Shivalik 
Road, Panchsheel Enclave, New Delhi- 110017 India. 
	
The Company and its subsidiaries Dreamfolks Services 
Pte Limited, Golfklik Private Limited (collectively, the 
'Group') primarily integrates global card networks 
operating in India, card issuers, and corporate clients 
including airline companies with various airport lounge 
operators, transport operators, golf course operators and 
other airport service providers on a unified technology 
platform. The Company is engaged in providing benefit 
management services through a proprietary technology 
platform that empowers clients such as banks, card 
networks, airlines, and corporations to tailor airport and 
lifestyle service offerings for their end customers.
	
These consolidated financial statements are adopted by 
the Board of Directors during the meeting held on May 
23, 2025.
2.	
Basis of preparation
	
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have 
been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) notified under the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from 
time to time) and presentation requirements of Division 
II of Schedule III to the Companies Act, 2013, (Ind AS 
compliant Schedule III), as applicable to the CFS.
	
These consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on historical cost basis except for certain 
financial instruments and defined benefit plans which are 
measured at fair value or amortised cost at the end of 
each reporting period. Historical cost is generally based 
on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange 
for goods and services. Fair value is the price that would 
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability 
in an orderly transaction between market participants at 
the measurement date.
	
The statement of cash flows have been prepared under 
indirect method, whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the 
effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals 
or accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or 
payments and items of income or expense associated 
with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows 
from operating, investing and financing activities of the 
Group are segregated. The Group considers all highly 
liquid investments that are readily convertible to known 
amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value to be cash equivalents.
	
The significant accounting policies used in preparation 
of the consolidated financial statements have been 
discussed in the respective notes
3.	
 Basis of consolidation
	
The Company consolidates all entities which are 
controlled by it. 
	
The Company establishes control when; it has power 
over the entity, is exposed, or has rights, to variable 
returns from its involvement with the entity and has the 
ability to affect the entity’s returns by using its power 
over relevant activities of the entity. 
	
Entities controlled by the Company are consolidated 
from the date control commences until the date control 
ceases. The results of subsidiaries acquired, or sold, 
during the year are consolidated from the effective date 
of acquisition and up to the effective date of disposal, as 
appropriate. 
	
The financial statements of the Group companies are 
consolidated on a line-by-line basis and all inter-company 
transactions, balances, income and expenses are 
eliminated in full on consolidation. 
	
Changes in the Company’s interests in subsidiaries 
that do not result in a loss of control are accounted 
for as equity transactions. The carrying amount of the 
Company’s interests and the non-controlling interests 
are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative 
interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between 
the amount by which the non-controlling interests are 
adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or 
received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to 
shareholders of the Company. 
	
The following subsidiary company has been considered in 
the preparation of the consolidated financial statement:
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
* The share options-based payment reserve is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees under Employee Stock Option Plan.
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
290
Dreamfolks Services Limited
291
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
The following subsidiary company has been considered in the preparation of the consolidated financial statement:
Name of entity
Relationship
Country of 
incorporation
Ownership held by
As at March 
31, 2025
As at March 
31, 2024
Dreamfolks Hospitality Private Limited
Subsidiary
India
Dreamfolks Services 
Limited
Nil
90%
Golfklik Private Limited
Subsidiary
India
Dreamfolks Services 
Limited
60%
60%
Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited
Subsidiary
Singapore
Dreamfolks Services 
Limited
100%
100%
4.	
Summary of Material accounting policies
4.1	 Use of estimates
	
The preparation of the consolidated financial statement 
in conformity with the principles of Ind AS requires 
the management to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions that effect the reported amounts 
of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the 
disclosure of contingent liabilities, at the end of the 
reporting period. Although these estimates are based 
on the management’s best knowledge of current events 
and actions, uncertainty about these assumptions and 
estimates could result in the outcomes requiring a 
material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets or 
liabilities in future periods.
	
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed 
on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates 
are recognised in the period in which the estimate is 
revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the 
period of the revision and future periods if the revision 
affects both current and future periods.
	
In particular, information about the significant areas 
of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in 
applying accounting policies that have the most significant 
effect on the amounts recognised in the Consolidated 
Financial Statement.
	
There are no assumptions and estimation uncertainties 
that have a significant risk of resulting in a material 
adjustment within the next financial year except for as 
disclosed in these financial statements. 
4.2	 Critical accounting estimates and judgements
	
Information about significant areas of estimation /
uncertainty and judgements in applying accounting 
policies that have the most significant effect on the 
financial statements are as follows: - 
 
Impairment of financial assets 
	
The Group determines the allowance for credit losses 
based on policy for expected loss provision based on 
experiencial realisations, current and estimated future 
economic conditions. The Group considered current 
and anticipated future economic conditions relating to 
industries the Group deals with and the countries where 
it operates. 
 
Property, plant and equipment
	
Property, plant and equipment represent a significant 
proportion of the asset base of the group. The useful 
lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment 
are determined by the management based on technical 
assessment by internal team and external advisor. The 
charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after 
determining an estimate of an asset’s expected useful life 
and the expected residual value at the end of its life. The 
Group believes that the useful life best represents the 
period over which the Group expects to use these assets.
 
Contingent liabilities
	
Management judgment is required for estimating 
the possible outflow of resources, if any, in respect of 
contingencies/claim/litigations against the Group as it is 
not possible to predict the outcome of pending matters 
with accuracy.  
 
Income taxes
	
Management judgment is required for the calculation of 
provision for income taxes and deferred tax assets and 
liabilities. The Group reviews at each balance sheet date 
the carrying amount of deferred tax assets. The factors 
used in estimates may differ from actual outcome which 
could lead to significant adjustment to the amounts 
reported in the financial statements.
 
Leases
	
Judgment required to ascertain lease classification, lease 
term, incremental borrowing rate, lease and non-lease 
component and impairment of ROU
4.3	 Business combinations and goodwill
	
Business combinations are accounted for using the 
acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
as the aggregate of the consideration transferred 
measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount 
of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree. For 
each business combination, the Group elects whether to 
measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at 
fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are 
expensed as incurred. 
	
The Group determines that it has acquired a business 
when the acquired set of activities and assets include 
an input and a substantive process that together 
significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. 
The acquired process is considered substantive if it is 
critical to the ability to continue producing outputs, and 
the inputs acquired include an organised workforce with 
the necessary skills, knowledge, or experience to perform 
that process or it significantly contributes to the ability 
to continue producing outputs and is considered unique 
or scarce or cannot be replaced without significant 
cost, effort, or delay in the ability to continue producing 
outputs.
	
At 
the 
acquisition 
date, 
the 
identifiable 
assets 
acquired, and the liabilities assumed are recognised 
at their acquisition date fair values. For this purpose, 
the liabilities assumed include contingent liabilities 
representing present obligation and they are measured 
at their acquisition fair values irrespective of the fact that 
outflow of resources embodying economic benefits is not 
probable. However, the following assets and liabilities 
acquired in a business combination are measured at the 
basis indicated below: 
	
Deferred tax assets or liabilities, and the liabilities 
or assets related to employee benefit arrangements 
are recognised and measured in accordance with 
Ind AS 12 Income Tax and Ind AS 19 Employee 
Benefits respectively.
	
Potential tax effects of temporary differences 
and carry forwards of an acquiree that exist at the 
acquisition date or arise as a result of the acquisition 
are accounted in accordance with Ind AS 12.
	
Assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held 
for sale in accordance with Ind AS 105 Non-current 
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations 
are measured in accordance with that Standard. 
	
Reacquired rights are measured at a value determined on 
the basis of the remaining contractual term of the related 
contract. Such valuation does not consider potential 
renewal of the reacquired right.
	
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the 
financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate 
classification and designation in accordance with the 
contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent 
conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the 
separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by 
the acquiree.
	
If the business combination is achieved in stages, any 
previously held equity interest is re-measured at its 
acquisition date fair value and any resulting gain or loss is 
recognised in profit or loss or OCI, as appropriate. 
	
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess 
of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and 
the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, 
and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If the fair value 
of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate 
consideration 
transferred, 
the 
Group 
re-assesses 
whether it has correctly identified all of the assets 
acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews 
the procedures used to measure the amounts to be 
recognised at the acquisition date. If the reassessment 
still results in an excess of the fair value of net assets 
acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, 
then the gain is recognised in OCI and accumulated in 
equity as capital reserve. However, if there is no clear 
evidence of bargain purchase, the entity recognises the 
gain directly in equity as capital reserve, without routing 
the same through OCI.
	
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less 
any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose 
of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business 
combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated 
to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
292
Dreamfolks Services Limited
293
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective 
of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are 
assigned to those units.
	
A cash generating unit to which goodwill has been 
allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more 
frequently when there is an indication that the unit 
may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash 
generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the 
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to 
the other assets of the unit pro rata based on the carrying 
amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss for 
goodwill is recognised in profit or loss. An impairment loss 
recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent 
periods.
	
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating 
unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed 
of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation 
is included in the carrying amount of the operation 
when determining the gain or loss on disposal. Goodwill 
disposed in these circumstances is measured based on 
the relative values of the disposed operation and the 
portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
4.4	 Current versus non- current classification
	
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the 
Consolidated Financial Statement of assets and liabilities 
based on current/ non-current classification. An asset is 
treated as current when it is:
	
Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or 
consumed in normal operating cycle
	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading
	
It is expected to be realised within twelve months 
after the reporting period, or
	
Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from 
being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at 
least twelve months after the reporting period. All 
other assets are classified as non-current.
	
All other assets are classified as non-current. 
	
A liability is current when:
	
It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle
	
Held primarily for the purpose of trading
	
It is due to be settled within twelve months after the 
reporting period, or
	
There is no unconditional right to defer the 
settlement of the liability for at least twelve months 
after the reporting period.
	
The Group classifies all other liabilities as non-current. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-
current assets and liabilities.
	
The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition 
of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and 
cash equivalents. The group has identified twelve months 
as its operating cycle.
4.5	 Foreign currencies
	
The Group’s Consolidated Financial Statement are 
presented in INR (Indian Rupees), which is also the 
Holding Company’s functional currency. For each entity, 
the Group determines the functional currency and items 
included in the summary statements of each entity are 
measured using that functional currency. Functional 
currency is the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entities forming part of Group 
operates and is normally the currency in which the 
entities forming part of Group primarily generates and 
expends cash.
	
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the 
exchange rate prevailing on the date of transaction. 
Foreign currency rate fluctuations relating to monetary 
assets and liabilities are restated at the year-end rates. 
The net gain or loss arising on restatement/ settlement is 
recorded in Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
Non‑monetary assets and non-monetary liabilities 
denominated in a foreign currency and measured at 
historical cost are translated at the exchange rate 
prevalent at the date of the transaction. The related 
revenue and expense are recognized using the same 
exchange rate.
4.6	 Fair value measurement
	
The Group measures financial instruments such as 
derivatives at fair value at each balance sheet date.
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date. 
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption 
that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the 
liability takes place either:
1.	
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
2.	
In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability The 
principal or the most advantageous market must be 
accessible by the Group.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using 
the assumptions that market participants would use 
when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market 
participants act in their economic best interest.
	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes 
into account a market participant’s ability to generate 
economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and 
best use or by selling it to another market participant that 
would use the asset in its highest and best use.
	
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate 
in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are 
available to measure fair value, maximising the use of 
relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of 
unobservable inputs.
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured 
or disclosed in the Consolidated Financial Statement are 
categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as 
follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant 
to the fair value measurement as a whole:
1.	
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in 
active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
2.	
Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable.
3.	
Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is unobservable.
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the 
Consolidated Financial Statement on a recurring 
basis, the Group determines whether transfers have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing 
categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at 
the end of each reporting period.
	
External valuers may be required for valuation of 
significant assets and liabilities. Involvement of external 
valuers is decided on the basis of nature of transaction 
and complexity involved. Selection criteria include market 
knowledge, reputation, independence and whether 
professional standards are maintained.
	
At each reporting date, the finance team analyses the 
movements in the values of assets and liabilities which 
are required to be remeasured or re-assessed as per the 
Group’s accounting policies. For this analysis, the team 
verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation 
by agreeing the information in the valuation computation 
to contracts and other relevant documents. A change in 
fair value of assets and liabilities is also compared with 
relevant external sources to determine whether the 
change is reasonable.
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group 
has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the 
basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset 
or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as 
explained above.
	
This note summarises accounting policy for fair value. 
Other fair value related disclosures are given in the 
relevant notes.
4.7	 Property, plant and equipment
	
An item of property, plant and equipment is recognised 
as an asset if it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Group and its 
cost can be measured reliably. This recognition principle 
is applied to costs incurred initially to acquire an item of 
property, plant and equipment and also to costs incurred 
subsequently to add to, replace part of, or service it. All 
other repair and maintenance costs, including regular 
servicing, are recognised in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss as incurred. Where an item of property, plant and 
equipment comprises major components having different 
useful lives, these components are accounted for as 
separate items. 
	
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises its 
purchase price net of any trade discounts and rebates, 
any import duties and other taxes (other than those 
subsequently recoverable from the tax authorities), any 
directly attributable expenditure on making the asset 
ready for its intended use, other incidental expenses 
and interest on borrowings attributable to acquisition of 
qualifying fixed assets up to the date the asset is ready for 
its intended use. Subsequent expenditure on fixed assets 
after its purchase / completion is capitalized only if such 
expenditure results in an increase in the future benefits 
from such asset beyond its previously assessed standard 
of performance. The Group depreciates property, plant 
and equipment over their estimated useful lives using the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
294
Dreamfolks Services Limited
295
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
straight-line method. Depreciation methods and useful 
lives are reviewed periodically at each financial year end. 
The gain or loss arising on disposal of an item of property, 
plant and equipment is determined as the difference 
between sale proceeds and carrying value of such item, 
and is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
4.8 Intangible assets
	
Design, development and software costs are included in 
the balance sheet as intangible assets when it is probable 
that associated future economic benefits would flow 
to the Group. All other costs on the aforementioned 
are expensed in the statement of profit and loss as and 
when incurred. Intangible assets are stated at cost less 
accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment. 
The estimated useful life of an identifiable intangible asset 
is based on a number of factors including the effects of 
obsolescence, demand, competition, and other economic 
factors (such as the stability of the industry and known 
technological advances). Amortization methods and 
useful lives are reviewed periodically including at each 
financial year end.
	
Amortisation method: The Group amortizes intangible 
assets with a future useful life using the straight-line 
method over following period:
4.9	 Investment property
	
Investment properties are measured initially at cost, 
including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, investment properties are stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment 
loss, if any.
	
The cost includes the cost of replacing parts and 
borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if 
the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts 
of the investment properties are required to be replaced 
at intervals, the Group depreciates them separately 
based on their specific useful lives. All other repair and 
maintenance costs are recognised in profit or loss as 
incurred.
Class of assets
Useful life 
Computer Software
 3 years
	
The Group depreciates building component of investment 
property over 30 years using written down menthod 
from the date of original purchase.
	
The Group, based on technical assessment made by 
technical expert and management estimate, depreciates 
the building over estimated useful lives which are 
different from the useful life prescribed in Schedule II to 
the Companies Act, 2013. The management believes that 
these estimated useful lives are realistic and reflect fair 
approximation of the period over which the assets are 
likely to be used.
	
Though the Group measures investment properties using 
cost-based measurement, the fair value of investment 
properties are disclosed in the notes. Fair values are 
determined based on an annual evaluation performed 
by an accredited external independent valuer applying 
a valuation model recommended by the International 
Valuation Standards Committee.
	
Investment 
properties 
are 
derecognised 
either 
when they have been disposed of or when they are 
permanently withdrawn from use and no future 
economic benefit is expected from their disposal. The 
difference between the net disposal proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset is recognised in profit or 
loss in the period of derecognition. In determining the 
amount of consideration from the derecognition of 
investment properties the Group considers the effects of 
variable consideration, existence of a significant financing 
component, non-cash consideration, and consideration 
payable to the buyer (if any).
	
Transfers are made to (or from) investment properties 
only when there is a change in use. Transfers between 
investment property, owner-occupied property and 
inventories do not change the carrying amount of the 
property transferred and they do not change the cost of 
that property for measurement or disclosure purposes.
4.10 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 
	
Depreciation is provided on the written down value 
method. The estimated useful life of each asset as 
prescribed under Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013 
and based on technical assessment of internal experts 
(after considering the expected usage of the asset, 
expected physical wear and tear, technical and commercial 
	
hold Improvements are amortised on a straight line basis 
over the lease period. 
4.11 Leases
	
The Group’s leased assets primarily consist of leases for 
office space. The Group assesses whether a contract 
contains a lease, at inception of a contract. A contract 
is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right 
to control the use of an identified asset for a period in 
exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract 
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, 
the Group assesses whether: 
	
the contract involves the use of an identified asset 
	
the Group has substantially all of the economic 
benefits from use of the asset through the period of 
the lease; and
	
the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset.
a.	
Right of use assets
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Group recognizes a right-of-use asset (“ROU”) 
and a corresponding lease liability for all lease 
arrangements in which it is a lessee, except for 
leases with a term of twelve months or less (short-
term leases) and low value leases. For these short-
term and low-value leases, the Group recognizes 
the lease payments as an operating expense on a 
straight -line basis over the term of the lease. 
	
The right-of-use assets are initially recognized at 
cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease 
liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or 
prior to the commencement date of the lease plus 
any initial direct costs less any lease incentives. They 
are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. Right-of-use 
assets are depreciated from the commencement 
date on a straight-line basis over the shorter of 
the lease term and useful life of the underlying 
asset unless the lease transfers ownership of the 
underlying asset to the Group by the end of the 
lease term or the cost of the right-of-use asset 
reflect that the Group exercise a purchase option. 
The Group applies Ind AS 36 to determine whether 
a right-of-use asset is impaired and accounts for 
any identified impairment loss as described in the 
accounting policy below on “Impairment of non- 
financial assets”.
b.	
Lease liabilities
	
The lease liability is initially measured at amortized 
cost at the present value of the future lease 
payments that are not paid at the commencement 
date. The lease payments are discounted using the 
interest rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily 
determinable, using the Group’s incremental 
borrowing rates. Lease liabilities are remeasured 
with a corresponding adjustment to the related right 
of use asset (or in profit or loss if the carrying amount 
of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero) if 
the Group changes its assessment of whether it will 
exercise an extension or a termination or a purchase 
option. The interest cost on lease liability (computed 
using effective interest method), is expensed in the 
statement of profit and loss. 
	
Lease liability and right-of-use asset have been 
separately presented in the Balance Sheet and lease 
payments have been classified as financing cash 
flows. The Group has applied a practical expedient 
wherein the Group has ignored the requirement 
to separate non- lease components (such as 
maintenance services) from the lease components. 
Instead, the Group has accounted for the entire 
contract as a single lease contract.
4.12 Revenue recognition
	
The Group has revenue from its clients. The Group 
recognizes revenue when it satisfies performance 
obligations under the terms of its contracts, and control 
of its services is transferred to its clients’s users in an 
amount that reflects the consideration the Group expects 
to receive from its client in exchange for those services. 
This process involves identifying the client contract, 
determining the performance obligations in the contract, 
determining the contract price, allocating the contract 
price to the distinct performance obligations in the 
contract, and recognizing revenue when the performance 
obligations have been satisfied. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
obsolescence and understanding of past practices and 
general industry experience) are as depicted below: 
Particulars
Estimated useful life
Land and buildings
60
Furniture & fixtures
10
Computers
3
Office equipment
3-5 Years
Motor vehicles
8-10 Years
Annual Report 2024-25
296
Dreamfolks Services Limited
297
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
	
The Group through its platform allows transactions 
between the consumers of its clients and service 
operators enlisted with the platform. The Group earns 
revenue when the consumers of its clients utilize services 
such as lounge access, meet and assist, airport transfers, 
food and beverages, door step baggage and spa & wellness 
either through the DreamFolks App, DreamFolks Card, 
Issuer’s Card, Issuer’s Website, Issuer’s web or mobile 
Application (App) or Interactive voice response (IVR). 
Further it earns revenue by aggregating golf clubs across 
the globe including India to offer golf games and golf 
lessons to the consumers of its clients who are primarily 
banks, card networks, and corporate enterprises.
	
Revenue is recognised in the accounting period in which 
the services are rendered. A receivable is recognised 
when the services are delivered as this is the point in 
time that the consideration is unconditional because 
only the passage of time is required before the payment 
is due. Cash received before the goods and services are 
delivered is recognised as a contract liability. 
	
Financing Components: The Group does not expect 
to have any contracts where the period between the 
transfer of the promised goods or services to the 
customer and payment by the customer exceeds one 
year. As a consequence, the Group does not adjust any of 
the transaction prices for the time value of money.
	
Other income
	
Interest income from a financial assets is recognised 
when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow 
to the Group and the amount of income can be measured 
reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time proportion 
basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and 
effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through 
the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net 
carrying amount on initial recognition. 
4.13 Retirement and other employee benefits
	
Employee benefits include provident fund, employee 
state insurance scheme, gratuity and compensated 
absences. 
	
Long-term employee benefits:
	
Defined contribution plans: The Group's contribution to 
provident fund and employee state insurance scheme are 
considered as defined contribution plans and are charged 
as an expense based on the amount of contribution 
required to be made and when services are rendered by 
the employees. 
	
Defined benefit plans: The Group has Defined Benefit 
Plan in the form of Gratuity. Liability for Defined Benefit 
Plans is provided on the basis of valuations, as at the 
balance sheet date, carried out by an independent 
actuary. The defined benefit obligation is calculated 
annually by independent actuary using the projected 
unit credit method. The present value of the defined 
benefit obligation is determined by discounting the 
estimated future cash outflows using discount rate 
(interest rates of government bonds) that have terms 
to maturity approximating to the terms of the gratuity. 
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience 
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in 
other comprehensive income. They are included in ‘Other 
Comprehensive Income’ (net of taxes) in the statement of 
changes in equity and in the balance sheet. Net interest 
is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net 
defined benefit liability or asset. 
	
The Goup presents the first two components of defined 
benefit costs in profit or loss in the line item ‘Employee 
Benefits Expense’. 
	
Short-term employee benefits:
	
The undiscounted amount of short-term employee 
benefits expected to be paid in exchange for the services 
rendered by employees are recognised during the year 
when the employees render the service. These benefits 
include 
performance 
incentive 
and 
compensated 
absences which are expected to occur within twelve 
months after the end of the period in which the employee 
renders the related service. The cost of short-term 
compensated absences is accounted as under: 
	
in case of accumulated compensated absences, 
when employees render the services that increase 
their entitlement of future compensated absences; 
and
	
in case of non-accumulating compensated absences, 
when the absences occur.
4.14 Share based payments 
	
Employees (including senior executives) of the Group 
receive remuneration in the form of share based payment 
transactions, whereby employees render services as 
consideration for equity instruments (equity-settled 
transactions). The cost of equity-settled transactions is 
determined by the fair value at the date when the grant 
is made using an appropriate valuation model. That cost 
is recognised, together with a corresponding increase 
in share Options outstanding reserves in equity, over 
the period in which the performance and/or service 
conditions are fulfilled in employee benefits expense. 
	
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled 
transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date 
reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired 
and the Group’s best estimate of the number of equity 
instruments that will ultimately vest. The statement of 
profit and loss expense or credit for a period represents 
the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at 
the beginning and end of that period and is recognised in 
employee benefits expense. 
	
When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, 
the minimum expense recognised is the expense had 
the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of 
the award are met. An additional expense is recognised 
for any modification that increases the total fair value 
of the share-based payment transaction or is otherwise 
beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of 
modification. Where an award is cancelled by the entity 
or by the counterparty, any remaining element of the 
fair value of the award is expensed immediately through 
profit or loss. 
	
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as 
additional share dilution in the computation of diluted 
earnings per share.
4.15 Taxes
a.	
Current income tax
	
Current tax is the tax payable on the taxable profit 
for the year. Taxable profit differs from 'profit before 
tax' as reported in the Consolidated Statement 
of Profit and Loss because of items of income or 
expense that are taxable or deductible in other 
years and items that are never taxable or deductible. 
The Group's current tax is calculated using tax rates 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the end of the reporting period, in accordance with 
the Income Tax Act, 1961. 
	
Current income tax relating to items recognised 
outside Consolidated Financial Statement profit 
and loss is recognised outside Consolidated 
Financial Statement profit and loss (either in other 
comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax 
items are recognised in correlation to the underlying 
transaction either in OCI or directly in equity. 
Management 
periodically 
evaluates 
positions 
taken in the tax returns with respect to situations 
in which applicable tax regulations are subject to 
interpretation and establishes provisions where 
appropriate.
	
Advance taxes and provisions for current income 
taxes are presented in the consolidated statement 
of assets and liabilities after off-setting advance tax 
paid and income tax provision arising in the same tax 
jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying units 
intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis
b.	
Deferred taxes
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized 
for the future tax consequences of temporary 
differences between the carrying values of assets 
and liabilities and their respective tax bases. 
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences and unused tax losses only 
if it is probable that future taxable amounts will be 
available to utilise those temporary differences and 
losses. 
	
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is 
reviewed at the end of each reporting period and 
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to 
allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. 
	
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at 
the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period 
in which the liability is settled or the asset is realised, 
based on the tax rates (and tax laws) that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the 
reporting period. 
	
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and 
assets reflects the tax consequences that would 
follow from the manner in which the Group expects, 
at the end of the reporting period, to recover or 
settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. 
	
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when 
there is a legally enforceable right to offset current 
tax assets and liabilities and where the deferred tax 
balances relate to the same taxation authority. 
	
Current tax assets and tax liabilities are off set 
where the entity has a legally enforceable right 
to offset and intends either to settle on a net 
basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
298
Dreamfolks Services Limited
299
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
	
Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit 
or loss, except to the extent that it relates to 
items recognised in other comprehensive income 
or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also 
recognised in other comprehensive income or 
directly in equity, respectively.
4.16 Segment reporting
	
Operating segments are defined as components of an 
entity where discrete financial information is evaluated 
regularly by the chief operating decision marke 
(“CODM”) in deciding allocation of resources and in 
assessing performance. The Group’s Managing Director 
is its CODM. The Group’s CODM reviews financial 
information presented on a consolidated basis for the 
purposes of making operating decisions, allocating 
resources, and evaluating financial performance. Our 
business activity primarily falls within a single business 
and geographical segment, hence, the disclosure of 
segment-wise information is not applicable under Ind AS 
108- 'Operating Segments'. 
4.17 Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share is computed using the weighted 
average number of equity shares outstanding during the 
period. Diluted earnings per share is computed using 
the weighted-average number of equity and dilutive 
equivalent shares outstanding during the period, except 
where the results would be anti-dilutive. 
	
The number of equity shares and potentially dilutive 
equity shares are adjusted retrospectively for all periods 
presented for any splits and bonus shares issues including 
for change effected prior to the approval of the financial 
Information by the Board of Directors.
4.18	 Provisions and contingent liabilities
a.	
Provisions
	
Provisions are recognised when the Group has 
a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a 
result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits will 
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the 
obligation. The expense relating to a provision is 
presented in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss net of any reimbursement.If the effect of 
the time value of money is material, provisions are 
discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, 
when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. 
When discounting is used, the increase in the 
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as 
a finance cost.
b.	
Contingent liabilities
	
Contingent liability is a possible obligation that 
arises from past events and the existence of which 
will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-
occurrence of one are more uncertain future events 
not wholly within the control of the Group, or is a 
present obligation that arises from past event but 
is not recognised because either it is not probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic 
benefits will be required to settle the obligation, or 
a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation 
cannot be made. Contingent liabilities are disclosed 
and not recognised
4.19 Financial instruments
	
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to 
a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or 
equity instrument of another entity. Transaction costs 
directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets 
or financial liabilities at fair value through consolidated 
statement of profit and loss are recognised immediately 
in consolidated statement of profit and loss.
1.	
Financial assets
	
All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value 
plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at 
fair value through consolidated statement of profit 
and loss, transaction costs that are attributable 
to the acquisition of the financial asset. Purchases 
or sales of financial assets that require delivery of 
assets within a time frame established by regulation 
or convention in the market place (regular way 
trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the 
date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the 
asset.
a.	
Classification and subsequent measurement: 
	
Debt instruments that meet the following 
conditions are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost less impairment loss (except 
for debt investments that are designated as 
at fair value through profit or loss on initial 
recognition) (i) the asset is held within a 
business model whose objective is to hold 
assets in order to collect contractual cash 
flows; and (ii) the contractual terms of the 
instrument give rise on specified dates to cash 
flows that are solely payments of principal and 
interest on the principal amount outstanding.
	
Debt instruments that meet the following 
conditions are subsequently measured at 
fair value through other comprehensive 
income (except for debt investments that are 
designated as at fair value through profit or loss 
on initial recognition) (i) the asset is held within 
a business model whose objective is achieved 
both by collecting contractual cash flows and 
selling financial assets; and (ii) the contractual 
terms of the instrument give rise on specified 
dates to cash flows that are solely payments of 
principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding.
	
FVTPL is a residual category for debt 
instruments. Any debt instrument, which does 
not meet the criteria for categorization as 
at amortized cost or as FVTOCI, is classified 
as at FVTPL. Trade receivables, cash and 
cash equivalents, other bank balances, loans 
and other financial assets are classified for 
measurement at amortised cost.
	
Financial assets at amortised cost are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost 
using effective interest method. The effective 
interest method is a method of calculating 
the amortised cost of an instrument and of 
allocating interest income over the relevant 
period. The effective interest rate is the rate 
that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts (including all fees paid or received that 
form an integral part of the effective interest 
rate, transaction costs and other premiums 
or discounts) through the expected life of 
the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a 
shorter period, to the net carrying amount on 
initial recognition.
b.	
Equity instruments:
	
The Group subsequently measures all equity 
investments in scope of Ind AS 109 at fair 
value, with net changes in fair value recognised 
in the consolidated statement of profit and 
loss.
c.	
Derecognition
	
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part 
of a financial asset or part of a group of similar 
financial assets) is primarily derecognised 
(i.e. removed from the Group’s Consolidated 
Financial Statement of assets and liabilities) 
when: i) The rights to receive cash flows from 
the asset have expired, or ii) The group has 
transferred its rights to receive cash flows 
from the asset or has assumed an obligation 
to pay the received cash flows in full without 
material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-
through’ arrangement; and either (a) the group 
has transferred substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset, or (b) the group has 
neither transferred nor retained substantially 
all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has 
transferred control of the asset.
	
When the group has transferred its rights to 
receive cash flows from an asset or has entered 
into a pass-through arrangement, it evaluates 
if and to what extent it has retained the risks 
and rewards of ownership. When it has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all of the 
risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred 
control of the asset, the group continues to 
recognise the transferred asset to the extent 
of the Group’s continuing involvement. In that 
case, the group also recognises an associated 
liability. The transferred asset and the 
associated liability are measured on a basis 
that reflects the rights and obligations that the 
Group has retained.
	
Continuing involvement that takes the form 
of a guarantee over the transferred asset is 
measured at the lower of the original carrying 
amount of the asset and the maximum amount 
of consideration that the group could be 
required to repay.
d.	
Impairment of financial assets
	
The Group recognises loss allowances using 
the Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model for 
the financial assets which are not fair valued 
through profit and loss. Loss allowance for 
trade receivables with no significant financing 
component is measured at an amount equal 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
300
Dreamfolks Services Limited
301
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
to lifetime ECL. For all other financial assets, 
expected credit losses are measured at an 
amount equal to the 12-month ECL, unless 
there has been a significant increase in credit 
risk from initial recognition, in which case 
those financial assets are measured at lifetime 
ECL. The changes (incremental or reversal) in 
loss allowance computed using ECL model, are 
recognised as an impairment gain or loss in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss. 
	
The Group recognises loss allowances for 
expected credit losses on financial assets 
measured at amortised cost. 
	
At each reporting date, the Group assesses 
whether financial assets carried at amortised 
cost are credit impaired. A financial asset is 
‘credit impaired’ when one or more events that 
have a detrimental impact on the estimated 
future cash flows of the financial asset have 
occurred. 
	
Evidence that a financial asset is credit 
impaired includes the following observable 
data:
	
significant financial difficulty of the 
borrower or issuer;
	
a breach of contract such as a default or 
past dues;
	
the restructuring of a loan or advance by 
the Group on terms that the Group would 
not consider otherwise; - it is probable 
that the borrower will enter bankruptcy 
or other financial reorganisation; or 
	
the disappearance of an active market for 
a security because of financial difficulties. 
	
The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for 
recognition of impairment loss allowance 
on trade receivables which do not contain 
a 
significant 
financing 
component. 
The 
application of simplified approach does not 
require the Group to track changes in credit 
risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss 
allowance based on lifetime impairment 
pattern at each balance sheet date, right from 
its initial recognition. 
	
In all cases, the maximum period considered 
when estimating expected credit losses is the 
maximum contractual period over which the 
Group is exposed to credit risk. 
	
When determining whether the credit risk of 
a financial asset has increased significantly 
since initial recognition and when estimating 
expected credit losses, the Group considers 
reasonable and supportable information that 
is relevant and available without undue cost 
or effort. This includes both quantitative and 
qualitative information and analysis, based 
on the Group’s historical experience and 
informed credit assessment and including 
forward looking information. 
	
The Group considers a financial asset to be in 
default when: 
	
the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit 
obligations to the Group in full, without 
recourse by the Group to actions such as 
realising security (if any is held); or 
	
the financial asset is more than past due. 
	
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset 
is written off (either partially or in full) to the 
extent that there is no realistic prospect of 
recovery. This is generally the case when the 
Group determines that the counterparty does 
not have assets or sources of income that 
could generate sufficient cash flows to repay 
the amounts subject to write-off. However, 
financial assets that are written off could still 
be subject to enforcement activities in order 
to comply with the Group's procedures for 
recovery of amounts due.
2.	
Financial liabilities
	
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, 
as financial liabilities at fair value through profit and 
loss, loans and borrowings, payables, as appropriate. 
a.	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
All financial liabilities are recognised initially 
at fair value and, in the case of loans and 
borrowings and payables, net of directly 
attributable transaction costs. The Group’s 
financial liabilities include Borrowings, Other 
Financial Liabilities, Trade Payables and Leases.
b.	
Subsequent measurement
	
All 
financial 
liabilities 
are 
subsequently 
measured at amortized cost using the effective 
interest method or at FVTPL. For financial 
liabilities that are denominated in a foreign 
currency and are measured at amortized cost 
at the end of each reporting period, the foreign 
exchange gains and losses are determined 
based on the amortized cost of the instruments 
and are recognized in ‘Other income’. The fair 
value of financial liabilities denominated in a 
foreign currency is determined in that foreign 
currency and translated at the spot rate at 
the end of the reporting period. For financial 
liabilities that are measured as at FVTPL, the 
foreign exchange component forms part of the 
fair value gains or losses and is recognized in 
profit or loss. 
c.	
Derecognition
	
The Group derecognizes financial liabilities 
when, and only when, the Group’s obligations 
are discharged, cancelled or have expired. 
The difference between the carrying amount 
of the financial liability derecognized and the 
consideration paid and payable is recognized 
in statement of profit and loss.
3.	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the 
net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of 
assets and liabilities if there is a currently enforceable 
legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is 
an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets 
and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
4.20	 Impairment of non-financial assets
	
The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed at each 
balance sheet date. If there is any indication of impairment 
based on internal / external factors, an impairment loss is 
recognised, i.e. wherever the carrying amount of an asset 
exceeds its recoverable amount. 
	
For impairment testing, assets that do not generate 
independent cash inflows are grouped together into 
cash-generating units (CGUs). Each CGU represents 
the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows 
that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other 
assets or CGUs. 
	
The recoverable amount of a CGU (or an individual asset) 
is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs 
to sell. Value in use is based on the estimated future cash 
flows, discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of 
the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU 
(or the asset). 
	
The Group’s corporate assets (e.g., office building for 
providing support to various CGUs) do not generate 
independent cash inflows. To determine impairment of 
a corporate asset, recoverable amount is determined for 
the CGUs to which the corporate asset belongs.
	
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount 
of an asset or CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable 
amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss. Impairment loss recognised 
in respect of a CGU is allocated first to reduce the carrying 
amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU, and then to 
reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets of the 
CGU (or group of CGUs) on a pro rata basis. 
	
An impairment loss in respect of assets for which has 
been recognised in prior periods, the Group reviews 
at each reporting date whether there is any indication 
that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An 
impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in 
the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. 
Such a reversal is made only to the extent that the asset’s 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined, net of depreciation or 
amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Annual Report 2024-25
302
Dreamfolks Services Limited
303
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
4.21	 Borrowing costs
	
Borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they 
occur. Borrowing cost consist of interest and other costs 
that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of 
funds. Borrowing cost also includes exchange differences 
to the extent regarded as an adjustment to the borrowing 
costs.
4.22	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
Cash and cash equivalent in the consolidated statement 
of assets and liabilities comprise cash at banks and 
on hand and short-term deposits with an original 
maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an 
insignificant risk of changes in value. For the purpose of 
the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash 
equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, as 
defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts (if any) 
as they are considered an integral part of the Group’s 
cash management.
4.23	 Cash flow statement
	
Cash flows are reported using the indirect method, 
whereby loss for the period is adjusted for the effects 
of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or 
accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or 
payments and item of income or expenses associated 
with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows 
from operating, investing and financing activities of the 
group are segregated.
4.24	 Events occurring after the balance sheet date
	
Based on the nature of the event, the group identifies the 
events occurring between the balance sheet date and 
the date on which the Consolidated Financial Statement 
are approved as ‘Adjusting Event’ and ‘Non-adjusting 
event’. Adjustments to assets and liabilities are made 
for events occurring after the balance sheet date that 
provide additional information materially affecting the 
determination of the amounts relating to conditions 
existing at the balance sheet date or because of statutory 
requirements or because of their special nature. For non-
adjusting events, the group may provide a disclosure in 
the Consolidated Financial Statement considering the 
nature of the transaction.
4.25 Functional and presentation currency 
	
The Group has determined the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Group operates, i.e., 
the functional currency, to be Indian Rupees (INR). The 
financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees, 
which is the Group's functional and presentation 
currency. All amounts have been rounded to the nearest 
million up to two decimal places, unless otherwise stated. 
Consequent to rounding off, the numbers presented 
throughout the document may not add up precisely to 
the totals and percentages may not precisely reflect the 
absolute amounts.
4.26	 Recent accounting pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards 
under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 
as issued from time to time. For the year ended 31 March 
2025, MCA has notified Ind AS – 117 Insurance Contracts 
and amendments to Ind AS 116 – Leases, relating to sale 
and leaseback transactions. The Group has reviewed the 
new pronouncements and based on its evaluation has 
determined that it does not have any material impact in 
its financial statements
4.27	Standards notified but not yet effected
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards 
under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as 
issued from time to time. MCA has notified amendments 
to Ind AS 21 – The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange 
Rates with effect from 1 April 2025.
Particulars
Property, plant and equipment
Right of use assets
 Plant and 
machinery 
 Leasehold 
improvements* 
Furniture & 
fixtures
Computers
Office 
equipment
Motor 
vehicles
Total 
Leasehold building 
(refer note 34)
Gross carrying amount
As at April 01, 2023
 -   
 17.56 
 7.00 
 7.76 
 7.56 
 53.68 
 93.56 
 73.39 
Additions for the year
 -   
 -   
 0.42 
 2.23 
 1.78 
 8.08 
 12.51 
 -   
Disposals/transferred/adjustment
 -   
 -   
 (0.14)
 (0.36)
 (0.13)
 -   
 (0.63)
 -   
As at March 31, 2024
 -   
 17.56 
 7.28 
 9.63 
 9.21 
 61.76 
 105.44 
 73.39 
Additions for the year
 2.52 
 -   
 0.28 
 1.93 
 4.41 
 1.47 
 10.61 
 108.81 
Disposals/transferred/adjustment
 -   
 (17.56)
 (3.73)
 (2.91)
 (1.64)
 (10.80)
 (36.64)
 (73.39)
As at March 31, 2025
 2.52 
 -   
 3.83 
 8.65 
 11.98 
 52.43 
 79.41 
 108.81 
Accumulated depreciation
As at April 01, 2023
 -   
 4.27 
 4.16 
 5.99 
 3.49 
 45.17 
 63.08 
 20.47 
Charge for the year
 -   
 2.58 
 0.81 
 1.96 
 2.18 
 4.19 
 11.72 
 9.21 
Disposals/transferred/adjustment
 -   
 -   
 (0.13)
 (0.34)
 (0.12)
 -   
 (0.59)
 -   
As at March 31, 2024
 -   
 6.85 
 4.84 
 7.61 
 5.55 
 49.36 
 74.21 
 29.68 
Charge for the year
 0.80 
 2.58 
 0.70 
 1.95 
 2.05 
 3.93 
 12.01 
 9.66 
Disposals/transferred/adjustment
 -   
 (9.43)
 (2.39)
 (2.74)
 (1.48)
 (9.79)
 (25.83)
 (38.87)
As at March 31, 2025
 0.80 
 -   
 3.15 
 6.82 
 6.12 
 43.50 
 60.39 
 0.47 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2024
 -   
 10.71 
 2.44 
 2.02 
 3.66 
 12.40 
 31.23 
 43.71 
As at March 31, 2025
 1.72 
 -   
 0.68 
 1.83 
 5.86 
 8.93 
 19.02 
 108.34 
5.	
Property, plant and equipment and right of use assets
* During the year, the Company shifted to a new office premises. In accordance with the lease agreement, the previous office space was returned to the lessor in its original condition, 
resulting in the scrapping of all leasehold improvements made therein. Consequently, the Company has recognised a loss on disposal of these assets in the financial statements.	
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
304
Dreamfolks Services Limited
305
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
6A	 Intangible assets	
Particulars
Software
Gross carrying amount
As at April 01, 2023
 46.90 
Additions
 - 
Disposals/adjustments
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 46.90 
Additions
 1.98 
Disposals/adjustments
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 48.88 
Accumulated amortisation
As at April 01, 2023
 16.05 
Amortise for the year
 15.25 
Disposals/adjustments
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 31.30 
Amortise for the year
 15.88 
Disposals/adjustments
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 47.18 
Net carrying amount
As at March 31, 2024
 15.60 
As at March 31, 2025
 1.70 
6B	 Intangible assets under development*
Particulars
Intangible assets 
under development
As at April 01, 2023
 - 
Additions
 2.99 
Capitalised/transferred during the year
 - 
Disposals/adjustments
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 2.99 
Additions
 1.41 
Capitalised/transferred during the year
 (1.98)
Disposals/adjustments
 - 
As at March 31, 2025
 2.42 
Intangible assets under development (IAUD) ageing schedule as on March 31, 2025
Particulars
Amount in IAUD for a year of
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Total
Projects in progress***
 1.41 
 1.01 
 -   
 -   
 2.42 
Projects temporarily suspended
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Intangible assets under development ageing schedule as on March 31, 2024
Particulars
Amount in IAUD for a year of
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Total
Projects in progress**
 2.99 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 2.99 
Projects temporarily suspended
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
* As at March 31, 2025, the Group had capital commitments of INR 1.25 millions (March 31, 2024: INR 2.35 millions) relating 
to implementaion of ERP Software. (refer note 39)
** includes implementation of ERP software alongwith development of in Dreamfolks IT infrastructure.
*** The Group has an ongoing project of implementation of ERP with revised scope undertaken during the year. The projects 
remains on schedule for completion by December 31, 2025, and the total estimated cost remains within the original 
budget. There has been no overdue completion nor significant cost escalations compared to the initial project plan. 
7.	
Investment property
Particulars
 Building 
 Total 
As at April 01 2023
 19.24 
 19.24 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Disposals/Transferred
 - 
 - 
As at March 31 2024
 19.24 
 19.24 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Disposals/Transferred
 - 
 - 
As at March 31 2025
 19.24 
 19.24 
Accumulated depreciation
As at April 01 2023
 2.19 
 2.19 
Charge for the year
 0.84 
 0.84 
As at March 31 2024
 3.03 
 3.03 
Charge for the year
 0.79 
 0.79 
Assets sold/ transferred
 - 
 - 
As at March 31 2025
 3.82 
 3.82 
Net block
As at March 31 2024
 16.21 
 16.21 
As at March 31 2025
 15.42 
 15.42 
	
Fair value of investment properties
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Building
 24.94 
 24.55 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
306
Dreamfolks Services Limited
307
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Estimation of fair value
The Company's investment properties consist of two commercial properties in India.
As at 31 March 2025, the fair values of the investment properties are INR 24.94 million (March 31, 2024: INR 24.55 Million). 
These valuations are based on valuations performed by Ajay Kumar Sharma (B.E.), an accredited independent valuer. Ajay 
Kumar Sharma (B.E.). is a specialist in valuing these types of investment properties and is a registered valuer as defined under 
rule 2 of Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017. A valuation model in accordance with that recommended 
by the International Valuation Standards Committee has been applied.
The Company has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment properties and no contractual obligations to purchase, 
construct or develop investment properties or for repairs, maintenance and enhancements.
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Rental income derived from investment properties
 - 
 - 
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) arising 
from investment properties that generatd rental income
 - 
 - 
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) arising 
from investment properties that did not generated rental income
0.00
 (0.52)
Profit arising from investment properties before depreciation and 
indirect expenses
 - 
 (0.52)
Less – Depreciation
 (0.79)
 (0.84)
Profit/(loss) arising from investment properties before indirect 
expenses
 (0.79)
 (1.36)
8.	
Goodwill
Particulars
Goodwill
As at April 01 2023
 8.87 
Disposals/adjsutments
 - 
As at March 31 2024
 8.87 
Disposals/adjsutments
 - 
As at March 31 2025
 8.87 
Accumulated amortisation
As at April 01 2023
 - 
Amortisation
 - 
Impairment
 - 
As at March 31 2024
 - 
Amortisation
 - 
Impairment
 - 
As at March 31 2025
 - 
Net block
As at March 31 2024
 8.87 
As at March 31 2025
 8.87 
Impairment of goodwill
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to the cash generating unit – 'Golf CGU'. The recoverable 
amount of cash-generating units is determined based on a value in use calculation which uses cash flow projections based on 
financial forecasts covering a five-year period, and a adjusted the weighted average cost of Capital (“WACC”) of 25% per annum. 
 
Cash flow projections during the forecast period are based on the same expected gross margins and inflation throughout the 
forecast period. The cash flows beyond that five-year period have been extrapolated using a steady growth rate of 5% per 
annum, which is the projected long-term average growth rate for Golf CGU. The directors believe that any reasonably possible 
change in the key assumptions on which recoverable amount is based would not cause the aggregate carrying amount to 
exceed the aggregate recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit. Based on impairment testing as above, the management 
believes that the recoverable amounts of goodwill are higher than their respective carrying amounts and hence no amounts are 
required to be recorded for impairment in the carrying amounts of goodwill.
9.	
Investments
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
Current
Units
Amount
Units
Amount
Quoted Investment measured at fair value through 
profit and loss (FVTPL)
Investment of mutual fund of Aditya Birla Sun Life 
Overnight Fund - Growth - Direct Plan
 3,73,537.85 
 515.90 
70990.119
 91.94 
Investment of mutual fund of HDFC Overnight Fund - 
Growth - Direct Plan
 74,957.42 
 381.80 
18597.831
 66.08 
Investment of mutual fund of Axis Overnight Fund - 
Growth - Regular Plan
 -   
 -   
39676.113
 50.11 
Investment of mutual fund of ICICI Prudential Overnight 
Fund - Growth
 -   
 -   
70248.565
 90.23 
Investment of mutual fund of Kotak Overnight Fund - 
Growth - Regular Plan
 -   
 -   
39424.702
 90.21 
Investment of mutual fund of Nippon India Overnight 
Fund - Growth
 -   
 -   
705198.278
 90.21 
 4,48,495.27 
 897.70 
 9,44,135.61 
 438.68 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Aggregate amount of quoted investments
 897.70 
 438.68 
Aggregate market value of quoted investments
 897.70 
 438.68 
Aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 - 
 - 
Aggregate amount of impairment in the value of investments
 - 
 - 
 897.70 
 438.68 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
308
Dreamfolks Services Limited
309
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
10.	 Other financial assets
11.	 Current tax assets (net)	
12.	 Deferred tax assets (net)	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)
Non - current
(Unsecured and considered good)
   Security deposits
 8.47 
 3.75 
   Bank deposits with more than 12 months maturity*
 100.00 
 39.53 
 108.47 
 43.28 
b)
Current
(Unsecured and considered good)
   Security deposits
 56.47 
 72.97 
   Unbilled receivable**
 0.20 
 29.66 
   Interest receivable on fixed deposit
 1.99 
 2.96 
 58.66 
 105.59 
*	
includes INR 100 Million (March 31, 2024: INR 33.56 Million), deposits kept with banks against Fund based facility and 
bank guarantees given to vendors/Various authorities as margin money	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Income tax assets
Advance tax and TDS recoverable
 356.30 
 355.56 
 356.30 
 355.56 
Income tax liabilities
Provision for income tax
 (267.52)
 (258.53)
 (267.52)
 (258.53)
 88.78 
 97.03 
Description
Opening as 
at April 01, 
2024
Recognised 
in statement 
of profit and 
loss
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
Closing as at 
March 31, 
2025
Deferred tax asset / (liabilities) in relation  to:
Provision for employee benefits
 13.14 
 18.29 
 0.31 
 31.74 
Lease liability
 14.26 
 11.97 
 - 
 26.23 
Right of use assets
 (11.00)
 (16.27)
 (27.27)
Property, plant and equipment
 5.11 
 1.43 
 - 
 6.54 
ESOP
 20.92 
 5.06 
 - 
 25.98 
Provision for impairment allowance for doubtful 
receivables
 0.07 
 (0.07)
 - 
 - 
Unabsorbed depreciation and losses
 2.87 
 (2.87)
 - 
 - 
Change of fair value of debt fund measured at 
FVTPL
 (0.49)
 (0.70)
 - 
 (1.19)
Others
 0.29 
 0.54 
 - 
 0.83 
 45.17 
 17.37 
 0.31 
 62.86 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax asset / (liabilities) in relation  to:
Provision for employee benefits
 31.74 
 13.14 
Lease liability
 26.23 
 14.26 
Right of use assets
 (27.27)
 (11.00)
Property, plant and equipment
 6.54 
 5.11 
ESOP
 25.98 
 20.92 
Provision for impairment allowance for doubtful receivables
 - 
 0.07 
Unabsorbed depreciation and losses
 - 
 2.87 
Change of fair value of debt fund measured at FVTPL
 (1.19)
 (0.49)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Others
 0.83 
 0.29 
 62.86 
 45.17 
(i)	
Movement in deferred tax assets for the year ended March 31, 2025 is as follows:
(ii)	
Movement in deferred tax assets for the year ended March 31, 2024 is as follows:
Description
Opening as 
at April 01, 
2023
Recognised 
in statement 
of profit and 
loss
Recognised 
in other 
comprehensive 
income
Closing as at 
March 31, 
2024
Deferred tax asset / (liabilities) in relation  to:
Provision for employee benefits
 9.91 
 2.67 
 0.56 
 13.14 
Lease liability
 15.80 
 (1.54)
 - 
 14.26 
Right of use assets
 (13.32)
 2.32 
 (11.00)
Property, plant and equipment
 3.19 
 1.92 
 - 
 5.11 
ESOP
 9.21 
 11.71 
 - 
 20.92 
Provision for impairment allowance for doubtful 
receivables
 - 
 0.07 
 - 
 0.07 
Unabsorbed depreciation and losses
 - 
 2.87 
 - 
 2.87 
Change of fair value of debt fund measured at 
FVTPL
 - 
 (0.49)
 - 
 (0.49)
Others
 - 
 0.29 
 - 
 0.29 
 24.79 
 19.82 
 0.56 
 45.17 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
310
Dreamfolks Services Limited
311
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
13.	 Other assets
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)
Non-current
   Prepaid security deposit
 - 
 1.88 
 - 
 1.88 
b)
Current
   Advances to vendors*
 29.42 
 81.95 
   Balance with statutory authorities
 39.08 
 15.39 
   Prepaid expenses
 13.69 
 11.12 
   Advances to employees
 3.02 
 1.04 
   Other advances
 - 
 0.14 
 85.21 
 109.64 
* Includes related party balance of INR 17.02 Million (March 31, 2024: INR 7.27 Million), refer note 45
Trade receivables ageing schedule - March 31, 2025
14.	 Trade receivables*
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Trade receivables considered good-unsecured
 2,943.12 
 2,649.92 
Trade receivables - credit impaired
 - 
 0.29 
 2,943.12 
 2,650.21 
Less: Impairment allowance (allowance for bad and doubtful receivables)
 - 
 (0.29)
 2,943.12 
 2,649.92 
* Includes related party balance of INR 0.09 million (March 31, 2024: INR 0.70 million), refer note 45
Particulars
Unbilled 
receivable*
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
 Total** 
Less than 
6 months
 6 months 
to 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
(i) Undisputed trade receivables – 
considered good
 0.20 
 1,866.37 
 1,062.55 
 12.14 
 1.94 
 0.12 
 -   
 2,943.32 
(ii) Undisputed trade receivables 
–considered doubtful
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(iii) Undisputed trade receivables 
–credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(iv) Disputed trade receivables 
–considered good
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(v) Disputed trade receivables –
considered doubtful
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(vi) Disputed trade receivables 
–credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Gross Total
 0.20 
 1,866.37 
 1,062.55 
 12.14 
 1.94 
 0.12 
 -   
 2,943.32 
Less: Impairment allowance 
(allowance for bad and doubtful 
receivables)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Total
 0.20 
 1,866.37 
 1,062.55 
 12.14 
 1.94 
 0.12 
 -   
 2,943.32 
Trade receivables ageing schedule - March 31, 2024
Particulars
Unbilled 
receivable*
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from due date of 
payment
 Total** 
Less than 
6 months
 6 months 
to 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
 More 
than 3 
years 
(i) Undisputed trade receivables – 
considered good
 29.66 
 1,381.11 
 1,257.71 
 10.64 
 0.46 
 -   
 -   
 2,679.58 
(ii) Undisputed trade receivables 
–considered doubtful
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(iii) Undisputed trade receivables 
–credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 0.29 
 -   
 -   
 -   
 0.29 
(iv) Disputed trade receivables 
–considered good
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(v) Disputed trade receivables –
considered doubtful
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
(vi) Disputed trade receivables 
–credit impaired
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Gross Total
 29.66 
 1,381.11 
 1,257.71 
 10.93 
 0.46 
 -   
 -   
 2,679.87 
Less: Impairment allowance 
(allowance for bad and doubtful 
receivables)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (0.29)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (0.29)
Total
 29.66 
 1,381.11 
 1,257.71 
 10.64 
 0.46 
 -   
 -   
 2,679.58 
*Refer Note 10(b)
**includes Unbilled receivable disclosed under Other financial assets (refer note 10(b))
Movement of Impairment allowance (allowance for bad and doubtful receivables)
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 0.29 
 - 
Amount accrued during the year
 - 
 0.29 
Amount reversed during the year
 (0.29)
 - 
Balance at the end of the year
 - 
 0.29 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
312
Dreamfolks Services Limited
313
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
15.	 Cash and cash equivalents
16.	 Other bank balances	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balances with banks
-  in current accounts
 167.59 
 111.30 
- in deposits account with maturity upto three months
 150.00 
 172.39 
Cash in hand
 0.00 
 0.29 
 317.59 
 283.98 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Balances with bank
-  in deposit accounts with maturity more than 3 months but less than 12 
months*
 265.03 
 288.92 
- Balance in Escrow Account for OFS proceeds
 - 
 2.00 
- Balance in Escrow Account for Corporate social responsibility
 4.19 
 1.40 
- Balance in Unclaimed divided account
 0.07 
 0.02 
 269.29 
 292.34 
*includes INR 264.63 million (March 31, 2024: INR 238.62 million), deposits kept with banks against Fund based facility and 
bank guarantees given to vendors/various authorities as margin money.
17.	 Equity share capital
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Authorised equity share capital
75,000,000 equity shares of INR 2 each (March 31, 2024: 75,000,000 
equity shares of INR 2 each)
 150.00 
 150.00 
 150.00 
 150.00 
Issued, subscribed and fully paid up
53,269,862 equity shares of INR 2 each (March 31, 2024: 53,025,912 
equity shares of INR 2 each)
 106.54 
 106.05 
 106.54 
 106.05 
Notes:	
(a)	
Reconciliation of the number of shares and amount outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year:
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
No. of shares
Amount
No. of shares
Amount
Equity shares outstanding at the beginning 
of the year
 5,30,25,912 
 106.05 
 5,22,50,000 
 104.50 
Particulars
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
No. of shares
Amount
No. of shares
Amount
Share options (ESOP) exercised during the 
year (refer note 43)
 2,43,950 
 0.49 
 7,75,912 
 1.55 
Equity shares outstanding at the end of 
the year
 5,32,69,862 
 106.54 
 5,30,25,912 
 106.05 
(b)	
Terms and rights attached to equity shares
	
The Company has only one class of equity shares having nominal value of INR 2/- each (March 31, 2024: Rs. 2/- each). 
Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors, if any, 
is subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. In the event of liquidation of the 
company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the company, after distribution of all 
preferential amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the Shareholders.
(c)	
Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
Name of the shareholder
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
% holding 
No of Shares
% holding 
No of Shares
Liberatha Peter Kallat
24.52%
 1,30,62,432 
24.63%
 1,30,62,432 
Dinesh Nagpal
20.11%
 1,07,11,200 
20.20%
 1,07,11,200 
Mukesh Yadav
21.09%
 1,12,33,600 
21.19%
 1,12,33,600 
Details of shareholding of promoters
As at March 31, 2025
No. of shares
Amount
% change
Liberatha Peter Kallat
 1,30,62,432 
 26.12 
-0.11%
Dinesh Nagpal
 1,07,11,200 
 21.42 
-0.09%
Mukesh Yadav
 1,12,33,600 
 22.47 
-0.10%
Details of shareholding of promoters
As at March 31, 2024
No. of shares
Amount
% change
Liberatha Peter Kallat
 1,30,62,432 
 26.12 
-0.37%
Dinesh Nagpal
 1,07,11,200 
 21.42 
-0.30%
Mukesh Yadav
 1,12,33,600 
 22.47 
-0.31%
(e) 	 Shares reserved for issue under employee stock option scheme is set out in Note 42 & 43.
(f) 	
The Company for the period of five years immediately preceding the reporting date has not:
(i)	
Allotted any class of shares as fully paid pursuant to contract(s) without payment being received in cash except  as 
mentioned in sr. no.(ii) below
(ii)	
Allotted fully paid up shares by way of bonus shares except for  28.5 million shares of INR 2 each in bonus issue 
during the financial year 2021-22.
(iii)	 Bought back any class of shares.
(g) 	 As per the records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members and other declarations received from 
shareholders regarding beneficial interest, the above shareholding represents both legal and beneficial ownership of 
shares.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
314
Dreamfolks Services Limited
315
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
18.	 Other equity
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Retained earnings
(i)
 2,689.93 
 2,115.25 
Security Premium
(ii)
 137.58 
 86.89 
ESOP reserves
(iii)
 79.28 
 59.13 
Other comprehensive income
(iv)
 (4.36)
 (3.44)
Foreign currency translation reserve
(v)
 0.57 
 (0.09)
Total Equity
 2,903.00 
 2,257.74 
(i)
Retained earnings
Opening balance
 2,115.25 
 1,451.72 
Add: Profit for the period/year
 654.29 
 690.04 
Less: Dividend paid during the period
 (79.61) 
 (26.51) 
Closing Balance 
 2,689.93 
 2,115.25 
(ii)
Security Premium
Opening balance
 86.89 
 - 
Add: Exercise of employee stock option scheme
 27.65 
 13.60 
Add: Security premium on issue of shares under Employee Stock option 
plan
 23.04 
 73.29 
Closing Balance 
 137.58 
 86.89 
(iii)
ESOP reserves
Opening balance
 59.13 
 12.64 
Add: Share Based Payment
 47.80 
 60.09 
Less: Exercise of employee stock option scheme
 (27.65)
 (13.60)
Closing Balance 
 79.28 
 59.13 
(iv)
Other comprehensive income
Opening balance
 (3.44)
 (1.78)
Less: Re-measurement loss on defined benefit obligation, net of tax
 (0.92)
 (1.66)
Closing Balance 
 (4.36)
 (3.44)
(v)
Foreign currency translation reserve
Opening balance
 (0.09)
 - 
Movement during the year
 0.66 
 (0.09)
Closing balance
 0.57 
 (0.09)
Description of nature and purpose of each reserve
i)	
Retained earnings - Retained earnings are the profits that the Group has earned/incurred till date, less any transfers to 
general reserve, dividends or other distributions paid to shareholders.
ii)	
Securities premium - Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised 
only for limited purposes such as issuance of bonus shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013..
iii)	
ESOP reserves -  The share options-based payment reserve is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued 
to employees under Employee stock option plan. The Group transfers the amount from this reserve to security premium 
account upon exercise of stock option by employees. In case of forfeiture, the Group transfer the amount from this reserve 
to retained earning.. Refer note 42 for further details.
(iv)	 Other comprehensive income: Other comprehensive income  include re-measurement loss / (gain) on defined benefit 
plans, net of taxes that will not be reclassified to Statement of Profit and Loss.
(v)	
Foreign currency translation reserve - The exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations for 
consolidation are recognised Foreign currency translation reserve in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a 
foreign operation, the component of OCI relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in profit and loss.
(B)	 Non-controlling interest
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Opening balance
 0.34 
 4.01 
Net profit for the year
 (3.79)
 (3.67)
Closing balance
 (3.45)
 0.34 
19.	 Borrowings
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)
Non current
(Secured, at amortised cost)
Vehicle loans from bank
 0.74 
 2.13 
 0.74 
 2.13 
b)
Current
Current maturities of non-current borrowings
 1.39 
 2.30 
 1.39 
 2.30 
Note:
i)	
The loan is secured by hypothecation of vehicle purchase under the loan agreement carrying interest rate of 8.95% p.a 
and repayable in 36 installments, with final installment due on September 05, 2026. 
20.	 Lease liabilities*	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)
Non current
Lease liability
 90.53 
 48.25 
 90.53 
 48.25 
b)
Current
Current maturities of lease liability
 13.66 
 8.40 
 13.66 
 8.40 
* Refer note 34
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
316
Dreamfolks Services Limited
317
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
21.	 Trade payables	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current
i. total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 457.44 
 77.06 
ii. total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
 1,189.59 
 1,552.53 
 1,647.03 
 1,629.59 
a)	
Details of Dues to Micro and Small and Medium Enterprises as per MSMED Act, 2006
	
The identification of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises is based on the Management’s knowledge of their status. 
Disclosure is based on the information available with the Group regarding the status of the suppliers as defined under 
‘The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006’.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Principal amount due to suppliers under MSMED Act	
 457.44 
 77.06 
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16 of the MSMED 
Act 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond 
the appointed day during each accounting year.	
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making 
payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) 
but without adding the interest  specified under the MSMED Act 2006
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each 
accounting year
 0.10 
 0.10 
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the 
succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually 
paid to the small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible 
expenditure under section 23 of the MSMED Act 2006
 - 
 - 
b)	
Trade payables ageing:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Unbilled 
dues
Less than 
one year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More 
than 3 
years
Total
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 19.76 
 437.62 
 -   
 0.05 
 0.01 
457.44
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 154.76 
 1,034.45 
 0.19 
 0.19 
 -   
1189.59
Disputed dues-Total outstanding dues of micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
-
Disputed dues-Total outstanding dues of creditors other 
than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
-
Total
 174.52 
 1,472.07 
 0.19 
 0.24 
 0.01 
 1,647.03 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
Outstanding for following years from due date of payment
Unbilled 
dues
Less than 
one year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More 
than 3 
years
Total
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
 21.57 
 55.44 
 0.04 
 -   
 0.01 
 77.06 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 116.77 
 1,432.94 
 0.32 
 0.05 
 2.45 
 1,552.53
Disputed dues-Total outstanding dues of micro 
enterprises and small enterprises
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Disputed dues-Total outstanding dues of creditors 
other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
 -   
Total
 138.34 
 1,488.38 
 0.37 
 0.05 
 2.45 
 1,629.59 
22.	 Other financial liabilities
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
   Security deposit- received
 2.97 
 2.97 
   Employee related payables
 65.07 
 13.08 
   Expense payable*
 27.74 
 2.96 
   Interest accrued on overdraft
 - 
 0.00 
   Payable to selling shareholders
 - 
 2.00 
   Unclaimed dividend payable
 0.07 
 0.02 
 95.85 
 21.03 
23.	 Provisions
*includes related party balance of INR 0.02 Millions (March 31, 2024: INR Nil), refer note 45
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
a)
Non Current
Provisions for employee benefits (refer note 41)
   Gratuity 
 31.82 
 24.44 
   Leave encashment 
 22.45 
 16.94 
 54.27 
 41.38 
b)
Current
Provisions for employee benefits (refer note 41)
   Gratuity 
 1.69 
 1.18 
   Leave encashment 
 5.64 
 2.80 
 7.33 
 3.98 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
318
Dreamfolks Services Limited
319
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
24.	 Other current liabilities
25.	 Revenue from operations	
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
   Advance from customers
 5.63 
 1.06 
   Statutory dues
 53.29 
 44.05 
   Liability towards corporate social responsibility
 4.19 
 1.40 
   Others
 0.14 
 0.05 
   Interest accrued and due on micro and small enterprises
 0.10 
 0.10 
   Unearned revenue
 7.21 
 18.27 
 70.56 
 64.93 
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue from contract with customers (refer note 25.1 - 25.2)
Sale of services
 12,918.82 
 11,350.12 
 12,918.82 
 11,350.12 
25.1. Disaggregated revenue information
Notes:
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
i) Timing of revenue recognition
   Service transferred at a point in time
 12,899.12 
 11,343.80 
   Service transferred over the period
 19.70 
 6.32 
 12,918.82 
 11,350.12 
ii) Revenue by location of customers
    India 
 11,272.79 
 9,892.53 
    Outside India
 1,646.03 
 1,457.59 
 12,918.82 
 11,350.12 
iii) Reconciliation of revenue recognised in statement of profit and loss 
with contracted price
     Revenue as per contracted price 
 12,918.82 
 11,350.12 
     Less: Discount/Adjustment
 - 
 - 
 12,918.82 
 11,350.12 
24.2.	 Contract balances	
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Trade receivables
 2,943.12 
 2,649.92 
Contract assets
 0.20 
 29.66 
Contract liabilities
 7.21 
 18.27 
Contract assets
A contract asset is the right to consideration in exchange for services transferred to the customer. If the Group performs 
by transferring services to a customer before the customer pays consideration or before payment is due, a contract asset is 
recognized for the earned consideration that is conditional. The contract assets are transferred to receivables when the rights 
to consideration become unconditional. This usually occurs when the Group issues an invoice to the customers.
Contract liabilities
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer services to a customer for which the Group has received consideration from 
the customer. If a customer pays consideration before the Group transfers services to the customer, a contract liability is 
recognised when the payment is made. Contract liabilities are recognized as revenue when the Group performs under the 
contract.	
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 29.66 
 35.34 
Less: Invoice raised during the year from opening balance
 (29.66)
 (35.34)
Add: Revenue recognised excluding amounts billed during the year
 0.20 
 29.66 
Balance at the end of the year (refer note 10(b))
 0.20 
 29.66 
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Balance at the beginning of the year
 18.27 
 - 
Less: Revenue recognised during the year from opening balance
 (13.23)
 - 
Add: Amount billed excluding revenue recognised during the year
 2.17 
 18.27 
Balance at the end of the year (refer note 24)
 7.21 
 18.27 
25.3. Performance obligation	
	
	
	
	
Sale of services: The performance obligation in respect of services is satisfied either at a point in time or over time, 
depending on the nature of the service. For services where control is transferred continuously, revenue is recognised 
over time based on progress towards completion. In other cases, performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time 
upon completion and acceptance of the service by the clients. Payment is generally due upon completion or as per agreed 
contractual terms.
* Three clients represents 10% or more of the total revenue of the company during the year ended March 2025 and 
March 2024.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
320
Dreamfolks Services Limited
321
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
26.	 Other income
27.	 Cost of services
28.	 Employee benefits expenses	
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest income on:
- fixed deposits with banks
 19.96 
 18.07 
- income tax refund
 5.32 
 2.07 
-others
 3.92 
 - 
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 4.13 
 - 
Gain on sale on financials instruments measured at FVTPL
- Profit on sale of debt dund
 18.06 
 10.06 
- On change of fair value of debt fund measured at FVTPL
 4.71 
 1.93 
Foreign exchange gain
 12.30 
 0.54 
Finance income on amortisation of security deposits
 0.75 
 0.34 
Liabilities written back
 2.44 
 - 
Gain on termination of lease
 13.73 
 - 
Miscellaneous income
 0.28 
 0.25 
85.60
33.26
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Cost of services rendered
 11,417.80 
 9,981.71 
 11,417.80 
 9,981.71 
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Salaries, wages and bonus
 340.73 
 198.19 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 11.34 
 9.47 
Employee Stock Option Plan 
 47.80 
 60.09 
Gratuity expenses
 6.66 
 5.28 
Staff welfare expenses
 19.19 
 11.82 
 425.72 
 284.85
29.	 Finance costs
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest paid
     -on term loans
 0.28 
 0.60 
     -on CC/OD facility
 8.66 
 1.21 
     -other
 20.18 
 - 
30.	 Depreciation and amortization expenses
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Depreciation on property plant and equipment
 12.01 
 11.72 
Depreciation on investment property
 0.79 
 0.84 
Amortization of intangible assets
 15.88 
 15.25 
Depreciation on right to use assets
 9.66 
 9.21 
 38.34 
 37.02 
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Interest on micro and small enterprises
 - 
 0.00 
Interest on statutory dues
 0.36 
 0.23 
Other borrowing costs
     -processing cost
 1.00 
 2.21 
     -lease expenses
 5.38 
 5.93 
 35.86 
 10.18 
31.	 Other expenses
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Rent
 4.34 
 3.02 
Repair & maintenance expenses
 1.65 
 2.26 
Electricity and water expenses
 0.64 
 0.76 
Travelling and conveyance
 27.12 
 22.46 
Assets written off
 10.18 
 - 
Loss on disposal/discard of assets
 - 
 0.02 
Communication expenses
 2.52 
 2.32 
Information technology expenses
 29.55 
 21.08 
Insurance expenses
 5.26 
 4.08 
Rates and taxes
 4.74 
 11.39 
Legal and professional fees
 32.26 
 23.43 
Payment to auditors (refer note 31A beow)
 3.98 
 3.39 
Provision for impairment allowance for doubtful receivables
 - 
 0.29 
Bad debts
 2.47 
 - 
Bank Charges
 2.45 
 1.54 
Amortisation of security deposits
 0.46 
 0.40 
Postage and courier expenses
 0.87 
 0.43 
Printing & stationery
 1.81 
 1.91 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
322
Dreamfolks Services Limited
323
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Office maintenance expenses
 5.59 
 5.04 
Corporate social responsibility expenses
 14.19 
 7.83 
Business promotion
 35.49 
 31.56 
Miscellaneous expenses
 2.29 
 1.88 
Total
 187.85 
 145.09 
31A	Auditor’s remuneration (exclusive of Tax):	
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
As auditor:
Statutory audit fee
 1.97 
 1.68 
Tax audit fee
 0.30 
 0.25 
Limited review fee
 1.38 
 1.20 
In other capacity:
Other services
 0.11 
 0.10 
Reimbursement of expense
 0.22 
 0.16 
Total
 3.98 
 3.39 
32.	 Tax expenses
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Income tax recognized in statement of profit and loss 
Current tax
 267.52 
 258.03 
Tax expense related to earlier years
 (1.80)
 (0.05)
MAT credit charge/ (entitlement)
 - 
 - 
Deferred tax (credit)/charge
 (17.37)
 (19.82)
Total income tax expense recognized in statement of profit and loss 
 248.35 
 238.16 
Reconciliation of income tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by applicable tax rate for respective year
Profit/(loss) before tax
 898.85 
 924.53 
Statutory tax rate applicable (%)
 25.17 
 25.17 
Income tax expense calculated at applicable statutory tax rate
 226.24 
 232.71 
Reconciliation Item
Tax on brought forward losses
 2.88 
 - 
Other items
 1.26 
 0.01 
CSR expense
 3.57 
 1.97 
Effect of non deductible items
 14.40 
 3.47 
Total income tax expense recognized in statement of profit and loss 
 248.35 
 238.16 
33.	 Earning per share
Particulars
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year  ended 
March 31, 2024
Profit  / (loss) after tax for the year (In INR)
 654.29 
 690.04 
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating basic EPS (No.)
 5,31,19,436 
 5,30,13,192 
Add: Effect of potential dilutive shares (ESOPs)#
9,55,675
 21,23,338 
Less: Weighted average number of shares that would have been issued at 
average market price
2,99,348.63
 3,94,003 
Weighted average number of shares considered for computation of diluted 
EPS (No.)
5,37,75,762
 5,47,42,527 
Average market price per share
307.95
 519.84 
Exercise price per option
96.46
 96.46 
Basic EPS (In INR)
12.32
13.02
Diluted EPS (In INR)
12.17
12.61
#The Company granted stock options to the eligible employees of Company during the year ended March 31, 2022, March 31, 
2023 and March 31, 2024 which were considered in the above diluted EPS .  
34.	 Leases
	
The Group recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use assets representing the right to use the 
underlying assets.	
	
	
	
	
Ind AS 116 Leases
	
Operating lease commitments- Group as lessee	 	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Group entered into a new lease agreement for office premises. Consequently, the 
Group has served a termination notice to the vendor for the existing lease and accordingly the lease terminated. The new lease 
agreements have terms of five years.
Particulars
 Office Premise 
As at April 01, 2023
 62.76 
Additions 
 - 
Accretion of interest
 5.93 
Payments
 (12.04)
As at March 31, 2024
 56.65 
Additions 
 103.98 
Deletions
 (48.24)
Accretion of interest
 5.38 
Payments
 (13.58)
As at March 31, 2025
 104.19 
a.	
Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities:
The effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 9.00% p.a.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
324
Dreamfolks Services Limited
325
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
b.	
The following are the amounts recognised in statement of profit or loss:
c.	
The following is the break up of current and non-current lease liability 
Particulars
For the year ended 
March, 31 2025
For the year ended 
March, 31 2024
Depreciation expense of right of use assets
 9.66 
 9.21 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 5.38 
 5.93 
Total amount recognised in statement of profit or loss
 15.04 
 15.14 
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Current lease liabilities
 13.66 
 8.40 
Non-current lease liabilities
 90.53 
 48.25 
Total amount recognised in statement of profit or loss
 104.19 
 56.66 
d.	
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s lease liabilities based on contracted undiscounted 
payments.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Payable- not later than one year
 21.72 
 13.58 
Payable- later than one to five years
 108.26 
 58.08 
Payable- later more than five years
 - 
 - 
e.	
The Group has not revalued right of use assets during the year.
35.	 Financial risk management
	
Financial risk factors
	
The Group’s operational activities expose it to various financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The 
Group realizes that these risks are inherent and integral aspect of business. The Group continues to focus on a system based 
approach to business risk management. The Group’s principal financial assets include trade and other receivables, and cash 
and cash equivalents that derive directly from its operations.
	
The Group ensures that its financial risk activities which are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial 
risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with the Group’s policies and risk objectives. Risk management 
policies are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities.
A	
Market risk:
	
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of the future cash flows of the financial instruments will fluctuate because of 
changes in the prices of a financial instrument . The value of a financial instrument may change as a result of changes in 
the interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices and other market changes that effect 
market risk sensitive instruments.
i.	
Interest rate risk :
	
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because 
of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates 
primarily to the Group’s long and short term borrowings obligations in the nature of term loan, cash credit facilities 
and working capital loans.
Particulars
Fixed Rate Borrowing
Variable Rate Borrowing
Total Borrowing
As at March 31, 2025
 2.13 
 - 
 2.13 
As at March 31, 2024
 3.40 
 1.03 
 4.43 
Interest rate sensitivity analysis shows that an decrease / increase of fifty basis points in the floating interest rates 
would result in decrease / increase in the Group’s profit / (loss) before tax by approximately INR Nil (March 31, 
2024: INR 0.01 million).	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Sensitivity on variable rate borrowings
Impact on profit & loss
 March 31, 2025
 March 31, 2024
Interest rate increase by 0.50%
 -   
 (0.01)
Interest rate decrease by 0.50%
 -   
 0.01 
ii.	
Foreign currency risk :
	
The Indian Rupee is the Group’s most significant currency. As a consequence, the Group’s results are presented 
in Indian Rupee and exposures are managed against Indian Rupee accordingly. Foreign currency risk is the risk 
impact related to fair value or future cash flows of an exposure in foreign currency, which fluctuate due to changes 
in foreign exchange rates. The Group's exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily 
to the foreign currency transactions on account of global operations and transactions in foreign currency with its 
customers which is presently not significant in comparison to the total operations of the Group .
Exposure in
Liabilities as at
Assets as at
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
As at  
March 31, 2025
As at  
March 31, 2024
SGD
2.70
 2.62 
48.41
 1.41 
THB
10.68
 -   
9.61
 -   
USD
 9.08 
 2.84 
 8.21 
 399.46 
EUR
 8.64 
 2.51 
 4.88 
 4.49 
QAR
 3.17 
 3.04 
 0.24 
 0.22 
AED
 9.31 
 2.67 
 6.90 
 0.44 
QMR
 3.06 
 0.00 
 0.15 
 0.14 
GBP
 0.35 
 0.16 
 1.15 
 1.04 
MYR
 2.08 
 -   
 -   
 -   
Others
 2.13 
 0.20 
 1.07 
 0.85 
Total
 51.20 
 14.04 
 80.62 
 408.05 
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The Group is principally exposed to risk against SGD, USD, THB & AED. Sensitivity of profit or loss arises mainly 
from SGD, USD, THB & AED denominated receivables and payables. 
As per management’s assessment of reasonable possible changes in the exchange rate of (+/-) 5% between USD- 
INR, SGD-INR, THB-INR & AED-INR currency pairs, sensitivity of profit or loss only on outstanding SGD, USD, THB 
& AED denominated monetary items at the period end is presented below:
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
326
Dreamfolks Services Limited
327
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Sensitivity at year end
Impact on profit & loss
 March 31, 2025
 March 31, 2024
Assets:
Weakening of INR by 5%
SGD
 2.42 
 0.07 
USD
 0.41 
 19.97 
THB
 0.48 
 -   
AED
 0.34 
 0.02 
Strengthening of INR by 5%
SGD
 (2.42)
 (0.07)
USD
 (0.41)
 (19.97)
THB
 (0.48)
 -   
AED
 (0.34)
 (0.02)
Liabilities:
Weakening of INR by 5%
SGD
 (0.14)
 (0.13)
USD
 (0.45)
 (0.14)
THB
 (0.53)
 -   
AED
 (0.47)
 (0.13)
Strengthening of INR by 5%
SGD
 0.14 
 0.13 
USD
 0.45 
 0.14 
THB
 0.53 
 -   
AED
 0.47 
 0.13 
The table below summarises the undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of reporting year.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
 Fund based facility (cash credit facility)* 
 1,300 
 800 
Total
 1,300 
 800 
*Also refer note 46
D	
Price risk:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group is exposed to price risk mainly related to procurement of services such as Lounge access, Meet and 
Assist, Golf course access etc. which can affect the direct cost of the Group. To manage this risk, the Group take 
steps to pursue longer term and fixed contracts, where considered necessary. Additionally, processes related to 
such risks are reviewed and controlled by management.
As per management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk 
because the exposure at the end of the reporting period does not reflect the exposure during the year.
iii.	
Commodity price risk
	
The Group is not involved in the provision and sale of products and hence the group is not exposed to commodity 
price risk.
B	
Credit risk:
	
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if client or counterparty to financial instrument fails to meet its 
contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Company’s receivables from client and investment in mutual funds 
and deposits with banks.
	
To manage credit risk, the Company periodically reviews its receivables from client for any non-recoverability of the 
dues, taking in to account the inputs from business development team and ageing of trade receivables. The management 
establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its expected credit losses in respect of trade and other financial 
assets. The management uses a simplified approach for the purpose of computation of expected credit loss. While 
computing expected credit loss, the management consider historical credit loss experience adjusted with forward looking 
information.
(i)	
Expected credit loss of trade receivables 
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Upto 6 months
More than 6 
months
Upto 6 months
More than 6 
months
Gross carrying amount (A)
 2,928.92 
 14.21 
 2,638.82 
 11.39 
Expected credit loss (B)
 -   
 -   
 -   
 (0.29)
Net carrying amount (A-B)
 2,928.92 
 14.21 
 2,638.82 
 11.08 
C	
Liquidity risk:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The risk that group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities that are settled 
by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and 
banking facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and by matching the maturity profiles of 
financial assets and liabilities for the Group .
	
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contracted undiscounted 
payments (excluding transaction cost on borrowings).
Particulars
Carrying 
amount
Less than 
one year
Above 1 
year but less 
than 5 years
Above 5 
years
Total
I
As at March 31, 2025
Borrowings
 2.13 
 1.39 
 0.74 
 - 
 2.13 
Other financial liabilities
 95.85 
 95.85 
 - 
 - 
 95.85 
Trade payables
 1,647.02 
 1,647.02 
 - 
 - 
 1,647.02 
Leases
 104.19 
 21.72 
 108.26 
 - 
 129.98 
Total
 1,849.19 
 1,765.98 
 109.00 
 - 
 1,874.98 
II
As at March 31, 2024
Borrowings
 4.43 
 2.30 
 2.13 
 - 
 4.43 
Other financial liabilities
 21.03 
 21.03 
 - 
 - 
 21.03 
Trade payables
 1,629.59 
 1,629.59 
 - 
 - 
 1,629.59 
Leases
 56.66 
 13.58 
 58.08 
 - 
 71.66 
Total
 1,711.70 
 1,666.50 
 60.21 
 - 
 1,726.71 
36.	 Financial instruments - Disclosure	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments 
that are recognised and measured at fair value. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in 
determining fair value, the Group has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the 
accounting standard.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
328
Dreamfolks Services Limited
329
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
A	
Financial Instruments by category
B	
Accounting classification and fair values	
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
As at March 31, 2024
Amortised cost
FVTPL
Amortised cost
FVTPL
Financial assets
Investments
 -   
 897.70 
 -   
 438.68 
Trade receivables 
 2,943.12 
 -   
 2,649.92 
 -   
Cash and cash equivalents 
 317.59 
 -   
 283.98 
 -   
Other bank balances
 269.29 
 -   
 292.34 
 -   
Others financial asset
-  Non  current
 108.47 
 -   
 43.28 
 -   
-  Current
 58.66 
 -   
 105.59 
 -   
Total financial assets
 3,697.13 
 897.70 
 3,375.11 
 438.68 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
-  Non current
 0.74 
 -   
 2.13 
 -   
-  Current
 1.39 
 -   
 2.30 
 -   
Trade payables
-  Current
 1,647.03 
 -   
 1,629.59 
Other financial liabilities
-  Current
 95.85 
 -   
 21.03 
 -   
Lease liabilities
 -   
-  Non current
 90.53 
 -   
 48.25 
-  Current
 13.66 
 -   
 8.40 
Total financial liabilities
 1,849.20 
 -   
 1,711.70 
 -   
Particulars
Carrying Value
Fair Value
As at              
March 31, 2025
As at             
March 31, 2024
As at              
March 31, 2025
As at             
March 31, 2024
Financial assets
 - At amortised cost
Trade receivables 
 2,943.12 
 2,649.92 
 2,943.12 
 2,649.92 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 317.59 
 283.98 
 317.59 
 283.98 
Other bank balances
 269.29 
 292.34 
 269.29 
 292.34 
Others financial asset
-  Non current
 108.47 
 43.28 
 108.47 
 43.28 
-  Current
 58.66 
 105.59 
 58.66 
 105.59 
 - At FVTPL
Investments
 897.70 
 438.68 
 897.70 
 438.68 
Total financial assets
 4,594.83 
 3,813.79 
 4,594.83 
 3,813.79 
Financial liabilities
 - At amortised cost
Particulars
Carrying Value
Fair Value
As at              
March 31, 2025
As at             
March 31, 2024
As at              
March 31, 2025
As at             
March 31, 2024
Borrowings
-  Non current
 0.74 
 2.13 
 -   
 -   
-  Current
 1.39 
 2.30 
 1.39 
 2.30 
Trade payables
-  Current
 1,647.03 
 1,629.59 
 1,647.03 
 1,629.59 
Other financial liabilities
-  Current
 95.85 
 21.03 
 95.85 
 21.03 
Lease liabilities
-  Non current
 90.53 
 48.25 
 90.53 
 48.25 
-  Current
 13.66 
 8.40 
 13.66 
 8.40 
Total financial liabilities
 1,849.20 
 1,711.70 
 1,848.46 
 1,709.57 
C	
Fair value hierarchy
	
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that 
are recognised and measured at fair value. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining 
fair value, the Group has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. 
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances, Lease liability, other financial assets and other 
financial liabilities (which are not disclosed below) are considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their short 
term nature.
Particulars
As at March 31, 2025
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Investments
 897.70 
 -   
 -   
 897.70 
Trade receivables *
 -   
 -   
 2,943.12 
 2,943.12 
Others financial asset
-  Non current
 -   
 -   
 8.47 
 8.47 
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 58.66 
 58.66 
Total financial assets
 897.70 
 -   
 3,010.25 
 3,907.95 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
-  Non current
 -   
 -   
 0.74 
 0.74 
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 1.39 
 1.39 
Trade payables *
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 1,647.03 
 1,647.03 
Other financial liabilities
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 95.85 
 95.85 
Total financial liabilities
 -   
 -   
 1,745.01 
 1,745.01 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
330
Dreamfolks Services Limited
331
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets
Investments
 438.68 
 -   
 -   
 438.68 
Trade receivables *
 -   
 -   
 2,649.92 
 2,649.92 
Others financial asset
-  Non current
 -   
 -   
 3.75 
 3.75 
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 105.59 
 105.59 
Total financial assets
 438.68 
 -   
 2,759.26 
 3,197.94 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 2.30 
 2.30 
Trade payables *
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 1,629.59 
 1,629.59 
Other financial liabilities
-  Current *
 -   
 -   
 21.03 
 21.03 
Total financial liabilities
 -   
 -   
 1,652.92 
 1,652.92 
The fair value of financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in 
a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
* The carrying amounts are considered to approximate their fair values largely due to short term maturities of these 
instruments.
Note:	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
1	
There were no transfers between level 1 and level 2  and level 3 in any of the years reported above.
2	
The level 1 financial instruments are measured using quotes in active market.
37.	 Capital Management
	
The Group’s objectives while managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern and optimise returns for 
its shareholders. For the purpose of the Group’s capital management, capital includes issued equity capital and equity reserves 
attributable to the equity shareholders and net debt includes interest bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents 
including other bank balances. The Group’s policy is to maintain a stable and strong capital structure with a focus on total equity 
so as to maintain investor, creditors and market confidence and to sustain future development and growth of its business. 
 
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the requirements 
of the financial covenants. The Group’s funding requirements are met through internal accruals, short-term and long-term 
borrowings. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended March 
31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
38.	 Additional information pursuant to Schedule III of Companies Act, 2013, “General instructions for the preparation of 
consolidated financial statements”:
Name of the entity in the Group
Net assets, i.e., total 
assets minus total 
liabilities
Share in profit / loss
Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income 
(OCI)
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income 
(TCI)
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
Profit /loss
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
OCI
Amount
As % of 
consolidated 
TCI
Amount
A. Parent
DreamFolks Services Limited
Balance as at 31 March, 2025
102%
 3,058.45 
107%
 696.83 
352%
 (0.92)
107%
 695.91 
Balance as at 31 March, 2024
100%
 2,370.82 
102%
 696.83 
95%
 (1.66)
102%
 695.17 
B. Subsidiary
Golfklik Private Limited
Balance as at 31 March, 2025
0%
 (8.63)
-1%
 (9.47)
0%
 -   
-1%
 (9.47)
Balance as at 31 March, 2024
0%
 0.84 
-1%
 (9.19)
0%
 -   
-1%
 (9.19)
Dreamfolks Hospitality Private 
Limited*
Balance as at 31 March, 2025
0%
 -   
0%
 -   
0%
 -   
0%
 -   
Balance as at 31 March, 2024
0%
 -   
0%
 (0.02)
0%
 -   
0%
 (0.02)
Dreamfolks Services Pte Limited
Balance as at 31 March, 2025
-1%
 (34.36)
-6%
 (36.87)
0%
 -   
-6%
 (36.87)
Balance as at 31 March, 2024
0%
 (1.31)
0%
 (1.31)
0%
 -   
0%
 (1.31)
Non controlling interest in 
subsidiaries
Balance as at 31 March, 2025
0%
 (3.45)
0%
 -   
0%
 -   
0%
 -   
Balance as at 31 March, 2024
0%
 0.34 
0%
 -   
0%
 -   
0%
 -   
Elimination adjustment
Balance as at 31 March, 2025
0%
 (5.92)
0%
 -   
-252%
 0.66 
0%
 0.66 
Balance as at 31 March, 2024
0%
 (6.56)
0%
 0.06 
5%
 (0.09)
0%
 (0.03)
Total
Balance as at 31 March, 2025
101%
 3,006.09 
100%
 650.50 
100%
 (0.26)
100%
650.24 
Balance as at 31 March, 2024
100%
 2,364.13 
100%
 686.37 
95%
 (1.75)
100%
684.62 
*Dreamfolks Hospitality Private Limited has been struck off.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
332
Dreamfolks Services Limited
333
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
39.	  Contingent Liabilties, capital and other commitments :
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
(a) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital 
account and not provided for (net of advances)
 1.25 
 2.35 
(b) Contingent Liabilities- Bank guarantees 
 110.00 
 191.21 
(c) Indirect tax cases
122.25
23.32
40.	 Disclosures as required by Indian Accounting Standard 19 on Employee Benefits :
I.	
Defined contribution plans
	
The Group makes contributions in the form of provident funds as considered defined contribution plans and contributions 
to Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have 
been paid. The following are the schemes covered under defined contribution plans of the Group:
	
Provident Fund Plan & Employee Pension Scheme:
	
The Group makes monthly contributions at prescribed rates towards the Employee Provident Fund Scheme, administered 
and managed by the Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India.
	
Employee State Insurance:
	
The Group makes prescribed monthly contributions towards the Employees State Insurance Scheme, and the payments 
are made to the Employees State Insurance Corporation, Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India.
	
The Group has charged the following costs in contribution to Provident and Other Funds in the Statement of Profit and 
Loss:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Contribution to provident fund
 8.73 
 7.79 
Administrative charges on above fund
 0.46 
 0.39 
Contribution to labour welfare fund
 0.11 
 0.09 
Contribution to national pension system
 2.04 
 1.19 
Contribution to employees' state insurance
 0.01 
 0.02 
 11.34 
 9.47 
II.	
Gratuity	
	
	
	
	
	
	
The Group have an obligation towards gratuity, a defined benefit plan covering eligible employees as per the Payment 
of Gratuity Act, 1972. However, other companies in the group are not making any provision in relation to gratuity as 
these companies have number of employee less than the number prescribed under Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 for 
apllicability. The plan provides for a lump-sum payment to vested employees at retirement, death while in employment 
or on termination of employment of an amount equivalent to 15 days salary payable for each completed year of service. 
Vesting occurs upon completion of five years of service. The gratuity benefits are unfunded.
	
Gratuity liability is provided for on the basis of an actuarial valuation on projected unit credit method made at the end 
of each financial year. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated 
future cash outflows by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting year on government bonds that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related obligation.	
	
	
	
	
	
III.	
Leave plan and compensated absences
	
The Group has a leave encashment scheme with defined benefits for its employees. The Group makes provision for such 
liability in the books of accounts on the basis of year end actuarial valuation. No fund has been created for this scheme.
IV.	
For summarizing the components of net benefit expense recognized in the statement of profit and loss and the funded 
status and amounts recognized in the balance sheet for the respective plans, the details are as under:
a.	
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation:
Gratuity
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Opening defined benefit obligation
 25.62 
 18.12 
Interest cost
 1.85 
 1.33 
Total service cost
 4.81 
 3.95 
Benefits paid
 - 
 - 
Actuarial (gains)/losses on obligation
 1.23 
 2.22 
Closing defined benefit obligation
 33.51 
 25.62 
b.	
Changes in fair value of plan assets:
Gratuity
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Opening fair value of plan assets
 - 
 - 
Expected return
 - 
 - 
Contributions
 - 
 - 
Benefits paid
 - 
 - 
Actuarial (gains)/losses
 - 
 - 
Closing fair value of plan assets
 - 
 - 
c.	
Net employee benefit expense recognized in statement of profit and loss:
Gratuity
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Total service cost
 4.81 
 3.95 
Interest cost
 1.85 
 1.33 
Total expense
 6.66 
 5.28 
Gratuity
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Net Actuarial (Gain)/ Loss
 1.23 
 2.22 
Net employee benefit expense recognized in other comprehensive income
Net employee benefit expense recognized in other comprehensive income
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
334
Dreamfolks Services Limited
335
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
d.	
Amount recognised in the balance sheet:
Gratuity
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Present value of obligation as at the end of the year
 33.51 
 25.62 
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
 - 
 - 
Net asset/ (liability) recognized in balance sheet
 33.51 
 25.62 
Gratuity
e.	
The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity for the Company’s plans are shown below:
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Discount rate (%)
6.99 p.a.
7.22 p.a.
Expected salary increase (%)
10.00 p.a.
10.00 p.a.
Average remaining working lives of employees
24.32 years
23.18 years
Average past service (years)
2.48 years
2.42 years
Demographic Assumptions
Retirement Age (year)
 58 years 
58 years
Mortality rates inclusive of provision for disability  
 100% of IALM 
(2012 - 14) 
100% of IALM 
(2012 - 14)
The estimate of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation, take account of inflation, seniority, 
promotion and other relevant factors, such as supply and demand in the employment market. The above information 
is certified by Actuary.
Gratuity
f.	
Sensitivity analysis of the defined benefit obligation:
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Impact of the change in discount rate
Present value of obligation at the end of the year
 33.51 
 25.62 
Impact due to increase of 0.50%
 (1.10)
 (0.91)
Impact due to decrease of 0.50%
 1.15 
 0.95 
Impact of the change in salary increase
Present value of obligation at the end of the year
 33.51 
 25.62 
Impact due to increase of 0.50%
 1.11 
 0.92 
Impact due to decrease of 0.50%
 (1.07)
 (0.89)
Maturity profile of defined benefit obligations
Gratuity
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
0 to 1 Year
 1.69 
 1.18 
1 to 2 Year
 2.01 
 1.42 
2 to 3 Year
 1.98 
 1.38 
3 to 4 Year
 2.25 
 1.34 
4 to 5 Year
 2.12 
 1.53 
5 to 6 Year
 1.52 
 1.45 
6 Year onwards
 21.94 
 17.31 
Expected contribution for the next annual reporting year.
Gratuity
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Service cost
 5.84 
 4.60 
Net interest cost
 2.34 
 1.85 
Expected expense for the next annual reporting year
 8.18 
 6.45 
41.	 Share - based payments
	
Employee Stock Option Plan 2021 namely “ESOP 2021” was adopted by the Board of Directors vide its resolution dated 
September 28, 2021 and by the shareholders vide its resolution dated September 29, 2021. Under the ESOP 2021, the Group 
granted stock options (""Grant 1"") to the eligible employees of Group which will vest over a period of 3 years from date of 
Grant and are exercisable for a period of 5 years once vested. 
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Group has approved further grants (""Grant 2 and Grant 3"") under 
ESOP 2021 with related vesting conditions. Vesting of the options would be subject to continous employment and certain 
performance parameters stipulated by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Group. Hence the options would 
vest with the passage of the time on meeting the performance parameters. However, the above performace condition is only 
considered in determining the numbers of instruments that will ultimately vest. Options have been granted with vesting period 
of upto 7 years and are exercisable for a period of 5 years once vested. 
	
The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using the Black- Scholes option pricing model, taking into 
account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted.
	
There are no cash settlement alternatives. The Group does not have a past practice of cash settlement for these share options. 
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions
 47.80 
 60.09 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
336
Dreamfolks Services Limited
337
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Movements during the year 
The following table illustrates the number of, and movements in, share options during the year:
Description
As at 
March 31, 2025
As at 
March 31, 2024
Numbers
Numbers
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
 21,23,338 
 28,70,750 
Granted during the year
 - 
 2,00,000 
Exercised during the year
 2,43,950
 7,75,912 
Expired/ lapsed during the year
9,23,713
 1,71,500 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 9,55,675
 21,23,338 
Exercisable at the end of the year
 5,25,150
 7,75,913 
The following table list the inputs to the valuation model used for the plan for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 
2024:
Grant 1
Grant 2
Grant 3
Dividend yield (%)
0%
0%
0%
Volatility (%)
18.37%  - 22.30%
18.37%  - 39.55%
18.37%  - 39.55%
Attrition rate (%)
0%
20%
0%
Risk–free interest rate (%)
4.17% - 5.11%
 7.24% - 7.32% 
 7.24% - 7.32% 
Average expected life of options (years)
1.5 years  - 3.5 years
 1 years  - 7 years 
 1 years  - 5 years 
Weighted average share price (Rs. Per share)
NA
 Rs. 428.95 per share 
 Rs. 428.95 per share 
ESOP fair value at the grant date (Rupees)
Rs. 17.53 per share
 Rs. 368.29 per share 
 Rs. 368.29 per share 
Date of grant
29th September 
2021
 24th February 2023 
 05th June 2023 
Model used
Black Scholes Model
 Black Scholes Model 
 Black Scholes Model 
Exercise price (Rupees per share)
Rs 96.46 per share
 Rs 96.46 per share 
 Rs 96.46 per share 
42.	 During the year ended March 31, 2025, Nomination and remuneration committee of the Company had approved allotment 
of 243,950 equity shares of face value of INR 2/- each at applicable exercise price to eligible employees under the "Employee 
Stock Option Plan 2021". Accordingly, the Parent company had allotted 243,950 equity shares of face value of INR 2 each 
to the eligible employees and that leads to increase in paid up equity share capital from INR 106.05 millions to INR 106.54 
millions.
	
During the year ended March 31, 2024, Nomination and remuneration committee of the Parent company had approved 
allotment of 775,912 equity shares of face value of INR 2/- each at applicable exercise price to eligible employees under the 
“Employee Stock Option Plan 2021".  Accordingly, the Parent company had allotted 775,912 equity shares of face value of 
INR 2 each to the eligible employees and that leads to increase in paid up equity share capital from INR 104.50 millions to INR 
106.05 millions.
43.	 During the year ended March 31,2025, the Company had declared and paid final dividend of INR 1.50/- per equity share of 
face value INR 2/- each for the year ended March 31, 2024.
	
During the year ended March 31,2024, the Company had declared and paid interim dividend of INR 0.50/- per equity share of 
face value INR 2/- each for the year ended March 31, 2024.
44.	 Related Party Transactions in accordance with Indian Accounting Standard (IND AS) -24
	
The related parties as per the terms of Ind AS-24,“Related Party Disclosures”, notified under section 133 of the Companies Act 
2013 (the Act) read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 (as amended from time to time)}, as disclosed 
below:
Related parties and nature of related party relationship with whom transactions have taken place during the year
1
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
Liberatha Peter Kallat (Chairperson and Managing Director)
Balaji Srinivasan (Executive Director)
Giya Diwaan (Chief Financial Officer) (upto February 14, 2025)
Rangoli Aggarwal (Company Secretary) (upto August 30, 2024)
Harshit Gupta (Company Secretary) (w.e.f. September 06, 2024)
 Mukesh Yadav (Non - Exective Director)
 Balaji Srinivasan (Executive Director)
 Sharadchandra Damodar Abhayankar, Independent Director (upto November 29, 2024)
 Mario Anthony Nazareth, Independent Director (upto November 28, 2023)
 Monica Wihdhwani, Independent Director (w.e.f. September 06, 2024)
 Sunil Kulkarni, Independent Director (w.e.f. November 21, 2024)
 Aditi Balbir, Independent Director (upto July 17, 2023)
 Sudhir Jain, Independent Director (upto November 29, 2024)
 Prerna Kohli, Independent Director (from November 28, 2023)
 Ravindra Pandey, Independent Director (from November 28, 2023)
 Sammerjit Singh Raikhy, Director of Golfklik Private Limited
 Sanyam Nagpal (Son of Mr. Dinesh Nagpal)
 Sahil Yadav (Son of Mukesh Yadav)
2
Enterprises over which individual and their relatives exercise significant influence with whom transactions have 
taken place during the year
Whistling Heights Resorts Private Limited*
LMD Estate Private Limited*
Urban Land Management Private Limited
Ankur Associates*
DLM Technologies Private Limited*
Pockket Payment Technologies Private Limited
Earth Raga Personal Care Private Limited
Redberyl Lifestyle Services Pvt Ltd(Since 13.02.2024)
Smiti Foundation
* No transactions with these entities during the year.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
338
Dreamfolks Services Limited
339
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
a.	
Transactions with related parties
(A)	 Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) and Relatives
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Revenue from operations
Pockket Payment Technologies Private Limited 
 - 
 0.15 
Redberyl Lifestyle Services Pvt Ltd
 3.88 
 0.40 
Business Promotion expense
Earth Raga Personal Care Private Limited
 - 
 0.05 
Contribution to a trust controlled by Directors of the 
Group in relation to CSR expenditure
Smiti Foundation
 1.40 
 7.88 
Travelling expense
Redberyl Lifestyle Services Pvt Ltd
 7.82 
 - 
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Reimbursements
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
 4.67 
 2.17 
Balaji Srinivasan
 0.50 
 0.63 
Giya Diwaan 
 0.54 
 0.87 
Rangoli Aggarwal
 0.23 
 0.54 
Harshit Gupta
 0.38 
 - 
Sanyam Nagpal
 - 
 0.53 
Expenses paid on the behalf of the Group
Dinesh Nagpal  
 - 
 0.03 
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
 - 
 0.17 
Balaji Srinivasan
 - 
 0.01 
Giya Diwaan 
 0.12 
 - 
Rangoli Aggarwal
 0.00 
 - 
Sammerjit Singh Raikhy
 - 
 0.33 
Sanyam Nagpal
 0.01 
 0.01 
*The remuneration to the key managerial personnel and their relatives does not include the provision made 
for gratuity and leave benefits,as they are determined on an actuarial basis for the Parent Company as a whole.
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Sitting fee
Mukesh Yadav
 0.69 
 0.49 
Dinesh Nagpal
 0.40 
 0.33 
Sharadchandra Damodar Abhayankar
 0.23 
 0.44 
Monica Wihdhwani
 0.17 
 - 
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Sunil Kulkarni
 0.17 
 - 
Mario Anthony Nazareth
 - 
 0.25 
Aditi Balbir
 - 
 0.18 
Sudhir Jain
 0.48 
 0.49 
Ravindra Pandey
 0.66 
 0.14 
Prerna Kohli
 0.58 
 0.08 
Loan/Advance given to Directors
Balaji Srinivasan
 0.50 
 - 
Amount paid by the Group on the behalf of 
Independent Director
Prerna Kohli
 - 
 0.02 
IPO Expenses on behalf of selling shareholders
Mukesh Yadav 
 0.76 
 99.70 
Dinesh Nagpal  
 0.76 
 99.68 
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
 0.48 
 65.70 
Rent Payment
Dinesh Nagpal
 0.27 
 0.74 
(B)	 Enterprises over which individual and their relatives exercise significant influence
b.	
 Balances of related parties as at:
(A)	 Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Remuneration payable
Balaji Srinivasan 
 - 
 0.15 
Giya Diwaan
 2.19 
 - 
Sammerjit Singh Raikhy
 - 
 0.37 
Reimbursement payable
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
 - 
 2.17 
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Remuneration*
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
 53.05 
 44.54 
Balaji Srinivasan
 10.04 
 8.68 
Giya Diwaan 
 10.28 
 9.13 
Rangoli Aggarwal
 0.95 
 1.71 
Harshit Gupta
 1.36 
 - 
Sammerjit Singh Raikhy
 0.60 
 2.40 
Sanyam Nagpal
 1.72 
 0.67 
Mukesh Yadav
 0.37 
 - 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
340
Dreamfolks Services Limited
341
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
Balaji Srinivasan 
 - 
 0.63 
Giya Diwaan
 - 
 0.58 
Expenses payable
Liberatha Peter Kallat 
 - 
 0.17 
Sanyam Nagpal
 - 
 0.00 
Sammerjit Singh Raikhy
 - 
 0.01 
Particulars
For the year ended 
March 31, 2025
For the year ended 
March 31, 2024
 Trade receivables 	
Pocket Payment Technologies Private Limited
 0.30 
 0.30 
Redberyl Lifestyle Services Pvt Ltd
 0.09 
 0.40 
(B)	 Enterprises over which individual and their relatives exercise significant influence
45.	 Segment information
	
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and 
incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group's other components and 
for which discrete financial information is available. All operating segments' operating results are reviewed regularly by 
Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and assess their performance. The 
Group’s business activity falls within a single segment, which is providing benefit management services through a proprietory 
technology platform, that empowers clients to tailor airport and lifestyles services offerings for their end customers, in terms 
of Ind AS 108 on Segment Reporting. 
	
In view of the management, there is only one reportable segment as envisaged by Indian Accounting Standard 108, 'Operating 
Segments' as prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with relevant rules issued thereunder. 
Accordingly, no disclosure for segment reporting has been made in the financial statements.
46.	 The Group has outstanding undrawn sanction limit of fund based and non fund based as given below:
Particulars
Bank
Interest rate
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
a) Fund based facility
Cash Credit/WCDL/Inland Bill Discounting#
ICICI Bank
9% / 8.5% / 8.4%
 400.00 
 400.00 
Cash Credit/WCDL
HDFC Bank
8.9% / 8.65%
 400.00 
 400.00 
Cash Credit/WCDL*
DBS Bank
9% p.a.
 500.00 
 - 
b) Non fund based facility
Bank guarantee
HDFC Bank
NA
 150.00 
 150.00 
# It includes bank gurantee
* Sanction limits are secured against fixed deposits and net current assets of the company
* It includes bank gurantee
46A	Disclosure pursuant to the requirement as specified under Paragraph 6(L)(ix) (a) and (b) of the General instructions for 
the preparation of Balance Sheet of Schedule III of the Act.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
During the year ended March 31, 2025, discrepancies between the quarterly statements Trade receivable, Trade payable and 
Advance to vendors filed by the company with banks and the books of accounts occurred due to the following reasons:
Quarter ended
Particulars
Amount reported 
in the quarterly 
statement/return
Amount as 
per Books
Difference
Reasons for material 
variances	
June 2024
Trade Receivables
 3,115.15 
 3,124.87 
 (9.72)
The difference is due to 
following:
a) Submissions 
being 
made 
to Bank basis provisional 
financial information prior 
to 
Company's 
financial 
reporting closure process.
b) Difference in Category of 
Trade receiveable reported 
in Financials and  statement.
c)  Classification 
of 
Trade 
payable in Books and Bank 
Statement.
September 2024
Trade Receivables
 3,884.01 
 4,063.50 
 (179.49)
December 2024
Trade Receivables
 2,878.63 
 3,233.00 
 (354.37)
March 2025
Trade Receivables
 2,896.98 
 2,943.12 
 (46.14)
June 2024
Trade payable
 1,728.74 
 1,750.71 
 (21.97)
September 2024
Trade payable
 1,738.00 
 1,759.94 
 (21.94)
December 2024
Trade payable
 1,839.27 
 1,887.25 
 (47.98)
March 2025
Trade payable
 1,640.36 
 1,645.54 
 (5.19)
June 2024
Advance to vendors
 94.87 
 114.62 
 (19.75)
September 2024
Advance to vendors
 39.45 
 46.92 
 (7.47)
December 2024
Advance to vendors
 84.42 
 90.60 
 (6.18)
March 2025
Advance to vendors
 67.88 
 45.48 
 22.40 
47.	 In the opinion of the management there is no reduction in value of any assets, unless otherwise stated, in terms of requirement 
of Indian Accounting Standard – 36 “ Impairment of Assets”.
48.	 Statutory Information : 
A)	
The Group do not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Group for 
holding any Benami property.
B)	
The Group do not have any transactions with struck off companies under Section 248 of the Companies Act, 2013 or 
Section 560 of Companies Act, 1956.
C)	
The Group do not have any charges or satisfaction which is yet to be registered with Registrar of Companies (ROC) 
beyond the statutory year.
D)	
The Group have not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year.
E)	
The Group has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans to promoters, directors, KMPs and the related 
parties (as defined under Companies Act, 2013), either severally or jointly with any other person, that are repayable on 
demand or without specifying any terms or period of repayment.
F)	
The Group have not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person or entity, including foreign entities 
(Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries); or
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
G)	
The Group have not received any fund from any person or entity, including foreign entities (Funding Party) with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall:
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries); or
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries,
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
342
Dreamfolks Services Limited
343
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Consolidated
H)	
The Group do not have any such transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been surrendered or 
disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (such as, search or survey or 
any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
I)	
The Group have not been declared a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender (as defined under 
the Companies Act, 2013) or consortium thereof, in accordance with the guidelines on wilful defaulters issued by the 
Reserve Bank of India.
J)	
The Company has not revalued any of its property, plant and equipments or intangible assets during the year.
49.	 In the previous year, bank charges were presented under ""Finance Costs."" During the current year, the Group has reclassified 
bank charges under ""Other Expenses"" to more appropriately reflect the nature of the expense. Accordingly, the comparative 
figures have been regrouped to conform to the current year's presentation.
	
The management believes that the reclassification does not have any material impact on information presented in the balance 
sheet at the beginning of the preceding period, viz., 1 April 2023. Accordingly, the Group has not presented third balance sheet 
in the financial statements	
	
	
	
	
	
50.	 As per the MCA notification dated August 5, 2022, the Central Government has notified the Companies (Accounts) Fourth 
Amendment Rules, 2022. As per the amended rules, the Companies are required to maintain the back-up of the books of 
account and other relevant books and papers in electronic mode that should be accessible in India at all the time. Also, the 
Companies are required to create back-up of accounts on servers physically located in India on a daily basis. The books of 
account along with other relevant records and papers of the Company are maintained in electronic mode. These are readily 
accessible in India at all times and a back-up is maintained in servers situated in India and The Company and its officers have 
full access to the data in the servers.
51.	 The Company has used an accounting software for maintaining its books of accounts for the financial year ended March 31, 
2025 which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility except audit trail functionality at the database level due to 
inherent limitations of the software and the same has operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in 
the accounting software systems. Further, during the course of our audit we did not come across any instance of audit trail 
feature being tampered with and the audit trail has been preserved by the Company as per the statutory requirements for 
record retention.
52.	 Event after balance sheet date
	
No events have occurred between the reporting date and the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements (i.e., 
up to May 23, 2025) that would require adjustment to, or disclosure in, the financial statements in accordance with the 
requirements of Ind AS 10 – Events after the Reporting Period.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of
Dreamfolks Services Limited
As per our report of even date attached
Liberatha Peter Kallat
Mukesh Yadav
For S S Kothari Mehta & Co. LLP
Chairperson and Managing Director
Director
Chartered Accountants
DIN: 06849062
DIN: 01105819
Firm Reg. No. 000756N/N500441
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Sunil Wahal
Shekhar Sood
Harshit Gupta
Partner
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Membership No: 087294
M.No.: 514643
M.No.: A41111
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Place: Gurugram
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Date: 23-05-2025
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended March 31, 2025
All amounts are in INR million, unless otherwise stated
Annual Report 2024-25
344
Dreamfolks Services Limited
345
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Unit no 301-307, 3rd floor, Good Earth 
Trade Tower, Sector 62, Gurugram 122102, 
Haryana, India 
Call us at 0124 4037 306 
Email at compliance@dreamfolks.com
