 
 
 
July 18, 2025 
NaƟonal Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) 
Exchange Plaza,  
C-1, Block G Bandra Kurla Complex  
Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400 051  
 
NSE Symbol: ELGIEQUIP 
BSE Limited (BSE) 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,  
Dalal Street, Fort, 
Mumbai - 400 001 
 
BSE Scrip Code: 522074 
 
Dear Madam/ Sir,  
 
Subject: Annual Report for the ﬁnancial year ended on March 31, 2025 including Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report and NoƟce of Sixty FiŌh Annual General MeeƟng 
(“65th AGM”) of the Company  
 
Pursuant to the RegulaƟon 34 of the SecuriƟes Exchange Board of India (LisƟng ObligaƟons 
and Disclosure Requirements) RegulaƟons, 2015 (“SEBI LisƟng RegulaƟons”), please ﬁnd 
enclosed the electronic copy of the Annual Report for the ﬁnancial year ended 31st March 
2025 including Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report and NoƟce of the 65th AGM 
of the Company to be held on Tuesday, August 12, 2025 at 4:30 PM (IST) through Video 
Conferencing/ Other Audio-Visual Means ("VC/ OAVM"). 
 
The above are also being uploaded on the Company’s website at www.elgi.com, and on the 
website of MUFG InƟme India Private Limited (Formerly, Link InƟme India Private Limited) at 
instavote.linkinƟme.co.in. 
 
Further, in terms of SecƟon 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and AdministraƟon) Rules, 2014 (as amended), the Company has ﬁxed Tuesday, 
August 5, 2025, as the cut-oﬀ date to determine the eligibility of the members to cast their 
vote through remote e-VoƟng and e-VoƟng during the 65th AGM. 
 
The above is for your informaƟon and record. 
 
Thanking you, 
Yours faithfully 
FOR ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED 
 
 
 
INDRANIL SEN  
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER  
Encl.: as above 
 
INDRAN
IL SEN
Digitally signed 
by INDRANIL SEN 
Date: 2025.07.18 
10:29:57 +05'30'
P O W E R I N G  A H E A D  W I T H
PURPOSE AND PERFORMANCE.
ANNUAL REPORT
2024-2025
2
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
2
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
CIN: L29120TZ1960PLC000351
Sixty Fifth 
Annual General Meeting
Date of AGM: August 12, 2025     |     Day: Tuesday     |     Time: 4.30 P.M. (IST)
Board of Directors
Non-Executive Directors
Ms. Aruna Thangaraj 
Mr. Srinivasan Krishnamurthi  
(appointed with effect from July 31, 2024)
Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran  
(appointed with effect from July 31, 2024)
Mr. Suman Kumar Das  
(appointed with effect from July 31, 2024)
Mr. N Mohan Nambiar  
(Retired with effect from April 10, 2024) 
Mr. B Vijayakumar  
(Cessation with effect from August 01, 2024)  
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj 
Dr. Ganesh Devaraj  
(Cessation with effect from August 01, 2024) 
Mr. M Ramprasad  
(Cessation with effect from August 01, 2024)
Managing Director
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj
Executive Director
Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Indranil Sen 
Company Secretary
Mrs. Devika Sathyanarayana 
(resigned with effect from June 09, 2025)
Statutory Auditors
Price Waterhouse Chartered
Accountants LLP,
Chartered Accountants
Secretarial Auditors
MDS & Associates LLP,
Company Secretaries
Cost Auditors
STR & Associates, Cost Accountants
Bankers
Central Bank of India
State Bank of India
The Hong kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
HDFC Bank Limited
Citi Bank NA
ICICI Bank Limited
The IDBI Bank Limited
IndusInd Bank Limited
Registered Office
ELGI Industrial Complex III, Trichy Road Singanallur,  
Coimbatore – 641 005
Phone: 91-422-2589555
Fax: 91-422-2573697
Website: www.elgi.com
E-mail: investor@elgi.com
Registrar & Share Transfer Agents
MUFG Intime India Private Limited  
(Formerly Link Intime India Private Limited)
Coimbatore Branch
“Surya”, 35 Mayflower Avenue 
2nd Floor, Behind Senthil Nagar 
Sowripalayam Road 
Coimbatore - 641 028
Tel: 0422- 2314792/5792
E-mail: coimbatore@in.mpms.mufg.com
Table of Contents
07
Notice of the  
Sixty Second 
Annual General Meeting
59
Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability 
Report
108
Corporate  
Governance Report
28
Management  
Discussion and Analysis
133
Auditors’ Report on Standalone 
Financial Statements
34
Board’s Report
147
Standalone Financial Statements
229
Auditors’ Report on Consolidated 
Financial Statements
241 
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
4
ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT
In this Annual Report, we have disclosed forward-looking information to enable investors to fully 
appreciate our prospects and take informed investment decisions. This report and other statements – 
written and oral – that we periodically make, contain forward-looking statements that set our anticipated 
results based on management plans and assumptions. We have tried, where possible, to identify such 
statements by using such words as ‘anticipate’, ‘expect’, ‘project’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and words of 
similar substance in connection with any discussion of future performance.
We cannot, of course, guarantee that this forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe 
we have been prudent in our assumptions. Achievement of results is subject to risks, uncertainties, 
or potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, 
or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those 
anticipated, estimated or projected. Readers should bear this in mind.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of 
new information, future events, or otherwise.
Year at a glance
01
6
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
6
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
YEAR AT A GLANCE
(` in million, except per equity share data) 
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Income
Revenue from operations
35,104 
32,178 
Other income
577 
550 
Total income
35,681 
32,728 
Expenditure
Cost of materials consumed
12,951 
12,076 
Purchases of stock-in-trade
4,127 
3,610 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories
96 
3
Staff cost
6,828 
6,549
Finance cost
305 
293 
Depreciation and amortisation 
expenses
760 
766 
Other expenditure
5,853 
5,079 
Total expenditure
30,920 
28,376 
Profit/(Loss)
Profit before tax
4,761 
4,352 
Less: Tax expenses
1,314 
1,283 
Add: Share of profit from joint 
ventures
55 
52 
Net Profit
3,502 
3,121 
Others
Paid up Equity share capital
317 
317 
Reserves and surplus
18,339 
15,795 
Capital expenditure
948 
489 
Cash flow from operations
3,909 
2,849 
Basic Earnings per share (in `)
11.09 
9.87 
Dividend per share (in `)*
2.20 
2.00 
Number of shareholders
68,533 
55,150 
Number of employees
2,138 
2,172 
*proposed dividend
35,104  
Revenue
3,502  
Net profit
Consolidated Financial Statements
Notice of the 65th 
Annual General Meeting
02
8
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
8
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
NOTICE OF THE 65TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Ordinary Business
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt the Standalone and 
Consolidated Audited Annual Financial Statements 
including Statement of Profit and Loss (including 
Other Comprehensive Income), along with the 
Statement of Cash Flows and the Statement of 
Changes in Equity for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2025, the Balance Sheet as at that date, 
the Report of the Board of Directors and the 
Auditors Report thereon.
2.	
To declare a final dividend @220% equivalent to 
` 2.20/- per equity share having Face Value of ` 1/- 
each for the financial year ended March 31, 2025.
3.	
To appoint a director in place of Mr. Sudarsan 
Varadaraj (DIN: 00133533), who retires by rotation 
and being eligible, seeks re-appointment.
Special Business
4.	
To consider and ratify the remuneration payable to 
the Cost Auditor 
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 148 and other applicable provisions, if any, 
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, (including any 
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof 
for the time being in force), M/s. STR & Associates 
(Firm Registration No.000029), Cost Accountants, 
who was appointed as Cost Auditors of the Company 
by the Board of Directors on the recommendation 
of the Audit Committee, to conduct the audit of 
the cost accounting records of the Company for 
the financial year 2025-26 on a remuneration of 
` 5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakhs only) per annum, 
exclusive of applicable taxes and reimbursement of 
out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with 
the aforesaid audit fixed by the Board of Directors 
be and is hereby ratified and confirmed.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Directors of the 
Company be and are hereby authorised to do all such 
acts, and take all such steps as may be necessary, 
proper or expedient, to give effect to this resolution. 
5.	
To consider and approve the appointment and 
remuneration of Secretarial Auditor
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as a Ordinary Resolution:
RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 
204 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 9 of the Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation  24A and 
other applicable provisions, if any, of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India  (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(including any statutory modification(s) or re-
enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force), and 
on the recommendation of the Board of Directors of 
the Company, MDS & Associates LLP (LLPIN: ABZ - 
8060; ICSI Unique Code: L2023TN013500), Company 
Secretaries, Coimbatore be and are hereby appointed 
as the Secretarial Auditors of the Company for 
a first term of five (5) consecutive financial years 
commencing from the financial year 2025-26 at such 
remuneration, as may be mutually agreed between 
the Board of Directors of the Company and the 
Secretarial Auditors.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Sixty Fifth Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of 
the Shareholders of ELGi Equipments Limited (“the Company”) will be held on 
Tuesday, August 12, 2025 at 4:30 P.M. (IST) through Video Conferencing/Other Audio-
Visual Means (“VC/OAVM”) facility, to transact the following businesses:
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
9
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
9
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Directors of the 
Company be and are hereby authorised to do 
all such acts, and take all such steps as may be 
necessary, proper or expedient to give effect to 
this resolution.
6.	
To consider and approve the re-appointment 
and remuneration of Mr. Jairam Varadaraj as 
Managing Director
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as a Special Resolution:
RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 196, 197, 198, 203, Schedule V and and other 
applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 
2013, (“the Act”) read with Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 
2014 and Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”) (including 
any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) 
thereof, for the time being in force), and pursuant 
to the provisions of the Articles of Association of 
the Company, Nomination & Remuneration Policy, 
the consent of the Members of the Company, be 
and is hereby accorded for the re-appointment 
of Mr. Jairam Varadaraj (DIN: 00003361) as the 
Managing Director of the Company for a further 
period of 5 (five) years with effect from April 01, 2026 
till March 31, 2031 on the following terms and 
conditions as recommended by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee and approved by the Audit 
Committee and Board of Directors at their respective 
meetings held on May 28, 2025, notwithstanding the 
fact that the annual remuneration payable to him in 
any financial year during his tenure along with the 
remuneration payable to Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj, 
Executive Director, may exceed 5% of net profits 
of the Company pursuant to Regulation 17(6)(e) of 
Listing Regulations or any other limits as specified 
by the Listing Regulations or the Act for the time 
being in force.
(1)	 A total remuneration not exceeding ` 450 lakhs 
per annum for a period of 3 years with 
effect from April 01, 2026 to March 31, 2029. 
The amount of ` 450 lakhs is on a cost to the 
Company basis and is inclusive of:
a.	 Bonus/Performance Pay and all perquisites 
as applicable to all senior managerial 
personnel of the Company. 
b.	 Company’s contribution towards Provident 
Fund, Gratuity and Superannuation Fund at 
rates to be from time to time. 
(2)	 Of the total remuneration, 30% is variable 
component (bonus/performance pay) and the 
rest is guaranteed pay.
(3)	 The guaranteed pay will be structured based 
on the Company’s policy and the current pay 
structure as applicable to Senior Managerial 
Personnel. 
(4)	 The quantum of variable pay would be linked 
to the achievement of specified performance 
parameters, similar to the scheme applicable to 
other Senior Managerial Personnel for each of 
the next 3 years, as mentioned above. 
(5)	 The annual increment would be decided on the 
same principles/methodology adopted for other 
Senior Managerial Personnel for each of the 
next 3 years, as mentioned above. However, the 
total cost to the Company shall not exceed in 
any given year, an amount of ` 450 lakhs. 
(6)	 In the event of loss or inadequacy of profits in any 
financial year during the aforesaid period, the 
remuneration and perquisites mentioned above 
shall be the minimum remuneration payable to 
the Managing Director in accordance with the 
limits as specified by the Listing Regulations or 
the Act for the time being in force.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
(including Committees thereof) be and are  hereby 
authorized to alter and vary the terms of 
re-appointment and/or remuneration payable to 
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj, Managing Director, as it may 
deem fit, subject to the same not exceeding the 
limit as approved by the Members of the Company. 
10
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
10
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
NOTICE OF THE 65TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors 
be and are hereby severally authorized to take all 
such steps as may be necessary and/or give such 
directions as may be necessary, proper or expedient 
to give effect to the above resolutions without being 
required to seek any further consent or approval of 
the members and the members shall be deemed to 
have given their approval thereto expressly by the 
authority of this resolution.
Date: June 24, 2025	
By Order of the Board
Place: Coimbatore	
For ELGi Equipments Limited
Registered Office:
Elgi Industrial Complex III Trichy Road,
Singanallur, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, India,	
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj
641005	
Managing Director
Email: investor@elgi.com 	
DIN: 00003361
Website: www.elgi.com/in/	
CIN: L29120TZ1960PLC000351	
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
11
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
11
Notes:
1.	
The explanatory statement pursuant to Section 102 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), setting out 
all material facts concerning the special business 
under Item Nos. 4 to 6 of the accompanying 
Notice, is annexed hereto and forms part of this 
Notice. The Board of Directors of the Company 
at its meetings held on May 28, 2025 & June 24, 
2025, considered that the special business under 
Item Nos. 4 to 6 being considered unavoidable, 
be transacted at the 65th Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) of the Company.
2.	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) vide its 
General Circular Nos. 20/2020 and 09/2024 dated 
May 05, 2020 and September 19, 2024, respectively, 
(collectively referred to as “MCA Circulars”) 
allowed, inter-alia, to conduct AGM through Video 
Conferencing/Other 
Audio-Visual 
Means 
(“VC/
OAVM”), in accordance with the requirements 
provided in paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 of the 
MCA General Circular No. 20/2020. The Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) vide its 
circular 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-2/P/CIR/2024/133 
dated October 03, 2024 (“SEBI Circulars”) has 
provided certain relaxations from compliance with 
certain regulations of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“Listing Regulations”). In compliance with these 
MCA Circulars, SEBI Circulars, provisions of the 
Act and the Listing Regulations, the AGM of the 
Company is being conducted through VC/OAVM 
facility, which does not require physical presence of 
members at a common venue. The deemed venue 
for the AGM shall be the Registered Oﬃce of the 
Company. Members desirous of participating in 
the meeting through VC/OAVM, may refer to the 
procedures mentioned below.
3.	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a member 
entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled 
to appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his/her 
behalf and the proxy need not be a Member of the 
Company. Since this AGM is being held pursuant to 
the MCA Circulars/SEBI Circulars through VC/OAVM, 
physical attendance of Members has been dispensed 
with. Accordingly, the facility of appointment of 
proxies by the Members will not be available for the 
AGM and hence the Proxy Form, Attendance Slip 
and Road Map are not annexed to this Notice.
4.	 Institutional/Corporate Shareholders (i.e., other 
than individuals/HUF, NRI etc.,) are required to 
send a scanned copy (PDF/JPG Format) of its Board 
or governing body Resolution/Authorization etc., 
authorizing its representative to attend the AGM 
through VC/OAVM on its behalf and to vote through 
remote e-voting. The said Resolution/Authorization 
shall be sent to the Scrutinizer by email through its 
registered email address to elgi@mdsassociates.in with 
a copy marked to the Company at investor@elgi.com 
and to its Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”) 
at enotices@in.mpms.mufg.com. 
5.	
Dividend as recommended by the Board of Directors, 
if declared at the Annual General Meeting will be paid 
as per the mandate registered with the Company or 
with their respective Depository Participant(s) (“DP”), 
within 30 days from the date of declaration, to those 
Members whose names appear on the Register of 
Members in respect of shares held in physical form 
as well as in respect of shares held in electronic form 
as per the details received from the depositories for 
this purpose as on the Record Date i.e., close of the 
business hours on Friday, July 18, 2025.
6.	 Members who have not registered their bank 
account details with the DP/Company are advised 
to utilize the electronic solutions provided by 
National Automated Clearing House (“NACH”) for 
receiving dividends. Members holding shares in 
electronic form are requested to contact their 
respective Depository Participant(s) to avail this 
facility. Members holding shares in physical form 
are requested to download the NACH form from the 
website of the Company viz., www.elgi.com and the 
same, duly filled up and signed along with original 
cancelled cheque leaf may be sent to the Company 
or to the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”).
7.	
Members whose shareholding is in the electronic 
mode are requested to update bank account details 
(Bank Account Number, Name of the Bank, Branch, 
IFSC, MICR code and place with PIN Code) to their 
respective Depository Participant(s) and not with 
the Company. Regular updation of bank particulars 
is intended to prevent fraudulent activities.
8.	 Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) had 
earlier mandated that the transfer of securities held 
in physical form, except in case of transmission or 
transposition, shall not be processed by the listed 
entities/Registrar and Share Transfer Agents with 
effect from April 01, 2019.
12
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
12
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
NOTICE OF THE 65TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
A.	 Further, SEBI had mandated the listed entities to 
issue shares only in dematerialized mode, with 
effect from January 25, 2022 to Shareholder(s)/
claimant(s) holding shares in physical mode, 
as against their service requests including 
for transmission or transposition of shares. 
Accordingly, the Company shall only be providing 
a letter of confirmation to the investors against 
their service requests.
As per the said circular, the Company has 
opened a separate Escrow Demat Account 
for the purpose of crediting the shares of the 
Shareholders who fail to submit the letter of 
confirmation with the respective Depository 
Participant within the prescribed timeline.
B.	 Further, as per SEBI’s Master circular dated 
June 23, 2025, Members holding shares in 
physical form, whose folio(s) lack PAN, nomination 
details, contact details, Bank Account details 
or updated specimen signature, will only be 
eligible for payment, including dividend, interest 
or redemption, through electronic mode only, 
effective from April 01, 2024, upon updating the 
aforementioned details with MUFG Intime India 
Private Limited (Link Intime India Private Limited), 
the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent of the 
Company. Therefore, Members holding shares 
in physical form are requested to update the 
mentioned details by providing the appropriate 
requests through ISR forms with the Registrar and 
Share Transfer Agent to ensure receipt of dividend.
C.	 Necessary prior intimation(s) in this regard 
was provided to the Shareholders. A copy of 
the required circular(s) is/are available on the 
Company’s website www.elgi.com.
9.	
Change of Address: Members are requested to notify 
any change of address and bank details to their 
Depository Participants in respect of their holdings 
in electronic form and in respect of shares held in 
physical form, to the Secretarial Department at the 
registered office of the Company or to MUFG Intime 
India Private Limited (formerly Link Intime India 
Private Limited), “Surya”, 35 May Flower Avenue, 
II Floor, Behind Senthil Nagar, Sowripalayam, 
Coimbatore - 641028, the RTA of the Company.
10.	 Non-Resident Indian (“NRI”) Members are requested 
to inform the Company or its RTA or to the concerned 
Depository Participant(s), as the case may be, 
immediately:
a.	 the change in their residential status on return 
to India for permanent settlement or
b.	 the particulars of the NRE/NRO Account with a 
Bank in India, if not furnished earlier.
11.	 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 72 of the Act, 
members may file nomination forms in respect of 
their physical shareholdings. Any member willing 
to avail this facility may submit to the Company’s 
RTA in the prescribed statutory form. Should any 
assistance be desired, members should get in touch 
with the Company’s RTA.
12.	 Members who hold shares in physical form in 
multiple folios in identical names or joint holding in 
the same order of names are requested to send the 
share certificates to the RTA, for consolidation into 
a single folio. Requests for consolidation of share 
certificates will be processed in dematerialized form.
13.	 In case of joint holders, the Member whose name 
appears as the first holder in the order of names as 
per the Register of Members of the Company will be 
entitled to vote at the AGM.
14.	 Members desirous of receiving any information 
on the accounts or operations of the Company 
are requested to forward his/her queries to the 
Company through email at investor@elgi.com seven 
working days prior to the meeting. The same will be 
replied by the Company suitably. 
15.	 Members who wish to claim dividends, which remain 
unclaimed, are requested to correspond with 
the Company/RTA of the Company. Members are 
requested to note that pursuant to Section 124 of the 
Act, dividends not claimed within seven years from 
the date of transfer to the Company’s Unpaid Dividend 
Account, will be transferred to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) established by the Central 
Government under Section 125 of the Act. The details 
of unpaid/unclaimed dividend can be viewed on the 
Company’s website www.elgi.com. As per the provisions 
of Rule 6 of the IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit, 
Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016, the Company will be 
transferring the share(s) on which the beneficial owner 
has not encashed any dividend during the last seven 
years to the IEPF demat account as identified by the 
IEPF Authority. Details of shareholders whose shares 
are liable to be transferred to IEPF are available at the 
Company website: www.elgi.com. The shareholders 
whose unclaimed dividend/share has been transferred 
to the IEPF may claim the same from IEPF authority 
by filing Form IEPF-5 along with requisite documents. 
Mr. Indranil Sen, Chief Financial Officer, is the Nodal 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
13
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
13
officer of the Company for the purpose of verification 
of such claims.
16.	 Compulsory transfer of Equity Shares to IEPF 
Authority: Pursuant to the provisions of Section 
124(6) of the Act and Rule 6 of the IEPF Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 
2016, (“the IEPF Rules”) and amendments thereto, 
the Company has transferred the shares in respect 
of Members who have not claimed/encashed 
dividend for the last seven consecutive years to the 
Demat Account of the IEPF Authority. Details of the 
Members whose shares have been transferred to the 
Demat account of the IEPF Authority are available 
at the Company’s website at www.elgi.com.
17.	 In compliance with the MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, 
Notice of the AGM along with the Annual Report 2024-
25 is being sent only through electronic mode to those 
Members whose email address is registered with the 
Company/RTA/Depository Participants. Further, a 
letter providing the web link including the exact path 
where the complete details of the Annual Report is 
available will be sent to the Shareholders who have 
not registered their email address. Members may 
note that the Notice and Annual Report 2024-25 is 
also available on the Company’s website www.elgi.
com, websites of the Stock Exchanges i.e., BSE Limited 
and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.
bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com respectively, 
and on the website of MUFG Intime India Private 
Limited (Formerly, Link Intime India Private Limited) 
at instavote.linkintime.co.in. Further, pursuant to SEBI 
Circular the Company will be sending a hard copy of 
the Annual Report to those Shareholders who request 
for the same through email at investor@elgi.com.
18.	 Members attending the AGM through VC/OAVM 
shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning the 
quorum under Section 103 of the Act. 
19.	 Pursuant to Finance Act 2020, dividend income 
will be  taxable in the hands of Shareholders with 
effect from  April 01, 2020, and the Company is 
required to deduct tax at source from dividend 
paid to Shareholders  at the prescribed rates. For 
the prescribed rates for various categories, the 
Shareholders are requested to refer the Finance 
Act, 2020 and amendments thereof. Detailed 
communication regarding the prescribed TDS rates 
for various categories, conditions for Nil/preferential 
TDS and details/documents required thereof are 
being sent to the members. Members are requested to 
submit the documents as stated in the communication 
online by clicking on the following link https://web.
in.mpms.mufg.com/formsreg/submission-of-form-
15g-15h.html on or before Wednesday, August 6, 2025.
20.	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) 
has mandated for submission of Permanent Account 
Number (“PAN”) by every participant in the securities 
market. Members holding shares in electronic form 
are, therefore, requested to submit their PAN to 
their Depository Participant(s) with whom they 
are maintaining their demat account(s). Members 
holding shares in physical form can submit their 
PAN details to the RTA.
21.	 Members holding shares in electronic form 
may please note that as per the regulations of 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”), 
National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) and 
Central Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”), 
the Company is obliged to print the bank details 
on the dividend warrants as furnished by these 
depositories to the Company and the Company will 
not entertain any request for deletion/change of 
Bank details already printed on dividend warrants 
as per the information received from the concerned 
depositories. In this regard, Members should contact 
their Depository Participant(s) (“DP”) and furnish 
particulars of any changes as desired by them.
22.	 Members may kindly note that in accordance with SEBI 
circular dated 31st July 2023, the Company has registered 
on the SMART ODR (Securities Market Approach for 
Resolution through Online Disputes Resolution) Portal. 
This platform aims to enhance investor grievance 
resolution by providing access to Online Dispute 
Resolution institutions for addressing complaints. 
Members can access the SMART ODR Portal via: https://
smartodr.in/login. Members may utilize this online 
conciliation and/or arbitration facility, as outlined in the 
circular, to resolve any outstanding disputes between 
Members and the Company (including RTA).
23.	 Brief resume, details of shareholding and inter-se 
relationship of Directors seeking appointment/ 
re-appointment as required under Regulation 36 
of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial 
Standards 2, are provided as Annexure to this Notice.
24.	 The Shareholders are advised to register/update 
their e-mail address with the Company/RTA in 
respect of shares held in physical form and with 
the concerned Depository Participant in respect 
of shares held in electronic form to enable the 
Company to serve documents in electronic mode.
14
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
14
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
NOTICE OF THE 65TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
25.	 Members who have not received the split share 
certificates (` 1/- face value) are requested to receive 
the split share certificates by surrendering their old 
share certificates (` 10/- face value) to the Company’s 
RTA immediately. 
26.	 Annual financial statements and related details of 
the wholly owned subsidiary Companies are hosted 
on the Company’s website and is also kept for 
inspection at the Registered Office of the Company 
and at the Subsidiary Company till the date of AGM. 
A copy of the same will be provided to the members 
on request.
27.	 The Register of Directors’ and Key Managerial 
Personnel and their shareholding, maintained 
under Section 170 of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
the Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which 
Directors are interested, maintained under Section 
189 of the Companies Act, 2013 will be available for 
inspection by the Members during the AGM.
28.	 Registration of email ID and Bank Account details: In 
case the shareholder’s email ID is already registered 
with the Company/its RTA/Depositories, log in 
details for e-voting are being sent on the registered 
email address. In case the shareholders have not 
registered his/her/their email address with the 
Company/its RTA/Depositories and or not updated 
the Bank Account mandate for receipt of dividend, 
the following instructions are to be followed.
	
1).	 Shareholders holding shares in physical form are 
requested to register/update the details in the 
prescribed Form ISR-1 and other relevant forms 
with the Registrar and Transfer Agents of the 
Company, MUFG Intime India Private Limited 
(formerly, Link Intime India Private Limited) 
at 
coimbatore@in.mpms.mufg.com 
Members 
may download the prescribed forms from the 
Company’s website at www.elgi.com. 
	
2).	 In the case of shares held in demat mode, the 
shareholder may please contact the Depository 
Participant and register the email address and 
bank account details in the demat account as 
per the process followed and advised by the 
depository participant.
29.	 Since the AGM will be held through VC / OAVM, the 
Route Map is not annexed to this Notice.
Instructions for voting through electronic means:
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the Act, 
read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014, (including any 
statutory modification(s), clarifications, exemptions 
or re-enactments thereof for the time being in 
force), Regulation 44 of the Listing Regulations, and 
Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS - 2), the 
Company is providing its Members with the facility 
to cast their vote electronically from a place other 
than venue of the AGM (“remote e-voting”) using an 
electronic voting system provided by MUFG Intime 
India Private Limited (formerly, Link Intime India Private 
Limited) (“MUFG”), for all members of the Company to 
enable them to cast their votes electronically, on all 
the business items set forth in the Notice of AGM and 
the business may be transacted through such remote 
e-voting. The instructions to e-voting, as given below, 
explain the process and manner for casting of vote(s) 
in a secured manner.
1.	
Any person, who acquires shares of the Company 
and becomes Member of the Company after dispatch 
of AGM Notice and holding shares as on Tuesday, 
August 05, 2025, may refer to this Notice of the AGM, 
posted on Company’s website www.elgi.com for 
detailed procedure with regard to remote e-voting. 
Any person who ceases to be the member of the 
Company as on the cut-off date and is in receipt of 
this Notice, shall treat this Notice for information 
purpose only.
2.	
The Members who have cast their vote prior to the 
AGM through VC/OAVM but shall not be entitled to 
cast their vote again. Once the vote on a Resolution 
is cast by the Member, the Member shall not be 
allowed to change it subsequently.
3.	
The voting period begins on Saturday, August 09, 
2025 at 09:00 A.M. and ends on Monday, August 11, 
2025 at 05:00 P.M. During this period shareholders 
of the Company, holding shares either in physical 
form or in dematerialized form, as on the cut-off 
date of Tuesday, August 05, 2025, may cast their 
vote electronically. The e-voting module shall be 
disabled by MUFG for voting thereafter.
Remote-voting instructions for shareholders:
In terms of SEBI Master Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/
PoD2/CIR/P/0155 dated November 11, 2024, Individual 
shareholders holding securities in demat mode are 
allowed to vote through their demat account maintained 
with Depositories and Depository Participants.
Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number 
and email Id correctly in their demat accounts to access 
e-Voting facility.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
15
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
15
Login method for Individual shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode is given below:
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL
METHOD 1 – Individual Shareholders registered with 
NSDL IDeAS facility
Shareholders who have registered for NSDL IDeAS 
facility:
a)	 Visit URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com and click on 
“Beneficial Owner” icon under “IDeAS Login Section”.
b)	 Enter User ID and Password. Click on “Login”.
C)	 After successful authentication, you will be 
able to see e-Voting services under Value added 
services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under 
e-Voting services.
d)	 Click on “MUFG InTime” or “evoting link displayed 
alongside Company’s Name” and you will be 
redirected to InstaVote website for casting the 
vote during the remote e-voting period.
OR
Shareholders who have not registered for NSDL 
IDeAS facility:
a)	 To register, visit URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com 
and select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal” or 
click on https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/
IdeasDirectReg.jsp.
b)	 Enter 8-character DP ID, 8-digit Client ID, Mobile 
no, Verification code & click on “Submit”.
c)	 Enter the last 4 digits of your bank account/ 
generate ‘OTP’.
d)	 Post successful registration, user will be provided 
with Login ID and password. Follow steps given 
above in points (a-d).
Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL 
Speede” facility by scanning the QR Code mentioned 
below for seamless voting experience. 
METHOD 2 – Individual Shareholders directly visiting 
the e-voting website of NSDL
a)	 Visit URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com.
b)	 Click on the “Login” tab available under 
‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
c)	 Enter User ID (i.e., your sixteen-digit demat 
account number held with NSDL), Password/OTP 
and a Verification Code as shown on the screen.
d)	 Post successful authentication, you will be re-
directed to NSDL depository website wherein 
you will be able to see e-Voting services under 
Value added services. Click on “Access to 
e-Voting” under e-Voting services.
e)	 Click on “MUFG InTime” or “evoting link displayed 
alongside Company’s Name” and you will be 
redirected to InstaVote website for casting the 
vote during the remote e-voting period.
METHOD 3 – NSDL OTP based login
a)	 Visit 
URL: 
https://eservices.nsdl.com/
SecureWeb/evoting/evotinglogin.jsp
b)	 Enter your 8 - character DP ID, 8 - digit Client Id, 
PAN, Verification code and generate OTP. 
c)	 Enter the OTP received on your registered email 
ID/ mobile number and click on login. 
d)	 Post successful authentication, you will be re-
directed to NSDL depository website wherein 
you will be able to see e-Voting services under 
Value added services. Click on “Access to 
e-Voting” under e-Voting services. 
e)	 Click on “MUFG InTime” or “evoting link displayed 
alongside Company’s Name” and you will be 
redirected to InstaVote website for casting the 
vote during the remote e-voting period.
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode with CDSL
METHOD 1 – Individual Shareholders registered with 
CDSL Easi/Easiest facility
Shareholders who have registered/opted for CDSL 
Easi/Easiest facility:
a)	 Visit URL: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/ 
Home/Login or www.cdslindia.com.
b)	 Click on New System Myeasi Tab.
c)	 Login with existing my easi username and 
password.
16
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
16
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
NOTICE OF THE 65TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
d)	 Post successful authentication, user will be able 
to see e-voting option. The evoting option will 
have links of e-voting service providers i.e., MUFG 
InTime. Click on “MUFG InTime” or “evoting link 
displayed alongside Company’s Name” and you 
will be redirected to InstaVote website for casting 
the vote during the remote e-voting period.
OR
Shareholders who have not registered for CDSL 
Easi/Easiest facility:
a)	 To register, visit URL: https://web.cdslindia.com/
myeasitoken/Registration/EasiRegistration/ or 
https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/
Registration/EasiestRegistration
b)	 Proceed with updating the required fields.
c)	 Post registration, user will be provided username 
and password.
d)	 After successful registration, follow steps given 
above in points (a-d).
METHOD 2 - Individual Shareholders directly visiting the 
e-voting website of CDSL
a)	 Visit URL: https://www.cdslindia.com
b)	 Go to e-voting tab.
c)	 Enter Demat Account Number (BO ID) and PAN 
No. and click on “Submit”.
d)	 System will authenticate the user by sending 
OTP on registered Mobile and Email as recorded 
in Demat Account
e)	 Post successful authentication, user will be able 
to see e-voting option. The evoting option will 
have links of e-voting service providers i.e., MUFG 
InTime. Click on “MUFG InTime” or “evoting link 
displayed alongside Company’s Name” and you 
will be redirected to InstaVote website for casting 
the vote during the remote e-voting period.
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode with Depository Participant
Individual shareholders can also login using the login 
credentials of your demat account through your 
depository participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for 
e-voting facility.
a)	 Login to DP website
b)	 After Successful login, user shall navigate 
through “e-voting” option.
c)	 Click on e-voting option, user will be redirected 
to 
NSDL/CDSL 
Depository 
website 
after 
successful authentication, wherein user can see 
e-voting feature.
d)	 After successful authentication, click on “MUFG 
InTime” or “evoting link displayed alongside 
Company’s Name” and you will be redirected to 
InstaVote website for casting the vote during 
the remote e-voting period.
Login method for shareholders holding securities in 
physical mode/Non-Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode
Shareholders holding shares in physical mode/Non-
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode as on the cut-off date for e-voting may register 
and vote on InstaVote as under:
a)	 Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in
Shareholders 
who 
have 
not 
registered 
for 
INSTAVOTE facility:
b)	 Click on “Sign Up” under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab 
and register with your following details:
A.	 User ID:
	
NSDL demat account – User ID is 8 Character 
DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID.
	
CDSL demat account – User ID is 16 Digit 
Beneficiary ID.
	
Shareholders holding shares in physical 
form – User ID is Event No + Folio Number 
registered with the Company.
B.	 PAN:
	
Enter your 10-digit Permanent Account 
Number (PAN)
	
Shareholders who have not updated their 
PAN with the Depository Participant (DP)/
Company shall use the sequence number 
provided to you, if applicable.
C.	 DOB/DOI:
	
Enter the Date of Birth (DOB)/Date of 
Incorporation (DOI) (As recorded with your 
DP/Company - in DD/MM/YYYY format)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
17
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
17
D.	 Bank Account Number:
	
Enter your Bank Account Number (last 
four digits), as recorded with your DP/
Company.
*Shareholders holding shares in NSDL form, 
shall provide ‘D’ above
**Shareholders holding shares in physical form 
but have not recorded ‘C’ and ‘D’, shall provide 
their Folio number in ‘D’ above
–	 Set the password of your choice
	
(The password should contain minimum 8 
characters, at least one special Character 
(!#$&*), at least one numeral, at least one 
alphabet and at least one capital letter).
–	 Enter Image Verification (CAPTCHA) Code
–	 Click “Submit” (You have now registered 
on InstaVote).
Shareholders who have registered for INSTAVOTE 
facility:
c)	 Click on “Login” under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab.
A.	 User ID: Enter your User ID
B.	 Password: Enter your Password
C.	 Enter Image Verification (CAPTCHA) Code
D.	 Click “Submit”
d)	 Cast your vote electronically:
A.	 After successful login, you will be able to 
see the “Notification for e-voting”.
B.	 Select ‘View’ icon.
C.	 E-voting page will appear.
D.	 Refer the Resolution description and cast 
your vote by selecting your desired option 
‘Favour/Against’ (If you wish to view the 
entire Resolution details, click on the ‘View 
Resolution’ file link).
E.	 After selecting the desired option i.e. 
Favour/Against, click on ‘Submit’.
	
A confirmation box will be displayed. If you 
wish to confirm your vote, click on ‘Yes’, 
else to change your vote, click on ‘No’ and 
accordingly modify your vote.
NOTE: 
Shareholders may click on “Vote as per Proxy Advisor’s 
Recommendation” option and view proxy advisor 
recommendations for each resolution before casting 
vote. “Vote as per Proxy Advisor’s Recommendation” 
option provides access to expert insights during the 
e-Voting process. Shareholders may modify their vote 
before final submission
Guidelines for Institutional shareholders (“Custodian/
Corporate Body/Mutual Fund”)
STEP 1 – Custodian/Corporate Body/Mutual Fund 
Registration
a)	 Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in
b)	 Click on “Sign Up” under “Custodian/Corporate 
Body/Mutual Fund”
c)	 Fill up your entity details and submit the form.
d)	 A declaration form and organization ID is 
generated and sent to the Primary contact 
person email ID (which is filled at the time 
of sign up). The said form is to be signed by 
the Authorised Signatory, Director, Company 
Secretary of the entity & stamped and sent to 
insta.vote@linkintime.co.in.
e)	 Thereafter, 
Login 
credentials 
(User 
ID; 
Organisation ID; Password) is sent to Primary 
contact person’s email ID. (You have now 
registered on InstaVote)
STEP 2 – Investor Mapping
a)	 Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in and 
login with InstaVote Login credentials.
b)	 Click on “Investor Mapping” tab under the Menu 
Section
c)	 Map the Investor with the following details:
A.	 ‘Investor ID’ –
i.	
NSDL demat account – User ID is 8 
Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit 
Client ID i.e., IN00000012345678
ii.	
CDSL demat account – User ID is 16 
Digit Beneficiary ID.
B.	 ‘Investor’s Name - Enter Investor’s Name as 
updated with DP.
18
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
18
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
NOTICE OF THE 65TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
C.	 ‘Investor PAN’ - Enter your 10-digit PAN.
D.	 ‘Power of Attorney’ - Attach Board resolution 
or Power of Attorney.
	
*File Name for the Board resolution/Power 
of Attorney shall be – DP ID and Client ID or 
16 Digit Beneficiary ID. Further, Custodians 
and Mutual Funds shall also upload 
specimen signatures.
E.	 Click on Submit button. (The investor is 
now mapped with the Custodian/Corporate 
Body/Mutual Fund Entity). The same can be 
viewed under the “Report Section”.
STEP 3 – Voting through remote e-voting
The corporate shareholder can vote by two methods, 
during the remote e-voting period.
METHOD 1 - VOTES ENTRY
a)	 Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in and 
login with InstaVote Login credentials.
b)	 Click on “Votes Entry” tab under the Menu section.
c)	 Enter the “Event No.” for which you want to 
cast vote.
	
Event No. can be viewed on the home page of 
InstaVote under “On-going Events”.
d)	 Enter “16-digit Demat Account No.” for which 
you want to cast vote.
e)	 Refer the Resolution description and cast your 
vote by selecting your desired option ‘Favour/
Against’ (If you wish to view the entire Resolution 
details, click on the ‘View Resolution’ file link).
f)	
After selecting the desired option i.e. Favour/
Against, click on ‘Submit’.
	
A confirmation box will be displayed. If you 
wish to confirm your vote, click on ‘Yes’, else to 
change your vote, click on ‘No’ and accordingly 
modify your vote.
OR
METHOD 2 - VOTES UPLOAD
a)	 Visit URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in and 
login with InstaVote Login credentials.
b)	 After successful login, you will be able to see the 
“Notification for e-voting”.
c)	 Select “View” icon for “Company’s Name/Event 
number”.
d)	 E-voting page will appear.
e)	 Download sample vote file from “Download 
Sample Vote File” tab.
f)	
Cast your vote by selecting your desired 
option ‘Favour/Against’ in the sample vote 
file and upload the same under “Upload Vote 
File” option.
g)	 Click on ‘Submit’. ‘Data uploaded successfully’ 
message will be displayed.
	
(Once you cast your vote on the resolution, 
you will not be allowed to modify or change it 
subsequently).
Helpdesk:
Shareholders holding securities in physical mode/
Non-Individual Shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode:
Shareholders holding securities in physical mode/
Non-Individual Shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode facing any technical issue in login may 
contact INSTAVOTE helpdesk by sending a request 
at enotices@in.mpms.mufg.com or contact on: - Tel: 
022 – 4918 6000.
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode:
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode may contact the respective helpdesk for any 
technical issues related to login through Depository 
i.e., NSDL and CDSL
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any 
technical issue in login can 
contact NSDL helpdesk 
by sending a request at 
evoting@nsdl.co.in or call 
at : 022 - 4886 7000
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any 
technical issue in login can 
contact CDSL helpdesk 
by sending a request at 
helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.
com or contact at toll free 
no. 1800 22 55 33
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
19
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
19
Forgot Password:
Shareholders holding securities in physical mode/
Non-Individual Shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode:
Shareholders holding securities in physical mode/
Non-Individual Shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode have forgotten the USER ID [Login ID] or 
Password or both then the shareholder can use the 
“Forgot Password” option available on: https://instavote.
linkintime.co.in
–  Click on “Login” under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab.
–  Click “forgot password?”
–  Enter User ID, select Mode and Enter Image Verification 
code (CAPTCHA).
–  Click on “SUBMIT”.
In case Custodian/Corporate Body/Mutual Fund has 
forgotten the USER ID [Login ID] or Password or both 
then the shareholder can use the “Forgot Password” 
option available on: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in
–  Click on ‘Login’ under “Custodian/Corporate Body/
Mutual Fund” tab
–  Click “forgot password?”
–  Enter User ID, Organization ID and Enter Image 
Verification code (CAPTCHA).
–  Click on “SUBMIT”.
In case shareholders have a valid email address, 
Password will be sent to his/her registered e-mail 
address. Shareholders can set the password of his/her 
choice by providing information about the particulars 
of the Security Question and Answer, PAN, DOB/DOI 
etc. The password should contain a minimum of 8 
characters, at least one special character (!#$&*), at 
least one numeral, at least one alphabet and at least 
one capital letter.
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode with NSDL/CDSL has forgotten the password:
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat 
mode have forgotten the USER ID [Login ID] or Password 
or both, then the Shareholders are advised to use 
Forget User ID and Forget Password option available at 
above mentioned depository/depository participants 
website.
General Instructions – Shareholders
–  It is strongly recommended not to share your 
password with any other person and take utmost 
care to keep your password confidential.
–  For shareholders/members holding shares in physical 
form, the details can be used only for voting on the 
resolutions contained in this Notice.
–  During the voting period, shareholders/members can 
login any number of time till they have voted on the 
resolution(s) for a particular “Event”.
INSTAMEET VC Instructions for shareholders
In terms of Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) General 
Circular No. 09/2024 dated September 19, 2024, the 
Companies can conduct their AGMs/EGMs on or before 
30 September 2025 by means of Video Conference (VC) 
or other audio-visual means (OAVM).
Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number 
and email Id correctly in their demat accounts to access 
InstaMeet facility.
Login method for shareholders to attend the General 
Meeting through InstaMeet:
a)	 Visit URL: https://instameet.in.mpms.mufg.com 
& click on “Login”.
b)	 Select the “Company” and ‘Event Date’ and 
register with your following details:
A.	 Demat Account No. or Folio No:
	
Shareholders holding shares in NSDL demat 
account shall provide 8 Character DP ID 
followed by 8 Digit Client ID.
	
Shareholders holding shares in CDSL demat 
account shall provide 16 Digit Beneficiary ID.
	
Shareholders holding shares in physical 
form – shall provide Folio Number.
B. 	 PAN:
	
Enter your 10-digit Permanent Account 
Number (PAN)
	
Shareholders who have not updated their 
PAN with the Depository Participant (DP)/
Company shall use the sequence number 
provided to you, if applicable.
C.	 Mobile No: Enter your Mobile No.
D.	 Email ID: Enter your email Id as recorded 
with your DP/Company.
20
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
20
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
NOTICE OF THE 65TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
c)	 Click “Go to Meeting”
	
You are now registered for InstaMeet, and your 
attendance is marked for the meeting.
Instructions for shareholders to Speak during the 
General Meeting through InstaMeet:
a)	 Shareholders who would like to speak during 
the meeting must register their request with 
the company.
b)	 Shareholders will get confirmation on first cum 
first basis depending upon the provision made 
by the company.
c)	 Shareholders will receive “speaking serial 
number” once they mark attendance for the 
meeting. Please remember speaking serial 
number and start your conversation with 
panellist by switching on video mode and audio 
of your device.
d)	 Other shareholder who has not registered as 
“Speaker Shareholder” may still ask questions 
to the panellist via active chat-board during 
the meeting.
*Shareholders are requested to speak only when 
moderator of the meeting/management will announce 
the name and serial number for speaking.
Instructions for Shareholders to Vote during the General 
Meeting through InstaMeet:
Once the electronic voting is activated during the 
meeting, shareholders who have not exercised their vote 
through the remote e-voting can cast the vote as under:
a)	 On the Shareholders VC page, click on the link 
for e-Voting “Cast your vote”
b)	 Enter your 16-digit Demat Account No./Folio 
No. and OTP (received on the registered mobile 
number/registered email Id) received during 
registration for InstaMEET
c)	 Click on ‘Submit’.
d)	 After successful login, you will see “Resolution 
Description” and against the same the option 
“Favour/Against” for voting.
e)	 Cast your vote by selecting appropriate option 
i.e. “Favour/Against” as desired. Enter the 
number of shares (which represents no. of votes) 
as on the cut-off date under ‘Favour/Against’.
f)	
After selecting the appropriate option i.e. 
Favour/Against as desired and you have decided 
to vote, click on “Save”. A confirmation box will 
be displayed. If you wish to confirm your vote, 
click on “Confirm”, else to change your vote, click 
on “Back” and accordingly modify your vote. 
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, 
you will not be allowed to modify or change your 
vote subsequently.
Note:
Shareholders/Members, who will be present in the 
General Meeting through InstaMeet facility and have 
not casted their vote on the Resolutions through remote 
e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so, 
shall be eligible to vote through e-Voting facility during 
the meeting.
Shareholders/Members who have voted through Remote 
e-Voting prior to the General Meeting will be eligible 
to attend/participate in the General Meeting through 
InstaMeet. However, they will not be eligible to vote 
again during the meeting.
Shareholders/Members are encouraged to join the 
Meeting through Tablets/Laptops connected through 
broadband for better experience.
Shareholders/Members are required to use Internet with 
a good speed (preferably 2 MBPS download stream) to 
avoid any disturbance during the meeting.
Please note that Shareholders/Members connecting 
from Mobile Devices or Tablets or through Laptops 
connecting via Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/
Visual loss due to fluctuation in their network. It is 
therefore recommended to use stable Wi-FI or LAN 
connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
Helpdesk: Shareholders facing any technical issue in 
login may contact INSTAMEET helpdesk by sending a 
request at instameet@in.mpms.mufg.com or contact 
on: - Tel: 022 – 4918 6000/4918 6175.
I.	
The voting rights of shareholders shall be in 
proportion to their shares of the paid-up equity 
share capital of the Company as on the cut-off 
date of August 05, 2025.
II.	
Mr. M. D. Selvaraj, FCS of MDS & Associates LLP, 
Company Secretaries, Coimbatore, has been 
appointed as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the 
voting and remote e-voting process in a fair and 
transparent manner
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
21
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
21
III.	 The Chairman shall, at the end of discussion on 
the resolutions on which voting is to be held, 
allow e-voting for all those members who are 
present at the AGM by electronic means but 
who have not cast their votes by availing the 
remote e-voting facility.
IV.	 The Scrutinizer shall, after the conclusion of 
voting at the AGM first count the votes cast 
during the AGM and thereafter unblock the 
votes cast through remote e-voting in the 
presence of at least two witnesses not in the 
employment of the Company and shall make, not 
later than two working days of the conclusion of 
the AGM, a consolidated scrutinizer’s report of 
the total votes cast in favour or against, if any, 
to the Chairman or a person authorized by him 
in writing, who shall countersign the same and 
declare the result of the voting forthwith.
V.	 The results shall be declared within the time 
stipulated under the applicable laws. The results 
declared along with the report of the Scrutinizer 
shall be placed on the website of the Company 
www.elgi.com and on the website of MUFG Intime 
India Private Limited (formerly, Link Intime 
India Private Limited) and be communicated to 
the Stock Exchanges, where the shares of the 
Company are listed, by the Chairman or a person 
authorized by him.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 
102 (1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 (“THE ACT”).
Item No. 4
The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the 
Audit Committee, had approved the appointment of and 
remuneration payable to M/s. STR & Associates (Firm 
Registration No.000029), Cost Accountants, for auditing 
the cost accounting records of the Company for the 
financial years 2025-26 at a remuneration of ` 5,00,000 
(Rupees five lacs) per annum exclusive of applicable 
taxes and reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses 
incurred in connection with the aforesaid audit. 
As per Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 
Act”) read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014, as amended, the remuneration payable 
to the Cost Auditor as determined by the Board of 
Directors is required to be ratified by the Members of 
the Company. Accordingly, the consent of the Members 
is sought for passing an Ordinary Resolution as set out 
in Item No. 4 of the Notice of the AGM for ratification 
of the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor for the 
financial year ending March 31, 2026. 
Accordingly, the Board of Directors recommends by 
way of Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 4 of 
the Notice of AGM for the approval of the Members of 
the Company. 
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company or their relatives are, in any way, interested 
or concerned, financially or otherwise, in the proposed 
resolution as set out in Item No. 4 of the Notice of 
the AGM.
Item No. 5
Pursuant to the amended provisions of Regulation 24A 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (‘Listing Regulations’) vide SEBI Notification dated 
December 12, 2024 and provisions of Section 204 of the 
Act and Rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the 
Board of Directors, have approved and recommended 
the appointment of M/s. MDS & Associates LLP, Company 
Secretaries (ICSI Unique Code: L2023TN013500), Peer 
Reviewed Firm of Company Secretaries in Practice, as 
Secretarial Auditors of the Company for a term of up to 5 
(Five) consecutive financial years, commencing from the 
financial year 2025-26, on following terms and conditions:
a.	 Term of appointment: For a first term of 5 (Five) 
consecutive financial years commencing from 
the financial year 2025-26 till the financial year 
2029-30. 
b.	
Proposed Fees: Annual remuneration of up to 
` 2,50,000/- (Rupees Two Lacs Fifty Thousand only) 
plus applicable taxes and other out-of-pocket 
expenses in connection with the secretarial audit 
for Financial Year ending March 31, 2026 and for 
subsequent year(s) of their term, such other fee as 
may be determined by the Board. 
The proposed fees is based on knowledge, expertise, 
industry experience, time and efforts required to 
be put in by them, which is in line with the industry 
benchmark. The fees for services in the nature of 
certifications and other professional work will be in 
addition to the secretarial audit fee as above and 
will be determined by the Board in consultation with 
the Secretarial Auditors.
22
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
22
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
NOTICE OF THE 65TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
c.	
Basis of recommendations: The recommendations 
are based on the fulfilment of the eligibility criteria 
& qualification prescribed under the Act & Rules 
made thereunder and Listing Regulations with 
regard to the full time partners, secretarial audit, 
experience of the firm, capability, independent 
assessment, audit experience and also based on the 
evaluation of the quality of audit work done by them 
in the past. 
d.	 Credentials: MDS & Associates LLP, Company 
Secretaries based out of Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu 
presently has three partners and houses a team 
of qualified and seasoned professionals who bring 
together more than 36 years of rich experience 
and expertise knowledge in the field of Corporate 
and allied laws. The Firm undertakes Board Process 
Audits, Corporate Governance Audits, Secretarial 
Audits and Corporate Actions / Transactions based 
Due Diligence Audits for wide clientele including 
numerous listed companies. The firm serves a wide 
array of clients across India in varied industries and 
has a rich experience in undertaking secretarial 
audit assignments and also holds a valid Peer Review 
Certificate (bearing number 6468/2025) issued by 
the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
M/s. MDS & Associates LLP has given its consent to act 
as Secretarial Auditors of the Company and confirmed 
that its aforesaid appointment (if made) would be 
within the prescribed limits specified by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India. They have also confirmed 
that they are not disqualified to be appointed as 
Secretarial Auditors in terms of provisions of the Act 
& Rules made thereunder and Listing Regulations. 
Further, no order has been passed by ICSI/SEBI/MCA/
any other competent authority/Court, both in India 
or outside India, in past 5 years against the proposed 
secretarial auditor.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the 
Company or their relatives are, in any way, interested 
or concerned, financially or otherwise, in the proposed 
resolution as set out in Item No. 5 of the Notice of 
the AGM.
The Board of Directors recommends by way of Ordinary 
Resolution as set out at Item No. 5 of the Notice of AGM 
for the approval of the Members of the Company.
Item No. 6
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj has been the Managing Director 
of your Company for the past 33 years. He has rich 
and varied experience and has led the Company with 
his charismatic leadership and entrepreneurial ability. 
Considering the dedication and excellent work done by 
him and his relentless pursuit in taking the Company to 
global heights during his tenure as Managing Director, 
the Board of Directors on the recommendation of 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee has at 
its meeting held on May 28, 2025, has recommended 
the re-appointment of Mr. Jairam Varadaraj (DIN: 
00003361) as Managing Director of the Company for a 
further period of 5 years with effect from April 01, 2026 
on such remuneration as set out in the resolution for 
period of 3 years with effect from April 01, 2026 and 
perquisites as set out in Item No. 6 of the Notice. His 
reappointment as Managing Director of the Company 
would be greatly beneficial for the future growth of 
the Company.
As per Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 
Act”) the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
at its meeting held on May 28, 2025 had, in the best 
interest and progress of the Company, proposed 
the re-appointment of Mr. Jairam Varadaraj as the 
Managing Director of the company for a further period 
of 5 (five) years commencing from April 01, 2026 
and determined his remuneration as set out in the 
resolution and recommended the same to the Board. 
The proposed remuneration is well within the limits 
prescribed in the Act, the Schedule and Rules made 
there under. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Regulation 23 of the 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), the Audit 
Committee at its meeting held on May 28, 2025 had 
also approved the remuneration payable to Mr. Jairam 
Varadaraj as the Managing Director of the Company for 
a period of 3 (three) years and recommended the same 
to the Board. 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 196, 197, 203, 
Schedule V and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Act, the re-appointment of the Managing Director shall 
be subject to the approval of the shareholders of the 
Company in the General Meeting. Further, Regulation 
17(6)(e) of the Listing Regulations also requires approval 
of the Shareholders by way of Special Resolution in the 
General Meeting, if the aggregate annual remuneration 
payable to all the Executive Directors who are Promoters 
or Members of the Promoter Group exceeds 5% of the 
Net Profit of the Company. Also, Section 197 of the Act, 
requires approval of the Shareholders by way of a Special 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
23
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
23
Resolution in the General Meeting if the remuneration 
payable to Executive Directors exceeds 10% of the Net 
Profit of the Company. As the remuneration payable 
to Mr.  Jairam Varadaraj during his remaining tenure 
as Managing Director along with the remuneration 
payable to Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj, Executive Director 
may exceed the limits prescribed above, the approval 
of the Shareholders is also being sought vide a Special 
Resolution.
Based on the above, the Board of Directors have 
recommended the resolution as set out in Item No. 6 
of the AGM Notice for approval of the Members as a 
Special Resolution.
The disclosures as required under Schedule V of the Act, 
Regulation 36 of the Listing Regulations and Secretarial 
Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India, are furnished 
and forms a part of this AGM Notice.
Except Mr. Jairam Varadaraj himself and Mr. Sudarsan 
Varadaraj and Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj, being his relatives, 
none of the other Directors and the Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company and their relatives are 
concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the 
Resolution as set out in Item No. 6 of the accompanying 
Notice of the AGM.
24
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
24
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
NOTICE OF THE 65TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Additional information on Directors recommended for re-appointment as required under Regulation 36(3) of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard issued by ICSI.
Name
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj 
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj
Director Identification Number
00133533
00003361
Date of Birth and Age
January 22, 1958; 67 years
April 08, 1961; 64 years 
Nationality
Indian
Indian
Date of appointment on the Board
November 18, 1993
May 29, 1992
Inter-se relationship with other 
directors or Key Managerial 
Personnel of the Company
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj is related to 
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj is related 
to Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj and 
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj
Qualification
B.E. in Mechanical Engineering; 
Master’s degree in Mechanical 
Engineering in Stanford University.
B. Com., M.B.A., Ph.d. (USA)
Expertise in area/Experience
Has more than 43 years of experience 
in the field of machine building, rubber 
and allied industry.
Has more than 35 years of experience 
as an Industrialist
No. of shares held (including 
shareholding as a beneficial owner)
2,04,984 equity shares of ` 1/- each.
9,19,19,368 equity shares of ` 1/- 
each. (Including shareholding held 
as significant beneficial owner of 
Dark Horse Portfolio Investment 
Private Limited.)
Board position held
Non - Executive & Non-Independent 
Director
Managing Director
Terms and conditions of 
appointment/re-appointment
Liable to retire by rotation.
The details have been enumerated 
in Item No.6 of the Notice and the 
explanatory statement for the Item 
No.6 of the Notice.
Remuneration paid for 
the financial year 
Information disclosed in the Corporate 
Governance Report annexed to 
the Annual Report.
Information disclosed in the Corporate 
Governance Report annexed to 
the Annual Report.
Remuneration proposed to be paid
Sitting Fees and commission as 
payable to Non-Executive Directors
He is entitled to remuneration as set 
out in Item No. 6 of the Notice.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
25
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
25
Name
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj 
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj
Number of Board meetings 
attended during the year
Information disclosed in the Corporate 
Governance Report annexed to 
the Annual Report.
Information disclosed in the Corporate 
Governance Report annexed to 
the Annual Report.
Directorships held in other 
companies
1.	 Magna Electro Castings Limited
2.	 Elgi Rubber Company Limited 
3.	 LRG Technologies Limited
4.	 Festo India Private Limited
1.	 Elgi Rubber Company Limited
2.	 Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited
3.	 Elgi Ultra Private Limited
4.	 ATS Elgi Limited
5.	 Dark Horse Portfolio 
Investment Private Limited
6.	 Varam Estates Private Limited
Names of the listed entities from 
which the person has resigned in 
the past 3 years
NIL
1.	 Precot Limited
Chairmanship/Membership of the 
Committees of the Board of other 
Companies in which he is Director
Chairmanship: 
1.	 Elgi Rubber Company Limited - 
Finance and Administrative 
Committee
2.	 Magna Electro Castings Limited – 
Audit Committee and Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee
Committee Member:
1.	 Elgi Rubber Company Limited – 
Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee
Chairmanship: 
1.	 ATS Elgi Limited -  
Corporate Social  
Responsibility Committee
2.	 Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited - 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee
Committee Member: 
NIL
26
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
26
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
NOTICE OF THE 65TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
STATEMENT CONTAINING ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AS REQUIRED IN SCHEDULE V OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
Relevant to Mr. Jairam Varadaraj, Managing Director of the Company.
I.	
General information
1.	
Nature of Industry
Engineering Industry 
2.	 Date or expected date of commencement of 
commercial production.
The 
Company 
was 
incorporated 
on 
March 14, 1960 and commenced commercial 
production subsequently in the same year.
3.	 In case of new companies, expected date of 
commencement of activities as per project 
approved by financial institutions appearing in 
the prospectus. 
Not Applicable
4.	 Financial performance based on given 
indicators.
(` in millions except EPS)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
Total income
21,505
19,120
Profit/(Loss) before tax
4,676
4,280
Profit/(Loss) after tax
3,501
3,222
Paid-up share capital
317
317
Other equity
16,948
14,377
Basic Earnings per share
11.09
10.19
5.	 Foreign Investments or collaborations, if any.
The Company has made investment in countries 
outside India which are disclosed in Form AOC-1 
which forms part of the Annual Report.
II.	 Information about the directors
(a)	 Mr. Jairam Varadaraj
Background details
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj is the Managing Director of the Company, 
currently he is responsible for overall operations of the entire 
organization.
Past Remuneration
The total remuneration paid for the year 2024-25 is ` 2,55,41,130/-
Recognition or awards
NIL
Job Profile and his suitability
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj as Managing Director of the Company 
shall be in charge of the entire affairs of the Company and shall 
have substantial powers of the management subject to the 
superintendence of the Board of Directors of the Company. 
Considering his qualification and experience he is best suited for 
the role.
Remuneration proposed
Details of proposed remuneration have been disclosed in Item 
No. 6 of the Notice
Comparative remuneration profile with 
respect to industry, size of the company, 
profile of the position and person (in case 
of expatriates the relevant details would be 
with respect to the country of his origin)
Taking into consideration the size of the Company, profile of 
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj, responsibility shouldered by him and the 
industry standard, the remuneration paid is commensurate with 
the remuneration packages paid to Managerial Personnel in similar 
other Companies.
Pecuniary relationship directly or indirectly 
with the company, or relationship with the 
managerial personnel, if any
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj is the Promoter of the Company. He is related 
to Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj and Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj, Directors 
of the Company. He is not related to any other directors/Key 
Managerial Personnel of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
27
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
27
III.	 Other information 
1.	
Reasons for loss or inadequate profits
Not applicable as the Company has earned a profit during the year.
2.	 Steps taken or proposed to be taken for improvement.
The Company is continuously taking various cost control measures which may result in increased profitability 
in the ensuing years.
3.	 Expected increase in productivity and profits in measurable terms.
Not Applicable.
IV.	 Disclosures
(i)	 All elements of remuneration package such as salary, benefits, bonuses, stock options, pension etc. of all 
the directors
Please refer to Section titled “Remuneration of Directors” as contained in the Corporate Governance Report.
(ii)	 Details of fixed component and performance linked incentives along with the performance criteria
Please refer to Section titled “Remuneration of Directors” as contained in the Corporate Governance Report.
(iii)	Service contracts, notice period, severance fees.
Please refer to Section titled “Remuneration of Directors” as contained in the Corporate Governance Report.
(iv)	Stock option details, if any, and whether the same has been issued at a discount as well as the period over 
which accrued and over which exercisable.
Please refer to Section titled “Remuneration of Directors” as contained in the Corporate Governance Report.
Management 
Discussion and Analysis
03
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
29
Introduction
In FY’25, we grew by 9% YoY, backed by strong growth in 
India, though partially offset by headwinds faced in our 
North America Business. We continued to invest in our 
strategic and operational enablers to help achieve our 
long-term financial goals. For our plans, please refer to the 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) section of 
our prior annual reports here - https://www.elgi.com/in/
financials/. We will discuss our performance by regions 
and relevant functions. We will list our strategic priorities 
and review our FY’25 performance. 
India
Our India business delivered strong growth and 
profitability. We grew market share across our segments. 
We expect growth in FY’26.
	
z
Industrial Oil Lubricated
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Grow market share by winning new customers.
	
z
Maintain profitability with value-based pricing 
and strong aftermarket capture.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Won new customers and gained market share.
	
z
Enhanced customer awareness through strategic 
marketing initiatives.
	
z
Need to focus on developing and launching 
products in the low-priced segment.
	
z
Oil Free
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Grow market share by building awareness, 
expanding product range, further improving 
product performance, and offering best-in-
class aftermarket service.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Achieved annual goals with a strong order book 
for FY’26.
	
z
Construction and Mining
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Maintain market share and drive profitability.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Maintained our dominant market share.
	
z
Improved margins with strategic price increases 
and the launch of new products.
	
z
Water well
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Recover dominant market share position.
	
z
Be first to market with new products.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Matched unit volume from FY’24 despite lower 
demand.
	
z
Railways 
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Maintain core segment market share.
	
z
Increase share in multiple unit segments and 
maximise Private OEM opportunities.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Retained market share in core segment.
	
z
Succeeded with Vande Bharat segment.
	
z
Improved profitability in the aftermarket 
business.
	
z
Aftermarket -Industrials 
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Protect the existing installation base with 
superior customer service and engagement.
	
z
Need to revisit customer service measures to 
address revised expectations.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Improved service penetration in the Elgi 
installed base.
	
z
Improved response time for restoring air to 
our customers.
Africa and the Middle East
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Grow market share in the UAE and Saudi Arabia.
	
z
Focus on African countries to maintain our 
growth momentum.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Grew market share in the UAE, Saudi Arabia, 
Oman, and Kuwait.
	
z
Insufficient growth in our African markets.
30
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
North America
Our North America business experienced mixed results. 
We grew volume and share in our Industrial and Medical 
businesses. We struggled in our Portables business 
owing to a significant reduction in demand from core 
infrastructure customers. Revenue remained flat in 
our distribution operations businesses (Pattons and 
Michigan Air Solutions), with lower profitability owing to 
higher fixed costs. However, the Company is confident 
that we have the sales and service infrastructure for 
growth in FY’26.
	
z
Industrials
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Establish and expand in the top 40 markets.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Increased market share.
	
z
Optimized inventory and operational performance.
	
z
Need to increase the pace of onboarding new 
distributors to address distribution gaps.
	
z
Portables
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Gain access to national rental companies.
	
z
Reduce cost.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
The market declined by 30%, and outlook 
remains poor for FY’26.
	
z
Reduced employee and fixed costs.
	
z
Optimized inventory management.
	
z
Medical
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Increase market share on the West Coast and 
Northeast.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Achieved record sales.
	
z
Higher-than-expected fixed costs reduced 
profitability.
	
z
Distribution Operations (Pattons and Michigan Air 
Solutions)
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Rebuild the sales team to increase Elgi’s 
market share.
	
z
Restore profitability in service operations.
	
z
Focus on restoring profitability and improving 
cash generation.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Rebuilt 
the 
sales 
team 
with 
industry 
professionals.
	
z
Established service processes, technology, and 
personnel to restore profitability in FY’25.
	
z
Employee and fixed costs remain high.
Europe
Despite flat to declining markets in Italy, France, the UK, 
and Spain, we grew volume and market share across our 
product segments. We increased the number of channel 
partners representing Elgi, and we expect continued 
expansion in our physical presence. Rotair volume 
struggled with lower demand from North America. 
However, we limited our revenue loss with increased 
revenue in Europe and other markets. We  expect 
constrained demand to continue into FY’26, and we will 
focus on reducing costs and inventory to improve 
profitability and cash.
	
z
Industrial
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Increase market share by increasing distribution 
and investing in direct sales in Spain, France, 
the UK, the Nordics, and Benelux.
	
z
Improve profitability by reducing costs.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Soft demand across markets.
	
z
Achieved revenue and profitability goals.
	
z
Onboarded distributors in focus areas for FY’26 
growth.
	
z
Rotair 
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Increase sales in non-USA markets.
	
z
Reduce cost.
	
z
Release cash by optimizing inventory.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Fixed costs and inventory levels remained high.
	
z
Launched projects to reduce cost and inventory.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
31
Australia and Southeast Asia
The Australian market remained flat with demand 
challenges across industries. Industry consolidation of 
distribution businesses also poses challenges for future 
growth. We will focus on expanding our direct presence 
in the market while reducing our costs to improve 
profitability.
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Expand the independent distribution of Elgi 
Australia.
	
z
Grow equipment and service market share at 
Pulford.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
The market declined, and the outlook remains 
cautious.
	
z
Launched a go-to-market project to increase 
market share in Melbourne.
	
z
Grew the service business at Pulford.
	
z
Refreshing our Southeast Asia strategy.
Brazil
Our Brazil business enjoyed volume and profitability 
growth across product segments. However, we expect 
challenges in FY’26 owing to anticipated economic 
challenges.
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Maintain share and profit in the diesel-powered 
segment.
	
z
Increase the distribution of industrial products 
in São Paulo.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Achieved record revenue and profitability.
	
z
Invested for the future Industrial market share 
growth.
	
z
FY’26 outlook is negative owing to a poor 
economic outlook.
ATS
ATS registered record sales and profitability with a 
strong outlook for FY’26.
Elgi Sauer
Elgi Sauer delivered revenue and profitability per plan 
with a strong outlook for FY’26.
Strategic Enablers
Our strategy’s success hinges on the health of our 
enablers or supporting activities and functions. In this 
section, we will highlight progress in our enablers, which 
will support our aspirations in FY’26 and beyond.
	
z
Leadership
	
z
Onboarded Gaurav Gupta in India as Chief 
Information and Digital Officer (CIDO).
	
z
Talent Management
	
z
Number of employees on roll: 2138.
	
z
Launched Individual Development Plan (IDP) 
project 
to 
improve 
employees’ 
skills 
and 
capabilities.
	
z
Identified successors for key roles.
	
z
Conducted training programs for business acumen 
and managerial skills. 
	
z
Launched 
“Leader 
as 
Coach” 
program 
to 
build a cadre of certified internal coaches to 
coach identified key talent in their leadership 
development journey.
	
z
Operations and Supply Chain
	
z
Reduced finished goods and raw material 
inventory globally.
	
z
Institutionalized the project COSMOS across the 
manufacturing facilities globally and achieved 
significant cost savings in FY 25.
	
z
Started construction of the Portable Compressors 
line & Global Support Center (aftermarket) at the 
Kinathukadavu location.
	
z
Expanded motor plant capacity by 50%, which will 
help reduce reliance on imported raw materials.
	
z
Established dryer manufacturing facility.
	
z
Products and Technology
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Ensure continuous improvement of current 
products across range expansion, performance, 
energy consumption, reliability, and cost.
	
z
Launch new products as per market feedback, 
customer 
feedback, 
competitor 
portfolio, 
revenue potential, and profit potential for 
strategic regions.
	
z
Long-term product development based on 
stated and unstated customer needs.
32
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Vacuum Pump
	
z
Launched dry and oil lube rotary vane 
vacuum pumps for the Indian market in 
partnership with DVP Vacuum Technology, 
Italy.
	
z
Oil Lubricated Compressor
	
z
The Air Station (compressor-tank-dryer) 
concept from 2-15 kW was launched for 
all regions.
	
z
Launched EG75-160 Super Premium range 
of machines for improved energy efficiency 
for all regions.
	
z
Launched an Integrated Heat Recovery 
system for better energy management.
	
z
Oil-Free Compressor
	
z
Launched the OF 90-160 kW with an 
integrated heat recovery system and an 
outdoor protection kit as a feature.
	
z
Portable Compressor
	
z
Launched the PG850-290 model for Water 
well and mining applications.
	
z
Accessories
	
z
Introduced the ARN series refrigerated 
dryers in the 20 cfm – 500 cfm range.
	
z
Stabilisor
	
z
Launched the STABILISOR technology for 
use across the compressed air range to 
reduce energy consumption and improve 
reliability.
	
z
Other Initiatives
	
z
Expanded Elgi motors across the product 
range.
	
z
Deployed Air-Alert, the IoT-based device 
designed to continuously monitor and 
predict compressor performance globally.
	
z
Launched the Neuron-IV controller across 
all products.
	
z
Designed 
and 
delivered 
oil 
injected 
Screw compressor for locomotive brake 
applications.
	
z
Information Technology and Digital Transformation
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Develop technology and a digital roadmap to 
enable long-term goals.
	
z
Drive the digitization of business processes.
	
z
Enhance the overall Digital Quotient (DQ) of 
the organization and create an effective digital 
ecosystem through partnerships.
	
z
Set up an AI and Data COE to deliver cuttingedge 
analytic.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Launched the new IT & Digital strategy and 
operating 
model 
to 
deliver 
world-class 
technology and digital capabilities at scale. 
	
z
Stabilized ERP LN US instance and Sales 
digitization for India.
	
z
Launched the SLA-based services globally to 
enhance resilience and predictability– e.g., Infra 
managed services and devices as a service.
	
z
Launched RPA/AR/VR projects for business 
process automation.
	
z
Set up an AI and Data COE to deliver cuttingedge 
analytic.
	
z
Launched partnerships with Microsoft, Gartner, 
and Nasscom to build thought leadership.
	
z
Brand
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Drive awareness, consideration, and conversion 
in target markets.
	
z
Manage stakeholders’ experience (customers, 
employees, investors, suppliers, and society) 
with our brand.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
Significant growth in awareness and leads 
generated from our digital and social media 
platforms.
	
z
Continued growth in our public relations 
presence globally.
	
z
Increased participation at end-customer events 
to generate “pull” for the Elgi brand.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
33
	
z
ESG
	
z
Strategic Priorities
	
z
Environment: Focus on energy efficiency, lower 
emissions, and resource-neutral operations. 
	
z
Social: Employee centricity and access to 
quality education. 
	
z
Governance: Inclusive ESG governance.
	
z
FY’25 Review
	
z
The share of renewable energy was 39% for FY25. 
	
z
Reduced water consumption by 6%.
	
z
Initiated plans for Project Stellar at Elgi School, 
aimed at identifying and nurturing natively 
brilliant children from low-income households 
in Coimbatore. By providing free education (and 
free residential facilities in due course), Project 
Stellar aims to break the cycle of poverty, creating 
opportunities for natively brilliant children or 
‘Stellars’ from low-income households to thrive 
academically and personally.
	
z
Initiated plans for the CATALYST Scholarship 
Program in conjunction with Amrita University. 
The program provides full scholarships for 
academically 
brilliant 
but 
economically 
underprivileged 
students 
to 
pursue 
the 
BTech Mechanical Engineering Program at 
Amrita University.
	
z
Internal Control Systems and Their Adequacy
The Company has adequate internal control systems 
to monitor business processes, financial reporting, 
and compliance with applicable regulations. The 
systems are periodically reviewed to identify control 
deficiencies and formulate time-bound action plans to 
improve effectiveness and efficiency at all levels. The 
Company has outsourced the internal audit function 
to Ernst & Young for more effective management. The 
Audit Committee periodically reviews internal control 
systems and their adequacy, significant risk areas, 
observations made by the internal auditors on control 
mechanisms and the operations of the Company, 
and recommendations made for corrective action 
through the internal audit reports. The committee 
reviews the Statutory Auditors’ report, key issues, 
significant processes, and accounting policies. The 
Directors confirm that the Internal Financial Controls 
are adequate with respect to the operations of the 
Company. A Report to the Statutory Auditors pursuant 
to Section 143(3)(i) of the Companies Act, 2013 
certifying the adequacy of Internal Financial Controls 
is annexed with the Auditors Report.
Please refer Note No. 53 to the Standalone Financial 
Statements in Page 227 for the Key Ratios and Group 
Performance Ratios in Page 132.
Board’s Report
04
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
35
Review of Business Operations 
Consolidated revenue of the Company from operations 
was ` 35,104 million in FY25, which was 9% higher than 
the consolidated revenue of ` 32,178 million in FY24. 
The consolidated net profit was at ` 3,502 [10%] in FY25 
as compared to ` 3,121 [9.7%] in FY24. 
Standalone revenue of the Company from operations 
was ` 20,809 million in FY25, which was 12% higher than 
the revenue of ` 18,434 million in FY24. The net profit was 
at ` 3,501 [16.8%] in FY25 as compared to ` 3,222 [17.5%] 
in FY24. 
The details of division-wise performance and other 
operational details are discussed at length in the 
Management Discussion and Analysis section. There was 
no change in the nature of business of the Company 
during the financial year ended March 31, 2025. 
Share Capital
During the year under review, there were no changes in 
the issued and paid-up share capital of the Company. The 
issued and paid-up share capital of the Company consists 
of 31,69,09,016 equity shares of face value of ` 1/- each, 
amounting to ` 31,69,09,016/- as on the date of the report. 
Transfer to reserves
The Company has not transferred any amount to 
the General Reserve during the year under review. 
However, an amount of ` 2,826 million of the current 
profits has  been carried forward under the heading 
‘Retained Earnings’. 
Dividend
Pursuant to Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI 
Listing Regulations”), the Dividend Distribution Policy 
of the Company is hosted in the Company’s website at 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/
Dividend-Policy.pdf.
For the financial year 2024–25, in line with the Dividend 
Distribution Policy, the Board of Directors at its meeting 
held on May 28, 2025, has recommended a dividend of 
` 2.20 per share (220%) on the paid-up share capital of 
31,69,09,016 equity shares.
Subject to the approval of shareholders, an amount of 
` 697.20 million will be paid as dividend after deducting 
applicable taxes (Previous Year ` 633.82 million).
Dear Shareholders,
Your Directors hereby present the sixty-fifth Annual Report of Elgi Equipments Limited (“Elgi/the Company”) along with 
the audited financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2025. 
Financial Results
The highlights of the standalone and consolidated performance of your Company during the fiscal year are given 
hereunder:
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
FY25
FY24
FY25
FY24
Total income
21,505
19,120
35,681
32,728
Expenses
16,829
14,840
30,920
28,376
Share of profit/(loss) of joint venture and associates, net
–
–
55
52
Profit before tax
4,676
4,280
4,816
4,404
Less: Income tax expense
1,175
1,058
1,314
1,283
Net Profit
3,501
3,222
3,502
3,121
Other comprehensive income, net
(31)
54
(59)
82
Total comprehensive income
3,470
3,276
3,443
3,203
Basic Earnings per Share (EPS)
11.09
10.19
11.09
9.87
(` in millions)
36
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
BOARD’S REPORT
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Transfer of Unclaimed Dividend/Shares to 
Investor Education and Protection Fund 
In terms of Sections 124 and 125 of the Companies 
Act,  2013 (“CA 2013”), unclaimed or unpaid dividends 
relating to the financial year 2017-18 are due for 
remittance to the Investor Education and Protection 
Fund (“IEPF”) established by the Central Government. 
Further, pursuant to Section 124(6) of the Act, read 
with IEPF Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and 
Refund) Rules, 2016, 17915 equity shares of ` 1/- each on 
which dividend had remained unclaimed for a period of 
7  years have been transferred to the credit of demat 
account identified by the IEPF Authority during the year 
under review.
Annual Return
The Annual Return of the Company for the financial 
year 2024-25 as required under Section 92(3) of the CA 
2013 is available on the website of the Company and 
can be accessed on the Company’s website at the link 
https://www.elgi.com/in/financials/.
Board Meetings held during the year
During the year, six meetings of the Board of Directors 
were held. The details of the meetings are furnished in 
the Corporate Governance Report which is attached to 
this Report.
Committees
As on March 31, 2025, the Company has Audit Committee, 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee, Risk Management Committee 
and 
Corporate 
Social 
Responsibility 
Committee. 
Detailed note on the composition of the Board and its 
Committees are provided in the Corporate Governance 
Report attached to this Report.
Statement on compliance with Secretarial 
Standards
The Directors have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable 
Secretarial Standards, and such systems are adequate 
and operating effectively.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Pursuant to the requirement under Section 134(3)(c) 
of CA 2013, with respect to Directors’ Responsibility 
Statement, it is hereby confirmed that:
a.	 In the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards have been followed 
and there are no material departures from those 
standards;
b.	 The Directors have selected such accounting policies 
and applied them consistently and made judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as 
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Company at the end of the financial year and of 
the profit of the Company for that period;
c.	 The Directors have taken proper and sufficient care 
for maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities;
d.	 The Directors have prepared the annual accounts on 
a going concern basis;
e.	 The Directors have laid down internal financial 
controls to be followed by the Company and that 
such internal financial controls are adequate and 
were operating effectively; and
f.	
The Directors had devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all the applicable 
laws and such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
Details in respect of frauds reported by 
Auditors under Section 143(12) of CA 2013, 
other than those which are reportable to the 
Central Government
There were no instances of frauds identified or reported 
by the Statutory Auditors during the course of their 
audit pursuant to Section 143(12) of CA 2013.
Declaration of Independent Directors
The Company has received declarations from all the 
Independent Directors of the Company confirming that 
they meet the criteria of independence as prescribed 
both under CA 2013 and SEBI Listing Regulations and that 
their name is included in the data bank as per Rule 6(3) 
of the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors) Rules, 2014 (as amended).
Nomination and Remuneration policy of the 
Company 
The Board has based on the recommendation of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, framed a 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
37
policy for fixing and revising remuneration of Directors, 
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel, 
Senior 
Management 
Personnel and other employees of the Company. 
The salient features of Nomination and Remuneration 
policy as formulated by the company is as follows:
1.	 To formulate the criteria for appointment, re-
appointment, removal of Director, Key Managerial 
Personnel, Senior Management and other employees 
in the Company.
2.	 To formulate the manner and criteria for determining 
qualification, positive attributes of an independent 
director;
3.	 To create a transparent system of determining the 
appropriate level of remuneration throughout all 
levels of the Company aimed at attracting, retaining 
and motivating people required to run the Company 
successfully;
4.	 To encourage people to perform to their highest level 
of competence;
5.	 Allow the Company to compete in each relevant 
employment market;
6.	 To ensure the relationship of remuneration to 
performance 
is 
clear 
and 
meets 
appropriate 
performance benchmarks.
The Nomination and Remuneration policy of the 
Company can be accessed on the Company’s 
website at the link https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/ 
uploads/2019/05/Remuneration-Policy.pdf.
Comments on Auditors’ Report
The Report of Statutory Auditors and Secretarial 
Auditors for the FY 2024- 25 forms part of the report. 
The Statutory Auditors Report and Secretarial Auditors 
Report do not contain any qualification, reservation or 
adverse remark. 
Further Secretarial Auditor in its report highlighted 
an observation related to delayed intimation to stock 
exchanges by the Company pertaining to an event 
covered under Regulation 30 read with Schedule III of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
The Board has noted the observation regarding a 
delayed disclosure under Regulation 30 of the SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations, 2015.
The delay was due to unforeseen medical exigencies 
within the secretarial team during a transition period. 
Despite the circumstances, the Company disclosed on a 
Suo-moto basis shortly thereafter and also provided a 
detailed explanation to the Stock Exchanges, which was 
accepted without further action.
The Board reaffirms its commitment to timely 
compliance and has taken steps to strengthen internal 
processes to avoid such delays in the future.
Particulars of Loans, Guarantees or Investments 
made under Section 186 of CA 2013
Details of loans given, investments made, guarantees 
given and securities provided pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 186 of CA 2013 have been given in the notes to 
the Financial Statements in Note No.7.
Particulars of contracts or arrangements with 
Related Parties
All transactions entered into with related parties as 
defined under CA 2013 and Regulation 23 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations during the financial year 2024-25 
were in the ordinary course of business and on an arm’s 
length pricing basis.
There are no contracts or arrangements entered into 
with related parties referred to in Section 188(1) of CA 
2013 that are material in nature. 
The Audit Committee and the Board of Directors have 
approved the Related Party Transactions Policy and 
can be accessed on the Company’s website at the link 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/
Related-Party-Transactions-Policy.pdf.
The Policy intends to ensure that proper reporting, 
approval and disclosure processes are in place for all 
transactions between the Company and related parties.
Material Changes and commitments affecting 
the financial position of the Company
There are no material changes and commitments 
affecting the financial position of the Company which 
have occurred between the end of the financial year as 
on March 31, 2025, and the date of this report.
Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption, 
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
The information on foreign exchange earnings and 
outgo, technology absorption, conservation of energy 
stipulated under Section 134(3)(m) of CA 2013, read 
with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is 
annexed herewith as Annexure A.
38
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
BOARD’S REPORT
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Risk Management
Pursuant to the requirement of Regulation 21 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has constituted 
a Risk Management Committee (“RMC”), consisting of 
Board members and senior executives of the Company.
The Company has in place a Risk Management 
framework to identify, evaluate business risks and 
challenges across the Company, both at the corporate 
level and also separately for each subsidiary. At 
present, the Company has not identified any element 
of risk that may threaten its existence.
The top 10 risks for the Company have been mapped 
by the operating management (with additional support 
of external guidance) after extensive deliberations on 
the nature of the risk being a gross or a net risk, and 
thereafter, in a prioritized manner presented to the 
Board for their inputs on risk mitigation/management 
efforts. Based on this framework, a Risk Management 
policy has been adopted.
The RMC engages in the Risk Management process 
and has set out a review process so as to report to the 
Board the progress on the initiatives for the major risks 
of each of the businesses in which the Company is into.
The RMC reviews the top risks. The results of the 
mitigation measures implemented by the Company are 
given below:
S. No.
Risk Category
Risk Summary
Risk Response/Mitigation actions/Position
1
Compliance 
Risks
The Company’s business 
is subject to legal and 
regulatory requirements 
globally; non-compliance 
could result in severe 
consequences
The Company has a compliance monitoring and tracking tool. 
During the year, a reputed firm was engaged to conduct a 
compliance audit.
Proof of compliance is collected or reported by the compliance 
owners every quarter end. The status is reported to the Audit 
Committee and Board during their quarterly meetings.
The process of revisiting the checklist for existing entities in 
rotation is being continued. Further, whenever there is a new 
entity created in a new geography, we engage a law firm to get 
the compliance list created within the first year of incorporation.
2
Human 
Resource Risks
Recruiting and retaining 
strong talent is key to 
achieving the Company’s 
aspirations; any gaps in 
these efforts could impact 
the achievement of 
revenue and profitability 
targets.
The talent acquisition process is getting further strengthened. 
We now use outcome-based Job descriptions for all key roles. 
The new competency behaviour model is used in key hiring. 
We have involved global leadership in the new leadership hiring 
process.
The project titled “Integration of Talent” was kick-started in 
early September 2021 with the intention to align, design and 
implement the Integrated Talent Management Strategy. The 
objective being “grow talent pool for global success”. After 
completion of the first phase of the project consisting of 
rolling out and training of the Behavioural Competency model, 
the second phase involving assessment against the Individual 
development plan, career dialogue with the identified successor 
and key talent are progressing well as per the project plan.
The Company had moved to a decentralized compensation 
decision mechanism (instead of HR managing this centrally) 
which has been well received by the businesses and employees. 
This is also an important enabler to the talent management 
program, as the Company’s managers become more aware and 
start investing in their human resources at a strategic level.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
39
Risk management (Continued...)
S. No.
Risk Category
Risk Summary
Risk Response/Mitigation actions/Position
3
Economic Risk
Our global operations 
are subject to economic 
and market risks in the 
geographies we operate 
in.
The Company’s strategic investment in creating and growing 
global market presence is continuing to help the company 
deliver top line growth and improved profitability. The Company 
is able to leverage and cross deploy resources to manage shifting 
demands.
The risk mitigation efforts, supported through serving broad 
range of industry segments, with wide range of products is 
serving the Company well.
4
Market Risks
The Company’s large 
dependence on Indian 
market makes it susceptible 
to the economic fortunes 
of a single geography
The Company’s revenue mix is now well spread across geographies 
and the dependence in India is consistently reducing.
The Company’s strategic plan for the mid-term and the strategic 
initiatives are aligned to this goal to diversify the revenue mix.
5
Growth Risks
Acquisitions, joint 
ventures, and investments 
could be unsuccessful or 
consume management 
time and resources, which 
could adversely affect our 
operating results.
The Company has not made any acquisitions in recent years. The 
company has recognised the key success factors learning from 
earlier acquisitions and post-acquisition Integration is given 
adequate weightage and priority.
6
Strategic Risks
Risk of business 
continuity disruptions 
arising from natural 
disasters, heightened 
geopolitical tensions, 
shifting international 
trade policies, or other 
unexpected global 
developments
The Company has a robust Business Continuity Plan (BCP) 
framework in place, designed to ensure operational resilience 
and minimize disruption during adverse events. The company’s 
Insurance policies and coverages are commensurate with 
business requirements. These policies are periodically reviewed 
to strengthen the scope as required.
We engaged a leading Insurance solution provider to assess 
the current global Insurance coverage & present their 
recommendations for a robust risk mitigation.
Their recommendations have been reviewed, by the Management 
for implementation of Global Master Controlled program.
Mitigation Measures are being implemented to de-risk US Import 
tariff impact.
7
Supply Chain 
Risks
Disruptions in supplies 
due to concentration of 
manufacturing facilities in a 
single location and reliance 
on one or few suppliers 
present risks to business 
stability.
The Company continues to explore responses to manufacturing 
concentration including strategic stocking in various parts of India 
and rest of the world in the short to mid-term and as part of its mid 
to long-term strategy, it will continue to explore the feasibility of 
establishing assembly operations in international regions.
Till the scale and volume justifies manufacturing and assembly 
in multiple locations, the Company uses alternate mitigations 
such as warehousing in domestic and foreign locations to 
prevent disruption of deliveries to its customers.
The supplier base is being widened continuously to reduce 
dependence on fewer suppliers and geographies. While 
developing a global network of suppliers is a continuous activity; 
the Company has road map to continuously mitigate suppliers’ 
concentration.
Further, the Company will continue to carry out strategic, 
selective backward integration such that manufacture of most 
critical parts are moved in-house.
40
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
BOARD’S REPORT
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Risk management (Continued...)
S. No.
Risk Category
Risk Summary
Risk Response/Mitigation actions/Position
8
Information 
Technology 
Risks
Cyber security risks could 
disrupt the Company’s 
technology systems, 
infrastructure, and 
networks. Gaps in data 
protection could result 
in non-compliance of 
applicable regulations.
The Company is driving a holistic IT risk management to ensure 
resilience, security, and alignment with business goals
Resilience Risk
•  Implemented robust disaster recovery and backup systems.
•  Conducting regular stress tests and scenario planning.
•  Establishing redundant infrastructure to ensure uptime.
Transformation Risk
•  Adopting a phased approach to digital transformation to 
manage complexity.
•  Engaging experienced consultants or vendors for smooth 
integration.
Cyber Risk
•  Investing in advanced cybersecurity tools and protocols.
•  Regularly updating & patching systems to address vulnerabilities.
•  Conducting employee cybersecurity training and awareness 
programs.
•  Appropriate cyber insurance cover has been taken and will be 
gradually increased at par with industry standards.
Talent Risk
•  Fostering a culture of continuous learning and innovation 
through training programs.
•  Involving key talent in the transformation process to increase 
buy-in.
•  Offering clear opportunities and paths to ease transitions.
•  Heightened attention on Talent Acquisition.
9
Financial Risks
Exchange rate 
fluctuations in the 
various currencies that 
the Company deals in 
could adversely affect 
the Company’s financial 
performance.
Unhedged positions are relatively less significant and regularly 
monitored and hedged within the appropriate timeline. The 
Company undertakes hedging activities strictly in accordance 
with its Risk Management Policy, which prohibits the use of 
financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Company gets timely advice from the bankers through its 
close, frequent interactions with them.
10.
Environmental 
Risks
Global climate change 
and related regulations 
can negatively impact our 
business
The Company focuses heavily on Electric Powered Screw Air 
Compressors (EPSAC) and Oil Free Screw Air Compressors 
(OFSAC) for its future growth, gradually reducing the dependence 
on Diesel Powered Screw Air Compressors (DPSAC) in its overall 
portfolio. Environmental factors and regulatory changes taking 
place globally are closely monitored to effect appropriate actions 
to align the Company’s products with these requirements.
The Company had embarked on a major Environmental, Social & 
Governance (ESG) initiative. The ESG strategy was defined basis 
a comprehensive materiality survey, maturity assessment and 
compliance requirements. We had engaged a leading consultant 
partner to help us in this journey and the same is continuing.
The Company’s operations are constantly upgraded to adopt 
green manufacturing practices.
Key Initiatives to Minimize Carbon Emissions:
•  Transitioning to Sustainable Energy and Mobility.
•  Smart Monitoring for Fuel Optimization.
•  Transitioning to Cleaner Energy in Heat Processing.
•  Green energy now contributes ~ 40% of the Company’s total 
energy consumption.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
41
Corporate Social Responsibility Initiatives
The brief outline of the Corporate Social Responsibility 
(“CSR”) Policy of the Company and the initiatives 
undertaken by the Company on CSR activities during 
the year are set out as Annexure B to this report in the 
format prescribed in the Companies (CSR Policy) Rules, 
2014. For other details regarding the CSR Committee, 
refer to the Corporate Governance Report, which is a 
part of this report. The policy is available on the website 
of the Company and can be accessed on the Company’s 
website at the link https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/
uploads/2019/05/CSR-Policy.pdf.
Performance Evaluation of the Board, its 
Committees and the Directors
Pursuant to the provisions of CA 2013 and SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Board of Directors has carried out 
annual performance evaluation of its own performance, 
the Directors individually as well as the evaluation of 
the working of its committees. The manner in which the 
evaluation has been carried out has been explained in the 
Corporate Governance Report attached to this report.
Statement regarding opinion of the Board with 
regard to integrity, expertise and experience 
(including the proficiency) of the Independent 
Directors
The Board of Directors have evaluated the Independent 
Directors during the year 2024-25 and opined that the 
integrity, expertise and experience (including proficiency) 
of the Independent Directors are satisfactory.
Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj, Non-Executive Non-Independent 
Director retires by rotation at the ensuing AGM and 
being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. Your 
directors recommend his re-appointment.
A resolution seeking approval of the Members for the 
re-appointment of Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj as Director 
has been incorporated in the Notice to the AGM of the 
Company along with brief details about him.
Mr. Mohan Nambiar, Independent Director retired on April 
10, 2024. Further Dr. Ganesh Devaraj, Mr. M Ramprasad and 
Mr. B. Vijayakumar, Non–Executive Independent Directors 
of the Company ceased to be the Directors of the Company 
from closure of business hours on August 01, 2024. 
The Board wishes to place on record its appreciation 
for the invaluable services rendered by them during 
their tenure as independent directors of the Company.
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors 
of the Company, at its meeting held on May 27, 2024, 
recommended the appointment of Mr. Suman Kumar Das, 
Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran, and Mr. Srinivasan Krishnamurthi 
as Independent Directors of the Company for a term of five 
consecutive years, effective July 31, 2024. The said Directors 
were appointed as Independent Directors from the same 
date after obtaining the requisite shareholders’ approval.
Ms. Aruna Thangaraj was re-appointed as an independent 
director of the company for a second term of 5 consecutive 
years commencing from August 02, 2024, after obtaining 
shareholders’ approval and shall not be liable to retire 
by rotation. 
Pursuant to the resignation of Ms. Vaishnavi PM as the 
Compliance Officer of the Company, effective May  27, 
2024, Ms. Devika Sathyanarayana was appointed as 
the Company Secretary, Key Managerial Personnel and 
Compliance Officer effective the same date. 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 2(51) and 203 of 
the Act, the Key Managerial Personnel of the Company 
are Mr. Jairam Varadaraj, Managing Director, Mr. Anvar 
Jay Varadaraj, Executive Director, Mr. Indranil Sen, Chief 
Financial Officer and Mrs. Devika Sathyanarayana, 
Company Secretary. Further, consequent to her 
resignation, Ms. Devika Sathyanarayana would cease to 
be the Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of 
the Company w.e.f. June 09, 2025.
Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associate 
Companies
The highlights of the performance of subsidiaries, 
associates and joint venture companies and their 
contribution to the overall performance of the Company 
during the period under review have been disclosed in 
the Management Discussion and Analysis Report.
At the beginning of the year under review, the 
Company has 25 subsidiaries and 9 joint ventures/
associate entities. The statement pursuant to Section 
129(3) of CA 2013, containing the salient features of 
the financial statements of subsidiary companies, 
in Form AOC-1 forms part of this Annual report. Out 
of 9 joint ventures, 3 entities viz., G3 Compressors 
LLC, CS  Industrial Services LLC and Compressed Air 
Solutions of Texas LLC, cease to exist as on the date 
of this report.
Elgi Compressors USA Inc., Elgi Compressors Europe 
S.R.L, and Patton’s Inc., are the material subsidiaries 
of the Company based on the financials for the year 
42
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
BOARD’S REPORT
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ended March 31, 2025. The Board has approved a policy 
for determining material subsidiaries which is available 
on the website of the Company and can be accessed 
on at the link https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/
uploads/2019/05/Policy-for-Material-Subsidiaries.pdf.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company 
and its subsidiaries prepared in accordance with the 
applicable accounting standards have been annexed 
to the Annual Report. The annual accounts of the 
subsidiary companies are hosted on the website 
of the Company viz. www.elgi.com and will also be 
kept open for inspection by the shareholders at the 
registered office of the Company till the date of AGM. 
The Company will also provide a copy of the annual 
accounts of subsidiary companies to the shareholders 
upon their request.
Deposits
Your Company has not accepted any deposit within the 
meaning of provisions of Chapter V of CA 2013, read 
with the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 
2014 for the year ended March 31, 2025.
Details of significant and material orders 
passed by the Regulators or Courts or Tribunals
There are no significant and material orders passed by 
the regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going 
concern status and Company’s operations in future.
Internal Control Systems and their Adequacy
The Company has adequate internal control systems 
to monitor business processes, financial reporting and 
compliance with applicable regulations. The systems 
are periodically reviewed for identification of control 
deficiencies and formulation of time-bound action plans 
to improve efficiency at all levels. The Audit Committee 
of the Board constantly reviews internal control systems 
and their adequacy, significant risk areas, observations 
made by the internal auditors on control mechanisms and 
the operations of the Company and recommendations 
made for corrective action through the internal audit 
reports. The Committee reviews the statutory auditors’ 
report, key issues, significant processes, and accounting 
policies. The Directors confirm that the Internal Financial 
Controls are adequate with respect to the operations of 
the Company. 
A report of Auditors pursuant to Section 143(3) (i) of 
CA 2013 certifying the adequacy of Internal Financial 
Controls is annexed with the Auditors Report.
Statutory Auditors
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants, LLP (Firm 
Reg. No.: 012754N/N500016) Chartered Accountants, 
Chennai was appointed as the Statutory Auditors of 
the Company for a second term of five years at the 
Sixty Second AGM of the Company held on August 12, 
2022, till the conclusion of the sixty seventh AGM to be 
held in the year 2027.
Secretarial Auditors
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of CA 2013 
and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Company had 
appointed MDS & Associates LLP, Company Secretaries, 
Coimbatore to undertake the secretarial audit of 
the Company for the FY 2024-25. The report of the 
secretarial auditor is attached as Annexure C.
Cost Auditors
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 148(3) of 
CA 2013, the  Board of Directors had appointed 
M/s. STR & Associates, Cost Accountants, Trichy (Firm 
Registration No.: 000029), as Cost Auditors of the 
Company, for conducting the audit of cost records for 
the financial year ended March 31, 2025. The Audit is 
in progress and report will be filed with the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs within the prescribed period.
The cost accounts and records as specified by the 
Central Government under sub-section (1) of Section 
148 of CA 2013, are made and maintained by the 
Company.
Details of application made or any proceeding 
pending under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 
Code, 2016 during the year
No applications have been made and no proceedings 
are pending against the Company under the Insolvency 
and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
Details of difference between amount of 
the valuation done at the time of one-time 
settlement and the valuation done while taking 
loan from the Banks or Financial Institutions 
along with the reasons thereof
The disclosure under this clause is not applicable as the 
Company has not undertaken any one-time settlement 
with the banks or financial institutions.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
43
Human Resources and Industrial Relations 
The Company continues to enjoy a cordial relationship 
with its employees at all levels. The total strength of 
employees as on March 31, 2025, was 2138.
Particulars of Employees
In terms of the provisions of Section 197(12) of the CA 
2013, read with Rules 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies 
(Appointment 
and 
Remuneration 
of 
Managerial 
Personnel) Rules, 2014, a statement showing the names 
of the top ten employees in terms of remuneration 
drawn and names and other particulars of the employees 
drawing remuneration in excess of the limits set out in 
the said rules forms part of this Report as Annexure D. 
Disclosures relating to remuneration and other details 
as required under Section 197(12) of the CA 2013 read 
with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, 
forms part of this Report.
Having regard to the provisions of the second proviso 
to Section 136(1) of the Act and as advised, the Annual 
Report excluding the aforesaid information is being sent 
to the members of the Company. Any member interested 
in obtaining such information may write to the Secretarial 
department.
Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock 
Option Plan, 2019
The Company has implemented the Elgi Equipments 
Limited Employees Stock Option Plan 2019 (“Elgi ESOP 
2019”) to enable the Company and its subsidiaries to 
attract, retain and reward appropriate human talent in 
its employment and to create a sense of ownership and 
participation amongst the employees. The Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee administers and monitors 
the Employees’ Stock Option Plan of the Company 
through the Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock 
Option Trust. 
During the year, 3,53,600 Employee Stock Options were 
granted to the eligible employees of the Company. None 
of the Directors were issued any options.
Further, subsequent to the adoption of Elgi ESOP 2019, 
SEBI introduced various amendments, including the 
replacement of SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits) 
Regulations, 2014 with the SEBI (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021. With the 
coming into force of the new regulations, several clauses 
of the Plan required alteration or deletion. Accordingly, 
the Elgi ESOP 2019 was amended in accordance with 
shareholders’ approval dated July 31, 2024. 
The disclosure pursuant to the provisions of Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 is given as 
Annexure E to this report and also available on the website 
of the Company at https://www.elgi.com/in/financials.
The Company has received a Certificate from the 
Secretarial Auditors that the above referred Scheme 
had been implemented in accordance with the SEBI 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 and the resolutions passed by the 
members in this regard.
Disclosure under the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013
As per the requirement of the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder, your 
Company has constituted an Internal Complaints 
Committee. During the year under review, three cases 
were received/filed pursuant to the provisions of the 
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The same was 
resolved during the year. As on March 31, 2025, no 
complaint is pending for investigation and resolution.
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
In terms of Regulation 34 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
read with relevant SEBI Circulars, new reporting 
requirements on ESG parameters were prescribed 
under Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report 
(“BRSR”). The BRSR seeks disclosure on the performance 
of the Company against nine principles of the “National 
Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct’ (‘NGRBCs’). 
As per the SEBI Circulars, effective from the financial 
year 2023-24, filing of BRSR is mandatory for the top 1000 
listed companies by market capitalisation.
Accordingly, for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, 
your Company being amongst top 1000 companies, BRSR 
is annexed as Annexure F to this Report.
Corporate Governance
A report on corporate governance is annexed as 
Annexure G to this report. The Company has complied 
with the conditions relating to corporate governance as 
stipulated in SEBI Listing Regulations.
44
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
BOARD’S REPORT
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower Policy
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 177(9) of CA 2013, 
read with Rule 7 of the Companies (Meetings of Board 
and its Powers) Rules, 2014 and Regulations 4 and 22 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations and in accordance with 
the requirements of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015, the Company has a Whistle Blower 
policy to deal with unethical or improper practice or 
violation of the Company’s Code of Business Conduct or 
any complaints regarding accounting, auditing, internal 
controls or disclosure practices of the Company. 
This Policy inter alia provides direct access to the 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. Your Company hereby 
affirms that no Director/employee has been denied 
access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Brief 
details about the policy are provided in the Corporate 
Governance Report attached to this Report.
The Audit Committee of the Board reviews the 
Complaints received, redressed, objected, withdrawn 
and dismissed for, every quarter in its meeting. The 
Whistle Blower policy is available on the website of 
the Company at the link https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-
content/uploads/2019/10/Whistle-Blower-Policy.pdf.
Acknowledgement
Your Directors thank the shareholders, customers, 
suppliers, bankers and all other stakeholders for their 
continued support during the year. Your Directors also 
place on record their appreciation of the contributions 
made by employees at all levels towards the growth of 
the Company.
	
For and on behalf of the Board
 	
Jairam Varadaraj	
Anvar Jay Varadaraj
Place: Coimbatore	
Managing Director	
Executive Director
Date: May 28, 2025	
DIN: 00003361	
DIN: 07273942
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
45
Annexure A
Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earning and Outgo 
[Section 134(3)(m) of the Act, read with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014]
A. Conservation of Energy
I.	 Steps taken for conservation of energy for all 
manufacturing plants:
During this year, the Company experienced a positive 
impact by way of reduction in “Power to Sale ratio” from 
1.54 % to 1.04 % for all manufacturing plants irrespective 
of hike in Grid power and maximum demand cost. The 
maximum demand cost and Grid cost has increased by 
7% year-on year.
Various Energy Management Programs (EnMPs) were 
executed during the year by identifying the energy gaps 
and opportunities and by using a systematic approach 
to analyze the energy consumption pattern through an 
Internet of Things (“IoT”) device for online monitoring 
of compressors’ health at customers’ sites. The foundry 
plant is also certified as ISO 50001 by TUV Nord. The 
following were the measures that were taken to optimize 
energy consumption:
i.	
As a part of the green manufacturing initiative, the 
Company participated in a group captive wind power 
plant special purpose vehicle (“SPV”) through equity 
participation as per norms for drawing 1 MW capacity 
of Wind power. The plant started generating 1 MW 
Wind CGP & 4 MW Solar (CGP) and 1.25 MW of its own 
wind power, which increased the share of renewable 
energy to 39% of the total energy consumption in 
all the Company’s manufacturing plants for this 
financial year. Due to this, the Company reduced 
carbon emission from 747 Kg Co2/Mn of sale to 
422 Kg Co2/Mn of sale.
ii.	 The Company normalized and revised the energy 
consumption target by carrying out certain 
changes to the manufacturing process. This 
year, Airend manufacturing energy consumption 
reduced from 380 kWh/Air end to 360 kWh/Air end. 
This was accomplished by implementing EnMP as 
mentioned below:
•	 Energy-efficient motors (standard to IE3) were 
installed in Air Handling Units (AHU) circuits for 
the Company’s Kinathukkadavu factory.
•	 Energy eﬃcient lighting was introduced in 
the machine shop, Air end assembly lines and 
oﬃce area.
iii.	 At the foundry, we engaged the CII energy audit 
team and did the energy audit. Energy Management 
programs were identified and are yet to be executed.
iv.	 LPG consumption in foundry Mould Drying Oven 
was reduced by 3.7% through installation of a Fuel 
Catalyst, monitoring the savings continuously 
Synchronized the Mechanical generators (160 KW 
and 250 KW) to test air compressors for 60 Hz 
suited for the US market at the testing facilities 
of Assembly lines in Large Electric Powered Screw 
Air Compressors (“LEPSAC”) and Oil Free Screw Air 
Compressors (“OFSAC”). This could result in savings 
of 36,000 Litres of High-speed diesel per year, and 
monitoring the savings continuously.
v.	 Air-conditioner units were upgraded with inverter-
type machines.
vi.	 Energy efficiency improvements carried out in 
300 Tons chillers at Air center plant.
vii.	 Installed energy-efficient lighting in air compressor 
assembly lines and office area at the Singanallur 
factory.
viii.	Energy-efficient lighting was installed in assembly 
lines of Pressure vessels and Motor divisions.
II.	 Steps taken by the Company to utilize alternative 
sources of energy:
At present, the Company’s power sources from its own 
windmills are 1.25 MW and 4 MW Solar from group 
captive Solar Plant contributes 39% of the total energy 
consumption. Procurement of an additional 1 MW of 
Wind power, CGP established and started generating 
power from October 24 onwards.
III.	Capital investment in energy conservation equipment
` 10 million was spent during the financial year towards 
a group captive one MW Wind Power Plant (mentioned 
above) and other energy-saving measures.
46
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
B. Technology Absorption:
I. Efforts made towards technology absorption
	
z
The next generation controller, Neuron-IV, has been 
made Standard across all products.
	
z
Seamless integration of advanced features like 
master-slave control in compressors for scheduling 
and sequencing has been enabled by the new 
configuration in software and hardware in Neuron-IV.
	
z
Integration of Dryer and HRS to the compressor was 
enabled by the advanced software capability in the 
NIV controller.
	
z
A software to interface between VFDs of various 
manufacturers and the compressor controllers was 
developed and installed.
	
z
Air-Alert, the IoT device used to continuously 
monitor and predict the performance of compressors 
globally, has been deployed across regions and all 
product variants, enhancing customer experience 
and benefits.
II. Benefits 
derived, 
like 
product 
improvement, 
cost reduction, product development or import 
substitution
Focus for the year was on energy efficiency and cost 
optimization, in line with its long-standing commitment 
to sustainable performance. The year also marked 
the launch of several new products and features 
aimed at widening portfolio coverage and driving 
backwards integration. In addition, deliberate efforts 
were made to expand the product range and introduce 
region-specific 
innovations 
tailored 
to 
address 
challenging environmental conditions. These strategic 
advancements are expected to strengthen Elgi’s global 
appeal and accelerate progress toward its long-term 
growth objectives.
Oil-lubricated compressor:
	
z
Launched 
Air 
Station 
(compressor-tank-dryer) 
concept in the range of 2-15kW launched for all 
regions.
	
z
Encapsulated (EN) product range upgraded to 
include 8 & 10 bar across the range for better product 
positioning.
	
z
EG75 -160 Super Premium range of machines 
launched for all regions.
	
z
Integrated Heat Recovery system for units launched 
to for better energy management.
Oil-Free compressor:
	
z
Upgraded OF 90- 160kW introduced with an Integrated 
Heat Recovery system as well as an outdoor protection 
kit as a feature.
Portable compressor:
	
z
The PG850-290 model was launched for waterwell as 
well as mining applications.
Vacuum pump:
	
z
Launched dry as well as oil-lube rotary vane 
vacuum pump for the Indian market, enabled by a 
technology licensing agreement with DVP Vacuum 
Technology, Italy.
Accessories:
	
z
The indigenously developed ARN series refrigerated 
dryers in the 20 CFM – 500 CFM range were introduced 
in India, with a plan for global rollout.
Other initiatives:
	
z
A breakthrough STABILISOR concept was developed 
this year, significantly enhancing compressor stability, 
performance, and reliability. By dynamically aligning 
compressor capacity with fluctuating demand, energy 
waste is reduced, mechanical stress is minimized, and 
pressure stability is maintained, resulting in improved 
efficiency, lower costs, and longer component life. Its 
integration across existing and upcoming product lines 
is being planned to address both current and emerging 
market needs.
	
z
Elgi motor implementation on EG and AB in the range 
of 55-75 kW to offer a better value proposition to our 
customers. 
	
z
Air-Alert, the IoT-based device designed to continuously 
monitor and predict compressor performance globally, 
has been deployed across regions and all product 
variants, significantly enhancing customer experience 
and value. 
	
z
The next generation controller, Neuron-IV, has been 
made Standard across all products.
	
z
Designed and delivered oil injected Screw compressor 
first of its kind for locomotive brake application.
	
z
Designed and implemented the 180 LPM indigenized 
Unique Oil filter, which ensures the completeness of 
the unique filter development initiative.
Several other projects aligned with global requirements 
are nearing completion and are expected to be rolled out 
between the first and second quarters of FY2025 - 26.
ANNEXURE A
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
47
III. Information regarding imported technology (imported during the last three years, reckoned from the beginning 
of the financial year)
Elgi has entered into a multi-year technology licensing agreement with D.V.P. Vacuum Technology S.p.A., Italy. This 
agreement allows Elgi to manufacture, assemble, test, and sell DVP’s proprietary vacuum products in India. The 
initiative marks an expansion of Elgi’s product portfolio into the vacuum segment, starting with business incubation 
in India and subsequent global expansion. As a first step, Elgi started importing the technological aspects to know 
how and why of Vacuum technology.
Expenditure incurred on Research & Development:
Expenditure on R&D
2024-25
2023-24
Capital
27
24
Revenue
369
372
Total
396
397
R&D Expenditure as a percentage on turnover
1.90%
2.15%
C. Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
Earnings in foreign currency and expenditure incurred in foreign currency amounted to ` 5,696 million and ` 2,175 million, 
respectively.
For and on behalf of the Board
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Jairam Varadaraj
Managing Director
DIN: 00003361
Anvar Jay Varadaraj
Executive Director
DIN: 07273942
(` in millions)
48
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Annexure B
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Annexure B
Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities
1.	
Brief outline of the CSR Policy of the Company
The Company is committed to enhance societal sustainability alongside its economic and environmental goals. 
For several decades, it has actively supported education and community development initiatives in and around 
Coimbatore. The Company’s CSR Policy and programs are directed mainly towards education. The Company, 
through Registered Trusts, supports the school financially as well as through involvement in its Management and 
Administration. Beyond education, the CSR policy also encompasses initiatives aimed to promote gender equality, 
women empowerment, environmental sustainability, protection of national heritage, music, drama, dance, sports, 
fine arts, helping widows, aged persons, physically and mentally challenged persons and rural development projects.
The Company also contributes to the treatment of children affected by cancer through Cankids KidsCan, a 
registered charitable society. Additionally, it has been and continues to be one of the primary sponsors of the 
annual Coimbatore Marathon, reinforcing its commitment to community health and engagement.
2.	 Composition of the CSR Committee
The CSR Committee of the Board of Directors comprises the following members:
S. No.
Name of Director
Designation/Nature  
of Directorship
Number of meetings of 
the CSR Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings 
of the CSR Committee 
attended during the year
1
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj
Managing Director 
(Chairman)
2
2
2
Ms. Aruna Thangaraj
Non-Executive 
Independent Director 
(Member)
2
1
3
Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj
Executive Director 
(Member)
2
2
4
Mr. Balakrishnan Vijayakumar 
(cessation with effect from 
August 1, 2024)
Non-Executive 
Independent Director 
(Member)
2
Nil
3.	 The web-link where the Composition of the CSR committee, the CSR Policy and the CSR projects approved by the 
board are disclosed on the website of the Company:
Composition of the CSR Committee: “https://www.elgi.com/in/company-leadership/”
CSR Policy: “https://www.elgi.com/in/policies/csr-policy.pdf”
CSR Projects: “https://www.elgi.com/in/corporate-social-responsibility/”
4.	  Executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of 
sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable:
	
The Company has not carried out an Impact assessment of CSR projects in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of Rule 8 of the 
Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, as the same does not apply to the Company.
5.	 (a)  Average Net Profit of the Company as per Section 135(5): ` 3287.87 Million
	
(b)  Two percent of the average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5): ` 65.76 million
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
49
	
(c)  Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programs, or activities of the previous financial years: NIL
	
(d)  Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any: NIL
	
(e)  Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(5b) +(5c) -(5d)]: ` 65.76 Million
6.	 (A)	 Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Projects and other than Ongoing Projects).
	
Details of the CSR amount spent against ongoing projects and other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
(a)  Amount spent on ongoing projects: Nil
(b)  Amount spent on other than ongoing projects: ` 24.50 million
(c)  Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: Nil
(d)  Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Nil
(e)  Total amount spent for the Financial Year (6a+6b+6c+6d): ` 24.50 Million
(f)  CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Total amount 
spent for the 
Financial Year  
(` in Mn)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent 
CSR Account as per Section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per second proviso to Section 135(5)
Amount 
(` in Million)
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
24.50
41.27
April 28, 2025
-
 -
 -
(B)	 Excess Amount for set off, if any:
S. No.
Particular
Amount (in ` Mn)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per section 135(5)
65.76
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
24.50
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
Nil
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programs or activities of the previous 
financial years, if any
Nil
(v)
Amount available for setting off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]
Nil
7.	
Details of the Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three financial years.
S. No.
Preceding 
Financial 
Year(s)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
section 135(6)  
(` in Mn.)
Balance 
Amount in 
Unspent 
CSR Account 
under section 
135(6)  
(` in Mn.)
Amount 
Spent 
in the 
Financial 
Year 
(` in Mn.)
Amount 
transferred to a 
Fund as specified 
under Schedule 
VII as per the 
second proviso to 
subsection (5) of 
section 135, if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent on 
succeeding 
Financial Years 
(` in Million)
Deficiency, 
if any
Amount 
(` in 
Million)
Date of 
Transfer
1
2023-24
33.46
33.46
-
-
-
33.46
-
2
2022-23
26.61
26.61
18.65
-
-
7.96
-
3
2021-22
24.06
-
-
-
-
-
-
Annexure B
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
50
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
8.	 Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent 
in the Financial Year: No
9.	 Reason if the Company has failed to spend 2% of the average net profits as per section 135(5): Not applicable
For and on behalf of the Board
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Jairam Varadaraj
Managing Director and
Chairman of the CSR Committee
DIN: 00003361
Anvar Jay Varadaraj
Executive Director
DIN: 07273942
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
51
Annexure C
Form No. MR-3
Secretarial Audit Report
For the financial year ended 31st March 2025
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 24A of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015]
To
The Members,
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED 
(CIN: L29120TZ1960PLC000351)
Elgi Industrial Complex III,
Trichy Road, Singanallur,
Coimbatore – 641 005.
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the 
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and the 
adherence to good corporate practices by M/s.  ELGI 
EQUIPMENTS LIMITED (hereinafter called the Company). 
Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that 
provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate 
conducts/statutory 
compliances 
and 
expressing our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of M/s. ELGI EQUIPMENTS 
LIMITED’s books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the 
Company and also the information provided by 
the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial 
audit, we hereby report that in our opinion, the 
Company has, during the audit period covering the 
financial year ended 31st March 2025, complied with the 
statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the 
Company has proper Board-processes and compliance 
mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and 
subject to the reporting made hereinafter.
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed, and other records maintained 
by the Company for the financial year ended on 31st 
March 2025 according to the provisions of:
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made 
thereunder.
ii.	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder.
iii.	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
bye-laws framed thereunder.
iv.	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made there under to the extent 
of Overseas Direct Investment.
v.	 The following Regulations prescribed under the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 
(‘SEBI Act’): - 
a.	 The 
Securities 
and 
Exchange 
Board 
of 
India 
(Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015
b.	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial 
Acquisition 
of 
Shares 
and 
Takeovers) Regulations, 2011
c.	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015
d.	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer 
Agents) 
Regulations, 
1993, 
regarding 
the 
Companies Act and dealing with client
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Depositories 
and 
Participants) 
Regulations, 
2018 and
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021
Annexure C
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
52
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
We have also examined compliance with the 
applicable clauses of the following:
a.  Secretarial Standards with respect to Board 
Meetings (SS-1) and General Meetings 
(SS-2) issued by The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (ICSI)
b.  The Listing Agreement entered into by the 
Company with BSE Limited and the National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited
During the year under review, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations and 
Standards etc., mentioned above except to the following 
observation given below.
•	 The Company reported a continuous update with 
respect to an event disclosed (initially disclosed 
within the prescribed timeline) under Regulation 30 
read with Schedule III of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, to 
the Stock Exchanges with a delay of seven (7) days. 
It is noted that the National Stock Exchange (NSE) 
sought clarification regarding the delay, which was 
duly responded to by the Company.
We further report that, during the year under review, 
there were no actions/events in pursuance of the 
following 
Rules/Regulations 
requiring 
compliance 
thereof by the Company:
a.	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018
b.	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021
c.	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018 and
d.	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021.
We further report that based on the information 
provided by the Company, its officers and authorized 
representatives, there are no laws specifically applicable 
to the Company.
We further report that having regard to the compliance 
system prevailing in the Company and on the review of 
quarterly compliance reports taken on record by the 
Board of Directors and on examination of the relevant 
documents and records in pursuance thereof, on test-
check basis, the Company has complied with the labour 
and environmental laws as applicable.
We further report that the compliance by the Company 
of applicable financial laws, like direct and indirect 
tax laws, has not been reviewed in this Audit since the 
same has been subject to review by statutory financial 
auditors and other designated professionals.
We further report that 
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly 
constituted with proper balance of Executive Directors, 
Non-Executive Directors, Independent Directors and 
a Woman Director. The changes in the composition of 
the Board of Directors that took place during the period 
under review were carried out in compliance with the 
provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule 
the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on 
agenda were sent at least seven days in advance, 
and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further 
information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at 
the meeting.
All decisions at Board meetings and Committee meetings 
are carried out unanimously as recorded in the minutes 
of the meetings of the Board of Directors or Committee 
of the Board, as the case may be.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
We further report that during the period under review, 
the Company has amended the provisions of Elgi 
Equipments Limited Employee Stock Option Plan 2019 in 
accordance with the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
53
Regulations, 2021 pursuant to the approval granted by 
the shareholders of the Company at the Annual General 
Meeting held on 31st July 2024.
We further report that during the period under 
review, 
the 
Compensation 
Committee/Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee has in accordance with 
the provisions of Elgi Equipments Limited Employee 
Stock Option Plan 2019 granted 3,53,600 options to the 
employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Other than the above, there were no instances of
	
z
Public/Rights/Preferential issue of shares/
debentures/sweat equity.
	
z
Redemption/buy-back of securities.
	
z
Major decision taken by the members pursuant to 
Section 180 of the Companies Act, 2013.
	
z
Merger/amalgamation/reconstruction etc.
	
z
Foreign technical collaborations.
Place: Coimbatore 
Date: May 28, 2025
M D SELVARAJ
Managing Partner
FCS No.: 960 | C P No.: 411
Peer Review No. 6468/2025
UDIN: F000960G000406563
For MDS & Associates LLP 
Company Secretaries
This report is to be read with our letter of even date, which is annexed as Annexure I and forms an integral part of 
this report.
Annexure C
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
54
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Place: Coimbatore 
Date: May 28, 2025
M D SELVARAJ
Managing Partner
FCS No.: 960 | C P No.: 411
Peer Review No. 6468/2025
UDIN: F000960G000406563
For MDS & Associates LLP 
Company Secretaries
‘Annexure A’
Annexure to Secretarial Audit Report Issued by Company Secretary in Practice
To
The Members,
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED 
(CIN: L29120TZ1960PLC000351)
ELGI Industrial Complex III,
Trichy Road, Singanallur,
Coimbatore – 641 005
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1.	 Maintenance 
of 
Secretarial 
records 
is 
the 
responsibility of the management of the company. 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these 
secretarial records based on our audit.
2.	 We have followed the audit practices and processes 
as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance 
about the correctness of the contents of the 
Secretarial records. The verification was done on 
test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected 
in secretarial records. We believe that the processes 
and practices we followed provide a reasonable basis 
for our opinion.
3.	 We 
have 
not 
verified 
the 
correctness 
and 
appropriateness of financial records and Books of 
Accounts of the Company.
4.	 Wherever 
required, 
we 
have 
obtained 
the 
Management representation about the compliance 
of laws, rules, and regulations and happening of 
events etc.
5.	 The compliance of the provisions of corporate 
and other applicable laws, rules and regulations, 
standards is the responsibility of the management. 
Our examination was limited to the verification of 
procedures on random test basis.
6.	 The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance 
as to the future viability of the company nor of the 
efficacy or effectiveness with which the management 
has conducted the affairs of the company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
55
Particulars pursuant to Rule 5 of The Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
a)	The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the 
financial year and the percentage increase of each Director, MD, ED, CFO and Company Secretary in the financial year:
S. No.
Name of Director
Ratio to median 
remuneration
% increase in 
remuneration in the 
financial year
1
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj, Managing Director
26.36
8.50%
2
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj, Non-Executive Director
0.52
NA
3
Ms. Aruna Thangaraj, Independent Director 
1.05
NA
4
Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj, Executive Director 
18.16
31.00%
5
Mr. Srinivasan Krishnamurthi, Independent Director
2.58
NA
6
Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran, Independent Director
2.06
NA
7
Mr. Suman Kumar Das, Independent Director
2.06
NA
8
Mr. Ramprasad M, Independent Director*
0.09
NA
9
Mr. Mohan Nambiar, Independent Director$
–
NA
10
Indranil Sen, Chief Financial Officer
–
NA
11
Devika Sathyanarayana, Company Secretary#
–
NA
12
Dr. Ganesh Devaraj, Independent Director*
0.19
NA
13
Mr. B Vijayakumar, Independent Director*
–
NA
*Cessation w.e.f. August 01, 2024
$ Retired w.e.f. April 10, 2024
#Cessation W.e.f. June 09, 2024
b)	The median remuneration for the year 2024-25 is Rs. 9,69,012/-
c)	The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year: 5.21% 
d)	The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company: 2138 (including subsidiaries)
e)	Average percentiles increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the 
last financial year, and its comparison with the percentile increase in managerial remuneration, and justification 
thereof, and any exceptional circumstances for the increase in managerial remuneration:
	
The average percentile increase in remuneration is 5.21% for Employees and Managerial Personnel.
f)	 Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company:
	
Your directors aﬃrm that the remuneration is as per the Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company.
Annexure D
Statement pursuant to Section 197(12) of The Companies Act, 2013 read with The Companies 
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
For and on behalf of the Board
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Jairam Varadaraj
Managing Director
DIN: 00003361
Anvar Jay Varadaraj
Executive Director
DIN: 07273942
Annexure E
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
56
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
1.	
Disclosure in terms of the ‘Guidance note on accounting for employee share-based payments’ issued by ICAI:
The same has been disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, which form part of this Annual Report.
2.	 Material Changes in the Scheme:
No material change has been carried out during the financial year under review.
3.	 Diluted EPS on issue of shares pursuant to ESOP: 
Not applicable as the Company does not propose to undertake a fresh issue of equity shares under the ESOP Plan.
4.	 Details related to Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOP)
i.	
A description of each ESOP that existed at any time during the year, including the general terms and conditions 
of each ESOP, including
Particulars
Details
Date of shareholders' approval
January 31, 2020
Total number of options approved 
under ESOP
31,69,090 (1% of paid-up capital)
Vesting requirements 
Refer note 42 of the standalone financial statements
Exercise price or pricing formula
Maximum term of options granted
Source of shares
Secondary Acquisition
Variation in terms of options
There has been no variation in the terms of the options during the year
Method used to account for ESOP
Fair value
The impact on the profits and EPS of 
the company
Refer note 42 of the standalone financial statements
ii.	 Option movement during the year
Particulars
Details
Number of options outstanding at the beginning of the period
4,96,800
Number of options granted during the year
3,53,600
Number of options forfeited/lapsed during the year
4,900
Number of options vested during the year
2,88,300
Number of options exercised during the year
2,88,300
Number of shares arising as a result of the exercise of options
2,88,300
Money realized by the exercise of options (INR), if the scheme is implemented 
directly by the Company
NA
Loan repaid by the Trust during the year from the exercise price received (`)
7,74,31,000
Number of options outstanding at the end of the year
5,57,200
Number of options exercisable at the end of the year
NIL
Annexure E
Disclosures in compliance with Regulation 14 of Securities and Exchange Board of India  
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
57
iii.	 Employee wise details (name of employee, designation, number of options granted during the year, exercise 
price) of options granted to Senior Managerial Personnel and employees who have received grant exceeding 5% 
of the total options granted during the year:
S. No.
Name of employee
Designation
No. of options 
granted
Date of 
vesting
1
Mr. Indranil Sen 
Chief Financial Officer 
22,100 
01/04/2027
2
Dr. Venu Madhav K 
Director – Product Excellence & Innovation 22,400 
01/04/2027
3
Mr. Bheemsingh Melchisedec Director – Operations 
13,400 
01/04/2027
4
Mr. Premendra 
Chief Strategy Officer 
20,600 
01/04/2027
5
Mr. Nitesh Jain 
Chief Human Resource Officer 
24,200 
01/04/2027
6
Mr. Bhavesh Karia 
President – ISAAME & SEA 
6,600 
01/04/2027
7
Mr. Ramesh Ponnuswami 
Executive Director 
28,800 
01/04/2027
8
Mr. Jayakanthan R 
Senior Managerial Personnel
22,800 
01/04/2027
9
Mr. Brian Pahl
President USA
45,400
01/04/2027
S. No.
Category of employees
Details
a
Senior managerial personnel;
As given in the above table
b
Any other employee who receives a grant in any one year of option 
amounting to 5% or more of option granted during that year
As given in the above table
c
Identified employees who were granted option, during any one year, 
equal to or exceeding 1% of the issued capital (excluding outstanding 
warrants and conversions) of the company at the time of grant
NIL
iv.	 Weighted Average exercise prices and weighted-average fair values of options shall be disclosed separately for 
options whose exercise price either equals or exceeds or is less than the market price of the stock:
Exercise price for options granted during the year: ` 592.10/-.
v.	
A description of the method and significant assumptions used during the year to estimate the fair value of 
options, including the following information.
Weighted-average values of share price, exercise price, expected volatility, expected option 
life, expected dividends, the risk-free interest rate and any other inputs to the model
Refer note 
42 of the 
standalone 
financial 
statements
Method used and the assumptions made to incorporate the effects of expected early exercise
How expected volatility was determined, including an explanation of the extent to which 
expected volatility was based on historical volatility
Whether and how any other features of the option grant were incorporated into the 
measurement of fair value, such as a market condition
None
5.	 Details related to Trust
i.	
General information on all schemes
S. No.
Particulars
Details
1
Name of the Trust
Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock Option Trust
2
Details of the Trustee(s)
Mr. B Balakrishnan and Mr. M Ramakrishnan
3
Amount of loans disbursed during the year
` 32,48,00,000/-
Annexure E
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
58
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
S. No.
Particulars
Details
4
Amount of loan outstanding (repayable to the 
Company) as at the end of the year
` 62,40,50,000/-
5
Amount of loan, if any, taken from any other 
source for which Company/any Company in the 
group has provided any security or guarantee
NIL
6
Any other contribution made to the Trust 
during the year
NIL
ii.	 Brief details of transactions in shares by the Trust
S. No.
Particulars
Details
1
Number of shares held at the beginning of the year
727,200 (2,32,000 shares purchased on 
March 28, 2024, were credited to the account 
of the Trust only on April 2, 2024)
2
Number of shares acquired during the year through  
(i)	 Primary issuance
(ii)	Secondary Acquisition, also as a percentage of 
paid-up equity capital as at the end of the previous 
financial year, along with information on weighted 
average cost of acquisition per share
 
i.	 Primary issue – Nil
ii.	 Secondary Acquisition – 7,68,430 shares 
representing 0.32% of the paid-up equity 
capital were acquired at the weighted 
average cost of ` 519.49 per share by the 
Trust during the financial year 2024-25.
3
Number of shares transferred to the employees/sold, 
along with the purpose thereof
1,33,344 shares were transferred to 
employees pursuant to the exercise of 
options. 1,55,048 shares were sold on behalf of 
the employees pursuant to exersale in respect 
of options exercised by the employees.
4
Number of shares held at the end of the year
12,07,238
iii.	 In case of secondary acquisition of shares by the Trust
Number of Shares
As a percentage of paid-up equity capital at the 
end of the year, immediately preceding the year 
in which shareholders’ approval was obtained.
Held at the beginning of the year
0.23 (An additional 0.07% of the shares acquired 
on March 28, 2024 were credited to the account 
of the Trust only on April 2, 2024)
Acquired during the year
0.24
Sold during the year
0.05
Transferred to the employees during the year
0.04
Held at the end of the year
0.38
For and on behalf of the Board
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Jairam Varadaraj
Managing Director
DIN: 00003361
Anvar Jay Varadaraj
Executive Director
DIN: 07273942
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
59
Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report
05
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
60
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Annexure F
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Section A: General Disclosures
I.	
Details of the listed entity
S. No
Details of the Entity
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity
L29120TZ1960PLC000351
2.
Name of the Listed Entity 
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
3.
Year of incorporation 
1960
4.
Registered office address 
Elgi Industrial Complex III,  
Trichy Road, Singanallur  
Coimbatore 641 005
5.
Corporate address
Elgi Industrial Complex III,  
Trichy Road, Singanallur  
Coimbatore 641 005
6.
E-mail 
investor@elgi.com
7.
Telephone
0422-2589555
8.
Website
www.elgi.com
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being done
2024-25
10.
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of 
India Ltd
11.
Paid-up Capital
INR 31,69,09,016
12.
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) 
of the person who may be contacted in case of any 
queries on the BRSR report 
Mr. Shyam Vasudevan, 
Vice-President, Legal & Secretarial.  
M: 9790015547. 
E-Mail: shyamv@elgi.com
13.
Reporting boundary 
Are the disclosures under this report made on a 
standalone basis (i.e., only for the entity) or on a 
consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the 
entities which form a part of its consolidated 
financial statements, taken together).
The reporting boundaries encompass Elgi’s 
manufacturing operations in India. However, as the 
boundary for social indicator pertains to all Elgi 
facilities in India, while the environmental indicators 
are restricted to the 5 key manufacturing facilities: 
Air Compressor Plant (ACP), Motor Plant, Foundry, 
Head Office and PVD plant.
14.
Name of assurance provider
–
15.
Type of assurance obtained
–
II.	 Products/services
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
S. No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of turnover of the entity (FY24)
1.
Manufacture of Air 
compressors
Electrical equipment, general purpose, and 
special purpose machinery & equipment
100%
17.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
S. No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1.
Air Compressors
2813 - Manufacture of Compressors
100%
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
61
III.	 Operations
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices 
Total
National
5
2
7 
International
Reported only for a standalone entity, i.e, Elgi Equipments Ltd, India
19.	 Markets served by the entity:
	
a)  Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States/UTs)
All states in India are served by the Company.
International (No. of Countries)
Elgi products cater to more than 100 countries.
	
b)  What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 
The contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity is 23%
	
c)  A brief on types of customers 
The Air Compressors are used in all manufacturing and process industries heavily in their operations. 
Therefore, all industrial segments are being served.
IV.	 Employees
20.	 Details as at the end of the Financial Year:
	
a)  Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S. No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
EMPLOYEES
1
Permanent (D)
894
826
92%
68
8%
2
Other than Permanent (E)
–
–
–
–
–
3
Total employees (D + E)
894
826
92%
68
8%
WORKERS
4
Permanent (F)
447
419
94%
28
6%
5
Other than Permanent (G)
40
27
68%
13
32%
6
Total workers (F + G)
487
446
92%
41
8%
	
b)  Differently abled Employees and workers:
S. No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1 
Permanent (D)
–
–
–
–
–
2
Other than Permanent (E)
–
–
–
–
–
3
Total differently abled employees (D + E)
–
–
–
–
–
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4
Permanent (F)
–
–
–
–
–
5
Other than Permanent (G)
–
–
–
–
–
6
Total differently abled workers (F + G)
–
–
–
–
–
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
62
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
21.	 Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Board of Directors
7
1
14.3
Key Management Personnel
4
1
25
22.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
FY 2025 
(Turnover rate in current FY)
FY 2024 
(Turnover rate in previous FY)
FY 2023 
(Turnover rate in the year 
prior to the previous FY)
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
14%
1%
15%
17%
1%
18%
16%
1%
17%
Permanent Workers
5%
0%
5%
7%
–
7%
7%
–
7%
V.	 Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
23.	 (a)  Names of holding/subsidiary/associate companies/joint ventures
S. No.
Name of the holding/subsidiary/associate 
companies/joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/
Subsidiary/
Associate/Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No)
1
Elgi Gulf FZE
Subsidiary
100
No
2
Elgi Compressors Do Brasil Imp E Exp Ltda
Subsidiary
100
No
3
Elgi Equipments Australia Pty Ltd
Subsidiary
100
No
4
Industrial Air Compressors Pty Ltd
Subsidiary
100
No
5
F.R. Pulford & Son Pty Ltd
Subsidiary
100
No
6
Advanced Air Compressors Pty Ltd
Subsidiary
100
No
7
Elgi Compressors Italy S.R.L
Subsidiary
100
No
8
Rotair SPA
Subsidiary
100
No
9
Elgi Compressors Europe S.R.L
Subsidiary
100
No
10
Elgi Compressors USA Inc
Subsidiary
100
No
11
Pattons Inc
Subsidiary
100
No
12
Pattons Medicals LLC
Subsidiary
100
No
13
PT Elgi Equipments Indonesia
Subsidiary
100
No
14
ATS Elgi Limited
Subsidiary
100
No
15
Adisons Precision Instruments Mfg. Co. Ltd
Subsidiary
100
No
16
Ergo Design Private Limited
Subsidiary
100
No
17
Elgi Compressors Southern Europe SRL
Subsidiary
100
No
18
Michigan Air Solutions LLC
Subsidiary
100
No
19
Elgi Compressors (M) SDN. BHD
Subsidiary
100
No
20
Elgi Compressors Iberia S.L
Subsidiary
100
No
21
Elgi Compressors Nordics
Subsidiary
100
No
22
Elgi Compressors Eastern Europe SP. Z. O. O.
Subsidiary
100
No
23
Elgi Compressors France SAS
Subsidiary
100
No
24
Elgi Compressors UK and Ireland Limited
Subsidiary
100
No
25
Elgi Gulf Mechanical and Engineering 
Equipment Trading LLC
Subsidiary
100
No
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
63
S. No.
Name of the holding/subsidiary/associate 
companies/joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/
Subsidiary/
Associate/Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity? (Yes/No)
26
Pattons of California LLC
Joint Venture
50
No
27
***G3 Compressors LLC
Joint Venture
33.33
No
28
Gentex Air Solutions LLC
Joint Venture
33.33
No
29
Evergreen Compressed Air & Vacuum LLC
Joint Venture
50
No
30
**Compressed Air Solutions of Texas LLC
Joint Venture
50
No
31
PLA Holding Company LLC
Joint Venture
50
No
32
*CS Industrial Services LLC
Joint Venture
33.33
No
33
Elgi Sauer Compressors Ltd
Joint Venture
26
No
34
Industrial Air Solutions LLP
Joint Venture
50
No
*Ceased to be a joint venture with effect from July 22, 2024
**Ceased to be a joint venture with effect from April 11, 2025
***Ceased to be a joint venture with effect from August 21, 2024
VI.	 CSR Details 
24.	 (i)	 Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No) – Yes
	
(ii)	 Turnover (in `) – 20,809 million
	
(iii)	Net worth (in `) – 17,265 million
VII.	Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25.	 Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom the 
complaint is 
received
Grievance redressal  
mechanism in place 
(Yes/No)
FY 2025 
Current Financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous Financial Year
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year 
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
The Company does not have any 
investors other than shareholders
None
None
None
None
None
None
Communities
No
None
None
None
None
None
None
Shareholders
Yes. Complaints received through 
the SEBI SCORES platform and the 
investor mail ID of the Company 
are resolved within the prescribed 
timelines www.scores.gov.in/admin
2
None
None
None
None
None
Employees 
and Workers
Yes, through the Whistle  
Blower Policy
11
0
None
16
2
None
Customers
Yes 
www.elgi.com / 1800 203 3544/ 
1800 425 3544/ cs@elgi.com
–
–
None
–
–
None
Value Chain 
Partners
Whistleblower Policy 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-
content/uploads/2019/10/Whistle-
Blower-Policy.pdf
1
0
None
3
0
None
Others 
None
–
–
None
None
None
None
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
64
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues 
	
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and 
social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach 
to adapt or mitigate the risk, along with its financial implications, as per the following format
S. No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O) 
Rationale for identifying 
the risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
1
Climate 
Change Action
Risk
Market shift towards low-
carbon emitting products 
can impact certain 
product ranges such as 
DPSAC. Diesel-powered 
compressors emit carbon 
dioxide, Nitrogen oxides 
and particulate matter 
into the atmosphere. 
Emission regulations are 
increasingly strict across 
the world. If our portfolio 
has non-compliant 
engines, there is a risk to 
topline growth.
Elgi is addressing climate 
change action by developing 
cleaner technologies for its 
products (e.g., oil-free energy-
efficient compressors) 
and exploring renewable 
energy solutions to minimize 
environmental impact. 
Further, Elgi has taken a 
commitment to reduce its 
GHG Footprint by 28% by 
the year 2027. We have 
access to the technology and 
product range to comply with 
regulations in all geographies. 
Therefore, the risk is low.
Negative
2
Water 
Management
Opportunity
Elgi prioritizes water 
sustainability through 
the implementation of 
robust water management 
practices across 
our operations. This 
commitment minimizes 
our environmental 
footprint and ensures 
responsible water 
stewardship.
NA
Positive
3
Waste 
Management
Risk 
Elgi prioritizes minimizing 
our environmental impact. 
We implement sustainable 
waste management 
practices across our 
operations, focusing on 
resource recovery and 
reduction.
Prioritizing resource 
recovery and embracing 
circular economy principles 
allows Elgi to establish 
a sustainable waste 
management system that 
minimizes environmental 
impact. We have planned 
to achieve Zero waste to 
landfill by 2027 through 
rerouting our wastes for 
recycling and reuse.
Negative
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
65
S. No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O) 
Rationale for identifying 
the risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
4
Product 
Stewardship
Opportunity
Sustainability is a core 
value throughout our 
business operations. We 
design and manufacture 
with a focus on responsible 
product lifecycles, 
including the use of 
eco-friendly materials, 
resource efficiency, and 
end-of-life solutions.
NA
Positive
5
Responsible 
Supply Chain
Risk
Elgi prioritizes a 
sustainable supply 
chain through strategic 
partnerships with 
environmentally 
responsible suppliers 
A) 269 suppliers 
contributing to 87 % of 
the spend.
B) 34 suppliers have their 
own ESG roadmap, and 
these contribute to 29% 
of the spend. 
We implement ethical 
sourcing practices 
throughout our 
material procurement 
process, minimizing our 
environmental footprint 
across the value chain.
We have initiated a 
sustainable supply chain 
program to assess social 
and environmental 
practices of our 269 
value chain partners. We 
generate local employment 
by engaging with local 
suppliers and service 
providers and actively 
develop and manage local 
supply chains around our 
manufacturing sites.
Negative
6
Occupational 
Health and 
Safety
Risk
Elgi’s commitment to 
occupational health and 
safety is unwavering. Our 
Safety policy cultivates 
a risk-aware work 
environment, ensuring 
the well-being of our 
workforce.
Elgi prioritizes employee 
well-being and operational 
excellence through a 
comprehensive occupational 
health and safety program. 
This program fosters a 
safe and productive work 
environment for all our 
employees. We aim to 
ensure zero harm culture as 
part of our HSE Strategy.
Negative
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
66
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
S. No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O) 
Rationale for identifying 
the risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
7
Employee 
Wellbeing
Opportunity
Employee well-being 
goes beyond physical 
safety. It encompasses 
an integrated approach 
to physical, mental, and 
emotional health, fostering 
a productive and thriving 
workforce.
NA
Positive
8
Human Rights
Risk
Elgi values the dignity and 
fundamental rights of all 
employees and business 
partners. This includes 
promoting fair treatment, 
diversity, and equal 
opportunity within the 
workplace.
Elgi upholds human rights 
throughout its operations 
by fostering a diverse 
and inclusive workplace, 
implementing policies 
against discrimination and 
harassment, and ensuring 
fair treatment for all 
employees.
Negative
9
Social 
Responsibility
Opportunity
Elgi recognizes its 
social responsibility, 
striving to be a positive 
influence through 
sustainable practices, 
ethical operations, and a 
commitment to the well-
being of its employees 
and communities.
NA
Positive
10
Customer 
Centricity
Opportunity
Elgi puts the customer 
first by designing 
innovative compressed 
air solutions that meet 
their specific needs and 
offering exceptional 
service throughout 
the product lifecycle, 
maximizing customer 
satisfaction, and building 
long-term loyalty.
NA
Positive
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
67
S. No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O) 
Rationale for identifying 
the risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
11
Economic 
Performance
Opportunity
Elgi’s economic 
performance reflects 
its financial health, 
measured by factors like 
profitability, revenue 
growth, and investor 
returns. This performance 
determines the company’s 
ability to invest in 
growth, innovation, and 
sustainability initiatives.
NA
Positive
12
Confidentiality
Risk
Elgi maintains a culture 
of confidentiality by 
safeguarding sensitive 
information through secure 
systems and employee 
training, protecting 
Company secrets.
Elgi safeguards 
confidentiality through a 
multi-layered approach, 
including robust data 
security protocols and 
employee training programs 
that emphasize information 
protection and ethical 
handling of sensitive data.
Negative
13
Ethics and 
Integrity
Opportunity
Elgi prioritizes ethical 
conduct in all business 
interactions, fostering 
a culture of integrity 
and transparency for its 
employees, suppliers, 
and customers. This 
commitment builds trust 
and ensures responsible 
decision-making at every 
level.
NA
Positive
14
Accountability
Risk
Elgi takes ownership of its 
social and environmental 
impact by adhering to 
high ethical standards 
and fostering a culture 
of transparency and 
responsibility throughout 
its operations.
Elgi fosters a culture 
of transparency and 
accountability by 
implementing robust 
governance practices, 
maintaining open 
communication with 
stakeholders, and holding 
itself responsible for its social 
and environmental impact.
Negative
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
68
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
S. No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/O) 
Rationale for identifying 
the risk/opportunity
In case of risk, approach 
to adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
15
Brand Strategy Opportunity
Elgi cultivates a 
leadership position in the 
global compressed air 
industry through a brand 
strategy emphasizing 
innovation, customer-
centric solutions, 
and a commitment to 
“Always Better.”
NA
Positive
16
Diversity and 
Inclusion
Opportunity
Elgi values a diverse 
and inclusive workplace, 
fostering a collaborative 
environment where talents 
from various backgrounds 
can thrive and contribute 
to the company’s success.
NA
Positive
17
Training 
and Talent 
Development
Opportunity
Elgi invests in empowering 
our workforce through 
continuous training and 
development programs. 
This fosters a culture of 
lifelong learning, ensuring 
we have a future-proof 
talent pool equipped for 
sustained success.
NA
Positive
18
Transparency
Risk
Elgi prioritizes transparency 
by openly disclosing its 
operations, performance, 
and sustainability 
efforts, fostering trust 
with stakeholders, 
and demonstrating 
its commitment to 
ethical conduct.
Elgi’s commitment is 
reflected in regular reporting 
on environmental, social, and 
governance (ESG) initiatives, 
financial performance, 
and corporate governance 
practices.
Negative
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
69
Section B: Management and Process Disclosures
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards 
adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
Policy and management processes
1. a.	 Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover 
each principle and its core elements of the 
NGRBCs. (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
–
Yes
Yes
  b.	Has the policy been approved by the 
Board? (Yes/No)
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
–
Yes
No
  c.	Web Link of the Policies*, if available
*Please see below for details
2. Whether the entity has translated the policy 
into procedures. (Yes/No)
Elgi Equipments is in process to translate the work into progress.
3. Do the enlisted policies extend to your value 
chain partners? (Yes/No)
Yes
No
No
No
No
No
–
No
No
4. Name of the national and international 
codes/certifications/labels/standards 
(e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, 
Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustee) 
standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) 
mapped to each principle.
For some of the Principles, the Company has international standard 
certifications such as:
	
z
ISO 9001: 2015
	
z
ISO 14001: 2015
	
z
ISO 45001: 2018 
	
z
ISO 50001: 2018
	
z
ISO 22000: 2018 
	
z
ISO/TS 22163: 2017
	
z
ISO 27001
International Product Certifications:
	
z
CE Marking for EPSAC models – Europe
	
z
ASME for Pressure Tank – USA
	
z
SONCAP for All Elgi Products – Nigeria 
	
z
Module H – PED for Pressure Tank – Europe
	
z
SPVD – Pressure tanks – Europe
	
z
UL–cUL for Control Panel – USA
	
z
DOSH for Pressure Tanks – Malaysia
	
z
Module A2 – PED for casting Tank – Europe
	
z
NB for Pressure Tank – USA
	
z
AD 2000 – MERKBLAT W0 for Foundry Materials – Europe
	
z
ISI for Bore well compressors (IS 5456)– India
	
z
SOL for All Elgi Products – Kenya/Uganda/Tanzania/Saudi Arabia/ 
Gabon/Ivory cost
	
z
Green product certification – Malaysia
	
z
Inmetro certification – Brazil
	
z
ISI for motor (IS 12615) – India
	
z
ISI for Grey Iron Castings (IS 210) – India
	
z
UKCA Marking for EPSAC models – United Kingdom
	
z
Welding certificate – EN 15085 for welding of Railway vehicles 
and components
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
70
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Disclosure Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
5. Specific commitments, goals and targets set 
by the entity with defined timelines, if any.
Refer note below #
6. Performance of the entity against the specific 
commitments, goals and targets along-with 
reasons in case the same are not met.
Please refer to Question number 5 (Performance of the entity)
Governance, leadership and oversight
7. Statement by director responsible for the 
business responsibility report, highlighting 
ESG related challenges, targets and 
achievements (listed entity has flexibility 
regarding the placement of this disclosure).
As stewards of our company’s business responsibility initiatives, 
we recognize the pressing ESG-related challenges facing 
our manufacturing operations. These challenges include 
mitigating environmental impacts, ensuring workplace safety, 
and maintaining ethical supply chains. In response, we have 
set ambitious targets to drive positive change. These targets 
encompass reducing our carbon footprint, enhancing workplace 
safety measures, and promoting sustainable sourcing practices. 
Through dedicated efforts and strategic investments, we 
have made significant strides in achieving these objectives. 
For instance, we’re effectively reducing carbon emissions 
through the implementation of energy-efficient technologies, 
while simultaneously striving for zero reportable incidents to 
enhance workplace safety. These achievements underscore our 
commitment to responsible business practices and pave the way 
for continued progress in building a more sustainable future
8. Details of the highest authority responsible 
for implementation and oversight of the 
Business Responsibility policy/policies.
Name: Dr. Jairam Varadaraj
Designation: Managing Director
9. Does the entity have a specified Committee 
of the Board/Director responsible for 
decision making on sustainability related 
issues? (Yes/No). If yes, provide details.
Yes, 
Name: Dr. Jairam Varadaraj
Designation: Managing Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
71
*Web Link of the Policies, if available
Principle
Policies required under the Principle
Policies available with Elgi
P1 
Businesses should 
conduct and govern 
themselves with 
integrity, ethics, 
transparency, and 
accountability
Elgi Code of Business Conduct and 
Business Ethics
Whistle Blower Policy
Policy for Determining Materiality 
of Events
Anti-Bribery and 
Anti-Corruption Policy
Anti-Money Laundering Policy
Anti-Slavery and Anti-Human 
Trafficking Statement
Integrity Policy
Code of Conduct for Employees
Elgi Code of Business Conduct and Business Ethics 
Elgi-Code-of-Conduct-Business-Ethics.pdf
Whistle Blower Policy 
Whistle-Blower-Policy.pdf (elgi.com)
Policy for Determining Materiality of Events 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/
uploads/2019/05/Policy-for-determining-
Materiality-of-Events.pdf
Supplier code of conduct 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/
uploads/2022/10/02-Supplier-Code-of-Conduct.pdf
Policy on Human rights 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/
uploads/2022/10/01-Policy-On-Human-Rights.pdf
Anti-bribery policy 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/
uploads/2022/10/03-Anti-Bribery-Policy.pdf
P2 Product 
responsibility
Energy Policy
Quality policy
Health, Safety and Environment 
Policy
Energy Policy 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/
uploads/2019/12/Energy-Policy.pdf
Quality policy 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/
uploads/2019/12/Quality-policy.pdf
Health, Safety and Environment Policy 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/
uploads/2019/12/HSE-Policy.pdf
P3 Well-being of 
employees
Whistleblower Policy
Equal Employment Opportunity 
Policy
Employee Loan Policy
Employee Health Checkup Policy
Whistle Blower Policy 
Whistle-Blower-Policy.pdf (elgi.com)
Equal Employment Opportunity Policy*
Employee Loan Policy**
Employee Health Check-up Policy**
(Other than the first one, other policies are 
available on the Company’s intranet)
*These policies are approved by the board.
**These policies, being employee welfare policies, 
were approved by the management.
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
72
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Principle
Policies required under the Principle
Policies available with Elgi
P4 Stakeholder 
engagement
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy
Dividend Policy
Elgi Code of Business Conduct and 
Business Ethics
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy 
CSR-Policy.pdf (elgi.com)
Dividend Policy 
Dividend-Policy.pdf (elgi.com)
Elgi Code of Business Conduct and Business Ethics 
Elgi-Code-of-Conduct-Business-Ethics.pdf 
Supplier Code of Conduct
P5 Human rights
Human Rights Policy
Policy against sexual harassment
Human Rights Policy 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/
uploads/2022/10/01-Policy-On-Human-Rights.pdf
Policy against sexual harassment 
https://intranet.elgi.com/elgi-info/employee-
orientation/policies/Elgi_sexual_harrassment_
policy_Sep_2020.pdf
P6 Environment
Health, Safety and 
Environment Policy
Energy Policy
Quality Policy
Health, Safety and Environment Policy 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/
uploads/2019/12/HSE-Policy.pdf
Energy Policy 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/
uploads/2019/12/Energy-Policy.pdf
Quality policy 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/
uploads/2019/12/Quality-policy.pdf
P7
Public policy
The Company does not directly engage in lobbying 
or advocacy activities and hence, does not have a 
specific policy for this purpose.
P8
CSR
Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy
The Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility 
policy to the maximum extent possible 
encompasses activities focused on education 
and the marginalized and vulnerable sections 
of the society. The Company contributes to the 
overall development with a specific focus on 
disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized 
communities.
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy 
CSR-Policy.pdf (elgi.com)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
73
Principle
Policies required under the Principle
Policies available with Elgi
P9
Customer relations
The Company believes that 
businesses should engage with 
customers and provide value in a 
responsible manner
The Company has an online system of addressing 
customer complaints that is attended to promptly.
The Company has a strong customer care 
system in place with clear benchmarked targets 
for on-time and reliable resolution with a 
built-in escalation process. Since the complaints 
redressal mechanism is an ongoing process, 
the number of complaints at any given point in 
time may not convey the correct picture. The 
Company strives to resolve all complaints to the 
satisfaction of its customers. For a Company 
of this size, the number of consumer cases are 
very minimal.
# Elgi has set up a range of goals and targets. The following table presents the goals and targets with its respective deadlines: 
Focus Area/Goals
Targets
Initiatives
Performance of the Entity
Environment
CO2 emission 
reduction by 28%  
in 2027
CO2 emission reduction 
from 900 Kg Co2/Mn of 
Sale to 650 Kg Co2/Mn 
of Sale by 2027
	
z
4 MW Solar Plant and 1 MW Wind 
mill renewable energy CGP initiated 
for all manufacturing plants 
	
z
8 HSD forklifts are planned to be 
replaced with electrical forklifts 
	
z
Integrated Mechanical Generators 
installed for higher power 
testing for 60 Hz - LEP/OFSAC 
Compressors 
	
z
7 MW Dedicated grid lines are 
planned to be installed to eliminate 
the DG Set operations for all 
manufacturing plants especially 
for Grid Power cut
	
z
53 % reduction in 
carbon intensity 
achieved
Fresh water 
consumption 
reduction by 50%  
in 2027
Fresh water reduction 
from 2.20 KL/Mn of Sale 
to 1.10 KL/Mn of Sale
	
z
Increase the share ratio of ground 
water to third party water, by using 
more water from government 
sources
	
z
Rainwater harvesting for gardening 
purposes
	
z
ETP treated water usage in 
gardening
	
z
Rainwater harvesting water can 
be filtered and used for internal 
application of 1947 KL this year
	
z
Application of water efficient 
aerators in conventional taps
	
z
Implementation of dishwashers
	
z
Increasing the rainwater harvesting 
storage
	
z
Fresh water use was 
reduced by 2 %
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
74
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Focus Area/Goals
Targets
Initiatives
Performance of the Entity
Lead a 
technology driven 
transformation
Technology Product 
Innovation
Availability of HFO 
based dryers in Elgi 
product range by 2030
Enhancement of 
existing products 
	
z
Continual product improvements 
to reduce lifecycle cost 
	
z
Increase in life of oil filter by 2X
	
z
EN and EG series compressors 
manufacturing is certified for 
ISO 14024:2018 Standards (Green 
product certification)
	
z
In line with our target, 9 
HFO based dryers (69%) 
developed and launched 
till FY24-25 
	
z
Achieved energy 
efficiency of more than 
5% in across 60% of 
compressor portfolio
Foundry waste sand 
Zero land fill (ZLF)
Waste Recycle –Zero 
foundry waste sand to 
land fill by 2026-27. 
	
z
Sustain the efforts of brick 
making and support community 
development initiatives
	
z
Utilizing the wastes and for RCC 
concrete application
	
z
Converting and utilizing for 
interlock bricks
	
z
We have achieved a 
waste landfill of 9.56%
Social
Aiming LTIFR -Zero
To achieve Zero Lost 
Time injury frequency 
rate by FY26-27
	
z
AI Camera executed to ensure the 
safety always for manufacturing 
process, trial conducted for one 
machine
	
z
Identification and mitigation of 
HIRA (Hazard Identification and 
Risk Assessment)
	
z
All manufacturing plants are 
certified for ISO 45001:2018 
Standards (Safety Management 
System) except motor plant
	
z
Separate Safety syllabus included 
in EVTS batch and conducting 
classes
	
z
Sustain the practice of 
identification and mitigation of 
HIRA 
	
z
Safety tag system needs to be 
executed for SMT in shop floor at 
Sunrise meet 
	
z
Identify the safety training need 
for workforce on a regular basis
	
z
Create awareness among 
employees on safety and accident 
Hot spots through training and 
safety circles. 
	
z
Periodical Senior Management 
review 
	
z
This year we have 
achieved 0.757 LTIFR 
(GRI Standard) and 
aiming for achieving our 
target
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
75
Focus Area/Goals
Targets
Initiatives
Performance of the Entity
Sustaining an 
employee centric 
work culture
Employee Experience
Enabling best in 
class work culture 
by sustaining and 
improving culture 
survey score to 80% by 
2024 (industry standard 
of 73%)
	
z
Proactive Grievance Redressal 
Process
	
z
Employee Engagement program
	
z
Two-way communication
	
z
High emphasis on adherence to 
values
	
z
We have surpassed the 
industry standard and 
achieved 79% culture 
survey score in 23-24 
and the next survey will 
be conducted in 25-26.
Societal 
development 
through 
high-quality 
education for 
the economically 
challenged
Achieve academic 
excellence by improving 
subject average marks 
year on year in Std XII 
Board examinations
Academic development 
through building 
competencies that 
enable achievement of 
high average marks year 
on year in Std XII Board 
examinations
To increase the 
proportion of children 
from low-income 
families year on year
	
z
The school attracts and retains 
teachers by benchmarking salaries 
to Govt scales
	
z
Continuous development of 
teacher capabilities
	
z
Inclusive, holistic education, 
focusing on all round development 
of every child
	
z
One time investment in world class 
infrastructure
	
z
Limiting class sizes to enable 
better teacher-student 
interactions
	
z
Free education for orphaned 
children and children whose 
parents lost their jobs to covid
	
z
Scholarships for meritorious 
students from low-income families
	
z
Achieved subject 
average of 80 marks in 
24-25 against 81 marks 
in Science Stream in 
23-24. Also, 80 marks in 
24-25 against 83 marks 
in Arts Stream in 23-24
	
z
Achieved total average 
of 82 marks in 24-25 
against 81 marks in 
Science Stream in 23-24. 
Also, 80 marks in 24-25 
against 83 marks in Arts 
Stream in 23-24
Project Stellar initiated 
by Elgi School designed 
to provide 100% free 
education to exceptionally 
talented children 
from economically 
disadvantaged urban 
households in Coimbatore
Equip employees 
with the knowledge 
and skills to be 
#alwaysbetter
Employee Training
Address the identified 
training needs of office 
employees by deploying 
appropriate training 
initiatives 
Equip shop floor 
employees with 
identified skill 
enhancements and 
support upskilling
	
z
Roll out of Learning Management 
System to bring in more 
effectiveness in the Learning & 
Development Cycle.
	
z
Create a culture of self-learning 
through WBTs
	
z
Sharing of book summaries every 
fortnight
	
z
This year, our training 
man-days per employee 
per year stands at 4.1
	
z
We have identified and 
trained our shopfloor 
employees on areas 
of upskilling, and our 
training man-days stand 
at 2.3 per employee 
per year
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
76
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Focus Area/Goals
Targets
Initiatives
Performance of the Entity
Stay committed to 
Human Rights
Human Rights 
Cognizance
To create company-wide 
awareness and organize 
Human Rights training 
programs 
	
z
Strengthening the culture to ensure 
equality among all the employees 
globally irrespective of their gender, 
religion, race, region etc.,
	
z
Effective implementation of 
whistle blower policy and sexual 
harassment policy
	
z
Abiding by the law -  
Non-discrimination, 
Non-employment of child labor, 
adherence to Minimum wages, 
Environment related aspects
	
z
We have achieved and 
aim to sustain 100% 
training of employees 
on Human Rights
Building a 
diversified 
workforce
Gender Diversity:
By 2030, increase 
representation of 
women in the office 
workforce by 20%
	
z
Elgi has a gender-neutral hiring 
policy
	
z
Recruitment plan to have a 
diversified workforce in the 
organization
	
z
Our staff category 
gender diversity is 8%
Governance
Sustaining an 
ethical business 
environment for 
stakeholders
100% Compliance – 
Applicable Laws
Target is to be 
compliant with all 
applicable laws to 
the extent that the 
company is not exposed 
to any major penalties 
or risks
Target is also to abide 
by the non-bribery, anti-
corruption policy of the 
company.
Code of Conduct:
100% supplier 
compliance with Elgi’s 
Business Code of 
Conduct 
	
z
No known incidents of non-bribery 
and anti-corruption at present.
	
z
Updating the checklists 
periodically 
	
z
Having clear cut timelines for 
stakeholders for closing non-
compliant items with minimum/no 
liability to the company
	
z
The supply chain is expected to 
accept and follow Elgi’s code of 
conduct
	
z
We are compliant to 
all applicable laws and 
there have been no 
major risks or penalties 
to the Company
	
z
100% identified 
suppliers have signed 
the Elgi’s Business Code 
of conduct 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
77
Focus Area/Goals
Targets
Initiatives
Performance of the Entity
Inclusive ESG 
Governance
ESG Review Mechanism
To formalize ‘monitor 
and review system’ of 
the ESG performance at 
regular intervals
Environment & Social 
Recommendations
To implement feedback/
recommendation 
on ‘E’ & ’S’ aspects 
from proxy advisors/
investors/analysts
ESG Rating
To constantly improve 
ESG ratings/score YoY
	
z
Effective, accountable and 
transparent governance at all 
levels 
	
z
Ensuring responsive, inclusive, 
participatory and representative 
decision-making at all levels
	
z
Elgi has a gender-neutral hiring 
policy
The Company felt that it was 
premature to go for an ESG rating. 
However, the Company has engaged a 
consultant to provide “Assurance” on 
the Nine BRSR core Principles and Key 
Performance Indicators
We conducted 1 Steer-co 
meeting during the year to 
discuss the ESG progress 
We have established a 
mechanism to implement 
feedback from proxy 
advisors/investors/
analysts. No comments 
were received during 
the year
We are working towards 
implementing initiatives 
that will lead us to be 
prepared for an ESG rating
10.	 Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether the review was 
undertaken by the Director/the Committee 
of the Board/Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/Half yearly/
Quarterly/Any other – please specify)
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
Performance against the 
above policies and follow 
up action
Yes, by the Managing Director
Annually
Compliance with 
statutory requirements 
of relevance to 
the principles, and, 
rectification of any 
non-compliances
Yes, by the Audit Committee of the Board
Annually
11.	 Has the entity carried out an independent assessment/evaluation of the working of its policies by an external 
agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide the name of the agency. 
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
No
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
The entity does not consider the principles material to its 
business (Yes/No) 
–
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position 
to formulate and implement the policies on specified 
principles (Yes/No) 
YES
The entity does not have the financial or/human and 
technical resources available for the task (Yes/No) 
–
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No) 
–
Any other reason (please specify) 
–
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
78
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Section C: Principle Wise Performance Disclosure
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements 
with key processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the 
essential indicators are expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership 
indicators may be voluntarily disclosed by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, 
environmentally and ethically responsible.
PRINCIPLE 1:  BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY, AND IN A MANNER THAT IS 
ETHICAL, TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE.
Essential Indicators
1.	 Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes held
Topics/principles covered under the training 
and its impact
% age of persons in 
respective category 
covered by the 
awareness programmes
Board of Directors 
(BoD)
5
	
z
Awareness program on transfer pricing 
model & foreign exchange management act, 
1999 (FEMA) by Ernst & Young LLP
	
z
Briefing on Investment Strategy of the 
Company 
	
z
Presentation on Annual Business Plan for the 
financial year 2025-26 
	
z
Awareness program on SEBI LODR Regulatory 
Amendments
	
z
Presentation on Internal Audit Report by Ernst 
& Young LLP on Order to Cash (O2C) process 
for the period January to October 2024. 
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMPs)
4
Indicated Below
100%
Employees other 
than BoD and KMPs
57
71%
Workers
10
100%
a)	 POSH – Prevention of Sexual Harassment
b)	 Elgi Business Conduct and Ethics
c)	 Information Security Awareness
d)	 ESG Human Rights
e)	 Managerial skills – Building People Managerial Capability
f)	 Business skills – Building Business Acumen
g)	 Coaching skills – Leader as Coach program to develop pool of internal coaches
h)	 Business Communication Skills
i)	 MS Office – Excel Workshop
j)	 Sales training for Direct Sales team
k)	 Basics of problem solving
l)	 Essentials of benchmarking
m)	IMS, IRIS Internal Auditor training
n)	 Sales Negotiation Skills
o)	 Product training for new joiners, refresher training to existing employees and employees of dealers
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
79
2.	
Details of fines/penalties/punishment/award/compounding fees/settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the 
entity or by directors/KMPs) with regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, in the financial year, in 
the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 
of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/
enforcement 
agencies/judicial 
institutions
Amount  
(In INR)
Brief of the Case
Has an 
appeal been 
preferred? 
(Yes/No)
a. Monetary
Penalty/Fine
Principle 1
State Tax 
Officer, Mobile 
Team, Asharodi, 
Dehradun 
District, 
Uttarakhand 
State
Uttarakhand 
SGST
` 5,68,800/-
The Company received a notice on 
March 07, 2025, from the Uttarakhand 
SGST Department`s mobile team Officer 
for payment of ` 5,68,800/- under penalty 
head for mismatch in delivery address 
between tax invoice and lorry receipt 
(LR) for an ex-works consignment. The 
Company immediately filed reply on 
March 10, 2025, stating that the delivery 
address mentioned in the invoice as 
well as LR are registered premises of the 
Customer under GST Act, the delivery 
address was inadvertently updated by 
the concerned and there is no intention 
to evade tax by the Company. But the 
GST officer confirmed the penalty 
demand of ` 5,68,800 on March 15, 2025
Yes
Settlement
NIL
Compounding 
fee
b. Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/
enforcement 
agencies/judicial 
institutions
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal been preferred?  
(Yes/No)
Imprisonment
NIL
Punishment
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/Revision preferred in cases where monetary 
or non-monetary action has been appealed. 
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/enforcement agencies/judicial institutions
NIL
NIL
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
Yes. The Anti-Bribery Policy strictly prohibits bribery, extending to both government officials and private sector 
entities. This encompasses any act of offering, promising, authorizing, or providing anything of value to customers, 
business partners, vendors, or any other third party with the intent to induce or reward improper conduct related 
to the Company’s business activities. Web Link to the policy: Anti-Bribery-Policy.pdf (elgi.com)
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
80
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/corruption.
FY 2025 
Current Financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous Financial Year
Directors 
NIL
NIL
KMPs
Employees
Workers
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2025 
Current Financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous Financial Year
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by 
regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
	
No fines/penalties/actions were imposed by regulators/law enforcement agencies or judicial institutions on cases 
related to corruption and conflicts of interest.
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables (Accounts payable *365)/Cost of goods/services procured) in the 
following format:
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year
Number of days of accounts payables
69
70
9.	 Open-ness of business 
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-
with loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2025 
Current 
financial 
Year
FY 2024 
Previous 
financial 
Year
Concentration 
of Purchases
a.	 Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
2%
17%
b.	 Number of trading houses where purchases are made from
97
260
c.	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases from 
trading houses
63%
55%
Concentration 
of Sales
a.	 Sales to dealers/distributors as % of total sales
49.29%
49%
b.	 Number of dealers/distributors to whom sales are made
88
102
c.	 Sales to top 10 dealers/distributors as % of total sales to dealers/distributor
39.41
–
Share of 
RPTs in
a.	 Purchases (Purchases with related parties/Total Purchases)
0.5%
0.4%
b.	 Sales (Sales to related parties/Total Sales)
22.2%
21.2%
c.	 Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to related parties/
Total loans & advances)
87%
86%
d.	 Investments (Investments in related parties/Total Investments made)
74%
90%
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
81
PRINCIPLE 2:  BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the 
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the 
entity, respectively.
FY 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
Details of improvements in 
environmental and social impacts
R&D
60%
43% Specific Power Consumption (SPC) 
improved more than 5% in 43% of 
machines. This will lower the overall 
energy consumption.
Capex
69%
58%
Refrigerant Air Driers replacing Hydro 
Fluro Carbons (HFC) based refrigerants 
with Hydro Fluro-Olefins (HFO) 
refrigerants developed and launched.
2.	
a.	 Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No) - 
	
Elgi always advocates for sustainable supply chain. Vendors/service providers are encouraged to follow 
management practices outlined in international standards such as ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Further, the 
company plans to create a sustainable sourcing policy.
b.	 If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? 
	
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year: 
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topics/principles covered under 
the training
%age of value chain partners covered (by value 
of business done with such partners) under the 
awareness programmes
–
–
–
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? 
(Yes/No) If yes, provide details of the same.
Yes, the Company has a policy for Determining Related Party Transactions to ensure that there is no conflict of 
interest inflicting any apprehension in the minds of its stakeholders, the Company’s Board, which may arise during 
the course of its business activities. The same is available at https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/
Related-Party-Transactions-Policy.pdf.
Related party transactions are entered with the prior approval of the Audit Committee. All related party transactions 
are at arm’s length and in the ordinary course of business. Further, the Company also has a Code of Conduct in place 
for Directors, Senior Management, and Independent Directors, which affirms them disclose the potential conflicts 
of interest that they may have regarding any matters that may come before the Board. The Directors disclose their 
interest in other entities annually and as and when there are changes, and the same is noted by the Board.
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
82
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of 
life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
Product
Process to safely reclaim the product
a.  Plastics (including packaging)
Minimum quantities of e-waste, hazardous wastes that are generated are 
disposed off as per prescribed Rules and Regulations.
b.  E-Waste
c.  Hazardous Waste
d.  Other Waste
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to 
the Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Applicable – EPR Registration done for Head Office and annual return for FY24- 25 submitted to CPCB.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for the 
manufacturing industry) or for its services (for the service industry)? If yes, provide details in the 
following format?
NIC Code
Name of 
Product/
Service
% Of total 
Turnover 
Contributed
Boundary for 
which the 
Life Cycle 
Perspective/
Assessment 
was conducted
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external 
agency  
(Yes/No)
Results 
communicated 
in public 
domain  
(Yes/No)
If yes, provide 
the web link
Not Applicable
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of 
your products/services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, 
briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same. 
Indicate input material
Description of the risk/concern
Action Taken
Not Applicable
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Name of Product/Service
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
83
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tons) reused, recycled, 
and safely disposed of.
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely Disposed
Re-Used
Recycled
Safely Disposed
Plastics 
(including 
packaging)
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
E-waste
Hazardous waste
Other waste
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as a percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products sold 
in respective category
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
PRINCIPLE 3:  BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES, INCLUDING THOSE 
IN THEIR VALUE CHAINS.
Essential Indicators
1.	a.	Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care facilities
No. 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
No. 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
No. 
(D)
% 
(D/A)
No. 
(E)
% 
(E/A)
No. 
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent employees
Male
826
826
100%
826
100%
NA
NA
–
–
826
100%
Female
68
68
100%
68
100%
68
100%
–
–
68
100%
Total
894
894
100%
894
100%
68
100%
–
–
894
100%
Other than Permanent employees
Male
NIL
Female
Total
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
84
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
	 b.	Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of workers covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
No. 
(B)
% 
(B/A)
No. 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
No. (D)
% 
(D/A)
No. (E)
% 
(E/A)
No. 
(F)
% 
(F/A)
Permanent Workers
Male
419
419
100%
419
100%
NA
NA
–
–
419
100%
Female
28
28
100%
28
100%
28
100%
–
–
28
100%
Total
447
447
100%
447
100%
28
100%
–
–
447
100%
Other than Permanent workers
Male
27
27
100%
27
100%
NA
NA
–
–
27
100%
Female
13
13
100%
13
100%
13
100%
–
–
13
100%
Total
40
40
100%
40
100%
13
100%
–
–
40
100%
	 c.	Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than 
permanent) in the following format
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year
Cost incurred on wellbeing measures as 
a % of total revenue of the company
0.6%
0.6%
2.	
Details of retirement benefits.
Benefits
FY 2025 
(Current Financial Year)
FY 2024 
(Previous Financial Year)
No. of employees 
covered as a % of 
total employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % of 
total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
Covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100%
100%
Yes
100%
100%
Yes
Gratuity
100%
100%
Yes
ESI
100%
100%
Yes
Other (Bonus)
–
–
–
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
85
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the 
entity in this regard
While the company currently does not have any employees with disabilities, it remains committed to fostering 
an inclusive workplace, which will also ensure easy accessibility to such employees. The company has in place an 
Equal Opportunity policy in line with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. 
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
Yes, Elgi has an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. As an inclusive 
employer, Elgi actively encourages the recruitment, development, and retention of people with disabilities, 
provides equal opportunity in the workplace, and is committed to providing a safe, accessible, and healthy 
work environment.
Equal Opportunity policy is available in the intranet.
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Gender
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
NA
NA
NA
NA
Female
NA
NA
NA
NA
Total
NA
NA
NA
NA
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
workers? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief. 
Yes/No
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Yes,
	
z
Whistle Blower link -Employee can post their grievance in the link communicated 
through awareness sessions; the committee will redress the grievances as per the 
policy guidelines.
	
z
Employee Communication Meeting- this is open meeting where employee can raise 
grievance directly to MD.
	
z
Suggestion Box- Boxes are kept in the common places viz. canteen, etc. where employee 
drop their grievances with or without mentioning their names; the committee will 
communicate the grievance and status in the employee communication meeting.
	
z
Performance Management Feedback – the link is communicated to Permanent employees 
after release of increment every year. The individuals are posted on the status of the 
feedback by HR.
Other than 
Permanent Workers
Permanent 
Employees
Other than 
Permanent 
Employees
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
86
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2025 
Current Financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous Financial Year
Total 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (B)
% (B/A)
Total 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (D)
% (D/C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
–
–
Male
Female
Total Permanent 
Workers
Male
Female
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2025 
Current Financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous Financial Year
Total (A)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total (D)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
No. (E)
% (E/D)
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Permanent Employees
Male
826
826
100
575
70
795
795
100
795
100
Female
68
68
100
58
85
61
61
100
61
100
Total
894
894
100
633
71
856
856
100
856
100
Permanent Workers
Male
419
419
100
419
100%
422
422
100
422
100
Female
28
28
100
28
100%
13
13
100
13
100
Total
447
447
100
447
100%
435
435
100
100
100
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
87
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers:
Category
FY 2025 
Current Financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous Financial Year
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Permanent Employees
Male
826
826
100%
795
795
100%
Female
68
68
100%
61
61
100%
Total
894
894
100%
856
85
100%
Permanent Workers
Male
419
419
100%
422
422
100%
Female
28
28
100%
13
13
100%
Total
447
447
100%
435
435
100%
10.	 Health and safety management system:
a.	 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? 
(Yes/No). If yes, what is the coverage of such a system?
Detailed risk assessment has been done for all the operations within the facility, and appropriate control 
measures are implemented to mitigate the identified risks/hazards. All our buildings are equipped with 
firefighting systems. Employees and contractual staff receive regular training through various simulation 
exercises to raise their safety awareness. Safety posters are displayed across the premises to create 
awareness among employees. Periodical Safety awareness training given for shop floor employees, Specific 
Safety syllabus subject for Elgi Vocational Training School (EVTS) and we are validating their performance by 
conducting the exams.
ISO 14001 (Environment Management system) & 45001 (Safety Management system) are in practice.
Employee Health is being monitored periodically. 
We understand that employee well-being is essential to maintaining our leading business performance. 
We  constantly update and improve the range of physical, mental, and emotional support we provide to 
our employees. 
b.	 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine 
basis by the entity? 
Risk assessment has always been an integral part of Elgi’s Health and Safety Management System and 
includes the identification of hazards, the complexity of the operations, suitability of the methodologies of risk 
assessment, workplace conditions, and expert guidance. We conduct periodic as well as annual assessments of 
our campuses/offices as a part of this process.
c.	 Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. 
Yes. Several channels to report grievances related to OHS have been made available to employees; these 
include Safety Tags, Safety Committee meetings, Sun Rise, and Self-Management Team (SMT). 
d.	 Do the employees/workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? 
All our employees and their families have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services.
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
88
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
11.	 Details of safety-related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2025 
Current Financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous Financial Year
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per 
one million-person hours worked)
Employees
0
0.85
Workers
1.796
1.92
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
1
2
Workers
3
3
No. of fatalities 
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
High consequence work-related injury or ill 
health (excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace. 
At Elgi, our top priority has always been to ensure the safety and health of our team while safeguarding the 
interests of the communities in which we operate and the clients we serve. Throughout the year, we have strived to 
keep the health and safety at the forefront as we grapple with the pandemic. There have been key infrastructure 
enhancements to ensure adequate sanitization stations, minimal contact with bare surfaces, thermal scanning at 
key access areas, and effective prompts to maintain social distancing.
Identification and mitigation of Hazard Identification & Risk Assessment (HIRA) 
	
z
All manufacturing plants are certified for ISO 45001:2018 Standards (Safety Management System) except 
motor plant.
	
z
Separate Safety syllabus included in EVTS batch and conducting classes.
	
z
TUV Nord audited Safety Management System for the plants.
	
z
Sustain the practice of identification and mitigation of HIRA. 
	
z
Safety tag system needs to be executed for SMT in shop floor at Sunrise meet.
	
z
Identify the safety training need for workforce on a regular basis.
	
z
Create awareness among employees on safety and accident Hot spots through training and safety circles. 
	
z
Periodical Senior Management review.
13.	 Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers
FY 2025 
Current Financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous Financial Year
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending resolution 
at the end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
644
0
–
401
0
–
Health & Safety
0
–
0
–
14.	 Assessments for the year
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory 
authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
89
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on 
significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
At Elgi, we have established an Environmental Health and Safety policy and emphasise on the importance of 
maintaining a safe and healthy workplace for all employees & partners who work on our premises. We are also 
executing Safety Poka yoke for all rotating part of the machines.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees 
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N).
a.	 Employees (Yes/No): Yes, the Company extends life insurance/compensatory package in the event of the death 
of its employees. 
b.	 Workers (Yes/No): Yes, the Company extends life insurance/compensatory package in the event of the death 
of its employees.
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited 
by the value chain partners. 
Not Applicable
3.	
Provide the number of employees/workers having suffered high-consequence work-related injury/ill-health/
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Total no. of affected employees/workers
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have 
been placed in suitable employment
FY 2025 
Current financial 
Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial 
Year
FY 2025 
Current financial 
Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial 
Year
Employees
–
–
–
–
Workers
–
–
–
–
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management 
of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/No)
Beyond professional obligations, Elgi extends support through financial assistance and post-retirement care for its 
employees. This fiscal year, Elgi organised a pre-retirement counselling session for employees nearing retirement 
age. The session was attended by 39 participants and covered topics such as financial planning, health and wellness 
consideration, legal aspects of retirement, and emotional preparedness for the transition.
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that 
were assessed
Health and safety conditions
Elgi does not have a documented process for assessing the performance of its 
value chain partners.
Working conditions 
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
We are currently in the process of developing a sustainable supply chain program aimed at evaluating the social 
and environmental practices of our suppliers.
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
90
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 4:  BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL ITS STAKEHOLDERS.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity. 
We are an organization born inclusive in nature and purpose. Since our inception, we have included diverse segments 
of people in our talent pool, contributed to social causes even in tough business climates, treated suppliers like our 
partners and our customers with dedicated commitment, all along driven by our inclusive values and principles. 
They indicate how Elgi extended its inclusivity to larger stakeholders from the beginning with its insistence on 
stakeholder identification and engagement. 
Sustainability framework brought a formal process to the philosophy already being practiced at Elgi. Stakeholder 
consultation on sustainability aspects formed a key part of the exercise. The vast range of stakeholder forums 
bringing in constant inputs and feedback, we realize, is a great way to link materiality to stakeholder concerns on 
the one hand and for material goal setting and strategizing on the other hand. 
Elgi identifies and prioritizes its key stakeholder segments based on their impact on the organization and the 
organization’s impact on them. We constantly engage with all our stakeholders. We collect stakeholder concerns, 
which in turn act as inputs for our policies, strategies, actions, and materiality assessment. 
Our exercise of identification and prioritization of stakeholders has shown us several segments to be constantly 
engaged with. This helps us be in touch with their concerns and expectations in a two-way dialogue. This also work 
as a source of critical stakeholder feedback for us. Elgi keeps evolving these engagement methods periodically, 
revamping and refining them as per the needs and requirements of the stakeholders and the business.
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group. 
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group  
(Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication  
(Email, SMS, 
Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement  
(Annually/Half 
yearly/Quarterly/
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during such engagement
Customers
No
	
z
Digital platforms and 
applications
	
z
In - person engagement
	
z
Reference installations
	
z
Feedback mechanisms
As and when 
required
	
z
Product and Service Quality
	
z
Complaint resolution
	
z
On time delivery
	
z
Product Safety 
Local 
communities
Yes
	
z
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
initiatives
	
z
Partnership with 
Coimbatore Marathon
As and when 
required
	
z
Enhanced quality of life through 
improved access to healthcare, 
education, and skill development 
programs.
	
z
Providing disaster relief as 
needed to support affected 
communities.
	
z
Partnership with Coimbatore 
Marathon boosts community 
health and supports early 
cancer detection, treatment, 
and rehabilitation nationwide.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
91
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group  
(Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication  
(Email, SMS, 
Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement  
(Annually/Half 
yearly/Quarterly/
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during such engagement
NGO partner
No
	
z
Corporate Social 
Responsibility 
initiatives
	
z
Partnership with 
Olympic Gold Quest 
(OGQ)
As and when 
required
	
z
Enhancing capacity for greater 
efficiency and effectiveness.
	
z
Achieving CSR objectives 
through strategic initiatives and 
partnerships.
	
z
Partnered with Olympic Gold 
Quest to support Indian athletes 
in their quest for Olympic Gold 
medals, fostering sporting 
excellence.
Investors
No
	
z
Press releases and 
publications
	
z
Investor conferences 
	
z
Annual General 
Meeting
	
z
Stock Exchange 
announcements
	
z
Press 
releases and 
publications: 
Quarterly
	
z
Investor 
conferences: 
Annual 
	
z
Annual General 
Meeting: Annual
	
z
Stock Exchange 
announcements: 
As and when 
required
	
z
Financial performance
	
z
Business updates
	
z
Growth plans 
	
z
ESG performance 
Regulators
No
	
z
Mandatory compliance 
reports
As and when 
required
	
z
Statutory compliance 
requirements: governance, 
social, environmental
Employees
No
Internal Communication 
Channel Including
	
z
Global Employee 
Newsletters
	
z
What’s your Finish 
Line Challenge
	
z
Steps for Change 
Campaign
	
z
Inspiring the future 
Campaign
Frequency of 
Communication
	
z
Quarterly
	
z
Annual
	
z
Annual
	
z
Annual
	
z
The quarterly employee 
newsletter fosters a positive 
work environment, promoting 
open communication and 
collaboration.
	
z
The Elgi #whatsyourfinishline 
challenge encourages fitness to 
prevent lifestyle diseases and 
build cancer awareness.
	
z
Elgi’s Steps For Change program 
promotes global environmental 
awareness and creates an 
environmentally conscious 
workplace.
	
z
Elgi’s Inspiring the future 
campaign initiative celebrates 
women’s achievements and 
strives for an inclusive, gender-
equal world.
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
92
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group  
(Yes/No)
Channels of 
communication  
(Email, SMS, 
Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement  
(Annually/Half 
yearly/Quarterly/
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of engagement 
including key topics and concerns 
raised during such engagement
Banks
No
In person meetings 
As and when 
required
	
z
Transparent financial 
transactions
	
z
Timely repayment of debt
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, 
and  social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to 
the Board.
The Board, through its various committees, foresees the process of consultation between various stakeholders.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and 
social topics (Yes/No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these 
topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity. 
We have different engagement platforms where stakeholder consultation is taken into Board, even at the 
committee level. The respective Committee Chairperson updates the Board at every meeting on the discussion/
deliberations of the Committees. Further, the Board members actively discuss various ESG initiatives of the 
Company and encourage the senior management to take steps beyond regulatory requirements.
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/
marginalized stakeholder groups. NIL
PRINCIPLE 5:  BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in 
the following format: 
Category
FY 2025
FY 2024
Total (A)
No. of 
employees/
workers 
covered (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees/
workers 
covered (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Permanent
894
851
95
856
856
100
Other than permanent
–
–
–
–
–
–
Total Employees
894
851
95
856
856
100
Workers
Permanent
447
447
100%
435
435
100%
Other than permanent
–
–
–
–
–
–
Total Workers
447
447
100%
435
435
100%
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
93
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format
Category
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year
Total (A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total (D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B) 
% (B/A)
No. (C) 
% (C/A)
No. (E) 
% (E/D) 
No. (F)
% (F/D)
Employees
Permanent
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Male
826
–
–
826
100%
795
–
–
795
100%
Female
68
–
–
68
100%
61
–
–
61
100%
Other than 
permanent
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Male
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Female
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Workers
Permanent
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Male
419
–
–
419
100%
422
–
–
422
–
Female
28
–
–
28
100%
13
–
–
13
–
Other than 
permanent
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Male
27
–
–
27
100%
56
–
–
56
100%
Female
13
–
–
13
100%
29
–
–
29
100%
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format*: 
a.	 Median remuneration/wages:
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/salary/
wages of respective category 
(Amount in `)
Number
Median remuneration/salary/
wages of respective category 
(Amount in `)
Board of Directors (BoD) 
6
3,25,000
1
3,25,000
Key Managerial Personnel
3
1,77,00,644
1
1,77,00,644
Employees other than 
BoD and KMP
823
12,59,604
67
11,55,708
Workers
419
884,760
28
255,684
b.	 Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year
Gross wages paid 
to females as % of 
total wages
5%
5%
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
94
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No).
Yes. Responsibility for addressing human rights impacts or issues will be through cross-functional teams of Human 
Resources (in so far as inculcating the principles within employees) and Operations (for inculcating the principles 
to Company’s suppliers/service providers). Overall guidance shall be provided by the legal team and any external 
consultant that the Company may engage in. 
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
Stakeholders may contact the Chief Human Resources Officer, Director-Operations or the Internal Auditor under 
the Whistle Blower Policy if they have any concerns, grievances or complaints. The Company is committed to 
investigating, addressing, and responding to any concerns raised, taking appropriate corrective action when 
required, tracking progress and communicating with stakeholders about human rights issues within timelines, 
if any prescribed under the whistle blower policy or under the relevant law.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
Resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
the end of year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
3
NIL
Completed
3
Nil
Completed
Discrimination at 
workplace
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Child Labour
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Forced Labour/
Involuntary Labour 
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Wages
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Other human rights 
related issues
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013, in the following format:
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year
Total Complaints reported under 
Sexual Harassment on of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
3
3
Complaints on POSH as a % of 
female employees/workers
3.2%
3.8%
Complaints on POSH upheld
0
0
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
The Company’s policy on sexual harassment confirms that the complainant will not be victimized merely because 
a complaint was preferred. The management monitors complaints until closure to ensure that there is no 
discrimination. There is a communication to the employees in the communication meeting about our policies on 
discrimination and harassment cases.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
95
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
Yes, as part of our Supplier Code of Conduct in all our procurement contracts.
10.	 Assessments of the year
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity statutory authorities 
or third parties)
Child labour 
100% of our plants and offices have been thoroughly assessed, and there is no 
instance of child labor detected across our operations.
Forced/involuntary labour 
100% of our plants and offices have been thoroughly assessed, and there is no 
instance of forced/involuntary labor detected across our operations.
Sexual harassment 
100% of our plants and offices have been thoroughly assessed, and there is no 
instance of sexual harassment detected across our operations.
Discrimination at workplace 
100% of our plants and offices have been thoroughly assessed, and there is no 
instance of discrimination at workplace detected across our operations.
Wages 
100% of our plants and offices have been thoroughly assessed.
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 9 above.
Not applicable
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints. 
Not Applicable 
2.	 Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted
Not Applicable
3.	 Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of 
Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Yes. Our company ensures that all operating locations are fully accessible to differently abled employees, workers, 
and visitors. This commitment is reflected in the presence of ramps, sidewalks, and elevators at our corporate 
office locations and plants, along with other necessary infrastructure to support individuals with disabilities.
4.	 Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) 
that were assessed 
Sexual harassment
Elgi does not have a documented process for assessing the performance of its 
value chain partners.
Discrimination at workplace 
Child labour 
Forced/involuntary labour 
Wages 
Others – please specify
5.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
Not Applicable
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
96
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 6:  BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE THE ENVIRONMENT. 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format: GJ 
Parameter
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year 
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
23,092
24,273
Total fuel consumption (B)
NA
NA
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
Nil
Nil
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
23,092
24,273
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
36,330
30,687
Total fuel consumption (E)
21,338
21,064
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
–
–
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
57,668
51,751
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
 80,760
76,024
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy 
consumed/Revenue from operations)
0.0000038
0.0000041
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted 
for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total energy 
consumed/Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.00008
0.0000048
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
0.920457265
0.905724531
Energy intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
–
–
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N).
If yes, name of the external agency: No, the assessment was done by the company.
2.	
Does the entity have any sites/facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve 
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT 
scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
No
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year 
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
4(i)	 Surface water
2870
1947
  (ii)	 Groundwater
21,658
21985
  (iii)	Third party water (Municipal water supplies)
23,294
17132
  (iv)	Seawater/desalinated water
–
–
  (v)	 Others (Rainwater storage)
–
–
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kiloliters) 
(i + ii + iii + iv + v)
47,822
41064 
Total volume of water consumption (in kiloliters)*
47,822
41064
Water intensity per rupee of turnover 
(Total water consumption/Revenue from operations)
0.0000023
0.0000022
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
97
Parameter
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year 
Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total water consumption/
Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.0000475
0.0000026
Water intensity in terms of physical output
0.545048382
0.4892240
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
–
–
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency: No, the assessment was done by the Company.
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged: 
Parameter
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year 
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilo liters)
(i) To Surface water
– No treatment
– With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment
(ii) To Groundwater
– No treatment
– With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment
(iii) To Seawater
– No treatment
– With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment
(iv) Sent to third parties 
– No treatment (Water sent for treatment to 
Central Effluent Treatment Plant)*
– With treatment – please specify level of 
treatment
(v) Others
– No treatment
– With treatment – Tertiary treatment
22883
19527
Total water discharged (in kilo liters) 
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency: No, the assessment was done by the Company.
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage 
and implementation. 
We are actively working towards attaining “Zero Liquid Discharge” status for our plants.
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
98
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format*:
Parameter 
Please specify unit 
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year
NOx 
Tonne/Million of sales
0.000027
0.00044
SOx 
Tonne/Million of sales
0.0000258
0.000046573
Particulate matter (PM2.5)
Tonne/Million of sales
0.000594
0.000599
Particulate matter (PM10)
–
NA
NA
Persistent organic pollutants (POP) 
NA
0.00002
0.00002
Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 
Tonne/Million of sales
NA
NA
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
NA
NA
NA
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency: No, the assessment was done by the Company.
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter 
Unit 
FY 2025 
Current Financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous Financial Year
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of 
the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tons of CO2 
equivalent
1455.71
1440
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of 
the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, 
PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tons of CO2 
equivalent
7340.35
6103.45
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions
Metric tons of CO2 
equivalent
8796.06
7543.45
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity per rupee of turnover (Total 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/
Revenue from operations)
Metric tons of CO2 
equivalent/turnover 
in crores
0.00000042
0.0000004
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity per rupee of turnover 
adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity 
(PPP) (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 
emissions/Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP)
0.0000087
0.0000005
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity in terms of physical output
0.100252567
0.089870379
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission 
intensity (optional) – the relevant 
metric may be selected by the entity
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency: No, the assessment was done by the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
99
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details. 
Installed energy efficient LED Hi-bay fittings (105 Nos) in Aircenter.
Elgi
Master List of Energy Management programs 2024-2025
S.No
Date
EnMP Number
Project Description
1
26.04.2024
ENMP/ACP/MAI/ELEC/37/ROO
Reducing Energy Consumption in AHU-1
2
11.05.2024
ENMP/ACP/MAI/ELEC/38/RO0
Optimizing Energy Consumption in Locus-1
3
21.06.2024
ENMP/ACP/MAI/ELEC/39/R00
Optimizing Energy Consumption in MAZAK MTV
4
01.08.2024
ENMP/ACP/MAI/ELEC/40/R00
Optimizing Energy Consumption in Micromatic IG 150
5
16.12.2024
ENMP/ACP/MAI/ELEC/43/R00
Optimizing the Lighting Energy Consumption in 3EX-2
6
07.11.2024
ENMP/ACP/MAI/ELEC/44/ROO
Optimizing the Lighting Energy Consumption
7
10.10.2024
ENMP/ACP/MAI/ELEC/45/RO0
Energy Management Program - Makino S33-1 & 2 Machine light
8
16.11.2024
ENMP/ACP/MAI/ELEC/46/R00
Energy Management Program - Casting & Rotor Bay Machines light
9
07.11.2024
ENMP/ACP/MAI/ELEC/47/RO0
Optimizing the Energy Consumption of Top block HVLS Fan
10
10.01.2025
ENMP/ACP/MAI/ELEC/49/R00
Energy Management Program - Optimizing Energy Consumption 
in Plant Office
Renewable Energy: -
�  ELGi expanded its renewable energy portfolio by commissioning a 1 MW captive windmill in Ottapidaram, 
Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu, through First Energy 5 pvt. Ltd.
�  ELGi has established a 4 MW group captive power facility in Sivagangai, Tamil Nadu.
Energy Saving Measures: -
Use of LED lights at Foundry 
Implementing technology and IoT solutions to enhance energy efficiency.
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format: 
Parameter
FY 2025 
Current 
financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous 
financial Year
Total Waste generated (in metric tons)
Plastic waste (A) 
61.34
65.031
E-waste (B) 
0.92
6.826
Bio-medical waste (C) 
0.00569
0.0057
Construction and demolition waste (D) 
–
–
Battery waste (E) 
9.453
11.483
Radioactive waste (F) 
–
–
Other Hazardous waste. Haz. Waste from process + Haz. Waste from pollution 
control equipment’s, + Filter bed sand+ Filter bags etc. (G) 
184.491
95.535
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). MS Scrap + Aluminum scrap (Break-up 
by composition i.e., by materials relevant to the sector)
3,304.59
2781.676
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H) 
 3560.802
2960.5567
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover  
(Total waste generated/Revenue from operations)
0.00000017
0.00000016
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)  
(Total waste generated/Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
0.0000035
0.00000019
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
0.040584028
0.035270858
Waste intensity (optional) – 
the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
–
–
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
100
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Parameter
FY 2025 
Current 
financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous 
financial Year
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through 
recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tons)
Category of waste
(i)	 Recycled
1726.09
1519.87
(ii)	 Re-used
 865.09
 895.49
(iii)	Other recovery operations
–
–
Total 
2591.18
 2415.36
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tons)
Category of waste*
(i)	 Incineration
 692.5
545.2
(ii)	 Landfilling
 277
0
(iii)	Other disposal operations 
 0
0
Total 
969.62
545.2
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency: No, the assessment was done by the Company.
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted 
by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the 
practices adopted to manage such wastes.
The following activities are done: 
Foundry waste sand Zero land fill (ZLF)
Waste Recycle-Foundry Waste Sand - 132825 Kg of foundry waste sand generation/Tonne of casting used as a 
Bi-product (Solid blocks)
Initiatives:
	
z
Sustaining the efforts of brick making and support community development initiatives
	
z
Utilizing the wastes and for RCC concrete application
	
z
Converting and utilizing for interlock bricks
	
z
Foundry waste fine sand mixed with rubber and converted as a Bi-product
	
z
Obtained CSIR Test certificate for Concrete blocks
11.	 If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where 
environmental approvals/clearances are required, please specify details in the following format: 
S. No.
Location of 
operations/offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval/clearance 
are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, the reasons thereof and 
corrective action taken, if any.
Not Applicable
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year: 
Name and brief 
details of project
EIA Notification No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Yes/No)
Relevant 
Web link
Not Applicable
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
101
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/regulations/guidelines in India; such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection 
act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
S. No. 
Specify the law/regulation/
guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details of 
the non-compliance
Any fines/penalties/action taken by 
regulatory agencies such as pollution 
control boards or by courts
Corrective 
action taken, 
if any
YES, The company is compliant with the applicable laws and guidelines.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilo liters): 
For each facility/plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information: 
(i)	 Name of the area: CCP, ACP and Foundry Plant
(ii)	 Nature of operations: Manufacturing
(iii)	 Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in the following format: 
Parameter
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	 Surface water
2870
1947
(ii)	 Groundwater
18,987
19,309
(iii)	Third party water
23,089
17,025
(iv)	Seawater/desalinated water
–
–
(v)	 Others 
–
–
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
44,946
38,281
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres) 
44,946
38,281
Water intensity per rupee of turnover  
(Water consumed/turnover)
0.00000215
0.0000021
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
–
–
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)*
(i)	 Into Surface water
–
–
– No treatment
–
–
– With treatment – please specify level of treatment
–
–
(ii)	 Into Groundwater
–
–
– No treatment
–
–
– With treatment – please specify level of treatment
–
–
(iii)	Into Seawater
–
–
– No treatment
–
–
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
–
–
(iv)	Sent to third parties 
–
–
– No treatment
–
–
– With treatment – please specify level of treatment
–
–
(v)	 Others
–
–
– No treatment
–
–
– With treatment – please specify level of treatment
–
–
Total water discharged (in kilolitres) 
–
–
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency: No, the assessment was done by the Company.
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
102
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
2.	
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format: 
Parameter
Unit
FY 2025 
Current financial Year
FY 2024 
Previous financial Year
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG 
into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, 
if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent 
–
–
Total Scope 3 emissions per Crore of turnover
–
–
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
–
–
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency: No, the assessment was done by the Company.
3.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide 
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and 
remediation activities.
	
Not Applicable
4.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve 
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions/effluent discharge/waste generated, please provide 
details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
S. No 
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative (Web-link, if any, may be 
provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the initiative 
1.
Usage of Energy 
efficient motors in 
products
Prime mover used in products for driving Airend 
is replaced with highly energy efficient motors 
manufactured in-house. (Motor division Plant)
Energy Efficient motor 
installed in various product 
capacity of 28,934 KW with 
1600 Nos of motors
2.
Elimination of 
transformers in 
Mechanical Generator 
( In House ) sets
Tapping transformers of capacity upto 315 KVA 
are used in Mg sets for 60Hz testing with various 
different voltages. Recent MG sets are installed 
without tapping transformers in MG sets by 
technology modification in generator controls. 
(recently two 90KW MG sets are installed)
DG Operations not required 
and saved the HSD of 25,000 
Lts/Year
3.
Green Product 
certificate for the 
product
Got the green product certification for the 
selected products with fulfilling all requirements
EN/EG Series, specific Product
4.
Effluent Treatment 
Plant
Convert the CNC machine used coolant for 
processing to segregate the Hazardous
Take back the original water 
from the coolant – 100 KL/Year
5.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/web link.
	
The Company has a robust Business Continuity Plan (BCP) framework in place, designed to ensure operational 
resilience and minimize disruption during adverse events.
6.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. 
What mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard?
	
No
7.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for 
environmental impacts.
	
No
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
103
PRINCIPLE 7:  BUSINESSES, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY POLICY, SHOULD DO SO IN A 
MANNER THAT IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT 
Essential Indicators
1.	
a)	 Number of affiliations with and industry chambers/associations. 
	
Elgi Equipments is a part of 6 associations.
b)	 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/associations (determined based on the total members of such a 
body) the entity is a member of/affiliated to.
S. No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/
associations (State/National)
1
Indo Australian Chamber of Commerce
International
2
India Asia Srilanka Chamber of Commerce and Industries
International
3
Indo German Chamber of Commerce and Industries
International
4
Indo Italian Chamber of Commerce and Industries
International
5
Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries
National
6
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the 
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities. 
	
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity: 
S. No.
Public policy 
advocated 
Method resorted 
for such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in the 
public domain? 
(Yes/No)
Frequency of Review 
by Board (Annually/
Half yearly/Quarterly/
Others – please 
specify) 
Web Link,  
if available
Over the course of this year, we haven’t advocated for any particular public policies.
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
104
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 8:  BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year. 
	
SIA is not done as the Company is not statutorily required to undertake it as on date. 
Name 
and brief 
details of 
project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Yes/No)
Results communicated 
in public domain  
(Yes/No)
Relevant Web link
SIA not done as the Company is not statutorily required to undertake it as on date.
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken 
by your entity, in the following format: 
S. No.
Name of Project 
for which R&R is 
ongoing 
State
District
No. of Project 
Affected Families 
(PAFs) 
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R 
Amounts paid to PAFs 
in the FY 
(In INR)
Not Applicable
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
Community members are encouraged to raise their grievances using the whistle-blower mechanism. They can 
access the Whistle-blower Policy document on our company website or TELGI.app portal for detailed instructions 
on utilizing the TELGI App to submit complaints effectively. For those interested, the TELGI App can be downloaded 
through a web browser or by scanning a QR code on their smartphones, as outlined on the website/portal. Upon 
accessing the TELGI.app portal, individuals can report incidents and opt to maintain anonymity throughout the 
process. Furthermore, the app offers the option to attach supporting evidence, such as documents or recordings, 
to bolster the complaint before final submission.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
Parameter
FY 2025 
Current calendar Year
FY 2024 
Previous calendar Year
Directly sourced from MSMEs/small producers 
34.5
34
Directly from within India
30
34
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent/on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost:
Location
FY 2025 
Current calendar Year
FY 2024 
Previous calendar Year
Rural
17%
19%
Semi-urban
–
–
Urban
83%
81%
Metropolitan
–
–
*(Place to be categorized as per RBI Classification System - rural/semi-urban/urban/metropolitan)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
105
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified 
Corrective action taken 
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts 
as identified by government bodies:
State
Aspirational District
Amount Spent (In ` )
NIL
3.	
a)	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers 
comprising marginalized/vulnerable groups? (Yes/No) NA
b)	 From which marginalized/vulnerable groups do you procure? NA
c)	 What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute? NA
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity 
(in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge: 
S. No.
Intellectual Property based 
on traditional knowledge
Owned/Acquired 
(Yes/No)
Benefit shared 
(Yes/No)
Basis of calculating benefit share 
1
AB series development 
for Oil free compressor 
applications
Owned
Yes
There is no methodology established at 
this point for calculating benefits. However, 
based on application, testing and customer 
experience the product is beneficial over 
contemporary products.
2
Intelligent control system 
for DPSAC application
Owned
Yes
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related 
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved. 
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects: 
S. No.
CSR Projects
No. of persons 
benefited from CSR 
Projects 2024-25
% of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups
1
Societal development through high-quality education for 
the economically challenged
1331
–
2
To increase the proportion of children from low-income 
families year on year
12
–
3
Coimbatore Cancer Foundation – Health Care
–
–
Annexure F
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
106
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
PRINCIPLE 9:  BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS IN A RESPONSIBLE MANNER 
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
The Company has an on-line system of addressing consumer complaints that are attended to promptly. 
The Company has a strong customer care system in place with clear benchmarked targets for on time and 
reliable resolution with built escalation process. Since the complaints redressal mechanism is an on-going 
process, the number of complaints at any given point in time may not convey the correct picture. The Company 
strives to resolve all complaints to the satisfaction of its customers.
2.	 Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about: 
Parameter
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
To be Established
Safe and responsible usage
To be Established
Recycling and/or safe disposal
To be Established
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following: 
FY 2025 
(Current Calendar Year)
Remarks
FY 2024 
(Current Calendar Year)
Remarks
Received 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Received 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Data privacy
NIL
–
NIL
–
Advertising
Cyber-security
Delivery of essential services
Restrictive Trade Practices
Unfair Trade Practices
Other
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues: 
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
NIL
NIL
Forced recalls
NIL
NIL
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, 
provide a web-link of the policy.
Yes : https://www.elgi.com/in/privacy-policy/
Information Security policy is available in the Company’s intranet.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of 
essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; 
penalty/action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/services. 
No Incidents reported.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
107
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a.	 Number of instances of data breaches – NIL
b.	 Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers – NIL
c.	 Impact, if any, of the data breaches – NIL
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels/platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, 
if available). 
Elgi Air Compressors | Screw Type Air Compressors in the UK
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
The Company is deeply committed to maintaining a reputation as a quality-driven and customer-centric organization, 
dedicated to delivering products of genuine value to our discerning customers consistently meeting their expectations. 
Our products undergo rigorous quality checks at every stage of the production process chain, supported by well-defined 
Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and processes. These measures ensure the identification and elimination of 
any process or system impediments, guaranteeing the highest standards of quality and customer satisfaction.
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services. 
	
Not applicable.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over & above what Is mandated as per local laws? 
(Yes/No/Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief? Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to 
consumer satisfaction relating to the major products/services of the entity, significant locations of operation of 
the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No) 
All products carry a metallic name plate that will have details of basic data required, as per CE norms that are 
captured and incorporated
1.	 Model number – Yes
2.	 Operating pressure – Yes
3.	 Flow – Yes
4.	 Fab no – Yes
5.	 Manufacturing year – Yes
6.	 Industry standards – Like CE marking – Yes
In packing
a)	 Box dimensions (wherever applicable) – Yes
b)	 Weight (wherever applicable) – Yes
c)	 Total no. of boxes (wherever applicable) – Yes
d)	 Packing slip no. (wherever applicable) – Yes
e)	 Customer name – No
f)	
Item – Yes
g)	 Description – Yes
h)	 MRP (Wherever applicable) – Yes
i)	
Month/year (Wherever applicable) – Yes
In addition to the above, the Company is following ISO 3864 for safety decals and ISO 7010 for icons used in 
the safety decals that are used in the compressors.
Corporate 
Governance Report
06
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
109
This report is prepared in accordance with the provisions of Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V of the 
Securities  and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and the report contains details of Corporate Governance systems and processes at 
Elgi Equipments Limited (“the Company”).
1.	 Company’s Philosophy on Code of Governance
Your Company has always believed in and followed the best business practices, and has been compliant with all 
laws, exercising fairness and integrity in all its dealings. This commitment reiterates our dedication to enhancing 
stakeholders’ value. Your Company has a defined set of guidelines for internal governance based on business 
ethics, legal compliance, and professional conduct. We have maintained transparency in our accounting practices 
and procedures, framed and adhered to policies and guidelines, insisted on responsibility and accountability, and 
conducted regular checks of our policies and procedures.
Your Company complies with the requirements of Corporate Governance under the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
We ensure adequate, timely, and accurate disclosure on all material matters, including the financial situation, 
performance, ownership, and governance of the Company, to the stock exchanges and investors. The prescribed 
standards of accounting, financial, and non-financial disclosure are disseminated in an equal, timely, and cost-
efficient manner, enabling access to relevant information by users.
Your Company is dedicated to upholding the highest standards of ethical conduct in all its operations. We believe 
that ethical business practices are the foundation of a successful and sustainable organization. Our employees 
are trained to adhere to these principles, ensuring that every action taken aligns with our core values of honesty, 
integrity, and respect.
2.	 Board of Directors
2.1  As of March 31, 2025, the Board comprised seven (7) Directors. Of the seven directors:
a)  Five (5) (71.43%) are non-executive directors, and 
b)  Four (4) (57.14%) are independent directors, which includes a woman director. 
2.2  As on March 31, 2025, the composition of the Board is in conformity with Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations and Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“CA 2013”), read with the relevant rules made 
thereunder.
2.3  The number of Directorships, Committee memberships/chairmanships of all Directors is within the respective 
limits prescribed under the CA 2013 and SEBI Listing Regulations. Necessary disclosures regarding Board 
(in terms of Regulation 17A of SEBI Listing Regulations) and Committee positions (in terms of Regulation 26 of 
SEBI Listing Regulations) as on March 31, 2025, have been made by all the Directors of the Company.
2.4  Every Independent Director has made requisite declaration under regulation 25(8) of SEBI Listing Regulations 
and section 149(7) of CA 2013 that he/she meets the “criteria of independence” as required under regulation 16(1)
(b) of SEBI Listing Regulations and section 149(6) of the CA 2013, respectively. Based on the declarations received 
from the Independent Directors, the Board of Directors is of the opinion that the Independent Directors fulfil the 
conditions specified in the SEBI Listing Regulations and the CA 2013 and are independent of the management. 
Further, None of the Independent Directors have resigned before the expiry of their tenure during the year under 
review. The maximum tenure of Independent Directors is in compliance with the CA 2013.
2.5  The Independent Directors have included their names in the data bank of Independent Directors maintained 
with the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs in terms of Section 150 of the CA 2013, read with Rule 6 of the 
Companies (Appointment & Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014. The Company had issued formal letter of 
appointment to all independent directors and the terms and conditions of their appointment have been hosted 
on the website of the Company.
Annexure G
Report on Corporate Governance
Annexure G
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
110
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
2.6  The Board met 6 (six) times during the year under review on May 27, 2024, July 31, 2024, September 26, 2024, 
November 11, 2024, February 10, 2025, and March 17, 2025. The necessary quorum was present for all the meetings.
2.7  The names and categories of the directors on the Board, their attendance at Board meetings held during the 
year and the number of directorships and committee chairmanships/memberships held by them in other public 
companies as on March 31, 2025, are given below. Other directorships only include those companies whose 
equity shares are listed on stock exchanges and High Value Debt Listed Entities as per Regulation 17A of SEBI 
Listing Regulations. Chairmanships/memberships of Board committees shall include only the Audit Committee 
and the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
S. No.
Name of the 
Director
Category
Number 
of Board 
Meetings 
during FY 
2024-25
Whether 
attended 
last AGM 
held on 
July 31, 
2024
Number of 
Directorships 
in other 
Public 
Companies
Number of 
Committee Positions 
held in other Public 
Companies
Directorship 
in other 
listed 
Companies
Held/ 
Attended
Chairman
Member
1
Mr. Jairam 
Varadaraj 
(DIN: 00003361)
Executive, 
Managing 
Director, 
Promoter
6/6
Yes
3
–
–
Elgi Rubber 
Company 
Limited, 
Non-ID
2
Mr. Sudarsan 
Varadaraj 
(DIN: 00133533)
Non-
Executive, 
Non-
Independent 
Director, 
Promoter 
Group
6/3
No
3
1
1
- Elgi Rubber 
Company 
Limited, 
Executive 
Chairman & 
Managing 
Director
- Magna 
Electro 
Castings 
Limited, ID
3
Mr. Anvar Jay 
Varadaraj 
(DIN: 07273942)
Executive 
Director, 
Promoter 
Group
6/6
Yes
1
–
–
–
4
Ms. Aruna 
Thangaraj 
(DIN: 07444726)
Non-
Executive 
Independent 
Director
6/5
Yes
2
–
–
–
5
Mr. Srinivasan 
Krishnamurthi5 
(DIN: 06662916)
Non-
Executive 
Independent 
Director
6/4
NA
–
–
–
–
6
Mr. Srinivasan 
Ravindran5 
(DIN: 05259775)
Non-
Executive 
Independent 
Director
6/4
NA
–
–
–
–
7
Mr. Suman 
Kumar Das5 
(DIN: 07500784)
Non-
Executive 
Independent 
Director
6/4
NA
1
–
–
–
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
111
S. No.
Name of the 
Director
Category
Number 
of Board 
Meetings 
during FY 
2024-25
Whether 
attended 
last AGM 
held on 
July 31, 
2024
Number of 
Directorships 
in other 
Public 
Companies
Number of 
Committee Positions 
held in other Public 
Companies
Directorship 
in other 
listed 
Companies
Held/ 
Attended
Chairman
Member
8
Mr. Mohan 
Nambiar1 
(DIN: 00003660)
Non-
Executive 
Independent 
Director
6/0
NA
Not Applicable
9
Mr. Balakrishnan 
Vijayakumar2 
(DIN: 00015583)
Non-
Executive 
Independent 
Director
6/0
No
10
Mr. Ganesh 
Devaraj3 
(DIN: 00005238)
Non-
Executive 
Independent 
Director
6/1
No
11
Mr. 
Mathrubutham 
Ramprasad4 
(DIN: 00004275)
Non-
Executive 
Independent 
Director
6/1
Yes
Notes:
1 Mr. Mohan Nambiar (DIN: 00003660) ceased to be the Director of the Company effective April 10, 2024, due to his 
retirement upon reaching the age of 75. Further, no Board Meeting was held up to April 10, 2024, in the year under 
review. 
2 Mr. Balakrishnan Vijayakumar (DIN: 00015583) ceased to be the Director of the Company effective from the close of 
business hours on August 01, 2024, upon the completion of his second tenure as an Independent Director. Further, 
he did not attend any of the Board Meetings held up to the date of cessation.
3 Mr. Ganesh Devaraj (DIN: 00005238) ceased to be the Director of the Company effective from the close of business 
hours on August 01, 2024, upon his completion of their second tenure as an Independent Director. Further, he only 
attended one Board Meeting up to the date of cessation.
4 Mr. Mathrubutham Ramprasad (DIN: 00004275) ceased to be the Director of the Company effective from the close 
of business hours on August 01, 2024, upon his completion of their second tenure as an Independent Director. 
Further, he only attended one Board Meeting up to the date of cessation.
5 Mr. Srinivasan Krishnamurthi (DIN: 06662916), Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran (DIN: 05259775) and Mr. Suman Kumar Das 
(DIN: 07500784) were appointed as the Independent Directors of the Company with effect from July 31, 2024.
2.8	 Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj, Non-Executive Non-Independent Director is the brother of Mr. Jairam Varadaraj, 
Managing Director. Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj, Executive Director, is the son of Mr. Jairam Varadaraj, Managing 
Director. None of the other directors and key managerial personnel are related to each other. 
2.9	 None of the Directors on the Board is a member in more than ten Committees or Chairman in more than 
five committees across all the companies in which he/she is a director as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations.
2.10	 None of the Independent Directors on the Board is serving as an Independent Director in more than seven 
listed entities. None of the Executive Directors on the Board is serving as an Independent Director in more than 
three listed entities as per Regulation 17A of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Annexure G
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
112
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
2.11	 During the year 2024-25, information as mentioned in Part A of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations has 
been placed before the Board for its consideration. The Board periodically reviews the compliance reports of 
all laws applicable to the Company.
2.12	 Details of equity shares of the Company held by the Non-Executive Directors as on March 31, 2025, 
are given below:
S. No.
Name 
Category
Number of Equity Shares
1
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj
Non-Executive, Non-Independent, Promoter Group
204,984
2
Ms. Aruna Thangaraj
Non-Executive Independent Director
–
3
Mr. Srinivasan 
Krishnamurthi
Non-Executive Independent Director
–
4
Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran
Non-Executive Independent Director
200
5
Mr. Suman Kumar Das
Non-Executive Independent Director
–
2.13	 The Company has not issued any type of convertible instruments to the Non-Executive Directors.
2.14	 There has been no materially relevant pecuniary transaction or relationship between the Company and its 
Non-Executive Independent Directors during the year.
2.15	 During the year, 3,53,600 Employee Stock Options were granted to the eligible employees of the Company. 
None of the Directors were issued any options.
2.16	 Periodic presentations are made by the Senior Management, Statutory and Internal Auditors at the Board/
Committee Meetings on business and performance updates of the Company and its subsidiaries, global 
business environment, business risks and its mitigation strategy, impact of regulatory changes on strategy, 
ESG  initiatives etc. Updates on relevant statutory changes encompassing important laws are regularly 
intimated to the Independent Directors. The familiarisation program for Independent Directors and 
appointment letters of the Independent Directors have been hosted on the Company’s website www.elgi.com.
2.17	 During the year under review, none of the Independent Directors of the Company have resigned before the 
expiry of their tenure.
2.18	 The skills/expertise/competencies fundamental identified by the Board for the effective functioning of 
the Company, which are currently available with the Board, and the names of the directors who have such 
skills/expertise/competence:
S. No. Skills/Core Competencies
Jairam Varadaraj
Sudarsan 
Varadaraj
Anvar Jay 
Varadaraj
Aruna Thangaraj
Srinivasan 
Krishnamurthi
Srinivasan 
Ravindran
Suman Kumar 
Das
1
CEO/Board Experience in a Public 
Company; Corporate Governance





2
Relevant Industry Experience 
including Core Operations 



3
Capital Allocation and Mergers  
& Acquisitions





4
Strategic Planning and  
Business Operations






5
Executive Compensation and Human 
Capital Management

 
 
 
 

6
Accounting and financial reporting 
experience




7
Risk Management


 
 



ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
113
S. No. Skills/Core Competencies
Jairam Varadaraj
Sudarsan 
Varadaraj
Anvar Jay 
Varadaraj
Aruna Thangaraj
Srinivasan 
Krishnamurthi
Srinivasan 
Ravindran
Suman Kumar 
Das
8
Legal, Government,  
Public Policy, Regulatory
 

 
 


 
(Partial)
9
Environment, Health, Safety 
and Sustainability

 
 
 
 
 
 
(Partial)
10
Marketing and Global Brand Building




11
Innovation, R&D,  
Information technology &  
cyber security expertise

 

 
 
(Partial)
12
International/Global Perspective







2.19	 The Company provided the video conferencing facility to enable all the Directors to attend and participate in 
the meetings from different locations. The information regularly placed before the Board of Directors, amongst 
others, includes the following:
a)	 Quarterly/half-yearly/yearly results and performance of the Company. 
b)	 Minutes of the meetings of the Board and all its committees. 
c)	 Minutes of Meetings of the Board of the subsidiary companies and periodical Financial Statements, including 
significant transactions and arrangements entered into by the subsidiary companies on a quarterly basis.
d)	 Materially important litigations, show cause, demand, prosecution and penalty notices.
e)	 Annual Operating plans, budgets and updates. 
f)	 Details of changes in the structure of JV/subsidiary Company(ies). 
g)	 Quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the steps taken by management to limit the risks of 
adverse exchange rate movement, if material. 
h)	 Recruitment and Remuneration of Senior Management/Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs) of the Company. 
i)	 Funding to Subsidiary Companies/Guarantee to secure funds availed by Subsidiary Companies and update 
on Governance of unlisted Subsidiary Companies. 
j)	 Borrowings by the Company and update on the fund utilisation. 
k)	 Proposals for making an acquisition by the Company and/or by the Subsidiary Companies.
l)	 Other information as mentioned in Schedule II Part A of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
2.20  During the year, the Independent Directors of the Company met on May 27, 2024, without the attendance 
of Non-Independent Directors and members of Management. The Independent Directors inter alia reviewed 
the performance of the non-independent directors, the Board as a whole and the Managing Director of the 
Company, on parameters of effectiveness and to assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of 
information between the management and the Board. The Independent Directors were satisfied with all 
the above.
Committees of the Board
3.	 Audit Committee
a.  The Audit Committee of the Company has been constituted in line with the provisions of Regulation 18 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations, read with Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013. All the members of the Committee are 
Independent Directors, including the Chairman.
Annexure G
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
114
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
b.  The role, powers, functions and terms of reference of the Audit Committee are as per Section 177 of CA 2013 and 
Regulation 18 read with part C of Schedule II of SEBI Listing Regulations. The Terms of Reference for the Audit 
Committee are designed to ensure robust oversight of the financial reporting process and the overall integrity 
of financial information. The Committee’s responsibilities include reviewing the management discussion and 
analysis of the company’s financial condition and operational results, as well as management letters and 
internal control weaknesses identified by statutory auditors. It is also tasked with examining internal audit 
reports related to control weaknesses and overseeing the appointment, removal, and remuneration of the chief 
internal auditor. Additionally, the Committee reviews quarterly statements of deviations, including reports 
from monitoring agencies submitted to stock exchanges, and annual statements of funds utilized for purposes 
other than those disclosed in the offer document or prospectus (if any). By encompassing these mandatory 
elements, the Audit Committee plays a pivotal role in enhancing transparency, compliance, and accountability 
within the organization.
Besides having access to all the required information within the Company, the Committee can obtain external 
professional advice whenever required.
c.  The Committee acts as a link between the Statutory and Internal Auditors and the Board of Directors of the 
Company. It is authorized to select and establish accounting policies, review reports of the Statutory and 
the Internal Auditors and meet with them to discuss their findings, suggestions and other related matters. 
The Committee is empowered to recommend the appointment and remuneration payable to the Statutory 
Auditors.
d.  During the year under review, the Committee met four times on May 27, 2024, July 31, 2024, November 11, 2024, 
and February 10, 2025. The gap between two meetings did not exceed one hundred and twenty days.
e.  The Composition of the Audit Committee and the attendance of each member of the Committee are given below:
S. No 
Name
Designation
Category
Number of meetings
Eligible to 
attend the 
meeting
Committee 
Meetings 
Attended
1
Mr. Srinivasan Krishnamurthi
Chairman
Non-Executive Independent Director
2
2
2
Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran
Member 
Non-Executive Independent Director
2
2
3
Mr. Suman Kumar Das
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
2
2
4
Ms. Aruna Thangaraj
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
2
2
5
Mr. Mathrubutham Ramprasad
Chairman
Non-Executive Independent Director
2
1
6
Mr. Ganesh Devaraj
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
2
1
7
Mr. Mohan Nambiar
Member
Non-executive Independent Director
Nil
Nil
Notes:
i.	 Mr. Mathrubutham Ramprasad ceased to be the Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. August 01, 2024.
ii.	 Mr. Ganesh Devaraj and Ms. Aruna Thangaraj ceased to be the members of the Committee w.e.f. August 01, 2024.
iii.	 Mr. Srinivasan Krishnamurthi was appointed as the Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. August 01, 2024.
iv.	 Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran and Mr. Suman Kumar Das were appointed as the Members of the Committee w.e.f. 
August 01, 2024.
v.	 Mr. Mohan Nambiar ceased to be a member of the Committee w.e.f. April 10, 2024.
f.  The erstwhile Chairman of the Audit Committee, i.e. Mr. Mathrubutham Ramprasad, had attended the Annual 
General Meeting of the Company held on July 31, 2024.
g.  The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Committee. The Managing Director, Statutory Auditors, 
Internal Auditor and Chief Financial Officer of the Company attended the Committee meetings as invitees, from 
time to time. The Audit Committee invites such executives, as it considers appropriate, representatives of the 
statutory auditors and internal auditors to be present at its meetings.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
115
4.	Nomination and Remuneration Committee
a.  The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Company has been constituted in line with the provisions 
of Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing Regulations, read with Section 178(1) of the Companies Act, 2013.
b.  The role, powers and functions and terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee are as per 
Section 178 of the CA 2013 and SEBI Listing Regulations. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee plays a vital 
role in shaping the governance and leadership structure of the organization. Its primary responsibilities include 
formulating criteria for determining the qualifications, positive attributes, and independence of directors, while also 
recommending a comprehensive remuneration policy for directors, key managerial personnel, and other employees. 
For the appointment of independent directors, the Committee evaluates the existing skills, knowledge, and experience 
on the Board, preparing a detailed description of the required capabilities. This process may involve utilizing external 
agencies and considering candidates from diverse backgrounds to ensure a well-rounded board. Additionally, the 
Committee establishes criteria for evaluating the performance of independent directors and the Board as a whole, 
devises policies promoting board diversity, and identifies qualified candidates for directorship and senior management 
roles. Furthermore, it assesses whether to extend the term of independent directors based on performance evaluations 
and recommends appropriate remuneration for senior management. Through these functions, the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee ensures effective leadership and governance within the organization.
c.  The Committee had met once in the year on May 27, 2024. The necessary quorum was present for the meeting. 
The Composition of the Committee and the attendance of each member of the Committee are given below.
S. No. 
Name
Designation
Category
Number of meetings
Eligible to 
attend the 
meeting
Committee 
Meetings 
Attended 
1
Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran
Chairman
Non-Executive Independent Director
–
–
2
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj
Member
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
1
1
3
Mr. Suman Kumar Das
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
–
–
4
Ms. Aruna Thangaraj
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
–
–
5
Mr. Ganesh Devaraj
Chairman
Non-Executive Independent Director
1
1
6
Mr. Mathrubutham 
Ramprasad
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
1
–
7
Mr. Mohan Nambiar
Member
Non-executive Independent Director
Nil
Nil
Notes:
i.	 Mr. Ganesh Devaraj ceased to be the Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. August 01, 2024.
ii.	 Mr. Mathrubutham Ramprasad ceased to be the member of the Committee w.e.f. August 01, 2024.
iii.	 Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran was appointed as the Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. August 01, 2024.
iv.	 Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj, Ms. Aruna Thangaraj and Mr. Suman Kumar Das were appointed as the Members 
of the Committee w.e.f. April 10, 2024 and August 01, 2024 respectively.
v.	 Mr. Mohan Nambiar ceased to be a member of the Committee w.e.f. April 10, 2024.
d.  The erstwhile Chairman of the NRC, i.e. Mr. Ganesh Devaraj, did not attend the Annual General Meeting of the 
Company held on July 31, 2024. However, he authorised Mr. Mathrubutham Ramprasad to attend the meeting on 
his behalf, and Mr. Mathrubutham Ramprasad attended the meeting. 
e.  The Committee looks into and determines the Company’s policy on remuneration packages of the Executive 
directors, Senior Management and other employees.
f.  The Company has adopted a Nomination and Remuneration Policy in consonance with the industry practices and 
rewards good performance of the employees of the Company. The policy ensures equality, fairness and consistency in 
rewarding the employees on the basis of performance against set objectives and the performance of the individuals 
measured through the annual appraisal process. Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company is designed to 
create a high-performance culture. It enables the Company to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve results. 
The Company pays remuneration by way of salary, benefits, perquisites and allowances to its Executive Director. Annual 
increments are recommended by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee within the approved salary scale.
Annexure G
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
116
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
g.  This Committee shall identify the persons, who are qualified to become Directors of the Company/who may be 
appointed in Senior Management in accordance with the criteria laid down, recommend to the Board their appointment 
and removal and also shall carry out evaluation of every Director’s performance. Committee shall also formulate the 
criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes, independence of the Directors and recommend to the Board 
a Policy, relating to the remuneration for the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other employees. 
h.  The Board of Directors, inter-alia, decides commission payable to the Independent Directors out of the profits 
for respective financial year and within ceilings prescribed under the CA 2013, based on evaluation process and 
considering criteria, such as, performance of the Company.
i.  The Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company can be accessed on the Company’s website at 
https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Remuneration-Policy.pdf. 
j.  Performance Evaluation of non-executive and Independent Directors: Pursuant to the provisions of CA 2013 and 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the Board has carried out the annual performance evaluation of its own performance, 
the Directors individually as well as the evaluation of the working of its Audit Committee, Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, Risk Management Committee and 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee. A peer review was done by all the Directors evaluating every other 
Director. They also evaluated various aspects of the Board such as adequacy of the composition of the Board 
and its Committees, Board Diversity, execution and performance of specific duties, obligations and governance. 
Feedback on the appraisal has been provided to the Board members.
5.	 Stakeholders Relationship Committee
a.  The Stakeholders Relationship Committee was constituted in compliance with the provisions of Section 178(5) of 
the CA 2013, read with Regulation 20 of SEBI Listing Regulations.
b.  The role, powers and functions and terms of reference of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee are as per 
Section 178 of CA 2013 and SEBI Listing Regulations. The Committee is empowered to oversee the redressal of 
investors’ complaints pertaining to share transfer, non-receipt of annual reports, dividend payments, issue of 
duplicate certificates, transfers and transmission of shares and other miscellaneous complaints. The Committee 
also approved transfer, transmission, transposition, name deletion and issue of duplicate share certificates. In 
addition, the Committee looks into other issues, including the status of dematerialization/re-materialization 
of shares as well as systems and procedures followed to track investor complaints and suggest measures for 
improvement from time to time.
c.  The Committee had met once in the year on May 27, 2024. The necessary quorum was present for the meeting. 
The composition of the Committee and the details of meetings attended by its members are given below:
S. No.
Name
Designation
Category
Number of meetings
Eligible to  
attend the 
meeting
Committee 
Meetings 
Attended 
1
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj
Chairman
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
1
1
2
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj
Member
Executive, Managing Director
1
1
3
Ms. Aruna Thangaraj
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
1
1
4
Mr. Mohan Nambiar
Chairman
Non-Executive Independent Director
–
–
Notes:
i.	 Mr. Mohan Nambiar ceased to be the Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. April 10, 2024.
ii.	 Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj, Member of the Committee, was appointed as the Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. 
April 10, 2024.
iii.	 Ms. Aruna Thangaraj was appointed as the Member of the Committee, w.e.f. April 10, 2024.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
117
d.  The Chairman of the SRC i.e., Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj, did not attend the Annual General Meeting of the Company 
held on July 31, 2024. However, he authorised Mr. Jairam Varadaraj, member of SRC, to attend the meeting on his 
behalf and Mr. Jairam Varadaraj attended the meeting.
e.  Ms. Vaishnavi PM was the Compliance Officer of the Company till May 27, 2024. Ms. Devika Sathyanarayana 
was appointed as the Company Secretary and Compliance Officer with effect from May 27, 2024, for ensuring 
compliance of capital and securities markets related laws.
f.  A total of 7 complaints were received and replied to the satisfaction of shareholders during the year ended on 
March 31, 2025. There were no outstanding complaints as on March 31, 2025. 
g.  The SRC has a sub-committee viz., “Sub Committee - SRC” to manage all routine shares related issues. The members 
of the SRC are the members of the Sub Committee - SRC. No sitting fee is paid to the members of the Sub 
Committee - SRC. The Sub Committee - SRC meets as and when required. During the year the Sub Committee - SRC 
has met 42 times. 
h.  Pursuant to Regulation 40(9) of SEBI Listing Regulations, a certificate confirming due compliance of share transfer 
formalities by the Company from a Practising Company Secretary has been submitted to the Stock Exchanges 
within the stipulated time till the date it was applicable.
6.	 Risk Management Committee
a.  The Risk Management Committee was constituted in compliance with the provisions of Regulation 21 of SEBI 
Listing Regulations with majority of Board of Directors as its members. 
b.  The role, powers and functions and terms of reference of the Risk Management Committee are as specified under 
Regulation 21 of SEBI Listing Regulations, read with Part D of Schedule II. The RMC shall monitor and review the 
risk management plan of the Company and perform such other functions as mandated by the Board of Directors. 
c.  The Committee met twice during the year on April 16, 2024, and November 11, 2024. The necessary quorum 
was present for all the meetings. The gap between two meetings did not exceed Two Hundred and Ten days. 
The composition of the RMC and the details of meetings attended by its members are given below:
S. No.
Name
Designation
Category
Number of Meetings
Eligible to 
attend the 
meeting
Committee 
Meetings 
Attended 
1
Mr. Srinivasan 
Krishnamurthi
Chairman
Non-Executive Independent Director
1
1
2
Mr. Suman Kumar Das
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
1
1
3
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj
Member
Executive, Managing Director
2
2
4
Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj
Member
Executive Director
2
2
5
Mr. Indranil Sen
Member
Chief Financial Officer
2
2
6
Ms. Aruna Thangaraj
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
1
1
Notes:
i.	 Ms. Aruna Thangaraj ceased to be the Chairperson of the Committee w.e.f. August 01, 2024.
ii.	 Mr. Srinivasan Krishnamurthi was appointed as the Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. August 01, 2024.
iii.	 Mr. Suman Kumar Das was appointed as the Member of the Committee w.e.f. August 01, 2024.
d.  The top 10 risks affecting the Company were reviewed by the Committee. In accordance with Regulation 21 of the 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has been regularly reviewing and upgrading the Cyber Security measures 
for safeguarding the network, systems and data. 
Annexure G
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
118
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
e.  Up-to-date technology is deployed to ensure that Emails are scanned and quarantined if risks are detected. 
Multi-factor authentication has been implemented for minimizing cyber risks due to password hacks. The 
Company has implemented EDR (End Point Detection and Response system) to detect and respond to 
threats originating from endpoints. Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) solution has been 
implemented across all critical on-premises platforms to monitor logs and identify anomalies that could 
lead to potential threats. Privilege or elevated access to systems are logged using PAM (Privileged Access 
Management) solutions. The Company complies with ISO 27001 for its IT Operations and plans to extend this 
to all critical functions. Critical payloads where possible are moved to Cloud to derive benefits of enhanced 
security and availability. All critical on-premises systems are implemented with DR and Failover systems. IT 
security audits are done quarterly to ensure there are no vulnerabilities.
7.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
a.  In compliance with the provisions of Section 135 of CA 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility 
Policy) Rules, 2014, the Company has constituted the Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee.
b.  The CSR Committee formulate and recommends to the Board, a CSR Policy and the annual action plan indicating 
the activities to be undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII of CA 2013. The Committee 
recommends the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the activities mentioned in the CSR Policy and 
monitors the implementation of the CSR Policy.
c.  The Committee met twice during the year on May 27, 2024 and February 10, 2025. The necessary quorum was 
present for all the meetings. The composition of the CSR Committee and the details of meetings attended by its 
members are given below:
S. No.
Name
Designation
Category
Number of Meetings
Eligible to 
attend the 
meeting
Committee 
Meetings 
Attended 
1
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj
Chairman
Executive, Managing Director
2
2
2
Ms. Aruna Thangaraj
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
2
1
3
Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj
Member
Executive Director
2
2
4
Mr. Balakrishnan 
Vijayakumar
Member
Non-Executive Independent Director
1
–
Note:
i.	 Mr. Balakrishnan Vijayakumar (DIN: 00015583) ceased to be the Member of the Committee w.e.f. August 01, 2024.
8.	Senior Management
The particulars of the Senior Management, including the changes therein since the close of the previous financial 
year, are as follows:
S. No.
Name
Designation
1
Mr. Indranil Sen
Chief Financial Officer
2
Dr. Venu Madhav K
Director - Product Excellence & Innovation
3
Mr. Bheemsingh Melchisedec
Director - Operations
4
Mr. Premendra
Chief Strategy Officer
5
Mr. Nitesh Jain
Chief Human Resource Officer
6
Mr. Bhavesh Karia
President - ISAAME & SEA 
7
Mr. Ramesh Ponnuswami
Executive Director
8
Mr. Gaurav Gupta
Chief Information & Digital Officer
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
119
During the year under review, Mr. Gaurav Gupta has been appointed as Chief Information and Digital Officer with 
effect from August 12, 2024, who forms part of the Senior Management. Further, Mr. Jayakanthan R ceased to be a 
Senior Managerial Personnel with effect from May 31, 2024, and there were no other changes since the closure of 
the previous financial year.
9.	 Remuneration of Directors
a.  During the year, the Non-Executive Directors of the Company had no material pecuniary relationship or 
transactions with the Company, other than sitting fees and reimbursement of expenses incurred by them for 
attending meetings of the Company. 
b.  The details on the criteria for making payments to the Non-Executive Director(s) is available on the Company’s 
website www.elgi.com.
c.  The Company has not granted any stock options to its Board members. 
d.  The remuneration paid to the directors of the Company is within the limits prescribed under the Companies Act, 
2013 and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
e.  Details of the remuneration to the Directors: 
•	 Details of the remuneration for Non-Executive Directors for the year ended March 31, 2025.
S. No.
Name of the Director
Sitting Fees (`)
Commission* (`)
1
Ms. Aruna Thangaraj
3,90,000
6,10,000
2
Mr. Srinivasan Krishnamurthi
3,50,000
21,50,000
3
Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran
3,00,000
17,00,000
4
Mr. Suman Kumar Das
3,50,000
16,50,000
5
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj
1,90,000
3,10,000
*approved in the Board Meeting held on May 28, 2025 within the limits as approved by Shareholders vide resolution 
passed by postal ballot on September 19, 2024.
•	 Details of the remuneration for Executive Directors for the year ended March 31, 2025.
S. No.
Particulars of Remuneration
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj, 
Managing Director
Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj, 
Executive Director
1
Gross salary:
(a)  Salary as per provisions contained in Section 17(1) 
of the Income-tax Act, 1961
2,54,41,130 
1,75,01,999
(b)  Value of perquisites under Section 17(2) of the 
Income-tax Act, 1961
–
–
2
Employee Stock Option
–
–
3
Others - Retirement benefits
1,00,000
1,00,000
Total
2,55,41,130 
1,76,01,999
The variable salary of the Managing Director and Executive Director was evaluated based on a combination of both 
Company performance and individual performance. The Company’s performance is assessed as against achievement 
of sales, profit, cash flow and quality, and the Managing Directors and Executive Director’s individual performance 
was assessed based on the performance of senior management personnel on an average and own performance. 
Services of the Managing Director and Executive Director may be terminated by either party, giving the other party 
three months’ notice. There is no provision for payment of severance pay.
Annexure G
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
120
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
10.	General Body Meetings
a.  Details of last 3 AGMs held
Year
Date
Time
Venue
Special Resolution Passed, if any
2023-24
July 31, 2024
4:30 PM (IST)
Deemed Venue is 
Registered office 
of the Company. 
AGM held Video 
Conferencing 
(VC)/Other 
Audio-Visual 
Means (OAVM) 
a)	 Approval for payment of remuneration to 
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj (DIN: 00003361), Managing 
Director of the Company for a period of 2 years 
with effect from April 01, 2024, till March 31, 2026.
b)	 Appointment of Mr. Suman Kumar Das (DIN: 
07500784) as an Independent Director of the 
Company for a term of five (5) consecutive 
years with effect from July 31, 2024.
c)	 Appointment of Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran (DIN: 
05259775) as an Independent Director of the 
Company for a term of five (5) consecutive 
years with effect from July 31, 2024.
d)	 Appointment of Mr. Srinivasan Krishnamurthi 
(DIN: 06662916) as an Independent Director of 
the Company for a term of five (5) consecutive 
years with effect from July 31, 2024.
e)	 Re-appointment of Ms. Aruna Thangaraj (DIN: 
07444726) as an Independent Director of the 
Company for a second term of five (5) consecutive 
years with effect from August 02, 2024. 
f)	 Approval for enhancement of the limit 
for extending financial assistance to the 
Elgi Equipments Limited Employees Stock 
Option Trust.
g)	 Approval for the amendment of the ‘Elgi 
Equipments Limited Employees Stock Option 
Plan 2019’. 
2022-23 
August 04, 2023 4.15 PM (IST)
Nil
2021-22 
August 12, 2022 4.15 PM (IST)
Approval for modification of the date of expiry 
of the second term of Mr. N Mohan Nambiar 
(DIN: 00003660) as Independent Director of 
the Company to April 10, 2024, being the day, he 
attains 75 years of age. 
b.  Extra Ordinary General Meeting: 
During the year under review no Extra Ordinary General Meeting was held. 
c.  Postal Ballots 
The Company conducted a Postal Ballot vide its notice dated August 12, 2024, which was deemed to be passed on 
September 19, 2024. No Special Resolution was passed through the Postal Ballot. 
The scrutinizer for the said Postal Ballot was Mr. M. D. Selvaraj, FCS, Managing Partner of M/s. MDS & Associates 
LLP, Company Secretaries, Coimbatore.
Further, as on the date of signing of this report, no special resolution is proposed to be conducted through 
Postal Ballot.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
121
Procedure adopted for Postal Ballot 
The Company, pursuant to Sections 108, 110, and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), 
read with Rule 20 and 22 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 (“the Rules”) (including 
any statutory modifications or re-enactments thereof), applicable General Circulars issued by the Ministry of 
Corporate Affairs (“MCA”), Regulation 44 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 (“Listing Regulations”), Secretarial Standard – 2 (“SS-2”) on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India, and other applicable laws, rules, and regulations, issued a notice seeking shareholder approval 
by way of an ordinary resolution for payment of commission to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Postal Ballot Notice was placed on the Company’s website at www.elgi.com and sent electronically to Members 
whose email addresses were registered with the Company/RTA/Depositories. Members communicated their assent 
or dissent on the proposed resolution through the remote e-voting system.
The Board of Directors, via a circular resolution dated August 12, 2024, appointed Mr. M. D. Selvaraj, FCS, Managing 
Partner of M/s. MDS & Associates LLP, Company Secretaries, Coimbatore, as the Scrutinizer to conduct the Postal 
Ballot through remote e-voting in a fair and transparent manner and ascertain the requisite majority.
The Company engaged Link Intime India Private Limited (now MUFG Intime India Private Limited) to provide e-voting 
facilities to Members through their Instavote platform at https://instavote.linkintime.co.in.
The remote e-voting period commenced at 9:00 AM (IST) on Wednesday, August 21, 2024, and ended at 5:00 PM 
(IST) on Thursday, September 19, 2024. Members were provided with detailed instructions for expressing their 
assent or dissent and casting votes via remote e-voting.
The Scrutinizer submitted his report to the Chairman, or an authorized person, upon completion of the vote 
scrutiny. The proposed resolution was deemed passed on September 19, 2024.
Voting Pattern as follows:
Particulars
No. of remote e-votes
No. of shares
Percentage 
of valid votes
(a) Total remote e-votes received
451
17,80,38,946
100.00
(b) Less: Invalid ballot forms
-
-
-
(c) Net valid ballot forms / e-votes
451
17,80,38,946
100.00
- Assent
299*
14,06,12,505
78.98
- Dissent
157*
3,74,26,441
21.02
Note: 
1. Six shareholders holding 15,494 equity shares abstained from voting on the resolution.
2. One shareholder holding 1,200 equity shares has partially voted in favour of the resolution for 200 equity shares 
and partially abstained from voting for 1000 equity shares. 
3. One shareholder holding 62,935 equity shares has partially voted against the resolution for 1 equity share and 
partially abstained from voting for 62,934 equity shares. 
4. *Five shareholders holding 11,26,236 equity shares have partially voted in favour of the resolution for 1,24,950 
equity shares and partially voted against the resolution for 10,01,286 equity shares.
The results of the postal ballot voting were announced within two working days from the conclusion of the e-voting. 
The results were displayed on the Company’s website at www.elgi.com, the website of Link Intime India Private 
Limited (LIIPL), and communicated to BSE Limited (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE), 
where the Company’s equity shares are listed.
The Notice was sent by email to Members whose names appeared in the Register of Members/List of Beneficial 
Owners as received from National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”)/Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited (“CDSL”) as of Friday, August 16, 2024 (“Cut-off date”). Members whose names appeared on the Register of 
Members/List of Beneficial Owners as of the cut-off date (including those who may not have received the Notice 
due to non-registration of their email address) were eligible for remote e-voting. Persons not members as of the 
cut-off date were to treat the notice for information purposes only.
Annexure G
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
122
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
11.	 Means of Communication
a.	 The Company regularly interacts with the shareholders through multiple channels of communication, such as 
publication of results, Annual Report, press releases, and Analyst Call after the Board Meeting. The Company 
also promptly informs the Stock Exchanges, all price-sensitive information and all such other matters which, in 
its opinion, are material and relevant for the shareholders.
b.	 BSE Corporate Compliance & Listing Centre (the Listing Centre): BSE’s Listing Centre is a web-based application 
designed by BSE for corporates. All periodical compliance filings under the Listing Regulations, including 
shareholding patterns, corporate governance report, media release, statement of investor complaints, 
announcements, among others, are filed electronically on the Listing Centre. 
c.	 NSE Electronic Application Processing Systems (NEAPS): NEAPS is a web-based application designed by NSE 
for corporates. All periodical compliance filings under the Listing Regulations, including shareholding patterns, 
corporate governance report, media release, statement of investor complaints, announcements, among others, 
are filed electronically on NEAPS.
d.	 Management Discussion and Analysis: Management Discussion and Analysis is covered separately as a part of 
the Annual Report.
e.	 Dividend Distribution Policy: The Board of Directors has adopted the Dividend Distribution Policy as per Regulation 
43A of Listing Regulations. The Dividend Distribution Policy of the Company is hosted on the Company’s website 
at https://www.elgi.com/in/policies/dividend-policy.pdf.
f.	 Subsidiary Companies: The Audit Committee reviews the consolidated financial statements of the Company. 
The minutes of the Board Meetings, along with a report on significant developments of the unlisted subsidiary 
companies, are periodically placed before the Board of Directors of the Company.
g.	 The quarterly results and annual results containing a Quick Response code (QR Code) and the details of the 
webpage where complete financial results are available is normally published in newspapers viz. Business Line 
(all editions)/Economic Times (all editions) (English newspapers) and The Hindu (Tamil)/Dinamani (Vernacular 
newspapers) and simultaneously hosted on the Company’s website www.elgi.com.
h.	 The official news releases are also hosted on the Company’s website www.elgi.com.
i.	 Additionally, the Company has the practice of mailing quarterly results to the shareholders and the members are 
also kept informed about important developments in the Company.
j.	 The presentations made to institutional investors or to the analysts are also hosted on the Company’s website 
www.elgi.com.
12.	General Shareholder Information
a.
Sixty-Fifth Annual General Meeting
b.
Day, Date and Time
August 12, 2025, Tuesday, 4:30 PM
c.
Venue
Virtual Meeting – Through Video Conferencing
d.
Financial Year
1st April to 31st March
e.
Record Date (for the purpose of the Dividend)
Friday, July 18, 2025
f.
Dividend Payment Dates
On or before September 10, 2025
g.
Name and address of each stock exchange(s) at which 
the listed entity’s securities are listed
BSE Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street,  
Mumbai – 400001
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Exchange Plaza, C–1, Block G, Bandra Kurla 
Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai – 400051
Listing Fee
Annual listing fee for the financial year 2024-25 
have been paid to the Stock Exchanges.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
123
h.
Depository Fee
Annual custody fee for the financial year 2024-25 
have been paid to the Depositories.
i.
Corporate Identity Number
L29120TZ1960PLC000351
j.
Scrip Code/Symbol
BSE: 522074  
NSE: ELGIEQUIP
Demat ISIN in NSDL & CDSL
Equity Shares: INE285A01027
13.	Registrar and Share Transfer Agents 
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (Formerly known as Link Intime India Private Limited)
Registered Office Address: C–101, Embassy 247, LBS. Marg, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai – 400083
Coimbatore Branch Address: Surya 35, Mayflower Avenue, Behind Senthil Nagar, Sowripalayam Road, Coimbatore – 641028
The Registrar and Share Transfer Agent deals with all aspects of investor servicing relating to shares in both physical 
and dematerialised form. 
14.	Share Transfer System 
The Company’s shares, being in the compulsory dematerialised (demat) list, are transferable through the depository 
system. The Securities and Exchange Board of India has mandated that the transfer of securities held in physical form, 
except in case of transmission or transposition, shall not be processed by the listed entities/Registrars and Share 
Transfer Agents with effect from April 01, 2019. 
Therefore, members holding share(s) in physical form are requested to immediately dematerialize their shareholding in 
the Company. All requests for dematerialization of shares are processed and confirmed to the depositories, NSDL and 
CDSL, within the prescribed timeline.
The Company’s securities have not been suspended from trading in any of the stock exchanges during the FY 2024-25.
15.	Share holding Pattern as on March 31, 2025
Category
No. of Shares
% of Total
Promoters & Promoters group
9,88,54,180
31.19
Mutual Funds
1,10,18,000
3.48
Alternate Investment Funds
46,73,681
1.47
Banks
120
0.00
Insurance Companies
89,919
0.03
NBFC Registered with RBI
3,000
0.00
Foreign Portfolio Investors Category I
8,36,24,726
26.39
Foreign Portfolio Investors Category II
54,82,818
1.73
Foreign Institutional Investors
30,64,603
0.97
Foreign Bank
4,000
0.00
Associate companies/Subsidiaries
5,40,074
0.17
Directors and their relatives (excluding independent directors and nominee directors)
2,07,666
0.07
IEPF
14,11,414
0.45
Resident Individuals holding nominal share capital up to ` 2 lakhs
2,92,18,620
9.22
Resident Individuals holding nominal share capital of over ` 2 lakhs
3,67,55,026
11.60
Non-Resident Indians
35,13,936
1.11
Foreign Nationals
73,900
0.02
Bodies Corporate
3,12,27,340
9.85
Clearing Members
63
0.00
Annexure G
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
124
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Category
No. of Shares
% of Total
LLP
30,81,366
0.97
Employees
2,42,658
0.08
HUF
22,50,966
0.71
Unclaimed or Suspense or Escrow Account
3,60,240
0.11
Trusts 
3,462
0.00
Employee Benefit Trust
12,07,238
0.38
Total
31,69,09,016
100.00
16.	 Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2025
Category
Number of holders
% to holder
Number of Shares
% to total shares
Up to 500
63,830
91.08
35,60,323
1.12
501 to 1000
2,550
3.64
19,11,604
0.60
1001 to 2000
1,412
2.02
21,76,629
0.69
2001 to 3000
441
0.63
11,33,939
0.36
3001 to 4000
421
0.60
15,65,158
0.49
4001 to 5000
182
0.26
8,44,751
0.27
5001 to 10000
471
0.67
34,38,237
1.08
10001 & above
774
1.10
30,22,78,375
95.38
Total
70,081
100.00
31,69,09,016
100.00
17.	Dematerialization of Shares and liquidity
The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialised form on NSE and BSE. Equity shares of the 
Company  representing 99.42% of the Company’s equity share capital are dematerialised as on March 31, 2025. 
Your Company confirms that the entire Promoter’s holdings are in electronic form and the same is in line with the 
directions issued by SEBI.
18.	Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any Convertible Instruments, and their likely impact 
on equity
There are no outstanding warrants or any convertible instruments. The Company has not issued GDR/ADR.
19.	Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities: 
	
z
The input pricing risk is managed through appropriate long-term rate contracts and constant evaluation of alternate 
support sources for key raw materials.  
	
z
The Company has an approved Risk Management Policy and accordingly, during the financial year ended March 31, 2025, 
the Company managed foreign exchange risk and hedged these to the extent considered necessary.
20.	Plant locations
(i)	 SF No 353,354/1, 2, 355, 356, 357 part, 375, 387/2 Part, Elgi Industrial Complex Trichy Road, Singanallur, Coimbatore, 
Tamil Nadu – 641 005
(ii)	 SF No 221/1, 2, 3, 4PT, 5, 222/1B, 2, 223/1PT, 2, 225/1, 2, 226/1, 2C, 227/1, 2A, 2B, 2C1, 228/1, 2A, 229/B1, 
B2,B3 Kothavadi Road, Kodangipalayam Village Singarampalayam (Post), Kinathukadavu Taluk, Coimbatore, 
Tamil Nadu – 642109
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
125
(iii)	212/1A, 213/1, Foundry Plant, Kodangipalayam Village, Nallatipalayam Road, Kinathukadavu, Pollachi Tk., 
Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu – 642109
(iv)	SF No 84, Motor Division, Arasur Road, Arasur Village, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu – 641407
(v)	 PVD Division, Elgi Equipments Limited, India House, Trichy Road, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu – 641018
21.	Address for Correspondence
Registrar & Share Transfer Agents (R&TA)  
(matters relating to Shares, Dividends, Annual Reports)
MUFG Intime India Private Limited (Formerly Link Intime 
India Private Limited)
Registered Office Address:  
C–101, Embassy 247, LBS. Marg, Vikhroli (West),  
Mumbai – 400083
Coimbatore Branch Address:  
Surya 35, Mayflower Avenue, Behind Senthil Nagar, 
Sowripalayam Road, Coimbatore – 641028
Tel: 0422-2314792/4958995/2539835/36
Email: coimbatore@in.mpms.mufg.com
For any other general matters or in case of any 
difficulties/grievances
Secretarial Department 
Elgi Equipments Limited 
Elgi Industrial Complex III, Trichy Road, 
Singanallur, Coimbatore – 641005 
Tel: 91-422-2589555 
Fax: 91-422-2573697 
e-mail: investor@elgi.com
Website Address
www.elgi.com
Email ID of the Investor Grievances Section
investor@elgi.com
Name of the Compliance Officer
Ms. Devika Sathyanarayana*
*Ceased to be the company secretary and compliance officer of the Company w.e.f. June 09, 2025
22.	Credit Rating:
The Company does not have any Debt instruments or fixed deposit programme, or any scheme or proposal involving 
mobilization of funds either in India or abroad that requires a Credit Rating.
23.	Other Disclosures: 
a.	Disclosures on materially significant related party transactions that may have potential conflict with the 
interest of the Company at large:
	 There were no materially significant related party transactions during the year that may have potential conflict 
with the interests of the Company at large. The transactions entered into with the related parties during the 
financial year were in the ordinary course of business and at an arm’s length basis and were approved by the 
Audit Committee/Board of Directors, as the case may be. 
b.	Details of non-compliance by the Company, penalties, and strictures imposed on the Company by Stock Exchanges 
or SEBI or any Statutory Authorities, on any matter relating to capital markets, during the last three years: 
	 Neither any non-compliance was made by the Company, nor any penalty and stricture were imposed on the 
Company by the Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any Statutory Authorities, on any matter relating to capital markets, 
during the last three years or during the current financial year up to the date of signing of this report.
Annexure G
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
126
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
c.	Establishment of Vigil Mechanism/Whistle Blower policy and affirmation that no personnel have been denied 
access to the Audit Committee: 
The Company has in place a vigil mechanism/whistleblower policy in accordance with the SEBI Listing Regulations 
and CA 2013. The Company conducts regular ‘Employee Meets’ every quarter where all the employees have a 
chance to interact directly with the Managing Director of the Company. Besides this, the Managing Director is 
reachable via e-mail and landline. Any issue brought to the attention of the management, whether resolved or 
not, is placed before the Audit Committee for its perusal and comments. No personnel have been denied access 
to the Audit Committee of the Company. 
d.	 Details of compliance with mandatory requirements and adoption of the non-mandatory requirements: 
The Company has complied with all the mandatory requirements of Corporate Governance norms as enumerated 
in the SEBI Listing Regulations. A report on the compliance with the applicable laws for the Company is placed 
before the Board on a quarterly basis for its review. 
e.	 The Company has framed a Material Subsidiaries Policy, and the same is placed on the Company’s website 
and the web link for the same is https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Policy-for-Material-
Subsidiaries.pdf
f.	 The Company has framed a Related Party Transaction Policy, and the same is placed on the Company’s website, and 
the web link for the same is https://www.elgi.com/in/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Related-Party-Transactions-
Policy.pdf
g.	 During the financial year ended March 31, 2025, the Company did not engage in commodity hedging activities. 
h.	 The Company has not raised any funds through preferential allotment or qualified institutional placement as 
specified under Regulation 32 (7A) of SEBI Listing Regulations. 
i.	 The Company has obtained a certificate from a company secretary in practice that none of the Directors on the 
Board of the Company have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of 
companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory 
authority. The Certificate is annexed to this report. 
j.	 During the year under review, the recommendations made by the Committees have been accepted and there 
were no instances where the Board of Directors had not accepted any recommendation of the Committees. 
k.	 Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP is the statutory auditors of the Company. The Company and its 
subsidiaries (ATS Elgi Limited) have paid a sum of ` 10 Million plus out of pocket expenses and applicable taxes 
as fees on consolidated basis to the statutory auditor and all entities in the network firm/entity of which the 
statutory auditor is a part for the services rendered by them.
l.	 As per the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013, the Company has constituted an Internal Complaints Committee. For the year under review, details of 
the complaints are as follow:
S. No.
Particulars
Details
1
Number of complaints filed during the financial year
3
2
Number of complaints disposed of during the financial year
3
3
Number of complaints pending as on end of the financial year
0
m.	Disclosure by Company and its subsidiaries of ‘Loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/companies 
in which directors are interested by name and amount’: Not applicable since during the year under review, 
no loan/advances were given by the Company and its subsidiaries to any firm or company in which directors 
were interested. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
127
n.	 Details of material subsidiaries of the Company (based on the financials for the year ended March 31, 2025), 
including the date and place of incorporation and the name and date of appointment of the statutory auditors 
of such subsidiaries: 
S. No.
Name of the material 
subsidiary
Date of 
Incorporation/ 
Acquisition
Place of 
Incorporation
Name of 
Statutory 
Auditors
Date of appointment 
of Statutory Auditors
1
Elgi Compressors USA 
Inc (Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary) 
November 15, 2012
North Carolina, USA
Scharf Pera & 
Co PLLC
March 21, 2023
2
Pattons Inc (step down 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary 
held through Elgi 
Compressors USA Inc) 
November 28, 2012
North Carolina, USA
Scharf Pera & 
Co PLLC
March 21, 2023
3
Elgi Compressors Europe 
SRL (Wholly Owned 
Subsidiary) 
January 31, 2019
Belgium, Europe
BDO
September 20, 2021
o.	 There has been no instance of non-compliance with any requirement of the Corporate Governance Report as 
stated above. 
p.	 The Company has complied with all the mandatory requirements specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) 
to (i) of Regulation 46(2) of SEBI Listing Regulations. 
q.	 The Company has engaged a qualified practising company secretary to carry out a share capital audit to reconcile 
the total admitted equity share capital with the National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) and the Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”) and the total issued and listed equity share capital of the Company. 
The audit report confirms that the total issued/paid-up capital is in agreement with the total number of shares 
in physical form and the total number of dematerialised shares held with NSDL and CDSL. 
r.	 In the preparation of the financial statements, the Company has followed the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind 
AS) referred to in Section 133 of CA 2013. The significant accounting policies which are consistently applied are 
set out in the Notes to the Financial Statements. Your Company has not adopted any alternative accounting 
treatment prescribed differently from the Ind AS. 
s.	 Business risk evaluation and management is an ongoing process within the Company. The top 10 risks as identified 
as affecting the enterprise are being assessed by the Risk Management Committee and are further periodically 
examined by the Board for mitigation steps and residual risks.
t.	 Apart from the above, the Company has not adopted any of the discretionary requirements as specified in Part E 
of Schedule II of SEBI Listing Regulations. 
u.	 The MD and CFO certification of the financial statements for the year has been submitted to the Board of 
Directors in its meeting held on May 28, 2025, as required under the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
v.	 All Board Members and Senior Management personnel have affirmed their compliance with the code of conduct 
for the year under review. A declaration to this effect signed by the Managing Director of the Company is annexed 
to this report. 
w.	 Your Company has received confirmations from the Board (incorporating duties of Independent Directors) and 
the Senior Management personnel regarding their adherence to the Code of Conduct. The Annual Report of the 
Company contains a certificate by the MD & CEO, on the compliance declarations received from Independent 
Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Senior Management. The Code has been hosted on the Company’s 
website under the web link www.elgi.com.
Annexure G
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
128
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
x.	 Your Company has adopted a Code of Conduct as per Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015, as amended. All Designated Persons and their Immediate Relatives are governed by 
the Code. During the year under review, there has been due compliance with SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015. The Code has been hosted on the Company’s website.
y.	 The Company has also formulated “The Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price 
Sensitive Information (UPSI)” in compliance with the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
24.	Details of Demat Suspense Account/Unclaimed Suspense Account
Particulars
Number of 
Shareholders
Number of 
Shares
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense 
account as of April 01, 2024
167
3,99,088
Number of shareholders who approached the Company for the transfer of 
shares from the suspense account during the year
12
37,334
Number of shareholders to whom shares were transferred from the suspense 
account during the year
12
37,334
Shareholders whose shares are transferred to the demat account of the IEPF 
Authority as per Section 124 of the Act*
17
1,514
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares in the suspense 
account as of March 31, 2025
138
3,60,240
*The voting rights on the shares outstanding in the suspense account as on March 31, 2025, shall remain frozen till the 
rightful owner of such shares claims the shares.
25.	Details of Shares transferred to the IEPF Authority during 2024-25 
Pursuant to Sections 124 and 125 of CA 2013 read with the Investor Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), dividends, if not claimed for a consecutive period of 
seven years from the date of transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company, are liable to be transferred to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”). In pursuance of the said rules, 17915 shares were transferred to the 
IEPF Authority during 2024-25. The voting rights on the shares outstanding in the IEPF Authority as on March 31, 2025, 
shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares claims the shares.
26.	Disclosure of certain types of agreements binding listed entities 
As on the date of this report, there is no agreement entered into by the shareholders, promoters, promoter group 
entities, related parties, directors, key managerial personnel, employees of the Company or of its subsidiary or 
associate company, among themselves or with the Company or with a third party, solely or jointly, which, either directly 
or indirectly or potentially or whose purpose and effect is to, impact the management or control of the Company or 
impose any restriction or create any liability upon the Company.
DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE BY THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL 
WITH THE COMPANY’S CODE OF CONDUCT AND BUSINESS ETHICS
This is to confirm that for the financial year ended March 31, 2025, all members of the Board and the Senior 
Management Personnel have affirmed in writing their adherence to the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics adopted 
by the Company.
Place: Coimbatore  
Date: May 28, 2025
Jairam Varadaraj 
Managing Director 
DIN: 00003361
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
129
Certificate on Corporate Governance for the year ended 31/03/2025
To
The Members of M/s. Elgi Equipments Limited
Dear Sir,
We have examined the compliance conditions of Corporate Governance by M/s. Elgi Equipments Limited (“the Company”) 
for the financial year ended 31st March 2025 as stipulated under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management. Our examination was 
limited to a review of the procedures and implementations thereof adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance 
with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanation given to us and based on the 
representations made by the Directors and Management, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions 
of Corporate Governance as stipulated under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
for the financial year ended 31st March 2025.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor of the 
efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For MDS & Associates LLP 
Company Secretaries
Place: Coimbatore  
Date: May 28,2025
M D Selvaraj 
Managing Partner 
FCS No.: 960 | C P No.: 411 
Peer Review No. 6468/2025 
UDIN: F000960G000406926
Annexure G
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
130
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors 
(pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To 
The Members of 
M/s. ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(CIN: L29120TZ1960PLC000351) 
ELGI Industrial Complex III, 
Trichy Road, Singanallur, 
Coimbatore – 641005 
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of M/s. Elgi 
Equipments Limited having (CIN: L29120TZ1960PLC000351) and having registered office at Elgi Industrial Complex III, 
Trichy Road, Singanallur, Coimbatore – 641005 (hereinafter referred to as “the Company”), produced before us by the 
Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub 
clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification 
Number (DIN) status at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the 
Company & its officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for 
the Financial Year ending on 31st March 2025 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as 
Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such other 
Statutory Authority.
Sr. No.
Name of the Director
DIN
Date of 
appointment in 
the Company
1
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj (Managing Director)
00003361
29/05/1992
2
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj
00133533
18/11/1993
3
Ms. Aruna Thangaraj
07444726
27/05/2019
4
Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj (Executive Director)
07273942
27/05/2019
5
Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran*
05259775
31/07/2024
6
Mr. Srinivasan Krishnamurthi*
06662916
31/07/2024
7
Mr. Suman Kumar Das*
07500784
31/07/2024
Note: *Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran, Mr. Srinivasan Krishnamurthi and Mr. Suman Kumar Das were appointed as Independent 
Directors of the Company at the Annual General Meeting with effect from July 31, 2024.
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the 
management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This 
certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with 
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
For MDS & Associates LLP 
Company Secretaries
Place: Coimbatore  
Date: May 28, 2025
M D Selvaraj 
Managing Partner 
FCS No.: 960 | C P No.: 411 
Peer Review No. 6468/2025 
UDIN: F000960G000406849
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
131
Group Performance – Financials
 (` In Million)
Particulars
2024-25
2023-24
2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
2019-20
2018-19
2017-18
2016-17
Revenue from operations
35,104 
32,178 
30,407 
25,247 
19,240 
18,294 
18,635 
16,222 
14,381 
Total income
35,681 
32,728 
31,079 
25,797 
19,475 
18,426 
18,731 
16,336 
14,501 
Total expenditure
29,855 
27,317 
26,079 
22,324 
17,084
16,935 
16,717
14,488 
12,989 
EBITDA
5,826 
5,411 
5,000 
3,473 
2,392 
1,491 
2,014 
1,848 
1,513 
Depreciation and 
amortisation
760 
766 
777 
745 
743 
652 
511 
438 
446 
Finance cost
305 
293 
198 
111 
135 
155 
90 
60 
78 
Profit before tax
4,761 
4,352 
4,025 
2,617 
1,513 
683 
1,413 
1,350 
989 
Less: Income tax
1,314 
1,283 
1,396 
846 
503 
270 
404 
413 
264 
Share of profit from joint 
ventures
55 
52 
25 
13 
14 
12 
22 
16 
16 
Exceptional items
–
– 
1,054
–
–
–
–
–
–
Profit after tax
3,502 
3,121 
3,708 
1,784 
1,025 
426 
1,031 
953 
740 
Dividend (%)
220 
200 
200 
115 
80 
165 
130 
120 
100 
Capital employed
14,819 
13,972 
13,096 
11,245 
9,624 
10,289 
8,860 
8,462 
7,530 
Net worth
18,656 
16,112 
13,712 
10,325 
8,699 
7,690 
7,709 
6,889 
6,069 
Long term borrowings
71 
196 
216 
578 
812 
1,027 
763 
603 
966 
Net block incl. capital WIP
6,445 
5,962 
5,898 
5,607 
5,761 
6,039 
5,099 
4,469 
4,445 
Investments
250 
194 
135 
108 
85 
49 
75 
91 
102 
Current assets
22,771 
21,192 
18,237 
13,335 
11,333 
8,968 
8,244 
7,760 
6,354 
Current liabilities
10,821 
11,040 
10,211 
8,060 
7,485 
6,303 
5,209 
4,962 
3,931 
Net working capital
11,950 
10,152 
8,026 
5,275 
3,848 
2,666 
3,034 
2,798 
2,424 
Total assets
30,415 
28,211 
25,016 
19,649 
17,667 
15,551 
13,855 
12,589 
11,163 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
132
Group Performance 
ELGI  EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Group Performance – Ratios
Ratio Category/Ratio
2024-25
2023-24
2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
2019-20
2018-19
2017-18
Operational Performance
Material consumption ratio (%)
49.2 
49.0 
50.7
54.1 
53.7 
54.0 
55.7 
56.7 
Personnel expenses (%)
19.6 
20.5 
18.9 
19.3 
21.5 
22.3 
18.4 
17.6 
Other expenses ratio (%)
16.8 
15.9 
16.6 
15.6 
14.1 
17.0 
16.2 
15.2 
Interest component ratio (%)
0.9 
0.9 
0.7 
0.4 
0.7 
0.9 
0.5 
0.4 
Tax component ratio (%)
3.7 
3.9 
3.6 
3.3 
2.6 
1.5 
2.2 
2.6 
Other income/Total income (%)
1.6 
1.7 
2.2 
2.1 
1.2 
0.7 
0.5 
0.8 
Sales per employee (` in million)
16.2 
14.9 
14.1 
11.7
8.7 
8.2 
8.8 
7.9 
Financial Structuring
Long term debt equity ratio
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.1 
0.1 
0.1 
0.1
0.1
Net working capital/Total assets
0.4 
0.4 
0.3 
0.3 
0.2 
0.2
0.2 
0.2
Liquidity
Current ratio
2.1
1.9 
1.8 
1.7 
1.5 
1.4 
1.6 
1.6 
Liquidity ratio
1.5 
1.4 
1.2 
1.1 
1.1 
0.9 
1.0 
1.0 
Efficiency
Inventory no. of days
64 
70
66 
60 
65 
62 
54 
57 
Trade receivables no. of days
63 
65 
62 
63 
71 
72 
70 
66 
Creditors no. of days
73 
76 
70 
74 
88 
82 
81 
74 
Capital turnover ratio
2.4 
2.4 
2.5 
2.4 
1.9 
1.9 
2.1 
2.0 
Net fixed assets turnover ratio
5.9 
5.5 
5.3 
4.5 
3.3 
3.3 
3.9 
3.6 
Profitability
PBITDA profit margin (%)
16.4 
16.6 
16.2 
13.6 
12.3 
8.2 
10.8 
11.6 
Pre-tax profit margin (%)
13.4 
13.4 
13.0 
10.2 
7.8 
3.7 
7.6 
8.5 
Net profit margin (%)
9.9 
9.6 
12.0 
7.0 
5.3 
2.3 
5.5 
5.9 
ROCE (%)
35.6 
34.7 
34.9 
26.3 
16.7 
8.9 
17.6 
17.8 
Shareholder’s Earnings
Earnings per share (`) 
11.05 
9.86 
11.72 
5.63 
3.24 
2.69 
6.51 
6.02 
Dividend per share (`) 
2.20 
2.00 
2.00 
1.15 
0.80 
1.65 
1.30 
1.20 
Dividend payout ratio (%)
19.9 
20.3 
17.1 
20.4 
24.7 
61.4 
20.0 
20.0 
Dividend yield (%)
0.5 
0.3 
0.5 
0.4 
0.4 
1.0 
0.5 
0.4 
Price to earnings ratio
43.7 
61.1 
37.2 
56.2 
60.6 
62.5 
39.0 
45.7 
Return on Net worth (%)
22.6 
23.2 
34.4 
20.2
12.5 
5.5 
14.1 
14.7 
Book value per share (`)
58.85 
50.83 
43.27 
32.58 
27.45 
48.57 
48.69 
43.51 
Notes:
1.	 Net profit margin includes Exceptional items.
2.	 Earnings per share, Dividend per share and Book value per share from 2020-21 onwards are after considering the 
increase in the number of shares on account of bonus issue made at the ratio of 1:1 during FY 2020-21.
3.	 The Board of Directors have recommended a dividend of ` 2.20/- per share (220%) for the year ended March 31, 2025.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
133
Independent Auditors’ 
Report - Standalone 
Financial Statements
07
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
134
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Opinion
1.	
We have audited the accompanying Standalone 
Financial Statements of Elgi Equipments Limited 
(“the Company”), which comprise the Standalone 
Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025, and the 
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss (including 
Other Comprehensive Income), the Standalone 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the Standalone 
Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, 
and notes to the Standalone Financial Statements, 
including material accounting policy information 
and other explanatory information in which are 
included the financial information of a trust and 
two jointly controlled entities (representing joint 
operations consolidated on a proportionate basis). 
2.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, the 
aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements give the 
information required by the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”) in the manner so required and give a 
true and fair view in conformity with the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India, of the state 
of affairs of the Company, its joint operations 
and the trust, as at March 31, 2025, and total 
comprehensive income (comprising of profit and 
other comprehensive income), changes in equity 
and cash flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3.	
We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 
143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those 
Standards are further described in the “Auditors’ 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements” section of our report. We 
are independent of the Company in accordance 
with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India together with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit 
of the Standalone Financial Statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and 
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities 
in accordance with these requirements and the 
Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence 
we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matter
4.	 Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgement, were of most significance in 
our audit of the financial statements of the current 
year. These matters were addressed in the context of 
our audit of the Standalone Financial Statements as 
a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we 
do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of Elgi Equipments Limited 
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
135
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of the carrying value of investment 
in subsidiaries (Refer Note 6 (a) to the Standalone 
Financial Statements)
As at March 31, 2025, the Company has equity 
investments of Rs. 1,702 million in its subsidiaries.
The Company reviews the carrying value of these 
investments 
at 
each 
reporting 
period. 
Where 
considered necessary, the Company performs a 
detailed assessment as required under Ind AS 36.
We considered the assessment of carrying value of 
investments as a key audit matter, considering its 
significance to the Standalone Financial Statements, 
and where applicable, the judgement involved in 
estimating future cash flows, particularly with respect 
to factors such as discount rates, cash flow projections 
and terminal growth rates.
Our audit procedures included the following:
	
z Understood and performed procedures to assess 
the design and tested the operating effectiveness 
of relevant controls related to the annual evaluation 
on assessment of carrying value of investments.
	
z Obtained the audited financial statements of the 
subsidiaries and tested the Company’s assessment 
with regard to key financial indicators including 
net worth of those respective subsidiaries with the 
carrying value of the investments made in those 
entities.
	
z In relation to a subsidiary (in respect of investment 
and financial guarantees) where future cash 
flow projections were prepared, evaluated the 
reasonableness of such projections by verifying 
their mathematical accuracy, discussing with the 
management to understand the assumptions 
involved, and considering our knowledge and 
understanding of the current business conditions. 
Evaluated, along with the auditors’ experts, the key 
assumptions such as discount rate and growth rate 
used in the preparation of the cash flow projections.
	
z Read the subsidiaries financial statements and 
auditors’ report and discussed with the auditors 
of the subsidiary companies in relation to the work 
performed by them on the subsidiary company 
financial statements including any impairment 
evaluation carried out by them at the subsidiary level.
	
z Evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures made in 
the Standalone Financial Statements.
Other Information
5.	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the other information. The other information 
comprises 
the 
information 
included 
in 
the 
Management Discussion and Analysis, Board’s Report 
including Annexures to Board’s Report, Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report and Report 
on Corporate Governance, but does not include the 
Standalone Financial Statements and our auditors’ 
report thereon. 
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements 
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
In connection with our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information and, in doing so, consider whether 
the other information is materially inconsistent 
with the Standalone Financial Statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears 
to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we 
have performed and the reports of the other auditors 
as furnished to us (refer paragraph 14 below), we 
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this 
other information, we are required to report that fact. 
We have nothing to report in this regard.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
136
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Responsibilities of Management and Those 
Charged with Governance for the Standalone 
Financial Statements
6.	 The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible 
for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act 
with respect to the preparation of these Standalone 
Financial Statements that give a true and fair view 
of the financial position, financial performance, 
changes in equity and cash flows of the Company, 
its joint operations and the trust, in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted 
in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards 
specified under Section 133 of the Act. The 
Company’s Board of Directors, the management of 
its joint operations and the trustees of the trust, 
respectively, are responsible for maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with 
the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the 
assets of the Company, its joint operations and the 
trust, and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to 
the preparation and presentation of the Standalone 
Financial Statements that give a true and fair view 
and are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error. 
7.	
In preparing the Standalone Financial Statements, 
the Company’s Board of Directors, the management 
of its joint operations and the trustees of the trust, 
respectively, are responsible for assessing the 
ability of the Company, its joint operations and the 
trust, to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless 
the Board of Directors or the management or the 
trustees either intend to liquidate the Company, its 
joint operations and the trust, or to cease operations, 
or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
8.	 The Company’s Board of Directors, the management 
of its joint operations and the trustees of the trust, 
respectively, are also responsible for overseeing the 
financial reporting process of the Company, its joint 
operations and the trust.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Standalone Financial Statements
9.	
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether the Standalone Financial Statements 
as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 
auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable 
assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a 
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, individually or in 
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to 
influence the economic decisions of users taken on 
the basis of these Standalone Financial Statements. 
10.	 As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we 
exercise professional judgement and maintain 
professional scepticism throughout the audit. 
We also:
•	Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the Standalone Financial 
Statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control.
•	Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the 
Act, we are also responsible for expressing our 
opinion on whether the Company has adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements in place and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls. 
•	Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management. 
•	Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
137
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on 
the ability of the Company, its joint opertions 
and the trust, to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty 
exists, we are required to draw attention in our 
auditors’ report to the related disclosures in 
the Standalone Financial Statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. 
However, future events or conditions may cause 
the Company, its joint operations and the trust to 
cease to continue as a going concern.
•	Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the Standalone Financial Statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
Standalone Financial Statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner 
that achieves fair presentation.
•	Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of the 
Company, its joint operations and the trust to 
express an opinion on the Standalone Financial 
Statements. We are responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of the 
financial statements of the Company of which we 
are the independent auditors. For joint operations 
and the trust included in the Standalone Financial 
Statements, which have been audited by other 
auditors, such other auditors remain responsible 
for the direction, supervision and performance of 
the audits carried out by them. We remain solely 
responsible for our audit opinion.
11.	 We communicate with those charged with 
governance of the Company regarding, among 
other matters, the planned scope and timing of the 
audit and significant audit findings, including any 
significant deficiencies in internal control that we 
identify during our audit. 
12.	 We also provide those charged with governance 
of the Company with a statement that we have 
complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with 
them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, 
and where applicable, related safeguards. 
13.	 From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance of the Company, we determine 
those matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the Standalone Financial Statements of the 
current year and are therefore the key audit matters. 
We describe these matters in our auditors’ report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should 
not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably 
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
Other Matter
14.	 The financial statements of a trust and two joint 
operations included in the Standalone Financial 
Statements of the Company reflect total assets of 
Rs. 761 million and net assets of Rs. 121 million as at 
March 31, 2025, total revenue of Rs. Nil million, total 
comprehensive income (comprising of profit and 
other comprehensive income) of Rs. 1 million and 
net cash inflows amounting to Rs. 5 million for the 
year then ended. These financial statements and 
other financial information have been audited by 
other auditors whose reports have been furnished 
to us by the management, and our opinion on 
the Standalone Financial Statements (including 
other information) in so far as it relates to the 
amounts and disclosures included in respect of the 
aforesaid trust and joint operations, is based on the 
reports of such other auditors and the procedures 
performed by us.
Our opinion on the Standalone Financial Statements 
and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements below, is not modified in respect of 
the above matters of our reliance on the work done 
and reports of the other auditors.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements 
15.	 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) 
Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central 
Government of India in terms of sub-section (11) of 
Section 143 of the Act, we give in the Annexure B a 
statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 
3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
138
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
16.	 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
(a)	 We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit. 
(b)	 In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law relating to preparation of the 
aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements 
have been kept so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books and the reports of 
other auditors.
(c)	 The Standalone Balance Sheet, the Standalone 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including other 
comprehensive 
income), 
the 
Standalone 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the 
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows dealt with 
by this Report are in agreement with the relevant 
books of account and records maintained for 
the purpose of preparation of the Standalone 
Financial Statements. 
(d)	 In our opinion, the aforesaid Standalone 
Financial Statements comply with the Indian 
Accounting Standards specified under Section 
133 of the Act. 
(e)	 On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors as on April 01, 2025, 
taken on record by the Board of Directors, none 
of the directors is disqualified as on March 31, 
2025, from being appointed as a director in 
terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
(f)	 With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements of the Company and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our 
separate Report in “Annexure A”.
(g)	 With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 
11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 (as amended), in our opinion and to the 
best of our information and according to the 
explanations given to us:
i.	
The 
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements 
disclose the impact of pending litigations 
on the financial position of the Company, its 
joint operations and the trust – Refer Note 
43 to the Standalone Financial Statements; 
ii.	
The Company, its joint operations and the 
trust, did not have any long-term contracts 
including derivative contracts for which 
there were any material foreseeable losses. 
iii.	 There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts, required to be transferred, to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund by 
the Company during the year.
iv.	 (a)  The 
management 
has 
represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in Note 47 to the 
Standalone Financial Statements, no 
funds have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds or 
share premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the Company to or in 
any other persons or entities, including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, whether directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by 
or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries;
	
(b)  The 
management 
has 
represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in the Note 47 to the 
Standalone Financial Statements, no 
funds have been received by the Company 
from any persons or entities, including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, whether directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
	
(c)  Based on such audit procedures that we 
considered reasonable and appropriate 
in the circumstances, nothing has 
come to our notice that has caused 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
139
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ARUN KUMAR R 
Partner
Place: Coimbatore	
Membership Number: 211867 
Date: May 28, 2025 	
UDIN: 25211867BMOPRN1328
us to believe that the representations 
under sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any 
material misstatement.
v.	
The dividend declared and paid by the 
Company during the year is in compliance 
with Section 123 of the Act.
vi.	 Based on our examination, which included 
test checks, the Company has used 
accounting software for maintaining its 
books of account which have a feature of 
recording audit trail (edit log) facility and 
that has operated throughout the year for 
all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software. During the course of our audit, 
we did not notice any instance of audit 
trail feature being tampered with. Further, 
the audit trail has been preserved by the 
Company as per the statutory requirements 
for record retention.
17.	 The Company has paid/provided for managerial 
remuneration in accordance with the requisite 
approvals mandated by the provisions of Section 
197 read with Schedule V to the Act. 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
140
ANNEXURE A TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to Financial Statements under clause 
(i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
1.	
We have audited the internal financial controls 
with reference to financial statements of Elgi 
Equipments Limited (“the Company”) as of March 31, 
2025 in conjunction with our audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company for the year 
ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal 
Financial Controls
2.	
The Company’s management is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial 
controls based on the internal control over financial 
reporting criteria established by the Company 
considering the essential components of internal 
control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of 
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(“the Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These 
responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial 
controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its 
business, including adherence to company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and 
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the 
timely preparation of reliable financial information, 
as required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
3.	
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with 
the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing 
specified under Section 143(10) of the Act to the 
extent applicable to an audit of internal financial 
controls, both applicable to an audit of internal 
financial controls and both issued by the ICAI. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we 
comply with ethical requirements and plan and 
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 
about whether adequate internal financial controls 
with 
reference 
to 
financial 
statements 
was 
established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects. 
4.	 Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls system with reference to financial 
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our 
audit of internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the Standalone Financial 
Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our audit opinion on the Company’s internal 
financial controls system with reference to financial 
statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to financial statements
6.	 A company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding 
the reliability of financial reporting and the 
preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting 
principles. 
A 
company’s 
internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements includes those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, 
Annexure A to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 16(f) of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the members of Elgi Equipments 
Limited on the Standalone Financial Statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
141
ANNEXURE A TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ARUN KUMAR R 
Partner
Place: Coimbatore	
Membership Number: 211867 
Date: May 28, 2025 	
UDIN: 25211867BMOPRN1328
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of 
the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorisations 
of management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, 
or disposition of the company’s assets that could 
have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial 
Controls with reference to financial statements
7.	
Because of the inherent limitations of internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements to future periods are subject 
to the risk that the internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or 
that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate. 
Opinion
8.	 In our opinion, the Company has, in all material 
respects, adequate internal financial controls 
system with reference to financial statements and 
such internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements were operating effectively as 
at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control 
over financial reporting criteria established by the 
Company considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued 
by ICAI.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
142
ANNEXURE B TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Annexure B to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 15 of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the members of Elgi Equipments 
Limited on the Standalone Financial Statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2025
i.	
(a)	 (A)  The 
Company 
is 
maintaining 
proper 
records showing full particulars, including 
quantitative details and situation, of 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Right of use 
asset and Investment properties.
	
	
(B)  The Company is maintaining proper records 
showing full particulars of Intangible Assets.
	
(b)	 The Property, Plant and Equipment, Right of 
use assets and Investment properties of the 
Company have been physically verified by the 
management according to a phased programme 
designed to cover all the items over a period of 
three years which, in our opinion, is reasonable 
having regard to the size of the Company and the 
nature of its assets. Pursuant to the programme, 
a portion of the Property, Plant and Equipment 
has been physically verified by the management 
during the year and no material discrepancies 
have been noticed on such verification.
	
(c)	 The title deeds of all the immovable properties 
(other than properties where the Company 
is the lessee and the lease agreements are 
duly executed in favour of the lessee), as 
disclosed in Notes 3(a) and 4 to the Standalone 
Financial Statements, are held in the name of 
the Company.
	
	
Immovable properties of land and buildings 
whose title deeds have been pledged as 
security for loans, guarantees, etc., are held in 
the name of the Company per the confirmation 
received from the banker as on balance sheet 
date. Refer Note 3(a)(iv) of the Standalone 
Financial Statements.
	
(d)	 The Company has chosen cost model for its 
Property, Plant and Equipment (including 
Right of use assets) and Intangible Assets. 
Consequently, the question of our commenting 
on whether the revaluation is based on the 
valuation by a Registered Valuer, or specifying 
the amount of change, if the change is 10% or 
more in the aggregate of the net carrying value 
of each class of Property, Plant and Equipment 
(including Right of use assets) or Intangible 
assets does not arise. 
	
(e)	 Based on the information and explanations 
furnished to us, no proceedings have been 
initiated on the Company for holding benami 
property under the Prohibition of Benami 
Property Transactions Act, 1988 (as amended 
in 2016) (formerly the Benami Transactions 
(Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988)) and Rules 
made thereunder, and therefore the question 
of our commenting on whether the Company 
has appropriately disclosed the details in the 
Standalone Financial Statements does not arise.
ii.	
(a)	 The physical verification of inventory (excluding 
stocks with third parties) has been conducted at 
reasonable intervals by the management during 
the year and, in our opinion, the coverage and 
procedure of such verification by management 
is appropriate. In respect of inventory lying 
with third parties, these have substantially 
been confirmed by them. The discrepancies 
noticed on physical verification of inventory 
as compared to book records were not 10% or 
more in aggregate for each class of inventory.
	
(b) 	During the year, the Company has been 
sanctioned working capital limits in excess of 
` 5 crores, in aggregate, from banks on the basis 
of security of current assets. The Company has 
filed provisional and final quarterly returns 
or statements with such banks, which are 
in agreement with the unaudited books of 
account. (Also, refer Note 47(i) to the Standalone 
Financial Statements).
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and furnished by the Company, and the books of account and 
records examined by us during the course of our audit, and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we report that:
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
143
ANNEXURE B TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
iii.	
(a)	 The Company has granted unsecured loans to 
its employees. The aggregate amount during 
the year, and balance outstanding at the 
balance sheet date with respect to such loans 
and guarantees to subsidiaries and to parties 
other than subsidiaries and joint ventures are 
as per the table given below:
Particulars
Guarantees 
(in ` Million)
 Loans 
(in ` Million)
Aggregate amount granted/provided during the year*
–  Subsidiaries
–
–
–  Others
–
93
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date in respect of the above case 
(including the balances outstanding as at the beginning of the year)*
–  Subsidiaries
3,171
602
–  Others
–
92
*Excludes loan provided to Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock Option Trust for administering share-based 
payment awards to employees of the Company.
	
(b)	 In respect of the aforesaid loans, the terms 
and conditions under which such loans were 
granted are not prejudicial to the Company’s 
interest, considering that the loans have been 
granted to employees.
	
(c)	 In respect of the loans, the schedule of 
repayment of principal and payment of interest 
has been stipulated, and the parties are 
repaying the principal amounts, as stipulated 
(also refer para (iii) (e) below), and are also 
regular in payment of interest as applicable. 
	
(d)	 In respect of the loans, there is no amount 
which is overdue for more than ninety days.
	
(e)	 The loan granted and outstanding at the 
beginning of the year to a related party, had 
fallen due during the year, and was extended 
before the due date. Further, no fresh loans 
were granted to same parties to settle the 
existing overdue loans. 
Name of the party
Aggregate amount of loans 
granted during the year 
(` Million)
Aggregate overdue amount 
settled by extension 
(` Million)
Percentage of the aggregate 
to the total loans or 
advances in the nature 
of loans granted during 
the year
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.
–*
602
–
*There were no loans granted to Elgi Compressors USA Inc during the year. Also refer (iii)(a) for loans granted during 
the year by the Company.
	
(f)	 The loans granted during the year had stipulated 
the scheduled repayment of principal and 
payment of interest and the same were not 
repayable on demand. The Company has not 
granted any loans/advances in the nature of loans 
during the year to promotors/related parties.
iv.	
In our opinion, the Company has complied with the 
provisions of Sections 186 of the Companies Act, 
2013 in respect of the investments made by it. The 
Company has not granted any loans or provided 
guarantees or security to the parties covered under 
Section 185 of the Act. Therefore, the reporting 
under clause 3(iv) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company to that extent.
v.	
The Company has not accepted any deposits or 
amounts which are deemed to be deposits referred 
in Sections 73, 74, 75 and 76 of the Act and the 
Rules framed there under.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
144
ANNEXURE B TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
vi.	
Pursuant to the rules made by the Central Government 
of India, the Company is required to maintain cost 
records as specified under Section 148(1) of the Act 
in respect of its products. We have broadly reviewed 
the same and are of the opinion that, prima facie, 
the  prescribed accounts and records have been 
made and maintained. We have not, however, made 
a detailed examination of the records with a view to 
determine whether they are accurate or complete.
vii.	
(a)	 In our opinion, the Company is generally regular 
in depositing the undisputed statutory dues in 
respect of employees’ provident fund and income 
tax, though there has been a slight delay in few 
cases and is regular in depositing undisputed 
statutory dues, including goods and services tax, 
employees’ state insurance, sales tax, service 
tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value added 
tax, cess, and other statutory dues, as applicable, 
with the appropriate authorities. Also, refer Note 
43(a) to the Standalone Financial Statements 
regarding management’s assessment on certain 
matters relating to provident fund.
	
(b)	 There are no statutory dues of provident fund, 
employees’ state insurance, service tax, duty 
of customs, duty of excise and cess which have 
not been deposited on account of any dispute. 
The particulars of other statutory dues referred 
to in sub-clause (a) as at March 31, 2025 which 
have not been deposited on account of a 
dispute, are as follows:
Name of the statute
Nature of dues
Amount 
(` Million)*
Period to which the 
amount relates
Forum where the 
dispute is pending
The Central Sales 
Tax Act, 1956
Central Sales Tax
26.84 FY 2007-08, 2012-13 to 
2015-16
Sales Tax Appellate 
Tribunal, Coimbatore
The Central Sales Tax Act, 1956
Central Sales Tax
8.72 FY 2004-05
Honourable High 
Court of Madras
Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax 
Act, 2006
VAT
2.78 FY 2004-05
Honourable High  
Court of Madras
Tamil Nadu Value Added 
Tax Act, 2006
VAT
6.93
FY 2013-14
Honourable Supreme 
Court of India
The Central Sales Tax Act, 1956
Central Sales Tax
1.00 FY 2015-16 and 2016-17
Deputy Commissioner of 
State Tax, Ahmedabad
Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax 
Act, 2006
VAT
0.10 FY 2008-2009
Sales Tax Appellate 
Tribunal, Coimbatore
Goods and Services Tax 
Act, 2017
GST
1.69
FY 2023-2024, 
FY 2020-2021, 
FY 2024-2025
Deputy Commissioner of 
Appeals GST
Tamil Nadu Value Added Tax 
Act, 2006
VAT
1.80
FY 2008-2009 to FY 
2011-12
Honourable High  
Court of Madras
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
229.22
FY: 2010-11, 2015-16, 
2016-17, FY 2019-20
Commissioner of 
Income Tax (Appeals), 
Coimbatore
*gross of amount paid under protest/as advance tax amounting to INR 267.69 million.
viii.	 There are no transactions previously unrecorded in 
the books of account that have been surrendered 
or disclosed as income during the year in the tax 
assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
ix.	
(a)	 The Company has not defaulted in repayment 
of loans or other borrowings or in the payment 
of interest to any lender during the year.
	
(b)	 On the basis of our audit procedures, we report 
that the Company has not been declared 
Wilful Defaulter by any bank or financial 
institution or government or any government 
authority. (Also refer Note 23 to the Standalone 
Financial Statements).
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
145
ANNEXURE B TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
	
(c)	 The Company has not obtained any term loans. 
Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(ix)(c) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, and the procedures performed 
by us, and on an overall examination of the 
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements 
of 
the 
Company, we report that no funds raised on 
short-term basis have been utilised for long-
term purposes by the Company.
	
(e)	 On an overall examination of the Standalone 
Financial Statements of the Company, we 
report that the Company has not taken any 
funds from any entity or person on account of 
or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries or 
joint ventures. The Company did not have any 
associates during the year.
	
(f)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and procedures performed by us, we 
report that the Company has not raised loans 
during the year on the pledge of securities held 
in its subsidiaries or joint ventures. The Company 
did not have any associates during the year.
x.	
(a)	 The Company has not raised any money by way 
of initial public offer or further public offer 
(including debt instruments) during the year. 
Accordingly, the reporting under clause 3(x)(a) 
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
	
(b)	 The Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares or 
fully or partially or optionally convertible 
debentures during the year. Accordingly, the 
reporting under clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
xi.	
(a)	 During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried 
out in accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing practices in India, we have neither 
come across any instance of material fraud 
by the Company or on the Company, noticed 
or reported during the year, nor have we been 
informed of any such case by the management.
	
(b)	 During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried 
out in accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing practices in India, a report under 
Section 143(12) of the Act, in Form ADT-4, as 
prescribed under rule 13 of Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014 was not required to be 
filed with the Central Government. Accordingly, 
the reporting under clause 3(xi)(b) of the Order 
is not applicable to the Company.
	
(c)	 During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company carried 
out in accordance with the generally accepted 
auditing practices in India, the Company has 
received whistle-blower complaints during the 
year, which have been considered by us for any 
bearing on our audit and reporting under this 
clause. In respect of certain complaints, for 
which preliminary findings of the investigations 
have been provided to us by management, 
our consideration of the complaints having 
any bearing on our audit is limited to such 
preliminary findings.
xii.	
As the Company is not a Nidhi Company and the 
Nidhi Rules, 2014 are not applicable to it, the 
reporting under clause 3(xii) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
xiii.	 The Company has entered into transactions with 
related parties in compliance with the provisions 
of Sections 177 and 188 of the Act. The details of 
related party transactions have been disclosed in 
the Standalone Financial Statements as required 
under Indian Accounting Standard 24 “Related Party 
Disclosures” specified under Section 133 of the Act.
xiv.	 (a)	 In our opinion, the Company has an internal 
audit system commensurate with the size and 
nature of its business.
	
(b)	 The reports of the Internal Auditor for the 
period under audit have been considered by us.
xv.	
In our opinion, the Company has not entered into 
any non-cash transactions with its directors or 
persons connected with him. Accordingly, the 
reporting on compliance with the provisions of 
Section 192 of the Act under clause 3(xv) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
xvi.	 (a)	 The Company is not required to be registered 
under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of 
India Act, 1934. Accordingly, the reporting under 
clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is not applicable to 
the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
146
ANNEXURE B TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP 
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ARUN KUMAR R 
Partner
Place: Coimbatore	
Membership Number: 211867 
Date: May 28, 2025 	
UDIN: 25211867BMOPRN1328
	
(b)	 The Company has not conducted non-banking 
financial/housing finance activities during 
the year. Accordingly, the reporting under 
clause 3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable 
to the Company.
	
(c)	 The Company is not a Core Investment Company 
(CIC) as defined in the regulations made by 
the Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly, the 
reporting under clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company.
	
(d)	 In our opinion, the Group (as defined in 
the Core Investment Companies (Reserve 
Bank) Directions, 2016) has one CIC as part 
of the Group as detailed in Note 19(v) to the 
Standalone Financial Statements. We have not, 
however, separately evaluated whether the 
information provided by the management is 
accurate and complete.
xvii.	 The Company has not incurred any cash losses in 
the financial year or in the immediately preceding 
financial year.
xviii.	There has been no resignation of the statutory 
auditors during the year and accordingly the 
reporting under clause 3(xviii) of the Order is 
not applicable.
xix.	 On the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and 
expected dates of realisation of financial assets and 
payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying the Standalone Financial Statements, 
our knowledge of the Board of Directors and 
management plans and based on our examination 
of the evidence supporting the assumptions, 
nothing has come to our attention, which causes us 
to believe that any material uncertainty exists as on 
the date of the audit report that the Company is not 
capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date 
of balance sheet as and when they fall due within 
a period of one year from the balance sheet date. 
We, however, state that this is not an assurance as 
to the future viability of the Company. We further 
state that our reporting is based on the facts up to 
the date of the audit report and we neither give any 
guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities falling 
due within a period of one year from the balance 
sheet date will get discharged by the Company as 
and when they fall due.
xx.	
(a)	 In respect of other than ongoing projects, as at 
balance sheet date, the Company does not have 
any amount remaining unspent under Section 
135(5) of the Act. Accordingly, reporting under 
clause 3(xx)(a) of the Order is not applicable.
	
(b)	 The Company has transferred the amount 
of Corporate Social Responsibility remaining 
unspent under sub-section (5) of Section  135 
of the Act pursuant to ongoing projects to 
a special account in compliance with the 
provision of sub-section (6) of Section 135 of 
the Act. (Also, refer Note 36(b) to the Standalone 
Financial Statements).
xxi.	 The reporting under clause 3(xxi) of the Order is 
not applicable in respect of audit of Standalone 
Financial Statements. Accordingly, no comment 
in respect of the said clause has been included in 
this report.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
147
Standalone Financial 
Statements
07
Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025  
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
148
Particulars
Notes
March 31, 2025 
March 31, 2024
Assets 
Non–current Assets
Property, plant and equipment
3(a)
 1,950 
 2,001 
Right of use assets
3(b)
 95 
 20 
Capital work–in–progress
3(a)
 509 
 93 
Investment properties
4
 54 
 54 
Goodwill
5
 1 
 1 
Other intangible assets
5
 30 
 22 
Financial Assets
(i)	 Investments
6(a)
 1,957 
 1,901 
(ii)	 Loans
7
 655 
 644 
(iii)	 Other financial assets
8
 37 
 36 
Income tax assets (net)
9
 43 
 58 
Deferred tax assets (net)
22
 153 
 128 
Other non–current assets
10
 197 
 63 
Total non–current assets
 5,681 
 5,021 
Current Assets
Inventories
11
 2,137 
 1,864 
Financial assets
(i)	 Investments
6(b)
 351 
–
(ii)	 Trade receivables
12
 4,604 
 4,991 
(iii)	 Cash and cash equivalents
13
 328 
 1,465 
(iv)	Bank balances other than cash and cash 
equivalents
14
 6,872 
 4,969 
(v)	 Loans
16
 36 
 39 
(vi)	 Other financial assets
17
 357 
 275 
Contract assets
15
 107 
 104 
Other current assets
18
 365 
 291 
Total Current Assets
 15,157 
 13,998 
Total Assets
 20,838 
 19,019 
Equity and Liabilities 
Equity
Equity share capital
19
 317 
 317 
Other equity
20
 16,948 
 14,377 
Total equity
 17,265 
 14,694 
Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025
Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025  
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
149
Particulars
Notes
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Liabilities
Non–Current Liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)	 Lease liabilities
3(b)
 89 
 16 
Provisions
21
 92 
 90 
Total non–Current Liabilities
 181 
 106 
Current Liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)	 Borrowings
23
–
 1,096 
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
3(b)
 8 
 6 
(iii)	 Trade payables
24
(a)  Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
 521 
 460 
(b)  Total outstanding dues of creditors other than 
micro enterprises and small enterprises
 1,582 
 1,696 
(iv)	 Other financial liabilities
25
 518 
 421 
Provisions 
26
 485 
 295 
Other current liabilities
27
 278 
 245 
Total Current Liabilities
 3,392 
 4,219 
Total Liabilities
 3,573 
 4,325 
Total Equity and Liabilities
 20,838 
 19,019 
The above Standalone Balance Sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025 (Continued...)
As per our reports on even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ANVAR JAY VARADARAJ
Director
DIN: 07273942
JAIRAM VARADARAJ
Managing Director
DIN: 00003361
ARUN KUMAR R
Partner
Membership No: 211867
DEVIKA SATHYANARAYANA
Company Secretary
Membership No. F11323
INDRANIL SEN
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025  
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
150
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2025
Particulars
Notes
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Revenue from operations
28
 20,809 
 18,434 
Other income
29
 696 
 686 
Total Income 
 21,505 
 19,120 
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
30
 9,127 
 8,140 
Purchases of stock-in-trade
31
 2,097 
 1,712 
Changes in inventories of finished goods,  
work–in–progress and stock–in–trade
32
 (233)
 (74)
Employee benefits expense
33
 2,315 
 2,124 
Finance costs
34
 22 
 54 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
35
 359 
 360 
Other expenses
36
 3,142 
 2,524 
Total expenses
 16,829 
 14,840 
Profit before tax 
 4,676 
 4,280 
Income tax expense
37
–  Current tax
 1,209 
 1,086 
–  Deferred tax
 (34)
 (28)
Profit for the year
 3,501 
3,222 
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Change in fair value of FVOCI equity instruments
20 (h)
 56 
 52 
Deferred tax relating to above item
20 (h)
 (9)
 (3)
Remeasurement of post–employment benefit 
obligations
20 (f)
 (105)
 6 
Income tax relating to above item
20 (f)
 27 
 (1)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 (31)
 54 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 3,470 
3,276 
Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025  
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
151
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2025 (Continued...)
Particulars
Notes
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Earnings per equity share
46
Nominal value of the shares (INR)
 1.00 
 1.00 
(1)	 Basic (INR/share)
 11.09 
 10.19 
(2)	Diluted (INR/share)
 11.07 
 10.19 
The above Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 
As per our reports on even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ANVAR JAY VARADARAJ
Director
DIN: 07273942
JAIRAM VARADARAJ
Managing Director
DIN: 00003361
ARUN KUMAR R
Partner
Membership No: 211867
DEVIKA SATHYANARAYANA
Company Secretary
Membership No. F11323
INDRANIL SEN
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025  
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
152
Particulars
Notes
Amounts
Balance as at April 01, 2023
19
 317
Changes in equity share capital
–
Balance as at March 31, 2024 
19
 317
Changes in equity share capital 
–
Balance as at March 31, 2025 
 317 
2)  Other equity
 
 
Reserve and Surplus
Other reserve
 
Particulars
Notes
Capital 
reserve 
Statutory 
reserve 
Securities 
Premium 
General 
reserve 
Treasury 
stock 
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account 
Retained 
earnings 
Total 
FVOCI – 
Equity 
instruments 
Total 
 Total other 
equity 
Balance as at  
April 01, 2023
 181 
 5 
 251 
 1,141 
 (98)
 18 
 10,306 
 11,804 
 99 
 99 
 11,903 
Profit for the year
20
–
–
–
–
–
–
 3,222 
 3,222 
– 
– 
 3,222 
Other 
comprehensive 
income (net of tax)
20
–
–
–
–
–
–
 5 
 5 
 49 
 49 
 54 
Total comprehensive 
income for the year
–
–
–
–
–
–
 3,227 
 3,227 
 49 
 49 
 3,276 
Transactions with 
owners in their 
capacity as owners:
Exercise of shares 
under ESOP scheme
20
–
–
–
–
 17 
 (10)
 20 
 27 
–
–
 27 
Employee stock 
option expense  
(refer note 42)
20
–
–
–
–
–
 22 
–
 22 
–
–
 22 
Purchase of shares 
for ESOP scheme
20
–
–
–
–
 (219)
–
–
 (219)
–
–
 (219)
Dividend paid
20
–
–
–
–
–
–
 (632)
 (632)
–
–
 (632)
Balance as at 
March 31, 2024
 181 
 5 
 251 
 1,141 
 (300)
 30 
 12,921 
 14,229 
 148 
 148 
 14,377 
1)  Equity Share Capital
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity
Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025  
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
153
 
Reserve and Surplus
Other reserve
Particulars
Notes
Capital 
reserve 
Statutory 
reserve 
Securities 
Premium 
General 
reserve 
Treasury 
stock 
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account 
Retained 
earnings 
Total 
FVOCI – 
Equity 
instruments 
Total 
 Total other 
equity 
Balance as at  
April 01, 2024 
 181 
 5 
 251 
 1,141 
 (300)
 30 
 12,921 
 14,229 
 148 
 148 
 14,377 
Profit for the year
20
–
–
–
–
–
–
 3,501 
 3,501 
–
–
 3,501 
Other comprehensive 
income (net of tax)
20
–
–
–
–
–
–
 (78)
 (78)
 47 
 47 
 (31)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year
–
–
–
–
–
–
 3,423 
 3,423 
 47 
 47 
 3,470 
Transactions with 
owners in their 
capacity as owners:
Exercise of shares 
under ESOP scheme
20
–
–
–
–
 66 
 (26)
 35 
 75 
–
–
 75 
Employee stock 
option expense  
(refer note 42)
20
–
–
–
–
–
 58 
–
 58 
–
–
 58 
Purchase of shares 
for ESOP scheme
20
–
–
–
–
 (400)
–
–
 (400)
–
–
 (400)
Dividend paid
20
–
–
–
–
–
–
 (632)
 (632)
–
–
 (632)
Balance as at  
March 31, 2025 
 181 
 5 
 251 
 1,141 
 (634)
 62 
 15,747 
 16,753 
 195 
 195 
 16,948 
The above Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity (Continued...)
As per our reports on even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ANVAR JAY VARADARAJ
Director
DIN: 07273942
JAIRAM VARADARAJ
Managing Director
DIN: 00003361
ARUN KUMAR R
Partner
Membership No: 211867
DEVIKA SATHYANARAYANA
Company Secretary
Membership No. F11323
INDRANIL SEN
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025  
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
154
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before income tax
 4,676 
 4,280 
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 359 
 360 
Provision for bad and doubtful debts
 10 
 23 
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 
 (4)
 (46)
Rental income from Investment property (net of expenses)
 (14)
 (17)
Dividend and interest income 
 (642)
 (548)
Net unrealised exchange differences
 4 
 55 
Finance costs
 22 
 54 
Non–cash employee share based payments
 40 
 12 
Change in operating assets and liabilities
Decrease/(increase) in trade receivables and contract assets
 384 
 (764)
Increase in inventories
 (273)
 (191)
(Decrease)/increase in trade payables
 (53)
 493 
Increase in other financial assets
 (37)
 (32)
Increase in other current assets
 (74)
 (12)
Increase in provisions
 87 
 63 
Increase in other financial liabilities
 50 
 49 
Increase in other current liabilities
 33 
 34 
Net payments to Unspent CSR account
 (14)
 (18)
Cash generated from operations
 4,554 
 3,795 
Income taxes paid (net of refund)
 (1,169)
 (1,247)
Net cash inflow from operating activities
 3,385 
 2,548 
Cash flows from investing activities
Payments for purchase of property, plant and equipment and  
intangible assets
 (814)
 (365)
Investments in unquoted equity instruments
–
 (7)
Investments in mutual funds
 (351)
–
Investments in deposits with Banks
 (1,886)
 (1,065)
Rental income from Investment property (net of expenses)
 14 
 17 
Loans (given to)/recovered from employees (net)
 6 
 (11)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 
 7 
 47 
Dividends received
 138 
 119 
Interest received
 448 
 355 
Net cash outflow from investing activities
 (2,438)
 (910)
Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025  
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
155
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Cash flows from financing activities
Net short term loans (repaid to)/borrowed from banks
 (1,090)
191 
Payment of lease liabilities
 (11)
 (8)
Purchase of shares for ESOP scheme
 (400)
 (219)
Proceeds from exercise of shares under ESOP scheme
 77 
 28 
Dividends paid to Company’s shareholders
 (632)
 (632)
Interest paid
 (28)
 (52)
Net cash outflow from financing activities
 (2,084)
 (692)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
 (1,137)
 946 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 1,465 
 519 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
 328 
 1,465 
Non–cash financing and investing activities
–  Acquisition/modification of right–of–use assets
 88 
 5 
The above Standalone Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (Continued...)
As per our reports on even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ANVAR JAY VARADARAJ
Director
DIN: 07273942
JAIRAM VARADARAJ
Managing Director
DIN: 00003361
ARUN KUMAR R
Partner
Membership No: 211867
DEVIKA SATHYANARAYANA
Company Secretary
Membership No. F11323
INDRANIL SEN
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
156
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
1.  General Information
Elgi 
Equipments 
Limited 
(“the 
Company”) 
CIN:L29120TZ1960PLC000351 
is 
engaged 
in 
manufacturing of air compressors. The Company 
has manufacturing plants and its registered office in 
Coimbatore. The Company is a public limited company 
and listed on both the Bombay Stock Exchange and the 
National Stock Exchange.
2.1.  Basis of preparation
(i)	 Compliance with Ind AS
The Standalone financial statements comply in all 
material aspects with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind 
AS) notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (the Act) [Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015] and other relevant provisions of the Act. 
These financial statements has been approved by the 
Board of Directors in their meeting held on May 28, 2025.
(ii)	 Historical cost convention
The Standalone Financial Statements have been prepared 
on a historical cost basis, except for the following:
a)	 Certain financial assets and liabilities (including 
derivative instruments) that are measured at 
fair value,
b)	 Defined benefit plans – plan assets measured at fair 
value and,
c)	 Share based payments – at grant date fair value.
(iii)	New and amended standards adopted 
by the Company
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide notification 
dated 9 September 2024 and 28 September 2024 
notified the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Second Amendment Rules, 2024 and Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Third Amendment Rules, 2024, 
respectively, which amended/notified certain accounting 
standards (see below), and are effective for annual 
reporting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2024:
	
z
Insurance contracts – Ind AS 117; and
	
z
Lease Liability in Sale and Leaseback – Amendments 
to Ind AS 116
These amendments did not have any material impact 
on the amounts recognised in prior periods and are 
not expected to significantly affect the current or 
future periods.
(iv)	 Determining material accounting policies
The Company describes its material accounting policies 
applied, under each of the individual notes to the Financial 
Statements and avoids repeating the text of the standard, 
unless when it is considered relevant to the understanding 
of the note’s content. These accounting policies most 
frequently or significantly require us to make judgments, 
estimates, and assumptions, and therefore are critical to 
understanding our results of operation.
Other accounting policies are provided under Note 50 for 
completeness purposes. The Company’s accounting policies 
and methods are unchanged compared to March 31, 2024.
(v)	 Functional currency assessment:
Items included in the financial statements of the 
Company are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Company operates 
(‘the functional currency’). The standalone financial 
statements are presented in Indian rupee (INR), which is 
the Company's functional and presentation currency.
2.2  Critical estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires the 
use of accounting estimates which, by definition, will 
seldom equal the actual results. Management also 
needs to exercise judgement in applying the Company's 
accounting policies.
This note provides an overview of the areas that involved 
a higher degree of judgement or complexity and of items 
which are more likely to be materially adjusted due to 
estimates and assumptions turning out to be different 
than those originally assessed. Detailed information 
about each of these estimates and judgements is 
included in relevant notes together with information 
about the basis of calculation for each affected line item 
in the financial statements.
The areas involving critical estimates or judgements are:
	
z
Estimation 
of 
impairment 
of 
investments 
in 
subsidiaries and joint ventures – Note 6(a)
	
z
Impairment of trade receivables and contract 
assets – Note 12 and 15
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated. 
They are based on historical experience and other 
factors, including expectations of future events that 
may have a financial impact on the Company and that 
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
157
Particulars
Land
Building
Plant & 
Machinery
Office 
Equipment
Furniture 
& Fixtures
Vehicle
Canteen 
Equipment
 Total 
 Capital 
Work in 
Progress 
Year ended March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying 
amount
 295 
 1,067 
 2,996 
 251 
 126 
 4 
 17 
 4,756 
 25 
Additions
–
 28 
 213 
 34 
 14 
–
–
 289 
 358 
Disposals
 (1)
 (1)
 (2)
 (1)
 (1)
–
–
 (6)
–
Transfers
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
 (290)
Closing gross carrying 
amount
 294 
 1,094 
 3,207 
 284 
 139 
 4 
 17 
 5,039 
 93 
Accumulated depreciation
Opening accumulated 
depreciation
–
 725 
 1,660 
 188 
 114 
 3 
 16 
 2,706 
–
Depreciation charge for 
the year
–
 60 
 230 
 39 
 8 
–
–
 337 
–
Disposals
–
 (1)
 (2)
 (1)
 (1)
–
–
 (5)
–
Closing accumulated 
depreciation
–
 784 
 1,888 
 226 
 121 
 3 
 16 
 3,038 
–
Net carrying amount
 294 
 310 
 1,319 
 58 
 18 
 1 
 1 
 2,001 
 93 
3(a)  Property, plant and equipment and Capital work–in progress
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. All other items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost 
less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is calculated using the straight–line or written down value methods to 
allocate their cost, net of their residual values, over their estimated useful lives.
The useful lives have been determined based on Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 except for roads (classified as 
buildings) and tools, jigs and fixtures, patterns and mould and dies (classified as plant and machinery); where useful 
lives have been determined based on technical evaluation carried out by the management's expert, in order to reflect 
the actual usage of the assets. The residual values are not more than 5% of the original cost of the asset.
Asset Category/Group
Useful life (In years)
As adopted by Company
As per Schedule II
Roads (Building)
10
5
Tools, jigs & fixtures, patterns, moulds & dies and specific 
machines (Plant & Machinery)
5–30
15
Leasehold improvements are depreciated at lower of lease period or the respective useful life of the asset. 
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. 
Refer Note 50(a) for other accounting policies relating to Property, plant and equipment.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
158
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Notes
i)	 Property, plant and equipment pledged as security
	
Refer note 47 for information on property, plant and equipment pledged as security by the Company.
ii)	 Contractual obligations
	
Refer to note 44(a) for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
iii)	Details of benami property held
	
The Company does not have any Benami property and therefore the question of whether any proceedings have been 
initiated or pending against the Company for holding any benami property is not relevant.
iv)	Title deeds of immovable properties not held in name of the Company
	
The title deeds of all the immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee), as disclosed in note 3(a) and 4 to the financial statements, are 
held in the name of the Company.
	
a)  The title to the properties in Arasur Village is held in the name of the Company per the title deeds. In these 
properties, a portion of SF No–100/1 was incorrectly claimed by an individual and a connected litigation filed by 
him was dismissed in the Company’s favour. The Company has now initiated legal action in the Madras High Court 
for removing the Individual’s name from the sub registrar’s records.
	
b)  A land parcel measuring 48,000 sq ft was purchased by the Company at Kurichy, Coimbatore in 2007 from 
Coimbatore Private Industrial Estate Limited. This land is adjoining its other property in the same place and is 
being claimed as a road by the authorities from 2009. A litigation that commenced in 2010 concerning the same 
is currently pending before the Madras High Court under a review petition filed by the Company.
3(a)  Property, plant and equipment and Capital work–in progress (Continued...)
Particulars
Land
Building
Plant & 
Machinery
Office 
Equipment
Furniture 
& Fixtures
Vehicle
Canteen 
Equipment
 Total 
 Capital 
Work in 
Progress 
Year ended March 31, 2025
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying 
amount
 294 
 1,094 
 3,207 
 284 
 139 
 4 
 17 
 5,039 
 93 
Additions
 30 
 32 
 181 
 36 
 11 
–
–
 290 
 676 
Disposals
–
–
 (6)
 (7)
–
–
– 
 (13)
–
Transfers
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
 (260)
Closing gross carrying 
amount
 324 
 1,126 
 3,382 
 313 
 150 
 4 
 17 
 5,316 
 509 
Accumulated depreciation 
Opening accumulated 
depreciation
–
 784 
 1,888 
 226 
 121 
 3 
 16 
 3,038 
–
Depreciation charge for 
the year
–
 53 
 234 
 41 
 9 
–
 1 
 338 
–
Disposals
–
–
 (3)
 (7)
–
–
–
 (10)
–
Closing accumulated 
depreciation
–
 837 
 2,119 
 260 
 130 
 3 
 17 
 3,366 
–
Net carrying amount
 324 
 289 
 1,263 
 53 
 20 
 1 
–
 1,950 
 509 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
159
v)	 Capital work–in–progress
	
Capital work–in–progress primarily includes the ongoing construction of a new plant at Kinathkadavu 
(MK2  Project), new corporate office in Bangalore, and additions to plant and machinery currently under 
construction and installation.
a)  Ageing of Capital work–in–progress
Particulars
Amounts in Capital work–in–progress for
Less than 
one year 
1 – 2 years
2 – 3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Year ended March 31, 2025
(i)  Projects in progress
 444 
 52 
 9 
 4 
 509 
Year ended March 31, 2024
(i)  Projects in progress
 84 
 5 
 4 
–
 93 
(b)  Completion schedule for capital work–in–progress whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared 
to its original plan:
Particulars
To be completed in
Less than 
one year 
1 – 2 years
2 – 3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Year ended March 31, 2025
(i)  Projects in Progress
   Project 1 at Motor Division
115
–
–
–
115
   Project 2 at Compressor Centre
–
 4 
–
–
 4 
Year ended March 31, 2024
(i)  Projects in Progress
   Project 2 at Compressor Centre
 3 
–
–
–
 3 
3(b)  Right of use assets and Lease liabilities
This note provides information for leases where the Company is a lessee. 
The Company leases various offices and warehouses. Rental contracts are typically made for fixed periods of 11 months 
to 29 years.
Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions. The 
lease agreements do not impose any covenants other than the security interests in the leased assets that are held 
by the lessor.
Refer Note 50(b) for other accounting policies relating to leases.
3(a)  Property, plant and equipment and Capital work–in progress (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
160
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
3(b)  Right of use assets and Lease liabilities (Continued...)
(i)  Amounts recognised in the balance sheet
The balance sheet shows following amounts relating to leases:
Right of use assets
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Particulars
Land 
Building
Office 
Equipment
Total
Land 
Building
Total
Gross carrying amount
 86 
 26 
 14 
 126 
 15 
 25 
 40 
Accumulated depreciation
 (11)
 (19)
 (1)
 (31)
 (5)
 (15)
 (20)
Net carrying amount
 75 
 7 
 13 
 95 
 10 
 10 
 20 
a)  For the year ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, additions to the gross carrying amount of right–of–use assets 
were ` 88 million (` 65 million for new leases and ` 23 million for lease modifications) and ` 5 million (for lease 
modifications), respectively.
b)  For the year ended March 31, 2025, and March 31, 2024, disposals to the gross carrying amount of right–of–use 
assets were ` 2 million and ` 17 million, respectively.
Lease Liabilities
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Current
 8 
 6 
Non–current
 89 
 16 
 97 
 22 
Reconciliation:
Opening balance
 22 
 27 
Add: New leases recognised during the year (non–cash in nature)	
 65 
–
Add: Modifications of lease contracts (non–cash in nature)
 23 
 5 
Less: Termination of lease contracts
 (2)
 (2)
Less: Payment of lease liabilities
 (11)
 (8)
Closing balance
 97 
 22 
(ii)  Amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss
The statement of profit or loss shows the following amounts relating to leases:
Depreciation of Right of use assets
–  Land
 4 
 2 
–  Buildings
 6 
 6 
–  Office equipment
 1 
–
 11 
 8 
Interest expense (included in finance cost)
 7 
 2 
Rental income from sub–leasing 
 1 
–
Expenses relating to short term leases (included in Other expenses)
 21 
 13 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
161
3(b)  Right of use assets and Lease liabilities (Continued...)
(iii)  Cash outflow
The total cash outflow for leases is ` 39 million and ` 23 million for the year ended March 31, 2025 and year ended 
March 31, 2024.
(iv)  Extension and termination options
Extension and termination options are included in a number of property leases. The majority of extension and 
termination options held are exercisable only by the Company and not by respective lessor. The termination option in 
two leases with related party includes mutual termination clause with a 90 days notice in writing.
(v)   Critical judgements in determining lease term:
In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive 
to exercise an extension option, or not exercise a termination option. Extension options (or periods after termination 
options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be extended (or not terminated).
4  Investment properties
Investment properties (other than land) are depreciated using the written down value method over their estimated 
useful lives. Investment properties have a useful life of 30 and 60 years for Factory and Office building, respectively. The 
useful lives have been determined based on Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013.
Refer note 50(c) for other accounting policies related to investment properties.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Land
Buildings
 Total 
 Land
 Buildings 
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
 46 
 12 
 58 
 46 
 12 
 58 
Disposal*
–
–
–
–
–
–
Closing gross carrying amount
 46 
 12 
 58 
 46 
 12 
 58 
Accumulated depreciation
Opening accumulated 
depreciation
–
 4 
 4 
–
 4 
 4 
Depreciation charge for the year*
–
–
–
–
–
–
Disposal 
–
–
–
–
–
–
Closing accumulated depreciation
–
 4 
 4 
–
 4 
 4 
Net carrying amount
 46 
 8 
 54 
 46 
 8 
 54 
(i)  Amounts recognised in profit or loss for investment properties
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Rental income
 15
 18
Direct operating expenses from property that generated rental income
 (1)
 (1)
Profit from investment properties before depreciation
 14 
 17
Depreciation charge for the year*
–
–
Profit from investment property
14
17
*Amounts are below rounding off norms adopted by the Company.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
162
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(ii)  Fair value
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
 Land
 Buildings 
 Total 
 Land
 Buildings 
 Total 
Investment property
 954 
 157 
 1,111 
 1,058 
 211 
 1,269 
The fair value disclosure for the year ended March 31, 2024, included the fair value of land amounting to ` 154 million 
and building amounting to ` 57 million which have been reclassified to Property, Plant and Equipment during the current 
year. The related carrying amount is below rounding off norms and hence not disclosed in the movement schedule as 
disposals/transfers.
Estimation of Fair Value
The Company obtained independent valuations for its investment properties. The best evidence of fair value is current 
prices in an active market for similar properties. Where such information is not available, the Company considers 
information from a variety of sources including:
a)  current prices in an active market for properties of different nature or recent prices of similar properties in less 
active markets, adjusted to reflect those differences, 
b)  discounted cash flow projections based on reliable estimates of future cash flows,
c)  capitalised income projections based upon a property’s estimated net market income, and a capitalisation rate 
derived from an analysis of market evidence.
The fair values of investment properties have been determined by “S. Pichaiya & associates”, who is a registered 
valuer as defined under rule 2 of Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017. The main inputs used 
are the rental growth rates, expected vacancy rates, terminal yields and discount rates based on comparable 
transactions and industry data. All resulting fair value estimates for investment properties are included in level 3.
4  Investment properties (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
163
The intangible assets include computer software and drawings which are recorded at the cost of acquisition and are 
amortised using the straight–line method over a period of five years or their legal/useful life whichever is less. Refer 
Note 50(d) for other accounting policies related to goodwill and other intangible assets.
Particulars
Computer 
software
Drawings
Technical 
Know–how
Total intangible 
assets
Goodwill
Year ended March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
 118
 25
– 
 143
 1
Additions
 8
– 
– 
 8
– 
Disposal
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
Transfers
– 
– 
–
– 
– 
Closing gross carrying amount
 126
 25
– 
 151
 1
Accumulated amortisation
Opening accumulated amortisation
 95
 19
– 
 114
– 
Amortisation charge for the year
 10
 5
– 
 15
– 
Disposal
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
Closing accumulated amortisation
 105
 24
– 
 129
– 
Net carrying amount
 21
 1
– 
 22
 1
Year ended March 31, 2025
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
 126
 25
– 
 151
 1
Additions
 7
– 
 11
 18
– 
Disposal
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
Transfers
– 
– 
–
– 
– 
Closing gross carrying amount
 133
 25
 11
 169
 1
Accumulated amortisation
Opening accumulated amortisation
 105
 24
– 
 129
– 
Amortisation charge for the year
 9
 1
– 
 10
– 
Disposal
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
Closing accumulated amortisation
 114
 25
– 
 139
– 
Net carrying amount
 19
– 
 11
 30
 1
5  Goodwill and Other intangible assets
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
164
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
6  Financial assets – Investments
i)  Classification of financial assets at amortised cost
The Company classifies its financial assets at amortised cost only if both of the following criteria are met: 
	
z
the asset is held within a business model whose objective is to collect the contractual cash flows, and
	
z
the contractual terms give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest. 
Financial assets classified at amortised cost comprise trade receivables, loans and other financial assets such as 
security deposits.
ii)  Classification of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income:
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) comprise:
Equity securities (listed and unlisted) which are not held for trading, and for which the Company has irrevocably elected 
at initial recognition to recognise changes in fair value through OCI rather than profit or loss. These are strategic 
investments and the Company considers this classification to be more relevant. 
iii)  Derivatives
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments. However, where 
derivatives do not meet the hedge accounting criteria, they are classified as ‘held for trading’ for accounting purposes 
and are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). They are presented as current assets or liabilities to 
the extent they are expected to be settled within 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
iv)  Classification of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
The Company classifies investment in mutual funds at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) as they do not qualify 
for measurement at either amortized cost or FVOCI and are held for trading.
Refer note 50(e) for other accounting policies relating to financial assets. 
Particulars
No. of 
Shares 
Face Value 
Per Share 
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
a)  Non–current Investments
(i)  Investments in equity instruments (fully paid–up)
(Unquoted)
At cost
Investment In Subsidiaries (wholly owned)
ATS Elgi Limited
 90,000 
 ` 10/– 
 181
 181
Elgi Gulf–FZE
 150,000 
 AED 1/– 
 2 
 2 
Elgi Compressor Do Brasil IMP.E.EXP.LTDA
 62,211,889 
 BRL 1/– 
–
–
Elgi Equipments Australia Pty Limited*
 100 
–
–
Elgi Compressors Italy S.R.L. 
 2,555,000 
€ 1/–
 293 
 293 
Elgi Compressors Europe S.R.L.
 50,000 
€ 1/–
 5 
 5 
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.  
(common stock without par value)
 1,000 
 1,058 
 1,058 
PT Elgi Equipments Indonesia 
(common stock without par value)
99.71%
 19
 19 
Ergo Design Private Limited*
 10,000 
` 1/– 
–
–
Adisons Precision Instruments Manufacturing 
Company Limited
 1,091,500 
` 10/– 
 126 
 126 
Elgi Compressors (M) SDN. BHD
 1,000,100 
RM 1/– 
 18 
 18 
Industrial Air Compressors Pty Ltd*
 120 
 AUD 1/– 
–
–
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
165
Particulars
No. of 
Shares 
Face Value 
Per Share 
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
Investment In Joint Ventures
ELGI Sauer Compressors Ltd [Share 26%]
 168,994 
` 10/– 
 2 
 2
(ii)   Investment In Limited Liability Partnership 
At cost
 
 
Industrial Air Solutions LLP
–
–
 4 
 4 
(iii)  Investment in Equity Instruments (fully paid–up) 
At Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income 
Quoted
Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd
 50 
` 10/– 
 1
 1
State Bank of India
 3,600 
` 1/– 
 3 
 3 
HDFC Bank Limited
 25,160 
` 1/– 
 46 
 36 
Magna Electro Castings Ltd
 66,454 
` 10/– 
 59 
 29 
Rajshree Sugars & Chemicals Ltd
 229,000 
` 10/– 
 9 
 13 
Pricol Ltd
 121,922 
` 1/– 
 54
 47 
L.G.Balakrishnan & Bros.Ltd. 
 4,992 
` 10/– 
 6 
 6 
LGB Forge Limited*
 18,720 
` 1/– 
–
–
Elgi Rubber Company Limited
 763,700 
` 1/– 
 50 
 37 
Unquoted
First Energy TN1 Pvt Ltd 
 1,440,000 
` 10/– 
 14 
 14 
First Energy 5 Pvt Ltd 
 670,000 
` 10/– 
 7 
7
Non–Current Investments
 1,957 
 1,901 
b)  Current Investments
At Fair Value through Profit or Loss  
Unquoted
Investments in liquid mutual funds
 351 
 – 
Current Investments
351 
 – 
Total Investments
 2,308 
 1,901 
*Amounts are below rounding off norms adopted by the Company
aggregate amount of quoted investments and market value thereof
 228 
 172 
aggregate amount of unquoted investments
 2,080 
 1,729 
The Company assesses the indicators of impairment of investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures as per the 
requirement of Ind AS 36 at least on an annual basis. The carrying value of investments (including guarantees) being 
less than the networth of the subsidiary is an indicator of potential impairment. The Company has performed detailed 
impairment assessment and concluded that there is no impairment of carrying value of investments.
Details of crypto currency or virtual currency
The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current or previous year.
6  Financial assets – Investments (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
166
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Unsecured, considered good
Loans to subsidiary (refer note 41 & 51)
 602 
 588 
Loans to employees
 53 
 56 
 655 
 644 
Disclosure required as per Section 186
The Company has advanced loans to its subsidiary – Elgi Compressors USA Inc. to fund the business acquisitions and 
additional working capital requirements. The loans are repayable by March 31, 2030 and carry interest rates which are 
at par with the prevailing market rates.
The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
Loans to specified persons*
Type of Borrower
Repayment terms
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Amount 
of loan or 
advance in 
the nature 
of loan 
outstanding
Percentage 
to the total 
Loans and 
Advances in 
the nature 
of loans
Amount 
of loan or 
advance in 
the nature 
of loan 
outstanding
Percentage 
to the total 
Loans and 
Advances in 
the nature of 
loans
Elgi Compressors USA Inc. 
(Wholly owned Subsidiary)
Repayable by 
March 31, 2030
 602 
87%
 588 
86%
*Excluding loan provided to Elgi Equipments Limited Employees Stock Option Trust which has been treated as an 
extension of the Company.
8  Other financial assets (Non–current)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Security deposits
 37 
 36 
 37 
 36 
9  Income tax assets (net)
Opening balance
 58 
 (101)
Add: Tax paid (net of refund received)
 1,169 
 1,247 
Less: Current tax payable on gain from treasury shares recognised 
directly in retained earnings.
 (2)
 (1)
Less: Current tax payable for the year
 (1,182)
 (1,087)
 43 
 58 
7  Loans (Non–current)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
167
10  Other non–current assets
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Capital advances
 197 
 63 
 197 
 63 
11  Inventories 
The costs of individual items of inventory are determined on a first–in first–out basis.
Refer Note 50(f) for other accounting policies relating to inventories. 
(a)  Raw materials and components*
 1,201 
 1,173 
(b)  Work–in–progress
 254 
 154 
(c)  Finished goods
 387 
 289 
(d)  Stock–in–trade*
 164 
 130 
(e)  Stores and spares (including packing materials)
 70 
 72 
(f)  Loose tools
 61 
 46 
 2,137 
 1,864 
*Include goods in–transit ` 162 million and ` 114 million as on March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively.	
Notes:
a)  The cost of inventories recognised as an expense includes ` 17 million (March 31, 2024 – ` Nil) in respect of provision 
for slow–moving inventories and has been reduced by ` Nil (March 31, 2024: ` 3 million) in respect of reversals of 
such provision.
b)  Raw materials, Work in progress and Finished goods include R&D inventory.
12  Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of 
business and reflect the Company’s unconditional right to consideration (that is payment is due, only on the passage 
of time). Trade receivables are recognized initially at the transaction price as they do not contain significant financing 
components. The Company holds the trade receivables with the objective of collecting the contractual cash flows and 
therefore measures them subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less loss allowance.
For trade receivables and contract assets, the Company applies the simplified approach required by Ind AS 109, which 
requires expected lifetime losses to be recognized at the initial recognition of receivables.
Unsecured, considered good
 4,605 
 5,016 
Unsecured, credit impaired
 28 
 14 
 4,633 
 5,030 
Less: Loss allowances (refer note 39A(iii)(b))
(29)
(39)
 4,604 
 4,991 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
168
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
12  Trade receivables (Continued...)
Ageing of trade receivables:
Particulars 
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from  
the due date 
Loss 
allowances
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
to 1 year
1 – 2 
years
2 – 3 
years
More 
than 
3 years
As at March 31, 2025
Undisputed trade receivables  
–  considered good
 4,291 
 298 
 11 
 5 
–
–
 (1)
 4,604 
Undisputed trade receivables  
–  credit impaired
–
–
–
–
 10 
 11 
 (21)
–
Disputed trade receivables  
–  credit impaired
–
–
–
–
 1 
 6 
 (7)
–
Total trade receivables
 4,291 
 298 
 11 
 5 
 11 
 17 
 (29)
 4,604 
As at March 31, 2024
Undisputed trade receivables  
–  considered good
 4,166 
 821 
 14 
 9 
 6 
–
 (25)
 4,991 
Undisputed trade receivables  
–  credit impaired
–
–
 4 
–
–
–
 (4)
–
Disputed trade receivables  
–  credit impaired
–
–
–
 1 
–
 9 
 (10)
–
Total trade receivables
 4,166 
 821 
 18 
 10 
 6 
 9 
 (39)
 4,991 
For receivables from related parties refer note 41.
13  Cash and cash equivalents 
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(a)  Funds in transit
 80 
 29 
(b)  Balance with banks
–  In current accounts
 93 
 161 
–  In EEFC accounts
 13 
 80 
–  In deposit accounts (with original maturity of 3 months or less)
 142 
 1,195 
 328 
 1,465 
There are no repatriation restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024, respectively. 	
	
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
169
14   Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
–  In deposit accounts (with original maturity period of more than  
3 months but remaining maturity less than 12 months)*
 6,819 
 4,933 
–  In Unspent CSR account (for ongoing projects)**
 41 
 27 
–  In unclaimed dividend account***
 12 
 9 
 6,872 
 4,969 
*Includes margin money deposit (refer note 47).
**Earmarked for ongoing CSR projects, refer note 36(b).
***Earmarked for payment of unclaimed dividend.
15  Contract assets 
Retention receivables
 142 
 131 
Less: Loss allowances (refer note 39A(iii)(b))
 (35)
(27)
 
 107 
 104 
16  Loans (Current) 
Loans considered good – Unsecured
Loan to employees
 36 
 39 
 36 
 39 
17  Other financial assets (Current) 
Derivatives not designated as hedges
Foreign exchange forward contract
 5 
 15 
Others
Interest accrued
 230 
 174 
Others
 122 
 86 
 357 
 275 
18  Other current assets
Income/refund receivable
 19 
 22 
Prepaid expenses
 219 
 148 
Balance with Government authorities
 23 
 7 
Rent advances
 10 
 9 
Advance to suppliers
 64 
 75 
Others
 30 
 30 
 365 
 291 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
170
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
19  Equity share capital
(i)  Authorised:
Particulars
Number of shares (in millions)
Amount
Equity shares of ` 1 each 
At April 01, 2023
 320 
 320 
Increase during the year
– 
– 
At March 31, 2024
 320 
 320 
Increase during the year
– 
–
At March 31, 2025
 320 
 320 
(ii)  Issued, Subscribed and fully paid up:
Particulars
Number of shares (in millions)
Equity share capital (par value)
Equity shares of ` 1 each 
At April 01, 2023
 317 
 317 
Increase during the year
–
–
At March 31, 2024
 317 
 317 
Increase during the year
–
–
At March 31, 2025
 317 
 317 
Terms and rights attached to equity shares:
The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 1/– per share. Each shareholder is eligible for one 
vote per share held. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders 
in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in the case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the equity 
shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, 
in proportion to their shareholding. During the year ended March 31, 2025, the amount of final dividend per share 
recognised as distributions to equity shareholders is ` 2 per share (March 31, 2024: ` 2 per share).
(iii)  Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares during the period of five 
years immediately preceding the reporting date:
Particulars
Number of shares (in millions)
Equity shares allotted as fully paid up bonus shares by capitalizing a  
part of the securities premium during the year ended March 31, 2021
158
On September 28, 2020, the Company alloted bonus equity shares of ` 1/– each, credited as fully paid up equity shares 
to the holders of the existing equity shares of the Company in the proportion of one equity share of the Company for 
every one existing equity shares of the Company, by way of capitalizing a part of the securities premium account of 
the Company.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
171
(iv) Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Number of shares
% holding
Number of shares 
% holding
Dark Horse Portfolio Investment Private 
Limited*
 63,697,752 
 20.10 
 53,386,780 
 16.85 
Jairam Varadaraj
 28,221,616 
 8.91 
 28,221,616 
 8.91 
Pari Washington India Master Fund, Ltd. 
 22,077,311 
 6.97 
 23,592,229 
 7.44 
(v)  Details of shareholding of promoters
Promoter Name
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
% Change 
during the 
year
No of Shares
% of total 
shares
No of Shares
% of total 
shares
Jairam Varadaraj
 28,221,616 
8.91
 28,221,616 
8.91
– 
Anvar Jay Varadaraj
 1,925,248 
0.61
 1,925,248 
0.61
– 
Varun Jay Varadaraj
 1,916,684 
0.60
 1,916,684 
0.60
– 
Maya Jay Varadaraj
 1,916,648 
0.60
 1,916,648 
0.60
– 
Sudarsan Varadaraj
 204,984 
0.06
 204,984 
0.06
– 
Harsha Varadaraj
 80,000 
0.03
 80,000 
0.03
– 
Varshini Varadaraj
 158,588 
0.05
 158,588 
0.05
– 
T Balaji
 68,500 
0.02
 68,500 
0.02
– 
Dark Horse Portfolio Investment  
Private Limited*
 63,697,752 
20.10
 53,386,780 
16.85
3.25
Elgi Ultra Industries Private Limited*
– 
– 
 10,310,972 
3.25
(3.25)
Elgi Rubber Company Limited
 664,160 
0.21
 664,160 
0.21
– 
 98,854,180 
 31.19 
 98,854,180 
 31.19 
– 
*Considered as Core investment companies in the group based on the definition specified in 3(1)(v) of the RBI Master 
Directions– Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions 2016. Further, Elgi Ultra Industries Private Limited 
merged with Dark Horse Portfolio Investment Private Limited during the year ended March 31, 2025.
19  Equity share capital (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
172
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
20  Other equity
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Reserves & Surplus
Capital reserve
 181 
 181 
Securities premium
 251 
 251 
Statutory reserve
 5 
 5 
General reserve
 1,141 
 1,141 
Share options outstanding account
 62 
 30 
Retained earnings
 15,747 
 12,921 
Treasury stock
 (634)
 (300)
Other reserves
FVOCI – Equity instruments
 195 
 148 
 16,948 
 14,377 
a)  Capital reserve
Opening balance
 181
 181
Additions during the year
– 
– 
Deductions/adjustments during the year
– 
– 
Closing balance
 181
 181
b)  Securities Premium
Opening balance
 251
 251
Additions during the year
– 
– 
Deductions/adjustments during the year
– 
– 
Closing balance
 251
 251
c)  Statutory reserve
Opening balance
 5
 5
Additions during the year
– 
– 
Deductions/adjustments during the year
– 
– 
Closing balance
 5
 5
d)  General reserve
Opening balance
 1,141
 1,141
Additions during the year
– 
– 
Deductions/adjustments during the year
– 
– 
Closing balance
 1,141
 1,141
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
173
20  Other equity (Continued...)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
e)  Share options outstanding account
Opening balance
 30 
 18 
Employee stock option expense
 58 
 22 
Exercise of shares under ESOP scheme
– 
 (2)
Transfer to Retained earnings
 (26)
 (8)
Closing balance
 62 
 30 
f)  Retained earnings
Opening balance 
 12,921 
 10,306 
Net profit for the year
 3,501 
 3,222 
Item of other comprehensive income recognised directly in  
retained earnings
–  Remeasurement of post–employment benefit obligation, net of tax
 (78)
 5 
–  Transfer to retained earnings of gain from treasury shares
 11 
 13 
–  Income tax on gain from treasury shares 
 (2)
 (1)
–  Transfer from share options outstanding account
 26 
 8 
Appropriations:
Dividend on equity shares net of dividend distributed to Elgi Employee 
Stock Option Trust
 (632)
 (632)
Closing balance
 15,747 
 12,921 
g)  Treasury stock
Opening balance
 (300)
 (98)
Purchase of shares for ESOP scheme
 (400)
 (219)
Exercise of shares under ESOP scheme
 66 
 17 
Closing balance
 (634)
 (300)
h)  Other Reserves
FVOCI – Equity instruments
Opening balance
 148 
 99 
Change in fair value of FVOCI equity instruments (net of tax)
 47 
 49 
Closing balance
 195 
 148 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
174
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Nature and purpose of other reserves
Capital reserve
Represents profit of a capital nature which is not available for distribution as dividend.
Securities premium
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the 
provisions of Companies Act, 2013
Statutory reserve
Represents reserve created for statutory purpose not available for distribution as dividend.
General reserve
This is available for distribution to shareholders.
Retained earnings
Company's share of cumulative earnings since its formation minus the dividends/capitalisation and earnings 
transferred to general reserve.
Treasury stock
Represents the purchase value of shares of the Company held by Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock Option Trust 
as given below:
Particulars
No. of Shares
Amount
As at March 31, 2025
Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock Option Trust
 1,207,238 
 634 
 1,207,238 
 634 
As at March 31, 2024
Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock Option Trust
 727,200 
 300 
 727,200 
 300 
Share options outstanding account
The share options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees 
under Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock Option Plan, 2019.
FVOCI Equity investments
The Company has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other 
comprehensive income. These changes are accumulated within the FVOCI equity investments reserve within equity. 
The Company transfers amounts from this reserve to retained earnings when the relevant equity securities are 
derecognised.
21  Provisions (Non–current) 
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Provision for compensated absences (refer note 26(a)(i))
 92 
 90 
 92 
 90 
20  Other equity (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
175
22  Deferred tax assets (net)
Particulars 
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Deferred tax 
(asset)
Deferred tax 
liabilities
Deferred tax 
(asset)
Deferred tax 
liabilities
Property, 
Plant 
& 
Equipment 
and 
Intangible assets
 (34)
– 
 (17)
– 
Right of use assets
 24 
– 
 5 
Provision for compensated absences
 (30)
– 
 (29)
– 
Provision for warranty
 (83)
– 
 (63)
– 
Allowance for doubtful debts
 (16)
– 
 (17)
– 
Lease liabilities
 (24)
– 
 (6)
– 
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 1 
– 
 4 
VRS
 (6)
 (10)
– 
Equity Instruments – FVOCI
 16 
– 
 7 
Other timing differences
 (1)
 (2)
– 
 (194)
 41 
 (144)
 16 
Net deferred tax (assets)/liabilities 
(153)
 (128) 
Movements in deferred tax (assets)/liabilities
Particulars 
 Property, 
Plant & 
Equipment 
and 
Intangible 
assets 
 Provision for 
compensated 
absences 
 Provision 
for 
warranty 
 Allowance 
for 
doubtful 
debts 
 Right 
of use 
assets 
 Lease 
liabilities 
 Foreign 
exchange 
forward 
contracts 
 VRS 
 Equity 
Instruments– 
FVOCI 
 Other 
timing 
differences 
Total
At April 01, 2023
 (3)
 (28)
 (45)
 (17)
 6 
 (7)
 (4)
 (7)
 4 
 (2)
 (103)
Charged/(credited):
–  to profit or loss
 (14)
 (1)
 (18)
– 
 (1)
 1 
 8 
 (3)
– 
– 
 (28)
–  to other 
comprehensive 
income
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
 3 
– 
 3 
At March 31, 2024
 (17)
 (29)
 (63)
 (17)
 5 
 (6)
 4 
 (10)
 7 
 (2)
 (128)
Charged/(credited):
–  to profit or loss
 (17)
 (1)
 (20)
 1 
 19 
 (18)
 (3)
 4 
– 
 1 
 (34)
–   to other 
comprehensive 
income
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
 9 
– 
 9 
At March 31, 2025
 (34)
 (30)
 (83)
 (16)
 24 
 (24)
 1 
 (6)
 16 
 (1)
 (153)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
176
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Packing credit loans
Secured
–  From Banks
– 
 150 
Unsecured
–  From Banks
– 
 940 
Interest accrued and due on borrowings
– 
 6 
– 
 1,096 
Secured borrowings and assets pledged as security:
a)  The packing credit facilities from Bank are secured by a charge on stocks and receivables of the Company. 
Also refer note 47 for value of assets pledged as security.
b)  The packing credit loans from Bank are repayable within 180 days from the date of borrowing. The borrowings carry 
an interest rate linked to Repo rate/T–bills plus agreed spread after reduction of eligible interest subsidy under 
Interest Equalisation Scheme of Reserve Bank of India.
c)  There are no defaults in the repayments of above borrowings during the year. Also refer note 39(i) for undrawn 
facilities secured by charges on assets.
D)  The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any 
government authority.
Net debt reconciliation
This section sets out an analysis of net debt (i.e, liabilities arising from financing activities) and the movements in net 
debt for each of the periods presented.
Current borrowings (refer note 23)
– 
 1,090 
Interest accrued and due on borrowings (refer note 23)
– 
 6 
Lease liabilities (refer note 3(b))
 97 
 22 
Cash and cash equivalents (refer note 13)
 (328)
 (1,465)
Deposits with banks (refer note 14)– excluding restricted balances
 (6,819)
 (4,933)
 (7,050)
 (5,280)
23  Borrowings (Current)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
177
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Reconciliation:
Opening net cash
 (5,280)
 (3,457)
Cash flows 
 (749)
 (2,011)
Net short term loans (repaid to)/borrowed from banks
 (1,090)
 191 
Acquisitions/modifications– leases (non–cash in nature)
 88 
 5 
Termination of lease contracts
 (2)
 (2)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (11)
 (8)
Interest expense
 22 
 54 
Interest paid
 (28)
 (52)
Closing net cash
 (7,050)
 (5,280)
24  Trade payables 
Due to micro enterprises and small enterprises (refer note 45)
 521 
 460 
Due to creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 1,582 
 1,696 
 2,103 
 2,156 
For trade payable to related parties, refer Note 41.
Ageing of trade payables: 
Particulars 
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from the 
due date of payment 
Unbilled
Total
Less than 
1 year
1 – 2 years 2 – 3 years
More 
than 
3 years
As at March 31, 2025
Undisputed
Outstanding dues to micro and small 
enterprises
 479 
 18 
– 
– 
– 
 24 
 521 
Outstanding dues to others
 1,073 
 67 
 2 
 2 
 1 
 437 
 1,582 
Total trade payables
 1,552 
 85 
 2 
 2 
 1 
 461 
 2,103 
As at March 31, 2024
Undisputed
Outstanding dues to micro and small 
enterprises
 454 
– 
– 
– 
– 
 6 
 460 
Outstanding dues to others
 1,133 
 210 
 10 
 3 
 1 
 339 
 1,696 
Total trade payables
 1,587 
 210 
 10 
 3 
 1 
 345 
 2,156 
23  Borrowings (Current) (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
178
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
25  Other financial liabilities
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Unclaimed dividends
 12 
 9 
Dealer deposits
 21 
 22 
Employee benefit expenses payable
 344 
 312 
Capital creditors
 84 
 40 
Others
 57 
 38 
 518 
 421 
26  Provisions (current)
Provision for warranty
 328 
 248 
Provision for compensated absences (refer note 26(a)(i))
 26 
 25 
Provision for gratuity (refer note 26(a)(iii))
 131 
 22 
 485 
 295 
(i)	Information about individual provisions and significant estimates 
Provision for Warranty 
Provision is made for estimated warranty claims in respect of products sold which are still under warranty at the 
end of the reporting period. These obligations are expected to be settled over more than one financial year and the 
provision has been discounted to reflect the time value of money. The provision is classified as current considering 
the inability of the Company to unconditionally defer settlement beyond one year. Management estimates the 
provision based on historical warranty claim information and any recent trends that may suggest future claims 
could differ from historical amounts.
Provision for Financial Guarantee 
The Company had provided financial guarantee to finance providers of its subsidiaries. In accordance with the 
expected credit loss model prescribed under Ind AS, the management has assessed the expected credit loss to be 
insignificant considering the liquidity and solvency position of the subsidiaries.
(ii)	Movements in provisions 
Movements in each class of provision during the year ended March 31, 2025 are set out below: 
Particulars 
Provision for 
 Warranty
Compensated 
absences
Opening 
 248 
 115 
Additional provisions recognised
 328 
 18 
Amounts utilised/reversed during the year
 (248)
 (15)
Closing 
 328 
 118 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
179
26(a)  Employee benefit obligations
(i)  Compensated absences
The leave obligations cover the Company’s liability for earned leave and sick leave.
a)  The total provision for compensated absences amounts to ` 118 million and ` 115 million as at March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024, including provision towards sick leave amounting to ` 20 million and ` 23 million respectively.
The provision classified as current amounts to ` 26 million and ` 25 million as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 
including provision towards sick leave amounting to ` 4 million and ` 5 million respectively. The current classification 
is resulting from the group's expectation to settle the full amount of current leave obligation in the next 12 months as 
determined by a qualified actuary.
(ii)  Defined contribution plans
Provident Fund:
The Company also has certain defined contribution plans. Contributions are made to provident fund in India for 
employees at the rate of 12% of basic salary as per regulations. The contributions are made to registered provident 
fund administered by the government. The obligation of the Company is limited to the amount contributed and it has 
no further contractual nor any constructive obligation. 	 	
	
Superannuation Fund:
The Company contributes a percentage of eligible employees salary towards superannuation fund administered by 
Elgi Equipments Superannuation Fund and managed by Life Insurance Corporation of India.
The expense recognised during the period towards defined contribution plan is ` 94 million (March 31, 2024 – ` 91 million).
(iii) Post–employment benefit obligations – Gratuity
The Company provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are 
in continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of Gratuity payable on retirement/
termination is the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied 
for the number of years of service. The gratuity is a funded plan and the Company makes contribution to recognised 
fund in India. The Company does not fully fund the liability and maintains a target level of funding to be maintained 
over a period of time based on estimations of expected gratuity payments.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
180
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Remeasurements
(Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions*
 3 
 1 
 2 
Experience (gains)/losses
 (11)
 (3)
 (8)
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income
 (8)
 (2)
 (6)
Employer contributions
– 
 38 
 (38)
Benefit payments
 (36)
 (36)
– 
March 31, 2024
 297 
 275 
 22 
*To be construed as gain/(loss) for column ‘B’.
26(a)  Employee benefit obligations (Continued...)
Particulars
Present 
value of 
obligation
Fair value 
of plan 
assets
Total
(A)
(B)
(A)–(B)
April 01, 2023
 296 
 256 
 40 
Current service cost
 22 
– 
 22 
Interest expense/income
 23 
 19 
 4 
Total amount recognised in profit or loss
 45 
 19 
 26 
April 01, 2024
 297 
 275 
 22 
Current service cost
 23 
– 
 23 
Interest expense/income
 20 
 19 
 1 
Total amount recognised in profit or loss
 43 
 19 
 24 
Remeasurements
(Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions*
 10 
 (1)
 11 
Experience (gains)/losses
 94 
– 
 94 
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income
 104 
 (1)
 105 
Employer contributions
– 
 20 
 (20)
Benefit payments
 (46)
 (46)
– 
March 31, 2025
 398 
 267 
 131 
*To be construed as gain/(loss) for column ‘B’.
The net liability disclosed above relates to funded and unfunded plans are as follows: 
Particulars
 March 31, 2025 
 March 31, 2024
Present value of funded obligations
 398 
 297 
Fair value of plan assets
 267 
 275 
Deficit of funded plan
 131 
 22 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
181
(iv)  Post–employment benefits
The significant actuarial assumptions were as follows
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Discount Rate
6.70%
7.20%
Rate of increase in compensation levels
6.50%
6.50%
Attrition Rate
9.00%
8.00%
(v)  Sensitivity Analysis
A.  Discount Rate + 50 BP
7.20%
7.70%
Defined Benefit Obligation [PVO]
 389 
 290 
B.   Discount Rate – 50 BP
6.20%
6.70%
Defined Benefit Obligation [PVO]
 410 
 305 
C.   Salary Escalation Rate + 50 BP
7.00%
7.00%
Defined Benefit Obligation [PVO]
 408 
 303 
D.   Salary Escalation Rate – 50 BP
6.00%
6.00%
Defined Benefit Obligation [PVO]
 391 
 291 
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. 
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the 
sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of 
the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has 
been applied as when calculating the defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the 
prior period.
(vi)  Major Category of Plan Assets as a % of total Plan Assets
Funds managed by LIC of India
100%
100%
The expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the assessment made at the beginning of the year on 
the return expected on its existing portfolio, along with the estimated increment to the plan assets and expected yield 
on the respective assets in the portfolio during the year. 
(vii)  Risk exposure
The Company operates the Gratuity Plan through Elgi Equipments Gratuity Fund, which invests in Life Insurance 
Corporation of India. 
Asset Volatility: A large portion of the investment made by the LIC is in government bonds and securities and other 
approved securities. Hence, the Company is not exposed to the risk of asset volatility as at the balance sheet date.
Changes in bond yield: A decrease in bond yield will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an 
increase in value of plan's bond holdings.
Inflation Risk: The post employment benefit payments are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.
26(a)  Employee benefit obligations (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
182
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(viii)  Defined benefit liability and employer contributions
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 7.6 years (March 31, 2024 – 7.6 years).
The following are the expected future payments (undiscounted) of defined benefit obligation in the future years. 
Expected contribution to LIC for the next year is ` 131 Million.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Within next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
 88 
 82 
Between 1 to 2 years
 67 
 36 
Between 2 to 5 years
 168 
 123 
Beyond 5 years
 226 
 172 
 549 
 413 
27  Other current liabilities 
Contract liabilities
 152 
 159 
Statutory payable
 126 
 86 
 278 
 245 
Contract liabilities includes advance received from customers and income received in advance arising due to allocation 
of transaction price towards freight on shipments not yet delivered to customer.
28  Revenue from operations
The accounting policy for revenue from operations is as follows:
(a)  Sale of products
The Company manufactures and sells a range of air compressors and related parts. Sales are recognised when control 
of the product has transferred, being when the products are delivered to the customers, and there is no unfulfilled 
obligations that could effect the customer's acceptance of products. Delivery occurs when the product have been 
shipped from the Company's warehouse to the specific location in case of domestic sales, and when a bill of lading 
is generated in case of exports, the risk of obsolescence and loss have been transferred to the customer and either 
the customer has accepted the product in accordance with the sales contract, the acceptance provision have lapsed, 
or the Company has objective evidence that all criteria for acceptance have been satisfied. Where the Company sells 
goods and also has transportation obligation, and where the control of the goods is transferred first, the sale of goods 
and transportation revenue are treated as a separate performance obligations. The Company's obligation to repair/
replace faulty product under the standard warranty terms is recognised as a provision (refer Note 26). A receivable is 
recognised when the goods are delivered as this is the point in time that the consideration is unconditional because 
only the passage of time is required before the payment is due. The credit facility is as per standard industry terms, thus 
there is no significant financing component.
26(a)  Employee benefit obligations (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
183
28  Revenue from operations (Continued...)
(b)  Sale of services
The performance obligation under service contract are installation, maintenance and other ancillary services set forth 
in the contracts. Revenue from rendering of services are recognised over a period of time by reference to the stage of 
completion as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefit provided by the Company's performance 
as the Company performs. In case of transportation revenue, the Company recovers cost of transportation from the 
customers. The cost is either billed separately in the invoice or included in the total transaction price. Where the 
transaction price is inclusive of cost of transportation, the Company splits the transaction price into Sale of product 
and Sale of services. Payment for the service rendered is made as per the credit terms in the agreements with the 
customers. The credit period is generally short term, thus there is no significant financing component.
Refer Note 50(n) for other accounting policies relating to revenue. 
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Revenue from contracts with customers
The Company derives following types of revenue:
–  Sale of products
 20,017 
 17,826 
–  Sale of services
 659 
 482 
Other operating revenues
 133 
 126 
 20,809 
 18,434 
Notes:
a)  Disaggregation of Revenue information:
The table below represents disaggregated revenue from contracts with customers by geography, the Company 
believes that disaggregation best depicts how the nature and cash flows are effected by industry, market and other 
economic factors.
Geography
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
India
15,983
 14,129 
Outside India
 4,826 
 4,305 
 20,809 
 18,434 
b)  Revenue recognised for the year ended March 31, 2025 from opening balance of contract liabilities is ` 146 million 
(March 31, 2024: ` 124 million).
c)  In respect of remaining performance obligations, the disclosure towards allocation of transaction price do not arise 
as the contracts that have an original expected duration of more than one year are not significant.
d)  Revenue from no single external customer contributes to more than 10% of the total revenue.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
184
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
29  Other income
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Interest income – Bank Deposits
 433
 375
Interest income – Others
 71
 54
Financial guarantee commission
 10
 14
Dividend income*
 127
 119
Profit on sale of assets
 4
 46
Gain on fair value/redemption of mutual funds
 1
– 
Share of profit from partnership firm
11
 9
Rental receipts
17
 23
Net gain on foreign currency transaction and translation 
 5
 35
Miscellaneous income (net)
 17
 11
 696
 686
*All dividends from equity investments designated at FVOCI relate to investments held at the end of reporting period. 
There were no investments derecognised during the reporting period.
30  Cost of material consumed
Opening stock of raw materials*
 1,132 
 1,058 
Purchases
 9,166 
 8,214 
 10,298 
 9,272 
Less:
Inventory of materials at the end of the year*
 1,171 
 1,132 
 9,127 
 8,140 
*Excluding R & D inventory.
31  Purchases of stock–in–trade
Oil
 424 
 383 
Others*
 1,673 
 1,329 
 2,097 
 1,712 
*Consists of numerous items which are individually insignificant.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
185
32  Changes in inventories of finished goods, work–in–progress and stock–in–trade
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Opening inventory*
–  Finished goods
 277 
 266 
–  Work–in–progress
 149 
 84 
–  Stock– in–trade
 130 
 132 
Closing inventory*
–  Finished goods
 378 
 277 
–  Work–in–progress
 247 
 149 
–  Stock– in–trade
 164 
 130 
 (233)
 (74)
*Excluding R & D inventory.
33  Employee benefits expense
Salaries, wages and bonus
 2,035 
 1,851 
Contribution to Provident fund & Superannuation scheme
 94 
 91 
Gratuity (refer note 26(a)(iii))
 24 
 26 
Employee stock option expense (refer note 42)
 40 
 12 
Voluntary Retirement scheme (VRS) 
– 
 27 
Staff welfare expenses
 122 
 117 
 2,315 
 2,124 
Note: For managerial remuneration refer note 41. 
34  Finance costs
Interest expenses– related to lease liabilities 
 7 
 2 
Interest expenses– on other financing arrangements
 15 
 52 
 22 
 54 
35  Depreciation and amortisation expenses
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 338 
 337 
Depreciation on investment properties*
– 
– 
Depreciation of right of use assets
 11 
 8 
Amortisation of intangible assets
 10 
 15 
 359 
 360 
*amounts are below rounding off norms adopted by the Company.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
186
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
36  Other expenses
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Packing & forwarding
 228 
 204 
Consumption of stores
 105 
 98 
Tools consumed
 82 
 85 
Commission
 119 
 106 
Repairs and maintenance
–  Building 
 42 
 46 
–  Plant and machinery
 59 
 58 
–  Others
 40 
 34 
Communication expenses
 12 
 12 
Information system expenses
 147 
 121 
Power and fuel
 207 
 190 
Transport charges
 559 
 393 
Travelling & conveyance
 169 
 148 
Insurance 
 20 
 19 
Advertisement & publicity
 78 
 58 
Printing and stationery
 12 
 12 
Research & Development material cost (refer note 48)
 76 
 75 
After sales expenses
 359 
 326 
Factory expenses 
 34 
 30 
Rates and taxes
 11 
 11 
Payment to the auditors (refer note 36(a) below)
 11 
 9 
Subscription & membership
 11 
 11 
CSR expenses (refer note 36(b) below)
 66 
 48 
Donation
 55 
– 
Rent
 21 
 13 
Legal and consultancy charges
 371 
 250 
Contract staffing
 154 
 127 
Directors' sitting fees
 7 
 2 
Bank charges
 12 
 12 
Bad debts written off & loss allowances
 10 
 4 
Miscellaneous expenses
 65 
 22 
 3,142 
 2,524 
–
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
187
36(a)  Details of payment to auditors
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Payment to auditors 
–  audit fees 
 6 
 5 
–  limited review 
 2 
 1 
–  certification services 
 1 
 1 
–  other audit related services 
 1 
 1 
–  reimbursement of out of pocket expenses 
 1 
 1 
 11 
 9 
36(b)  Corporate Social responsibility expenditure
Amount required to be spent as per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013
 66 
 48 
Amount spent during the year on
–  Promoting Education, Sports and Health care 
 25 
 15 
–  Accrual towards unspent obligations in relation to ongoing projects 
(refer note below) 
 41 
 33 
Note: Unspent amounts for ongoing CSR projects under Section 135(6) for the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 
31, 2024, amounting to ` 41 million and ` 33 million, respectively, have been transferred by the Company to the 'Unspent 
CSR Bank account' within 30 days from the end of the respective financial year.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
188
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(a)  Income tax expense
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year
 1,209 
 1,086 
Total current tax expense
 1,209 
 1,086 
Deferred tax
Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets
 (50)
 (27)
(Decrease)/increase in deferred tax liabilities
 16 
 (1)
Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)
 (34)
 (28)
Income tax expense
 1,175 
 1,058 
(b)  Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit 
multiplied by India’s tax rate
Profit before income tax expense
 4,676 
 4,280 
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.168%
 1,177 
 1,077 
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible/(taxable) and 
other adjustments in calculating taxable income:
Dividend income received and redistributed– deduction u/s 80M
 (32)
 (30)
Corporate social responsibility expenditure and donations
 30 
 12 
Deduction u/s 24 of IT Act (Income from house property)
 (1)
 (2)
Share of profit from Partnerhip firms exempt u/s 10(2A)
 (3)
 (2)
Differential tax rate on sale of properties
– 
 (1)
Others
 4 
 4 
Income tax expense for the year
 1,175 
 1,058 
(c)  Undisclosed income
There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in the tax assessments 
under the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books of account.
37  Income tax expense
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
189
Financial instruments by category
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
FVTPL
FVOCI 
Amortised cost 
 FVTPL 
 FVOCI  Amortised cost 
Financial assets
Investments 
–  Equity instruments*
– 
 249 
– 
– 
 193 
–  Mutual funds 
 351 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
Loans 
– 
– 
 691 
– 
– 
 683 
Trade receivables 
– 
– 
 4,604 
– 
– 
 4,991 
Cash and other bank balances 
– 
– 
 7,200 
– 
– 
 6,434 
Derivative financial assets 
 5 
– 
– 
 15 
– 
– 
Security deposits 
– 
– 
 37 
– 
– 
 36 
Others 
– 
– 
 352 
– 
– 
 260 
Total financial assets 
 356 
 249 
 12,884 
 15 
 193 
 12,404 
Financial liabilities 
Borrowings 
–
–
–
–
–
 1,096 
Trade payables 
–
–
 2,103 
–
–
 2,156 
Dealer deposits 
–
–
 21 
–
–
 22 
Employee benefit expenses 
payable 
–
–
 344 
–
–
 312 
Capital creditors 
–
–
 84 
–
–
 40 
Others 
–
–
 69 
–
–
 47 
Total financial liabilities 
–
–
 2,621 
–
–
 3,673 
*Excluding investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, carried at cost less impairment losses aggregating to 
` 1,706 million (March 31, 2024 – ` 1,706 million) which are outside scope of Ind AS 107.
The equity securities are not held for trading; the Company has made an irrevocable election at initial recognition 
to recognise changes in fair value through OCI rather than profit or loss as these are strategic investments and the 
Company considers this to be more relevant.
(i)  Fair value hierarchy
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments 
that are (a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are 
disclosed in the financial statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining 
fair value, the Company has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting 
standard. An explanation of each level follows underneath the table.
38  Fair value measurements
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
190
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
38  Fair value measurements (Continued...)
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements
As at March 31, 2025
Notes
Level 1
Level 2
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Financial Investments at FVTPL:
Derivatives not designated as hedges
–  Foreign exchange forward contracts
17
–
 5 
–
 5 
Unquoted mutual funds
6(b)
 351 
–
–
 351 
Financial Investments at FVOCI:
Quoted equity investments
6(a)
 228 
–
–
 228 
Unquoted equity investments
6(a)
–
–
 21 
 21 
Total financial assets
 579 
 5 
 21 
 605 
Assets and liabilities which are measured at amortised cost for which fair values are disclosed
As at March 31, 2025
Notes
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Loans
Loans to subsidiaries
7
–
–
 602 
 602 
Loans to employees
7, 16
–
–
 89 
 89 
Security deposits
8
–
–
 37 
 37 
Total financial assets
–
–
 728 
 728 
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements
As at March 31, 2024
Notes
Level 1
Level 2
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Derivatives not designated as hedges
Foreign exchange forward contracts
17
–
 15 
–
 15 
Financial Investments at FVOCI
Quoted equity investments
6
 172 
–
–
 172 
Unquoted equity investments
6
–
–
 21 
 21 
Total financial assets 
 172 
 15 
 21 
 208 
*Amounts are below rounding off norms adopted by the Company.
Assets and liabilities which are measured at amortised cost for which fair values are disclosed
As at March 31, 2024
Notes
Level 1
Level 2
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Loans
Loans to subsidiaries
7
–
–
 588 
 588 
Loans to employees
7, 16
– 	
–
 95 
 95 
Security deposits
8
–
–
 36 
 36 
Total financial assets 
–
–
 719 
 719 
Financial Liabilities
Borrowings
23
–
–
 1,096 
 1,096 
–
–
 1,096 
 1,096 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
191
Quoted prices in an active market (Level 1): Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted 
prices in the active market. This category consists quoted equity shares. The fair value of all equity instruments which 
are traded in stock exchanges is valued using closing price as at the reporting period. Mutual funds are valued using 
closing NAV. Since mutual funds invested by the Company are not quoted/traded on a recognized stock exchange, those 
have been disclosed as 'unquoted'. However, mutual funds are valued using closing NAV which is directly observable.
Valuation techniques with observable inputs (Level 2): The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an 
active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques which maximise 
the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs 
required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. This level of hierarchy includes 
Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts.
Valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3): If one or more of the significant inputs is not 
based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. Investment in unquoted equity instrument (First 
Energy TN1 Pvt Ltd and First Energy 5 Pvt Ltd), pursuant to power purchase arrangement, is determined to have cost as 
an appropriate measure of fair value due to restriction to sell at face value.
There are no transfers between level 1, level 2 and level 3 during the year.
The Company’s policy is to recognise transfers into and transfers out of fair value hierarchy levels as at the end of the 
reporting period.
(ii)  Valuation technique used to determine fair value
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
	
z
the use of quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments
	
z
the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance 
sheet date
	
z
the fair value of the remaining financial instruments is determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
(iii)  Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
Carrying amount 
Fair value 
Financial assets
Loans
Loan to Subsidiaries
 602 
 602 
 588 
 588 
Loans to employees
 89 
 89 
 95 
 95 
Security deposits
 37 
 37 
 36 
 36 
Total financial assets 
 728 
 728 
 719 
 719 
Financial liabilities 
Borrowings
–
–
 1,096 
 1,096 
Total financial liabilities 
–
–
 1,096 
 1,096 
The carrying amounts of trade receivables, trade payables, dealer deposits, cash and bank balances, borrowings and other 
financial liabilities and financial assets are considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their short-term nature.
The fair values for loan to subsidiaries, loans to employees were calculated based on cash flows discounted using 
a current lending rate. They are classified as level 3 fair values in the fair value hierarchy due to the inclusion of 
unobservable inputs including counterparty credit risk.
38  Fair value measurements (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
192
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
38  Fair value measurements (Continued...)
For financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, the carrying amounts are equal to the fair values.
For equity instruments measured at FVOCI whose fair value measurement was performed using unobservable inputs 
(Level 3), the reconciliation from opening balance to closing balance and relationship between such unobservable inputs 
and fair value has not been disclosed considering that the carrying amount of such instruments is not significant.
39  Financial risk management
The Company’s activities expose it to market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
This note explains the sources of risk which the entity is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk and the impact 
of hedge accounting in the financial statements.
Risk 
Exposure arising from
Measurement
Management
Credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, 
debt mutual funds, trade 
receivables, loan to 
subsidiaries (including 
guarantees), derivative 
financial instruments, 
financial assets measured at 
amortised cost.
Ageing analysis, Credit ratings
Diversifying bank deposits, 
mutual fund plans and 
AMCs, setting appropriate 
credit limits, and utilizing 
letters of credit for specific 
transactions.
Liquidity risk
Borrowings and other 
liabilities
Rolling cash flow forecasts
Availability of committed 
credit lines and borrowing 
facilities
Market risk–
foreign exchange
Recognised financial assets 
and liabilities not denominated 
in Indian rupee (INR)
Cash flow forecasting 
Sensitivity analysis
Forward foreign exchange 
contracts
Market risk–
security prices
Investments in equity 
securities
Sensitivity analysis
Portfolio diversification
The Company’s risk management is carried out by treasury department under policies approved by the board of 
directors. Company's treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Company’s 
operating units. The board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering 
specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and 
non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
(A)  Credit risk
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, favourable derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks 
and debt mutual funds, as well as credit exposures to customers including outstanding receivables.
(i) Credit risk management
For banks and Asset Management Companies (AMC's), only high rated banks/institutions are accepted.
The Company assesses the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience 
and other factors. Individual risk limits are set based on internal and external ratings in accordance with the limits set 
by the Company. The finance function consists of a separate team who assess and maintain an internal credit rating 
system. The compliance with the credit limits by customers is regularly monitored by the finance function.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
193
(ii)  Security
For some trade receivables, the Company may obtain security in form of guarantees, deeds of undertaking or letter of 
credit, which can be called upon if counter party is in default under the terms of the agreement.
(iii)  Impairment of financial assets
The Company assigns the following internal credit ratings to each class of financial assets based on the assumptions, 
inputs and factors specific to the class of the financial asset. The Company provides for expected credit loss based on 
the following:
Internal 
rating
Category
Description of category
Basis for recognition of expected credit loss provision
Cash & 
Investments
Loans and 
deposits
Trade receivables
C1
High quality 
assets, 
negligible 
credit risk
Assets where the counter-
party has strong capacity 
to meet the obligations and 
where the risk of default is 
negligible or nil
12-month 
expected credit 
losses
12-month 
expected credit 
losses
Life-time 
expected credit 
losses (simplified 
approach)
C2
Doubtful 
assets, credit 
impaired
Assets are written off when 
there is no reasonable 
expectation of recovery, 
such as a debtor declaring 
bankruptcy or failing to 
engage in a repayment 
plan with the Company. 
Where loans or receivables 
have been written off, the 
Company continues to 
engage in enforcement 
activity to attempt to 
recover the receivable due. 
Where recoveries are made, 
these are recognised in profit 
or loss.
Asset is written off
For the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024
(a)  Expected credit loss for loans, security deposits and investments
The entity's investments and deposits at amortized cost are considered to have low credit risk since they have a low risk 
of default and the issuer has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations in the near term.
For loans to related parties and employees, the Company considers the probability of default upon initial recognition 
of loan and whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting 
period. To assess whether there is a significant increase in credit risk, the Company compares the risk of a default 
occurring on the loan as at the reporting date with the risk of default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers 
available reasonable and supportive forwarding-looking information. The following indicators are considered:
	
z
internal credit rating
	
z
actual or expected significant adverse changes in business, financial or economic conditions that are expected to 
cause a significant change to the borrower’s ability to meet its obligations
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
194
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
	
z
actual or expected significant changes in the operating results of the borrower
	
z
significant increases in credit risk on other financial instruments of the same borrower
	
z
macroeconomic information (such as market interest rates or growth rates)
The resultant internal credit rating for loans, deposits and investments is C1. The entity estimates that the 12-month 
expected credit loss in this scenario and the estimated gross carrying amount at default to be immaterial and hence 
there is no expected credit loss recognised for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
The Company also has provided guarantee for loans availed by subsidiaries (Refer Note 51), for which the Company 
assesses credit risk by considering the risk of default occurring on the loan to which the guarantee relates i.e., the risk 
that the specified debtor will default on the contract.
The entity carries out a review of the liquidity and solvency of the subsidiaries to which the guarantee has been 
provided as part of its strategic business reviews. The entity also corroborates its assessment with the repayments of 
receivables and loans by the subsidiaries to the entity. Based on the assessment performed, no expected credit loss 
provision has been made in respect of financial guarantee provided to subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2025 
and March 31, 2024, as in the management's assessment the amount was immaterial.
(b)  Expected credit loss for trade receivables and contract assets under simplified approach
Customer credit risk is managed by the Company based on the Company's established policy, procedures and control 
relating to customer credit risk management. The credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an internal credit 
rating system. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and assessed for the recoverability. 
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date, where receivables are grouped into homogeneous credit 
groups and assessed for impairment. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of 
each class of financial assets disclosed in Note 12 and 15. The Company evaluates the concentration of risk with respect 
to trade receivables and contract assets as low, as its customers have sufficient capacity to meet the obligations and 
the risk of default is negligible.
The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of sales over a period of 24 months before the reporting 
date and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within this period. The historical loss rates are adjusted 
to reflect current and forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of the customers to 
settle the receivables, if any.
Trade receivables and contract assets are written off where there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators 
that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery include, amongst others, the failure of a debtor to engage in a 
repayment plan with the Company, and a failure to make contractual payments for a period of greater than 720 days 
past due and the same may be considered as credit impaired. 
Impairment losses on trade receivables and contract assets are presented as loss allowances under other expenses. 
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the same line item.
The Company has computed the expected credit loss allowance for trade receivables and contract assets based on a 
provision matrix. The provision matrix takes into account historical credit loss experience and is adjusted for forward-
looking information.
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
195
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
Particulars
Not due 
(including 
retention 
money) 
Overdue by/past due by
Total
 Less than 
3 months 
 3 to 6 
months 
 6 months 
to 1 year  1– 2 years 
More than 
2 years 
As at March 31, 2025
Gross carrying amount–
trade receivables
 4,291 
 265 
 33 
 11 
 5 
 28 
 4,633 
Contract Assets
 142 
–
–
–
–
–
 142 
Expected loss rate
1%
0%
0%
0%
0%
4%
Expected credit losses  
(Loss allowance provision)–
Trade receivables
–
–
–
–
–
 1 
 1 
Expected credit losses  
(Loss allowance provision)–
Contract assets
 35 
–
–
–
–
–
 35 
Loss Allowance – Credit Impaired–
Trade receivables
–
–
–
–
 1 
 27 
 28 
Total Loss allowance provision
 35 
–
–
–
 1 
 28 
 64 
Carrying amount of Trade 
receivables (net of credit loss 
allowance)
 4,291 
 265 
 33 
 11 
 4 
–
 4,604 
Carrying amount of Contract 
assets (net of credit loss 
allowance)
 107 
–
–
–
–
–
 107 
As at March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount–trade 
receivables
 4,165 
 548 
 274 
 18 
 10 
 15 
 5,030 
Contract Assets
 131 
–
–
–
–
–
 131 
Expected loss rate
1%
1%
1%
22%
90%
40%
Expected credit losses 
(Loss allowance provision)– 
Trade receivables
–
 3 
 2 
 4 
 9 
 6 
 24 
Expected credit losses 
(Loss allowance provision)–
Contract assets
 27 
–
–
–
–
–
 27 
Loss Allowance – Credit Impaired
–
–
–
 5 
 1 
 9 
 15 
Total Loss allowance provision
 27 
 3 
 2 
 9 
 10 
 15 
 66 
Carrying amount of Trade 
receivables (net of credit loss 
allowance)
 4,165 
 545 
 272 
 9 
–
–
 4,991 
Carrying amount of Contract 
assets (net of credit loss 
allowance)
 104 
–
–
–
–
–
 104 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
196
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
(iv)  Reconciliation of loss allowance provision 
Loss allowance on April 01, 2023
 60 
Changes in loss allowance 
 6 
Loss allowance on March 31, 2024
 66 
Changes in loss allowance 
 (2)
Loss allowance on March 31, 2025
 64 
(B)  Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability 
of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities to meet obligations when due and to close out 
market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Company treasury maintains flexibility 
in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines. Management monitors rolling forecasts of the 
Company’s liquidity position (comprising the undrawn borrowing facilities below) and cash and cash equivalents on 
the basis of expected cash flows.
(i)  Financing arrangements
The Company has access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the reporting period:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Floating rate
Expiring within one year (including other facilities)
 4,249 
 3,190 
The credit facility sanctioned by the banks are subject to renewal every year.
Subject to the continuance of satisfactory credit ratings, the bank loan facilities may be drawn at any time in INR and 
can be renewed for further period of 1 year.
(ii)  Maturities of financial liabilities
The tables below analyse the Company’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on their contractual 
maturities for:
a.  all non-derivative financial liabilities, and
b.  net and gross settled derivative financial instruments for which the contractual maturities are essential for an 
understanding of the timing of the cash flows.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal 
their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities:
Particulars
 Less than 
3 months 
3 months to 
6 months 
6 months to 
1 year 
Between 1 
and 2 years 
Between 2 
and 5 years 
Total
March 31, 2025
Non–derivatives
Lease liabilities
 5 
 4 
 8 
 15 
 212 
 244 
Trade payables
 2,103 
–
–
–
–
 2,103 
Other financial liabilities
 518 
–
–
–
–
 518 
Total non-derivative liabilities
 2,626 
 4 
 8 
 15 
 212 
 2,865 
Financial guarantees	
 2,333 
–
 838 
–
–
 3,171 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
197
(c)  Market risk
(i)  Foreign currency risk
The Company operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency transactions, 
primarily with respect to the USD, EUR and AUD. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and 
recognised assets and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the Company’s functional currency (INR). The risk 
is measured through a forecast of highly probable foreign currency cash flows. The risk is managed by the Company by 
entering into Forward Contracts. 
(Amounts in million in respective currencies)
Particulars
Financial assets
Financial liabilities
Trade 
receivables*
Loans
Cash and Cash 
equivalents
Net exposure 
(assets)
Trade 
payables
Net exposure 
(liabilities)
March 31, 2025
USD 
–
 7 
–
 7 
–
–
EUR 
 1 
–
–
 1 
 1 
 1 
AUD 
 1 
–
–
 1 
–
–
BRL 
 2 
–
–
 2 
–
–
RMB 
–
–
–
–
 4 
 4 
MYR 
 5 
–
–
 5 
–
–
March 31, 2024	
USD 
 2 
 7 
 1 
 10 
 1 
 1 
EUR 
 1 
–
–
 1 
 1 
 1 
AUD 
 1 
–
–
 1 
–
–
BRL 
 6 
–
–
 6 
–
–
RMB 
–
–
–
–
 10 
 10 
*Trade receivables are disclosed after offsetting forward contracts in the corresponding currency as applicable.
Sensitivity
The sensitivity of profit or loss to changes in the exchange rates arises mainly from foreign currency denominated 
financial instruments.
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
Particulars
 Less than 
3 months 
3 months to 
6 months 
6 months to 
1 year 
Between 1 
and 2 years 
Between 2 
and 5 years 
Total
March 31, 2024
Non–derivatives
Borrowings
 696 
 400 
–
–
–
 1,096 
Lease liabilities
 2 
 1 
 3 
 5 
 11 
 22 
Trade payables
 2,156 
–
–
–
–
 2,156 
Other financial liabilities
 421 
–
–
–
–
 421 
Total non–derivative liabilities 
 3,275 
 401 
 3 
 5 
 11 
 3,695 
Financial guarantees
–
–
 14 
 2,817 
 306 
 3,137 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
198
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Particulars
Impact on profit after tax (in INR million)*
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
USD sensitivity
INR/USD increases by 5% 
 23 
 28 
INR/USD decreases by 5% 
 (23)
 (28)
EURO sensitivity
INR/EURO increases by 5% 
 0 
 (1)
INR/EURO decreases by 5% 
 (0)
 1 
AUD sensitivity
INR/AUD increases by 5% 
 1 
 1 
INR/AUD decreases by 5% 
 (1)
 (1)
BRL sensitivity
INR/BRL increases by 5% 
 1 
 4 
INR/BRL decreases by 5% 
 (1)
 (4)
RMB sensitivity
INR/RMB increases by 5% 
 (2)
 (4)
INR/RMB decreases by 5% 
 2 
 4 
MYR sensitivity
INR/MYR increases by 5% 
 3 
–
INR/MYR decreases by 5% 
 (3)
–
*Amount in bracket represents losses
(ii)  Price risk
The Company’s exposure to equity securities price risk arises from investments held by the Company and classified in 
the balance sheet as fair value through OCI.
To manage its price risk arising from investments in equity securities, the Company diversifies its portfolio. Diversification 
of the portfolio is done in accordance with the limits set by the Company.
The majority of the Company's equity instruments are publicly traded and are included in the Bombay Stock Exchange 
(BSE) index.
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
199
Sensitivity
The table below summarises the impact of increases/decreases of the index on the Company’s equity and total 
comprehensive income for the period. The analysis is based on the assumption that the equity index had increased by 
5% or decreased by 5% with all other variables held constant, and that all the Company’s equity instruments moved in 
line with the index.
Particulars
Impact on other components of equity
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
BSE Sensex – increase 5%
 10
 8
BSE Sensex – decrease 5%
 (10)
 (8)
Other components of equity would increase/decrease as a result of gains/losses on equity securities classified as fair 
value though other comprehensive income.
Since the income from mutual funds during the current period is not material, the sensitivity disclosure has not 
been provided.
40  Capital management
(a)  Risk management
The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to
	
z
provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and
	
z
maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Company monitors capital on the basis of the following ratio: 
Net debt (total borrowings and lease liabilities net of cash and cash equivalents and deposits with banks and financial 
institutions) divided by Total ‘equity’ (as shown in the balance sheet).
The above ratio of the Company is as follows:
Particulars
Impact on other components of equity
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Net debt (refer note 23)*
–
–
Total equity
 17,265 
 14,694 
Net debt to equity ratio
–
–
*Presented as nil since it is negative.
(i)  Loan covenants
The Company has complied with all the loan covenants throughout the reporting period. 
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
200
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
40  Capital management (Continued...)
41  Related party transactions
(a)  Name of the related parties and nature of relationship:
(i)  Where control exists:
Subsidiaries
Name of entity
Place of 
business
Ownership interest held 
by the company
Principal activities
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
%
%
ATS Elgi Limited
India
 100 
 100 
Manufacture and trading of 
automotive equipments
Elgi Gulf FZE
U.A.E.
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
Elgi Gulf Mechanical and Engineering 
Equipment Trading LLC*
U.A.E.
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
Elgi Compressors Do Brasil Imp.E.Exp LTDA
Brazil
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
Elgi Equipments Australia Pty Limited
Australia
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors 
Elgi Compressors Italy S.R.L
Italy
 100 
 100 
Manufacture and trading of 
compressors
Rotair SPA*
Italy
 100 
 100 
Manufacture and trading 
of compressors, hydraulic 
hammers and rampi cars
Elgi Compressors Europe S.R.L
Belgium
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors 
Elgi Compressors Iberia S.L.*
Spain
 100 
 100 
Marketing of air compressors 
Elgi Compressors Nordics*
Sweden
 100 
 100 
Marketing of air compressors 
Elgi Compressors Eastern Europe sp. z.o.o.*
Poland
 100 
 100 
Marketing of air compressors 
(b)  Dividends
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(i)  Equity shares
Final dividend recognised for the year ended March 31, 2024 of ` 2.00/– 
(March 31, 2023 – ` 2.00/- per fully paid share)
634 
 634 
(ii)  Dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period	
For the year ended March 31, 2024 directors had recommended the 
payment of a final dividend of ` 2.00/– per fully paid equity share 
which was subsequently approved by the shareholders in the annual 
general meeting.
– 
634
Subsequent to the year ended March 31, 2025, the directors have 
recommended the payment of a final dividend of ` 2.20/– per fully 
paid equity share. This proposed dividend is subject to the approval of 
shareholders in the ensuing annual general meeting.
697
–
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
201
41  Related party transactions (Continued...)
Name of entity
Place of 
business
Ownership interest held 
by the company
Principal activities
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
%
%
Elgi Compressors UK and Ireland Limited*
United 
Kingdom
 100 
 100 
Marketing of air compressors 
Elgi Compressors Southern Europe S.R.L*
Italy
 100 
 100 
Marketing of air compressors
Elgi Compressors France SAS*
France
 100 
 100 
Marketing of air compressors 
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.
USA
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
Patton's Inc*
USA
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors & 
servicing of compressors
Patton's Medical LLC.*
USA
 100 
 100 
Manufacturing and Trading 
of compressed air systems 
and vacuum pumps for 
medical applications
Michigan Air Solutions*
USA
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors & 
servicing of compressors
Industrial Air Compressors Pty Ltd
Australia
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
F.R. Pulford & Son Pty Limited*
Australia
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors, 
nitrogen systems, altitude 
training systems
Advanced Air Compressors Pty Ltd*
Australia
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
Adisons Precision Instruments 
Manufacturing Company Limited
India
 100 
 100
Renting out of property
PT Elgi Equipments Indonesia
Indonesia
 100 
 100
Trading of air compressors
Elgi Compressors (M) SDN. BHD.
Malaysia
 100
 100
Trading of air compressors
Ergo Design Private Limited
India
 100
 100
Design services
*Step-down subsidiaries
(ii)  Other related parties with whom transactions have taken place during the year
Joint venture
Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited
Industrial Air Solutions LLP
Evergreen Compressed Air and Vacuum LLC (jointly controlled entity of  
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.)
Compressed Air Solutions of Texas, LLC (jointly controlled entity of  
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.)*
PLA Holding Company LLC. (jointly controlled entity of Elgi Compressors USA Inc.)
Patton’s Of California LLC. (wholly owned subsidiary of PLA Holding Company LLC.)
G3 Industrial Solutions, LLC. (jointly controlled entity of Elgi Compressors USA Inc.)**
Gentex Air Solutions, LLC. (jointly controlled entity of Elgi Compressors USA Inc.)
CS Industrial Services, LLC. (jointly controlled entity of Elgi Compressors USA Inc.)**
Subsidiaries (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
202
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(ii)  Other related parties with whom transactions have taken place during the year (Continued...)
Post employment benefit plan
Elgi Equipments Gratuity Fund
(Refer note 26 (a))
Elgi Equipments Superannuation Fund
Employee stock option plan
Elgi Equipments Limited Employees Stock Option Trust
Key management personnel
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj, Managing Director, Elgi Equipments Limited
Mr. Indranil Sen, Chief Financial Officer, Elgi Equipments Limited
Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj, Executive Director, Elgi Equipments Limited
Non–Executive Directors
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj
Mrs. Aruna Thangaraj [Re-appointed on July 31, 2024]
Mr. N. Mohan Nambiar [Retired on April 10, 2024]
Mr. Suman Kumar Das [Appointed on July 31, 2024]
Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran [Appointed on July 31, 2024]
Mr. Srinivasan Krishnamurthi [Appointed on July 31, 2024]
Mr. M. Ramprasad [Cessation w.e.f. August 01, 2024]
Mr. B. Vijaykumar [Cessation w.e.f. August 01, 2024]
Dr. Ganesh Devaraj [Cessation w.e.f. August 01, 2024]
Other companies/firms in 
which directors or their 
relatives are interested
L.G. Balakrishnan & Bros Limited
Elgi Ultra Industries Private Limited #
Elgi Ultra Private Limited
Elgi Rubber Company Limited
LGB Forge Limited
Festo India Private Limited
AGT Electronics Limited
Pricol Engineering lndustries Pvt Limited
Dark Horse Portfolio Investment Private Limited
*Classified as asset held for sale as at March 31, 2025.
**Divested during the year ended March 31, 2025.
#Elgi Ultra Industries Private Limited was merged with Dark Horse Portfolio Investment Private Limited during the year 
ended March 31, 2025.
41  Related party transactions (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
203
41  Related party transactions (Continued...)
Details of Joint Ventures
The Company has 26% interest in Joint venture called Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited which was set up as Company 
together with JP Sauer & Sohn Maschinenbau GMBH in India, to sell compressors and their parts along with rendering 
engineering services.
The Company has 50% share in Industrial Air Solutions LLP which was set up as Limited liability partnership in India 
with Mr. Rajeev Sharma, for distribution of products of Elgi Equipments Limited.
The Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Elgi Compressors USA Inc., has established a joint venture, Evergreen 
Compressed Air and Vacuum LLC, with Mr. Michael Keim, each holding a 50% share. The joint venture's registered office 
is in Seattle, USA, and it is distributor of products of Elgi Equipments Limited.
The Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Elgi Compressors USA Inc., has established a joint venture, Compressed 
Air Solutions of Texas, LLC, with Mr. Bryan Becker, with each party holding a 50% share. This joint venture distributes 
products for compressed air systems primarily in the state of Texas. It is classified as held for sale during the year.
The Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Elgi Compressors USA Inc, has set up a joint venture called PLA 
Holding Company, LLC, with Mr. Jeffery Brandon Todd for a share of 50% each. The joint venture was formed in the state 
of North Carolina. PLA Holding Company, LLC, wholly owns Pattons of California, LLC, a California Company which is a 
distributor of products for compressed air systems mainly in the state of California.
The Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Elgi Compressors USA Inc, has set up a joint venture called 
G3 Industrial Solutions, LLC, with Mr. Chad Gooding and Mr. Luke Johnson for a share of one third for each. The joint 
venture is a distributor of products for compressed air systems mainly in the states of Kansas city and Missouri. 
The joint venture was divested during the year.
The Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Elgi Compressors USA Inc, has set up a joint venture called Gentex 
Air Solutions, LLC, with Mr. James Gery Naico and Mr.Diego Hernandez for a share of one third for each. The joint 
venture is a distributor of products for compressed air systems mainly in the states of North Carolina.
The Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Elgi Compressors USA Inc, has set up a joint venture called 
CS Industrial Services, LLC, with Mr. Kevin Melisz and Mr. Jeff Kurczewski for a share of one third for each. The joint 
venture is a distributor of products for compressed air systems mainly in the states of Western Newyork. The joint 
venture was divested during the year.
Details of Joint Operations
The Company has 98% interest in a joint arrangement called L.G. Balakrishnan & Bros (Firm) which was set up as 
partnership firm in India together with Elgi Ultra Private Limited to earn rental income from Investment Property.
The Company has 80% interest in a Joint arrangement called Elgi Services which was set up as partnership firm in India 
together with Elgi Ultra Private Limited.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
204
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(b)  Particulars of transactions with related parties
The following transactions occurred with related parties:
Description
Subsidiaries
Joint Venture & 
Others
Key Management 
Personnel
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
Purchase of goods
 41 
 19 
 11 
 16 
–
–
Purchase of property, plant & equipment
 1 
 8 
–
–
–
–
Sale of goods
 4,046 
 3,407 
 381 
 329 
–
–
Receiving services
 16 
 10 
 19 
 15 
–
–
Providing services (sale of services)
 187 
 137 
 8 
 10 
–
–
Interest
–  Received from related parties
 44 
 40 
–
 1 
–
–
Reimbursement of expenses
–  To related parties
 167 
 143 
 5 
 3 
–
–
–  By related parties
 92 
 37 
 2 
 1 
–
–
Financial guarantee commission received
10
14
–
–
–
–
Dividend/share of profit from partnership firm
–  Received from related parties
100
95
37
33
 – 
–
–  Paid to related parties
–
–
129
143
45
61
Key management personnel compensation*
 
 
Short–term employee benefits
–
–
–
 68 
49
Other long–term benefits
–
–
–
–
3
3
*The above Key management personnel compensation does not include gratuity since the same is computed actuarially 
for all the employees and amount attributable to key management personnel cannot be ascertained separately and does 
not include unvested share based payments.
The remuneration paid to the Managing Director amounting to ` 26 million and to the Executive Director amounting to 
` 18 million is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 read with schedule V to the Companies Act, 2013.
41  Related party transactions (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
205
(c)  Outstanding balances
The following balances are outstanding at the end of the reporting period in relation to transactions with related parties:
Description
Subsidiaries
Joint Venture & Others
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Payable at the end of the year 
 61 
 63 
 2 
 4 
Total payables to related parties 
 61 
 63 
 2 
 4 
Trade receivable at the end of the year 
 2,298 
 2,778 
 52 
 43 
Other receivables at the end of the year 
 40 
 57 
 11 
 2 
Loans receivable at the end of the year 
 602 
 588 
–
–
Interest accrued on the loans at the end of 
the year 
 11 
 10 
–
–
Total receivables from related parties 
 2,951 
 3,433 
 63 
 45 
No loss allowance has been recognised during the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 in respect of receivables 
due from related parties.
(c)  Terms and conditions
Transactions relating to dividends, subscriptions for new equity shares were on the same terms and conditions that applied 
to other shareholders. All other transactions were made on normal commercial terms & conditions and market rates.
All outstanding balances are unsecured and payable in cash.
41A  Details of material transactions with related parties
Particulars
Subsidiaries
Joint ventures & Others
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
Purchase of goods
Rotair SPA
 38 
 19 
–
–
Elgi Compressors Do Brasil Imp.E.Exp LTDA
 3 
–
–
–
Pricol Engineering lndustries Pvt Limited
–
–
 2 
–
Festo lndia Private Limited
–
–
 2 
–
LGB Forge Limited
–
–
 7 
 13 
Purchase of Property Plant and Equipment
ATS Elgi Limited
 1 
 8 
–
–
41A  Details of material transactions with related parties (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
206
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Sale of goods
Elgi Gulf FZE
 862 
 518 
–
–
Elgi Compressors Do Brasil Imp.E.Exp LTDA
 232 
 206 
–
–
Elgi Equipments Australia Pty Limited
 266 
 320 
–
–
Rotair SPA
 130 
 188 
–
–
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.
 1,192 
 1,012 
–
–
PT Elgi Equipments Indonesia
 52 
 80 
–
–
Elgi Compressors Europe SRL
 1,186 
 1,025 
–
–
ATS Elgi Limited
 29 
 25 
–
–
Elgi Compressors (M) Sdn. Bhd
 83 
 29 
–
–
Patton's Medical LLC
 14 
 3 
Industrial Air Solutions LLP
–
–
 373 
 320 
LGB Forge Limited
–
–
 4 
 6 
Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited
–
–
 2 
 2 
Receiving services
Ergo Design Private Limited
 12 
 10 
–
Adison Precisions Instrument Mfg Co Ltd
 4 
–
–
–
Elgi Ultra Private Limited
–
–
 1 
 3 
AGT Electronics Limited
–
–
 16 
 10 
Providing services (sale of services)
ATS Elgi Limited
 38 
 30 
–
–
Elgi Gulf FZE
 28 
 11 
–
–
Elgi Equipments Australia Pty Limited
 13 
 17 
–
–
Rotair SPA
 2 
 3 
–
–
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.
 64 
 48 
–
–
PT Elgi Equipments Indonesia
 2 
 3 
–
–
Elgi Compressors Europe SRL
 21 
 14 
–
–
Elgi Compressors Do Brazil Imp.E.Exp. Ltda
 5 
 5 
–
–
Elgi Compressors (M) Sdn. Bhd
 14 
 5 
–
–
Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited
–
–
 5 
 4 
Elgi Ultra Private Limited
–
–
–
 2 
Interest – Received from related party
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.
 44 
 40 
–
–
Industrial Air Solutions LLP
–
–
–
 1 
41A  Details of material transactions with related parties (Continued...)
(i)  Transactions during the year (Continued..)
Particulars
Subsidiaries
Joint ventures & Others
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
207
Financial guarantee commission received
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.
 3 
 2 
–
–
Elgi Compressors Europe SRL
 8 
 11 
–
–
Dividends – Paid to related party
Dark Horse Portfolio Investment 
Private Limited
–
–
 107 
 107 
Elgi Ultra Industries Private Limited
–
–
 21 
 21 
Dividends – Received from related party
ATS Elgi Limited
 100 
 95 
–
–
Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited
–
–
 26 
 24 
Industrial Air Solutions LLP
–
–
 11 
 9 
(ii)  Outstanding balances
Payables at the end of the year
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.
 14 
 8 
–
–
ATS Elgi Limited
 3 
 9 
–
–
Rotair Spa
 18 
 4 
–
–
PT Elgi Equipments Indonesia*
–
 3 
–
–
Elgi Gulf FZE
 1 
 1 
–
–
Elgi Equipments Australia Pty Limited
 1 
 24 
–
–
Elgi Compressors Europe S.R.L
 16 
 14 
–
–
Ergo Design Private Limited
 2 
–
–
–
Elgi Compressors (M) Sdn. Bhd
 2 
–
–
–
AGT Electronics Ltd
–
–
–
 3 
Trade receivables at the end of the year
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.
 898 
 861 
–
–
Elgi Gulf FZE
 77 
 234 
–
–
Elgi Compressors (M) Sdn. Bhd
 91 
 32 
–
–
PT Elgi Equipments Indonesia
 27 
 33 
–
–
Rotair SPA
 78 
 112 
–
–
Elgi Equipments Australia Pty Limited
 132 
 196 
–
–
Elgi Compressors Do Brasil Imp.E.Exp LTDA
 33 
 101 
–
–
Elgi Compressors Europe S.R.L
 943 
 1,201 
–
–
ATS Elgi Limited
 6 
 4 
–
–
Industrial Air Solutions LLP
–
–
 49 
 41 
Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited
–
–
 2 
 1 
41A  Details of material transactions with related parties (Continued...)
(i)  Transactions during the year (Continued..)
Particulars
Subsidiaries
Joint ventures & Others
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
208
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Other receivables at the end of the year
Elgi Compressors Europe S.R.L
 12 
 21 
–
–
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.
 6 
 18 
–
–
Rotiar SPA
 5 
–
–
–
Elgi Equipments Australia Pty Limited
 1 
 7 
–
–
ATS Elgi Limited
 9 
 8 
–
–
F.R. Pulford & Son Pty Limited
 2 
–
–
–
Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited
–
–
 7 
–
LGB Forge Limited
–
–
 3 
–
Loan receivables at the end of the year
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.
 602 
 588 
–
–
Interest accrued on the loans at the end 
of the year
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.
 11 
 10 
–
–
*Amounts are below rounding off norms adopted by the Company.
41A  Details of material transactions with related parties (Continued...)
(ii)  Outstanding balances (Continued..)
Particulars
Subsidiaries
Joint ventures & Others
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
209
42  Share based payments
Employee Stock Option Plan
The establishment of Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock Options Plan, 2019 (Elgi ESOP 2019) was approved by the 
Board of Directors at its meeting held on December 16, 2019 and by the shareholders by way of postal ballot on January 31, 
2020. The plan shall be administered through a Trust via the acquisition of the equity shares from the secondary market.
The Elgi ESOP 2019 plan is designed to provide benefits to the eligible employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. 
Under the plan, the participants are granted options that vest upon completion of service that is not more than three 
years from the grant date. Participation in the plan is at the board's discretion, and no individual has a contractual right 
to participate in the plan or to receive any guaranteed benefits.
Once vested, the options remain exercisable for a period of three months.
Options are granted under the plan for no consideration and carry no dividend or voting rights. When exercisable, each 
option is convertible into one equity share.
Set out below is the summary of options granted under the plan:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Average exercise 
price per share 
option (`)
Number of 
Options
Average exercise 
price per share 
option (`)
Number of 
Options
Opening balance
 340 
 496,800 
 274 
 522,000 
Granted during the year*
 592 
 347,000 
 430 
 175,900 
Exercised during the year
 269 
 (288,300)
 202 
 (139,400)
Forfeited during the year
 565 
 (4,900)
 353 
 (61,700)
Closing balance
 534 
 550,600 
 340 
 496,800 
Vested and exercisable
–
–
–
–
*During the year ended March 31, 2025, the Company granted 339,600 shares on May 27, 2024, and 7,400 shares on 
June 11, 2024, each with a face value of ` 1/- and an exercise price of ` 592.10 per share. For the year ended March 31, 
2024, the Company granted 175,900 shares with a face value of ` 1/- and an exercise price of ` 430.00 per share on 
August 28, 2023.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year and their remaining contractual life March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024:
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Grant date
Expiry date
Exercise 
price (`)
Share 
Options
Contractual 
life (in Yrs)
Exercise 
price (`)
Share 
Options
Contractual 
life (in Yrs)
August 03, 2021
November 01, 2024
–
–
–
 225
 229,600 
 0.59 
September 26, 2022
December 25, 2025
 450 
 79,300 
 0.74 
 450 
 105,800 
 1.74 
August 28, 2023
June 30, 2026
 430 
 128,400 
 1.25 
 430 
 161,400 
 2.25 
May 27, 2024
June 30, 2026
 592 
 26,000 
 1.25 
–
–
–
May 27, 2024
June 30, 2027
 592 
 309,500 
 2.25 
–
–
–
June 11, 2024
June 30, 2026
 592 
 7,400 
 1.25 
–
–
–
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
210
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
42  Share based payments (Continued...)
(i) Fair value of options granted
The fair value at grant date is independently determined using the Black-Scholes Model which takes into account 
the exercise price, the term of the option, the share price at the grant date and expected volatility of the underlying 
share, the expected dividend yield and the risk-free rate for the term of the option. The model inputs for the options 
granted included:
Grant phase
 2 
 3 
 4 
 5 
 5 
 5 
No. of options
 4,74,300 
 1,52,600 
 1,75,900 
 3,13,600 
 26,000 
 7,400 
Grant date
August 03, 
2021
September 26,  
2022
August 28, 
2023
May 27, 
2024
May 27, 
2024
June 11, 
2024
Expiry date
November 01, 
2024
December 25, 
2025
June 30, 
2026
June 30, 
2026
June 30, 
2027
June 30, 
2026
Exercise price
 225.00 
 450.00 
 430.00 
 592.10 
 592.10 
 592.10 
Share price at 
grant date
 212.50 
 421.45 
 463.95 
 652.40 
 652.40 
 609.75 
Expected price 
volatility
40.41%
60.50%
49.20%
52.43%
42.42%
41.98%
Risk-free 
interest rate
4.98%
7.34%
7.17%
7.01%
7.01%
7.01%
Expected 
dividend yield*
0.38%
0.27%
0.43%
0.31%
0.31%
0.33%
Latest dividend 
declared
 0.80 
 1.15 
 2.00 
 2.00 
 2.00 
 2.00 
Fair value
 65.29 
 189.46 
 186.45 
 289.15 
 212.33 
 177.78 
The expected volatility is computed using standard deviation of returns of the share prices, for the term equal to 
residual maturity of the option life.
(ii) Expense arising from the share based transactions
Total expense arising from the employee stock options plan recognised in profit or loss as a part of employee benefit 
expenses for March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 is:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Employee stock option expense
 58 
 22 
Less: Amount recovered from subsidiaries
 (18)
 (10)
Net expense carried to statement of profit and loss (refer note 33)
 40 
 12 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
211
43  Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
Contingent liabilities
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts
(i)	 The Company has disputed demands for excise 
duty, service tax and sales tax and other matters 
amounting to ` 14 million and ` 11 million as on 
March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively. The 
Company has deposited ` 3 million and ` 2  million 
against the above-mentioned disputes as on 
March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively.
	
The Company has filed appeals with appropriate 
authorities of Central Excise and Sales Tax 
Department against their claims.
(ii)	 The Company had deposited a sum of ` 19 million 
with the Railways department of the Government of 
India regarding a Road Under Bridge (RUB) project 
undertaken by the Railways near the Company’s 
factory at Kodangipalayam village. As Railways had 
planned for a limited-use subway and as the RUB 
project undertaken would benefit the public at large, 
the deposit was made as directed by the Madras 
High Court as an interim measure, pending finality as 
to whether the Company has to bear the full cost or 
only the differential cost. The Company received an 
unfavourable order on June 03, 2020, from the single 
judge of the Madras High Court holding that neither 
party is required to make any payment to the other. 
The Company filed an appeal against this order 
before the division bench and was able to get a stay 
of the single judge's order. The Company appealed 
to the division bench, and the matter was referred 
to arbitration. 
	
On September 05, 2024, the arbitrator issued an 
award in favor of the Company, upholding its claim 
of ` 11 million, after deducting ` 8 million as the 
incremental cost of RUB which is already accounted 
for in the Company’s books, to be paid along with 
interest at 9% per annum, accruing from October 29, 
2014. Additionally, litigation expenses and ` 1 million 
towards arbitrator fees have been awarded by the 
arbitrator. All claims and counterclaims by the 
Railways were rejected by the arbitrator. After the 
arbitral award, the Company received notice from 
Railways’ lawyers that the Railways have applied to 
Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 
1996, to set aside the award. The Company has filed 
a Caveat and has also filed an execution petition 
before the Hon'ble High Court of Madras for the 
enforcement of the arbitrator’s award.
(iii)	The Company has evaluated the impact of the 
Supreme Court Judgment in case of “Vivekananda 
Vidyamandir And Others Vs The Regional Provident 
Fund Commissioner (II) West Bengal” and the related 
circular (Circular No. C-I/1(33)2019/Vivekananda 
Vidya Mandir/284) dated March 20, 2019 issued 
by the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation 
in relation to non-exclusion of certain allowances 
from the definition of “basic wages” of the relevant 
employees for the purposes of determining 
contribution to provident fund under the Employees' 
Provident Funds & Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 
1952. In the assessment of the management, the 
aforesaid matter is not likely to have a significant 
impact and accordingly, no provision has been made 
in these Financial Statements.
(iv)	The Company received summons’ in the previous 
years, from a statutory authority, i.e, under the 
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 ('FEMA'), 
seeking information primarily relating to imports, 
exports 
including 
sales 
to 
subsidiaries 
and 
subsidiaries to their customers and overseas direct 
investments, including transactions of earlier years.
	
The Company has submitted all the relevant 
information sought for by the authority from time to 
time to address the queries raised in the summons’ 
and hearings. The Company's application for no-
objection certificates during the previous year for 
making overseas investments/providing guarantees 
in favour of its subsidiaries was not cleared by the 
statutory authorities and no reasons were cited. In 
the management's assessment, this is not likely to 
have a significant impact on the financial statements 
as of and for the year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
212
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
43A  Whistle blower 
The Company has received whistle-blower complaints during the year and for certain matters which were open as at 
March 31, 2025. Based on preliminary findings these are not considered to have any significant impact on the financial 
statements of the Company. For the matters closed, the entity has assessed that there is no impact on the financial 
statements for the year ended March 31, 2025.
44  Commitments
(a)  Capital commitments
Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not recognised as liabilities is as follows:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed  
on capital account
1,514 
322 
45  Details of dues to Micro enterprises and Small enterprises under the Micro, 
Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act 2006.
Principal amount due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and 
remaining unpaid at the year end*
515 
454 
Interest due to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act and remaining 
unpaid at the year end.
6 
6 
Principal amounts paid to suppliers registered under the MSMED Act, 
beyond the appointed day during the year.
29 
11 
Interest paid (other than Section 16 of MSMED Act) to suppliers 
registered under the MSMED Act, beyond the appointed day during 
the year.
Nil 
Nil 
Interest paid under Section 16 of MSMED Act to suppliers registered 
under the MSMED Act, beyond the appointed day during the year.
Nil 
Nil 
Interest due and payable towards suppliers registered under MSMED 
Act, for the payments already made.
– 
– 
Further interest remaining due and payable for earlier years.
6 
6 
*The amount includes payables contractually not due of ` 479 million (March 31, 2024: ` 454 million). Refer to Note 24 
for the ageing of trade payables.
The information has been given in respect of vendors to the extent they could be identified as “Micro and Small 
enterprises” on the basis of information available with the Company.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
213
46  Earnings per equity share 
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(a)  Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the 
Company
 11.09 
 10.19 
(b)  Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the 
Company
 11.07 
 10.19 
(c)  Reconciliations of earnings used in calculating earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
Profit attributable to equity holders of the company used in calculating 
basic earnings per share
 3,501 
 3,222 
Diluted earnings per share
Profit attributable to equity holders of the company
–  used in calculating basic earnings per share
 3,501 
 3,222 
–­  used in calculating diluted earnings per share
 3,501 
 3,222 
(d)  Weighted average number of equity shares used as the denominator 
in calculating basic earnings per share
 315.70 
 316.18 
Adjustments for calculation of diluted earnings per share:
 0.49 
 0.12 
Weighted average number of equity shares used as the denominator in 
calculating diluted earnings per share
 316.19 
 316.30 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
214
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
47  Assets pledged as security
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Current
(a)	 Charge on entire Stocks and Receivables, both present and future
 6,741 
 6,855 
(b)	 Charge on specific land, building and machinery
 1,315 
 1,358 
(c)	 Cash Margin
 309 
 309 
 8,365 
 8,522 
(i)  Borrowing secured against current assets
The Company has working capital limits from banks received on the basis of security of current assets. 
The provisional/final quarterly returns or statement of current assets filed by the Company with banks and financial 
institutions are in agreement with the unaudited books of accounts.
(ii)  Utilisation of borrowed funds and share premium
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
a)  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
b)  provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(is), including foreign entities (Funding Party) 
with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
a)  directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
b)  provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries
(iii)  Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies
There are no charges or satisfaction which are yet to be registered with the Registrar of Companies beyond the 
statutory period.
48  Details of Research and Development (R&D) expenses
(i)	 Capital
 27 
 24 
(ii)	 Salaries & Wages
 243 
 259 
(iii)	 R&D Materials 
 76 
 75 
(iv)	Other expenses
 50 
 39 
 396 
 397 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
215
49  Joint Operations and ESOP Trust
The Company has two joint operations as detailed in Note 41.
The Company has determined its interest in the assets and liabilities relating to the joint operation on the basis of its 
rights and obligations in a specified proportion in accordance with the contractual arrangement.
(i)  The following share of summarised assets and liabilities arising from the financial statements of joint operation 
has been recognised under Ind AS
Particulars
L.G. Balakrishnan & Bros.
Elgi Services
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Non–current assets
Property, plant and equipment
 112 
 112 
–
–
Total non–current assets
 112 
 112 
–
–
Current assets
(i)  Cash and cash equivalents
 3 
 3 
–
–
Total current assets
 3 
 3 
–
–
Total Assets
 115 
 115 
–
–
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)  Trade payables*
–
–
–
–
Total current liabilities
–
–
–
–
Partners current account
 (9)
 (9)
–
–
Net Assets 
 124 
 124 
–
–
*Amounts are below the rounding off norms adopted by the Company.
(ii)  Consequent to the above, the following inter company assets and liabilities have been derecognised.
Particulars
L.G. Balakrishnan & Bros.
Elgi Services
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Investment
124 
 124 
–
–
Inter–Company assets & liabilities
–
–
–
–
 124 
 124 
–
–
(iii)  The following share of income and expenditure has been recognised under Ind AS (net of Inter company 
income/expenses):
Particulars
L.G. Balakrishnan & Bros.
Elgi Services
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Revenue & other income
 1 
 1 
–
–
Expenses: 
Other expenses
 1 
 1 
–
–
Current tax expense
–
–
Profit/(loss) after tax
–
–
–
–
(iv)	 The ESOP trust established for administering a share-based payment plan for employees is considered an 
extension of the Company and therefore, included in the standalone financial statements. The ESOP trust has 
investments in Elgi Shares amounting to ` 634 million, which has been deducted from equity (being treasury 
shares) in the Standalone Financial Statements and cash and cash equivalents amounting to ` 6 million, other 
current assets amounting to ` 3 million and trade payables amounting to ` 639 million, which have been disclosed 
under the same heads in the Standalone Financial Statements.
	
The trust's net income for the year ended March 31, 2025, is ` 1 million.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
216
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
50  Other Accounting Policies
(a)  Property, Plant and Equipment
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly 
attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, 
only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the Company and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying 
amount of any component accounted for as a separate 
asset is derecognised when replaced. All other repairs 
and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred.
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately 
to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount 
is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Gains 
and losses on disposals are determined by comparing 
proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in 
profit or loss within other income/(expense).
Refer Note 3(a) for entity specific accounting policies on 
Property, plant and equipment.
(b)  Leases
As a lessee
Leases are recognised as a right of use asset and a 
corresponding liability at the date at which the leased 
asset is available for the use by the Company. 
Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially 
measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities include 
the net present value of the following lease payments:
	
z
fixed 
payments 
(including 
in–substance 
fixed 
payments), less any lease incentives receivable
	
z
variable lease payment that are based on an index or a 
rate, initially measured using the index or rate as at the 
commencement date
	
z
amounts expected to be payable by the Company 
under residual value guarantees
	
z
the exercise price of a purchase option if the Company 
is reasonably certain to exercise that option, and
	
z
payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the 
lease term reflects the Company exercising that option.
Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain 
extension options are also included in the measurement 
of the liability. The lease payments are discounted using 
the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be 
readily determined, which is generally the case for leases 
in the Company, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is 
used, being the rate that the individual lessee would have 
to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of 
similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic 
environment with similar terms, security and conditions.
To 
determine 
the 
incremental 
borrowing 
rate, 
the Company:
	
z
where possible, uses recent third-party financing 
received by the individual lessee as a starting point, 
adjusted to reflect changes in financing conditions 
since third party financing was received
	
z
uses a build-up approach that starts with a risk-free 
interest rate adjusted for credit risk for leases held by 
Elgi equipments limited, which does not have recent 
third party financing, and 
	
z
makes adjustments specific to the lease, such as term, 
country, currency and security.
Right–of–use assets are measured at cost comprising the 
following:
	
z
the amount of the initial measurement of lease liability
	
z
any lease payments made at or before the 
commencement date less any lease incentives received
	
z
any initial direct costs and
	
z
restoration costs
Right-of-use assets are generally depreciated over the 
shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease term on a 
straight-line basis. If the Company is reasonably certain 
to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is 
depreciated over the underlying asset’s useful life. 
Payments associated with short-term leases are recognised 
on a straight-line basis as an expense in profit or loss. Short-
term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less. 
As a lessor
Lease income from operating leases where the Company 
is a lessor is recognised in income on a straight-line basis 
over the lease term unless the receipts are structured 
to increase in line with expected general inflation to 
compensate for the expected inflationary cost increases. 
The respective leased assets are included in the balance 
sheet based on their nature.
Refer Note 3(b) for entity specific accounting policies on 
Right of use assets. 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
217
(c)  Investment properties
Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for 
capital appreciation or both and that is not occupied 
by the Company, is classified as investment property. 
Investment property is measured initially at its cost, 
including 
related 
transaction 
costs. 
Subsequent 
expenditure is capitalised to the asset’s carrying amount 
only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the expenditure will flow to the Company 
and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All 
other repairs and maintenance costs are expensed 
when incurred. When part of an investment property 
is replaced, the carrying amount of the replaced part is 
derecognised.
Refer Note 4 for entity specific accounting policies on 
investment properties. 
(d)  Intangible assets
(i)  Goodwill
Goodwill on acquisition of business is included in 
intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortised but 
tested for impairment annually, or more frequently 
if events or changes in the circumstances indicate 
that it might be impaired and is carried at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses. Gains and losses 
on the disposal of a business include the carrying 
amount of goodwill relating to the business sold. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the 
purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to 
cash generating unit which is expected to benefit from 
business combination in which the goodwill arose.
(ii)  Other intangible assets
Development costs that are directly attributable to the 
design and testing of identifiable and unique products 
controlled by the Company are recognised as intangible 
assets when the following criteria are met:
a)  it is technically feasible to complete the asset so that 
it will be available for use
b)  management intends to complete the asset and use 
or sell it
c)  there is an ability to use or sell the product
d)  it can be demonstrated how the asset will generate 
probable future economic benefits
e)  adequate technical, financial and other resources 
to complete the development and to use or sell the 
asset are available and
f)  the expenditure attributable to the asset during its 
development can be reliably measured.
Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of 
the products include employee costs and an appropriate 
portion of relevant overheads. Capitalised development 
costs are recorded as intangible assets and amortised 
from the point at which the asset is available for use. 
Research and development expenditure that do not 
meet the criteria for recognition as intangible assets 
are recognised as an expense as incurred. Development 
costs previously recognised as an expense are not 
recognised as an asset in the subsequent period.
Refer Note 5 for entity specific accounting policies on 
Goodwill and other intangible assets. 
(e)  Investments and other financial assets
(i)  Classification
The Company classifies its financial assets in the 
following measurement categories:
a)  those to be measured subsequently at fair value 
(either through other comprehensive income, or 
through profit or loss), and
b)  those measured at amortised cost.
The classification depends on the Company's business 
model for managing the financial assets and the 
contractual terms of the cash flows. For assets 
measured at fair value, gains and losses will either 
be recorded in profit or loss or other comprehensive 
income. For investments in debt instruments, this will 
depend on the business model in which the investment 
is held. For investments in equity instruments, this 
will depend on whether the Company has made an 
irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to 
account for the equity investment at fair value through 
other comprehensive income.
The Company reclassifies debt investments when 
and only when its business model for managing those 
assets changes.
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
218
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
(ii)  Measurement
At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial 
asset (excluding trade receivables which do not contain 
significant financing component) at its fair value plus, 
in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through 
profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. 
Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value 
through profit or loss are expensed in profit or loss.
Debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends 
on the Company's business model for managing the 
asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. 
There are three measurement categories into which the 
Company classifies its debt instruments:
a)  Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection 
of contractual cash flows where those cash flows 
represent solely payments of principal and interest are 
measured at amortised cost. Interest income from these 
financial assets is included in finance income using the 
effective interest rate method. Any gain or loss arising 
on derecognition is recognised direct in profit or loss and 
presented in other income/(expense). Impairment losses 
are presented as separate line item in the statement of 
profit or loss.
b)  Fair value through other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI): Assets that are held for collection of contractual 
cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the 
assets' cash flows represent solely payments of principal 
and interest, are measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (FVOCI). Movements in the 
carrying amount are taken through OCI, except for 
the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest 
revenue and foreign exchange gains and losses which are 
recognised in profit and loss. When the financial asset 
is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss previously 
recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or 
loss and recognised in other income/(expense). Interest 
income from these financial assets is included in other 
income using the effective interest rate method.
c)  Fair value through profit or loss (FVPL): Assets that 
do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVOCI are 
measured at fair value through profit or loss. A gain or loss 
on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at 
fair value through profit or loss and is not part of a hedging 
relationship is recognised in profit or loss and presented 
net in the statement of profit and loss within other income/
(expense) in the period in which it arises. Interest income 
from these financial assets is included in other income.
Equity instruments
The Company measures all equity investments at fair 
value, except for investments forming part of interest in 
subsidiaries and joint ventures, which are measured at 
cost. Where the Company's management has elected to 
present fair value gains and losses on equity investments 
in other comprehensive income, there is no subsequent 
reclassification of fair value gains and losses to profit or 
loss. Dividends from such investments are recognised in 
profit or loss as other income when the Company's right 
to receive payments is established.
All investments in equity instruments and contracts on 
those instruments are measured at fair value. However, 
in limited circumstances, cost may be an appropriate 
estimate of fair value. That may be the case if insufficient 
more recent information is available to measure fair 
value, or if there is a wide range of possible fair value 
measurements and cost represents the best estimate of 
fair value within that range.
The entity accounts for its investment in power 
purchase agreements at cost as the change in 
performance of the investee or market or economic 
environment will not impact the ultimate cash flows of 
the equity instrument.
Changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss are recognised in other income/
(expense) in the statement of profit and loss. Impairment 
losses (and reversal of impairment losses) on equity 
investments measured at FVOCI are not reported 
separately from other changes in fair value.
Impairment of financial assets
The Company assesses on a forward looking basis the 
expected credit losses associated with its assets carried 
at amortised cost and FVOCI debt instruments. The 
impairment methodology applied depends on whether 
there has been a significant increase in credit risk. Note 
39 details how the Company determines whether there 
has been a significant increase in credit risk.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
219
For trade receivables only, the Company applies the 
simplified approach permitted by Ind AS 109 Financial 
Instruments, which requires expected lifetime losses to 
be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
Derecognition of financial assets
A financial asset is derecognised only when
a)  The Company has transferred the rights to receive 
cash flows from the financial asset or
b)  The Company retains the contractual rights to receive 
the cash flows of the financial asset but assumes a 
contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one 
or more recipients.
Where the Company has transferred an asset, it 
evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all 
risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset. In 
such cases, the financial asset is derecognised. Where 
the Company has not transferred substantially all risks 
and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the 
financial asset is not derecognised.
Where the Company has neither transferred a financial 
asset nor retains substantially all risks and rewards of 
ownership of the financial asset, the financial asset is 
derecognised if the Company has not retained control 
of the financial asset. Where the Company retains 
control of the financial asset, the asset is continued to 
be recognised to the extent of continuing involvement in 
the financial asset.
Income recognition
a)  Interest income
Interest income on financial assets at amortised cost is 
calculated using the effective interest rate method is 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss as part of 
other income. 
Interest income is calculated by applying the effective 
interest rate to the gross carrying amount of a financial 
assets except for financial assets that subsequently 
become credit impaired. For credit-impaired financial 
assets the effective interest rate is applied to the net 
carrying amount of the financial asset (after deduction 
of loss allowance).
b) Dividends
Dividends are recognised in profit or loss only when the 
right to receive payment is established, it is probable 
that the economic benefits associated with the dividend 
will flow to the Company and the amount of the dividend 
can be measured reliably.
Refer Note 6 for entity–specific accounting policies 
pertaining to investments and financial assets. 
(f)  Inventories
Raw materials and stores, work in progress, traded and 
finished goods.
Raw materials and stores, work in progress, traded and 
finished goods are stated at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Cost of raw materials and traded goods 
comprises cost of purchases. Cost of work-in-progress 
and finished goods comprises direct materials, direct 
labour and an appropriate proportion of variable and 
fixed overhead expenditure, the latter being allocated 
on the basis of normal operating capacity. Cost of 
inventories also include all other costs incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their present location and 
condition. Costs of purchased inventory are determined 
after deducting rebates and discounts. Net realisable 
value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course 
of business less the estimated costs of completion and 
the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Refer Note 11 for entity–specific accounting policies 
relating to inventories. 
(g)  Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of 
cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on 
hand, other short-term highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less that are 
readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which 
are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
(h)  Contributed Equity
Equity shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of 
new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, 
net of tax, from the proceeds.
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
220
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(i)  Employee benefits
(i)  Short–term obligations
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-
monetary benefits that are expected to be settled 
wholly within 12 months after the end of the period in 
which the employees render the related service are 
recognised in respect of employees’ services up to the 
end of the reporting period and are measured at the 
amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are 
settled. The liabilities are presented as other financial 
liabilities in the balance sheet.
(ii)  Other long–term employee benefit obligations
The liabilities for earned leave that are not expected to 
be settled wholly within 12 months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the related service 
are measured as the present value of expected future 
payments to be made in respect of services provided 
by employees up to the end of the reporting period 
using the projected unit credit method. The benefits 
are discounted using the market yields at the end of 
the reporting period that have terms approximating to 
the terms of the related obligation. Remeasurements 
as a result of experience adjustments and changes in 
actuarial assumptions are recognised in profit or loss.
The amount of non–current and current portions of 
leave obligation is normally determined by a qualified 
Actuary and presented accordingly.
(iii)  Post–employment obligations
The Company operates the following post–employment 
schemes:
(a)  defined benefit plans such as gratuity and
(b)  defined contribution plans such as provident fund 
and Superannuation fund.
Gratuity obligations
The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in 
respect of defined benefit gratuity plans is the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of 
the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. 
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by 
actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is 
determined by discounting the estimated future cash 
outflows by reference to market yields at the end of the 
reporting period on government bonds that have terms 
approximating to the terms of the related obligation. 
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit 
obligation and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is 
included in employee benefit expense in the statement 
of profit and loss.
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience 
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in the period in which they occur, directly 
in other comprehensive income. They are included in 
retained earnings in the statement of changes in equity 
and in the balance sheet.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation 
resulting 
from 
plan 
amendments 
or 
curtailments are recognised immediately in profit or loss 
as past service cost.
Defined contribution plans
The Company pays provident fund and superannuation 
fund contributions to Employee Provident Fund 
Account as per Employees Provident Fund Act, 1952 
and a Life Insurance Corporation of India respectively. 
The Company has no further payment obligations once 
the contributions have been paid. The contributions 
are accounted for as defined contribution plans and 
the contributions are recognised as employee benefit 
expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are 
recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund 
or a reduction in the future payments is available.
(iv)  Bonus plans
The Company recognises a liability and an expense for 
bonuses. The Company recognises a provision where 
contractually obliged or where there is a past practice 
that has created a constructive obligation.
(v)  Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when employment 
is terminated by the Company before the normal 
retirement date, or when an employee accepts 
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
221
voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. 
The Company recognises termination benefits at the 
earlier of the following dates: (a) when the Company can 
no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits; and (b) 
when the Company recognises costs for a restructuring 
that is within the scope of Ind AS 37 and involves the 
payment of termination benefits. In the case of an 
offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the 
termination benefits are measured based on the number 
of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits 
falling due more than 12 months after the end of the 
reporting period are discounted to present value.
(vi)  Share based payments
Share based compensation benefits are provided to the 
employees via Elgi Equipments Limited Employees Stock 
Option Plan, 2019, an employee stock option scheme.
The fair value of options granted under the Elgi 
Equipments Limited Employee Stock Option Plan, 2019 
is recognised as an employee benefit expense with a 
corresponding increase in the equity. The total amount 
to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair 
value of the options granted,
–  including any market performance conditions (e.g., 
the entity's share price)
–  excluding the impact of any service and non–market 
performance vesting conditions (e.g. profitability, 
sales growth targets and remaining of an employee of 
the entity over a specified time period) and
–  including the impact of any non–vesting conditions 
(e.g. the requirement for employees to hold the shares 
for a specific period of time).
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, 
which is the period over which all of the specified vesting 
conditions are to be satisfied. At the end of each period, 
the entity revises its estimates of the number of options 
that are expected to vest based on the non-market 
vesting and service conditions. It recognises the impact 
of the revision to original estimates, if any, in profit or 
loss, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
(j)  Trade and other payables
These amounts represent liabilities for goods and 
services provided to the Company prior to the end 
of financial year which are unpaid. Trade and other 
payables are presented as current liabilities unless 
payment is not due within 12 months after the reporting 
period. They are recognised initially at their fair value 
and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method.
(k)  Provisions
Provisions for legal claims, service warranties, volume 
discounts and returns are recognised when the Company 
has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation and the amount 
can be reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognised 
for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the 
likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement 
is determined by considering the class of obligations as 
a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood 
of an outflow with respect to any one item included in 
the same class of obligations may be small.
Provisions are measured at the present value of 
management’s best estimate of the expenditure 
required to settle the present obligation at the end of the 
reporting period. The discount rate used to determine 
the present value is a pre-tax rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the liability. The increase in the 
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as 
interest expense.
(l)  Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of 
transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost. Any difference between the 
proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption 
amount is recognised in profit or loss over the period 
of the borrowings using the effective interest method. 
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
222
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are 
recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent 
that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be 
drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the 
draw down occurs. To the extent there is no evidence 
that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be 
drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for 
liquidity services and amortised over the period of the 
facility to which it relates.
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when 
the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, 
cancelled or expired. The difference between the 
carrying amount of a financial liability that has been 
extinguished or transferred to another party and the 
consideration paid, including any non-cash assets 
transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit 
or loss as other income/other expenses.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless 
the Company has an unconditional right to defer 
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after 
the reporting period. Where there is a breach of a 
material provision of a long-term loan arrangement 
on or before the end of the reporting period with the 
effect that the liability becomes payable on demand 
on the reporting date, the entity does not classify 
the liability as current, if the lender agreed, after 
the reporting period and before the approval of the 
financial statements for issue, not to demand payment 
as a consequence of the breach.
(m)  Borrowing costs
General and specific borrowing costs that are directly 
attributable 
to 
the 
acquisition, 
construction 
or 
production of a qualifying asset are capitalised during 
the period of time that is required to complete and 
prepare the asset for its intended use or sale. Qualifying 
assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial 
period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale. 
Investment income earned on the temporary investment 
of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on 
qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs 
eligible for capitalisation. 
Other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in 
which they are incurred.
(n)  Revenue from operations
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control 
of a promised goods or service and thus has the ability 
to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the goods 
or service in an amount that reflects the consideration 
(transaction price) to which the entity expects to be 
entitled in exchange for those goods and services. For 
each contract with a customer, the Company applies 
the below five step process before revenue can be 
recognised:
*  identify contracts with customers
*  identify the separate performance obligation
*  determine the transaction price of the Contract
*  allocate the transaction price to each of the separate 
performance obligations, and
*  recognise the revenue as each performance obligation 
is satisfied
Duty Drawback: Income from duty drawback is 
recognised on an accrual basis
Retention receivables arising from project contracts 
have been classified as contract assets as per Ind AS 115 
and regrouped accordingly.
Royalty: Royalty is recognised on accrual basis in 
accordance with terms of respective agreements.
Refer Note 28 for entity-specific policies on revenue. 
(o)  Government grants
Grants from the government are recognised at their fair 
value where there is a reasonable assurance that the 
grant will be received and the Company will comply with 
all the attached conditions.
Government grants relating to income are deferred and 
recognised in the profit or loss over the period necessary 
to match them with the costs that they are intended to 
compensate. Government grant is recognised either as 
other income or adjusted against expenses depending 
upon the nature of the grant and the same is followed 
consistently.
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
223
Government grants relating to purchase of property, 
plant and equipment are presented by deducting the 
grant from carrying amount of the asset.
(p)  Income taxes
The income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax 
payable on the current period's taxable income based 
on the applicable income tax rate adjusted by changes 
in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to 
temporary differences and to unused tax losses.
Current tax liabilities (assets) for the current and prior 
periods are measured at the amount expected to 
be paid to (recovered from) the taxation authorities, 
using the tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting 
period. Management periodically evaluates positions 
taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It 
establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of 
amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability 
method, on temporary differences arising between the tax 
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts 
in the standalone financial statements. However, deferred 
tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the 
initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred income tax is also 
not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an 
asset or liability in a transaction other than a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax loss). 
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and 
laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by 
the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply 
when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or 
the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is 
probable that future taxable amounts will be available 
to utilise those temporary differences and losses.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate 
to the same taxation authority. Current tax assets and 
tax liabilities are offset where the entity has a legally 
enforceable right to offset and intends either to settle 
on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the 
liability simultaneously.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in 
other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this 
case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, respectively.
(q)  Business Combinations
A business combination is a transaction or other event 
in which an acquirer obtains control of one or more 
businesses and results in the consolidation of the 
assets and liabilities acquired. Business combinations 
are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. 
The Company also elects to apply the optional test 
(the concentration test) which permits a simplified 
assessment of whether an acquired set of activities and 
assets is not a business on each transaction basis.
The consideration transferred is the sum of the acquisition-
date fair values of the assets transferred, equity 
instruments issued or liabilities incurred by the acquirer 
to former owners of the acquiree. Deferred consideration 
payable is measured at its acquisition-date fair value. 
Contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer 
is recognised at the acquisition-date fair value. At each 
reporting date subsequent to the acquisition, contingent 
consideration payable is measured at its fair value with 
any changes in the fair value recognised in profit or loss 
unless the contingent consideration is classified as equity, 
in which case the contingent consideration is carried at its 
acquisition-date fair value.
Goodwill is recognised initially at the excess of: (a) the 
aggregate of the consideration transferred, over (b) 
the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed. Acquisition related costs are 
expensed as incurred.
(r)  Impairment of assets
Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite 
useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested 
annually for impairment, or more frequently if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that they might 
be impaired. 
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
224
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Other assets (including investments) are tested 
for impairment whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may 
not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised 
for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount 
exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of 
disposal and value in use. For the purposes of assessing 
impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for 
which there are separately identifiable cash inflows 
which are largely independent of the cash inflows from 
other assets or groups of assets (cash-generating units). 
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered 
an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the 
impairment at the end of each reporting period.
(s)  Foreign currency translation
(i)  Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of the 
Company are measured using the currency of the primary 
economic environment in which the Company operates 
(‘the functional currency’). The standalone financial 
statements are presented in Indian rupee (INR), which is 
the Company's functional and presentation currency.
(ii)  Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
functional currency using the exchange rates at the dates 
of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses 
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and 
from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies at year end exchange 
rates are generally recognised in profit or loss.
Foreign exchange differences regarded as an adjustment 
to borrowing costs are presented in the statement of 
profit and loss, within finance costs. All other foreign 
exchange gains and losses are presented in the statement 
of profit and loss on a net basis within other income.
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value 
in a foreign currency are translated using exchange 
rates at the date when the fair value was determined. 
Translation differences on assets and liabilities carried 
at fair value are reported as a part of the fair value gain 
or loss.
(t)  Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to 
the chief operating decision maker. The Managing 
Director (MD) of the Company has been identified as 
the chief operating decision maker of the Company. 
He assesses the financial performance and position 
of the Company and makes strategic decisions. 
The business activities of the Company comprise of 
manufacturing and sale of compressors. Accordingly, 
there is no other reportable segment as per Ind AS 108 
Operating Segments.
(u)  Accounting for Joint Operations
The Company recognises its direct right to the assets, 
liabilities, revenues and expenses of joint operations and 
its share of any jointly held or incurred assets, liabilities, 
revenues and expenses. These have been incorporated in 
the financial statements under the appropriate headings. 
Details of the joint operations are set out in note 49.
(v)  Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net 
amount is reported in the balance sheet where there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised 
amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net 
basis or realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not 
be contingent on future events and must be enforceable 
in the normal course of business and in the event of 
default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company or 
the counterparty.
(w)  Dividends
Provision is made for the amount of any dividend 
declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer 
at the discretion of the entity, on or before the end of 
the reporting period but not distributed at the end of 
the reporting period.
(x)  Insurance Claims
Insurance claims are accounted for on the basis of claims 
admitted/expected to be admitted and to the extent 
that the amount recoverable can be measured reliably 
and it is virtually certain to expect ultimate collection.
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
225
(y)  Earnings Per Share
(i)  Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
a)  the profit attributable to owners of the Company
b)  by the weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the financial year, adjusted for 
bonus elements in equity shares issued during the 
year and excluding treasury shares (note 46).
(ii)  Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in 
the determination of basic earnings per share to take 
into account:
a)  the after income tax effect of interest and other 
financing costs associated with dilutive potential 
equity shares, and
b)  the weighted average number of additional equity 
shares that would have been outstanding assuming 
the conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares.
(z)  Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those which in the management's 
judgement are material items that derive from events 
or transactions falling within the ordinary activities of 
the Company but are not expected to be recurring. The 
nature and amount of exceptional items are relevant to 
the users of the financial statements in understanding 
the financial position or performance of the Company. 
The same is presented separately in the statement 
of profit and loss (before tax) and balance sheet as 
applicable. 
(aa)  Rounding of amounts
All amounts disclosed in the financial statements 
and  notes have been rounded off to the nearest 
millions as per the requirement of Schedule III, unless 
otherwise stated.
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
226
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
51  Disclosures Pursuant to Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligation and Disclosures and Disclosures Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and 
Section 186 of The Companies Act, 2013
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(a)  Loans and advances to subsidiaries
Elgi Compressors USA Inc. – USA
Balance as at the year end
602
 588 
Maximum amount outstanding at any time during the year
602 
 579 
(b)  Guarantees to Subsidiaries
Balance as at the year end
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.–USA
 530 
 517 
Industrial Air Compressors Pty Ltd–Australia
 838 
 841 
Elgi Compressors Europe S.R.L–Belgium
 1,566 
 1,529 
Elgi Compressors France SAS
 37 
 50 
ATS Elgi Limited
 200 
 200 
Nature & purpose of loans and guarantees:
(i)	 The Company has advanced loan and provided guarantee to its subsidiaries- Elgi Compressors USA Inc. and 
Industrial Air Compressors Pty Ltd. to fund the business acquisitions and additional working capital requirements. 
The guarantees provided to Elgi Compressors Europe S.R.L- Belgium is for the purpose of meeting working capital 
requirements and Elgi Compressors France SAS is for incurring capital expenditure. 
(ii)	 The loans carry interest rates which are at par with the prevailing market rates. These loans are repayable within 
March 31, 2030.
52  Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating 
decision maker. The Managing Director (MD) of the Company has been identified as the chief operating decision maker 
of the Company. He assesses the financial performance and position of the Company and makes strategic decisions. 
The business activities of the Company comprise of manufacturing and sale of compressors. Accordingly, there is no 
other reportable segment as per Ind AS 108 Operating Segments.
As regards the entity wide disclosures, the revenue attributable to the country of domicile and foreign countries have 
been disclosed in Note 28 (Disaggregation of revenue). There are no non-current assets other than financial instruments 
and deferred tax assets located outside the country of domicile. 
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
227
53  Ratios
Particulars
Numerator
Denominator
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024 Variance %
Reasons
Current ratio
Current assets
Current liabilities
 4 
 3 
35%
Repayment of 
borrowings
Debt-Equity ratio
Total debt
Shareholders 
equity
–
 0 
(100%)
Repayment of 
borrowings
Debt service 
coverage ratio
Earnings 
available for 
debt service
Total debt 
service*
 114 
 70 
64%
Repayment of 
borrowings
Return on equity %
Net profit
Average 
shareholders 
equity
 22 
 24 
(8%)
Variance below 25%
Inventory turnover 
ratio
Sale of 
products
Average inventory
 10 
 10 
(1%)
Variance below 25%
Trade receivables 
turnover ratio
Revenue
Average trade 
receivable
 4 
 4 
11%
Variance below 25%
Trade payables 
turnover ratio
Purchases
Average trade 
payable
 5 
 5 
2%
Variance below 25%
Net capital turnover 
ratio
Revenue
Working capital
 2 
 2 
(6%)
Variance below 25%
Net profit ratio %
Net profit
Revenue
 17 
 17 
(4%)
Variance below 25%
Return on capital 
employed %
Earnings 
before interest 
and taxes
Capital employed
 27 
 29 
(8%)
Variance below 25%
Return on investment  
(pre–tax) %
–  Unquoted**
Income 
generated 
from 
investments
Time weighted 
average 
investments
 7 
 7 
(2%)
Variance below 25%
–  Quoted
Income 
generated 
from 
investments
Time weighted 
average 
investments
 29 
 36 
(21%)
Variance below 25%
–  Fixed income from 
deposits with 
Banks
Income 
generated 
from 
investments
Time weighted 
average 
investments
 7 
 7 
(10%)
Variance below 25%
*Excludes repayments of Working capital loans, as the same is not a deflection of earnings. 
**Mutual funds income has not been considered as it is not material.
Notes to the Standalone Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025   
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
228
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
54  Compliance with approved scheme(s) of arrangements:
The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on current or previous 
financial year.
55  Relationship with struck off companies
The Company has no transactions with the companies struck off under Companies Act, 2013 or Companies Act, 1956.
As per our reports on even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ANVAR JAY VARADARAJ
Director
DIN: 07273942
JAIRAM VARADARAJ
Managing Director
DIN: 00003361
ARUN KUMAR R
Partner
Membership No: 211867
DEVIKA SATHYANARAYANA
Company Secretary
Membership No. F11323
INDRANIL SEN
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
229
Independent Auditors’ 
Report - Consolidated 
Financial Statements
08
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
230
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of Elgi Equipments Limited 
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion 
1.	 We have audited the accompanying Consolidated 
Financial Statements of Elgi Equipments Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as the “Holding Company”) 
and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and its 
subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), 
its joint ventures, two jointly controlled entities 
(representing joint operations), and a trust (refer 
Note 42 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), 
which comprise the Consolidated Balance Sheet as 
at March 31, 2025, and the Consolidated Statement 
of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive 
Income), the Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash 
Flows for the year then ended, and notes to the 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements, 
including 
material accounting policy information and other 
explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as 
“the Consolidated Financial Statements”).
2.	 In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us 
the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements 
give the information required by the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with 
the accounting principles generally accepted in 
India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the 
Group, its joint ventures, joint operations and 
the trust as at March 31, 2025, and consolidated 
total comprehensive income (comprising of profit 
and other comprehensive income), consolidated 
changes in equity and consolidated cash flows for 
the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
3.	 We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 
143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those 
Standards are further described in the “Auditors’ 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements” section of our report. We are 
independent of the Group, its joint ventures, joint 
operations and the trust in accordance with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements in India in 
terms of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India and the relevant 
provisions of the Act, and we have fulfilled our other 
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence 
we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters
4.	 Key audit matters are those matters that, in our 
professional judgment, were of most significance in 
our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
of the current year. These matters were addressed 
in the context of our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our 
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
231
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of carrying value of goodwill arising on 
consolidation of subsidiaries as per Ind AS 36
The Group has a goodwill balance of ` 159 million and 
` 369 million as at March 31, 2025 (Refer Note 5) relating 
to subsidiaries in Italy (Elgi Italy S.R.L) and Belgium 
(Elgi Compressors Europe S.R.L) respectively, which 
are considered to be separate Cash Generating Units 
(CGUs).
For the year ended March 31, 2025, the Group performed 
an assessment of the carrying value of goodwill as 
required under Ind AS 36 by:
	
z Calculating the recoverable amount for each of 
the CGU using a Discounted Cash Flow model 
(DCF model); and
	
z Comparing the recoverable amount so determined to 
its respective carrying amount of assets and liabilities.
The preparation of discounted cash flows requires 
assumptions for projections of cash flows for a specific 
period, typically for 5 years.
A terminal growth rate is applied in determining the 
terminal value. We considered the carrying value 
of goodwill as a key audit matter, considering its 
significance to the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
and where applicable, judgement involved in estimating 
future cash flows, particularly with respect to factors 
such as discount rates, cash flow projections and 
terminal growth rates.
Our audit procedures in relation to the assessment of 
carrying value of goodwill relating to each of the CGUs, 
included the following:
	
z Understood and performed procedures to assess 
the design and test the operating effectiveness of 
relevant controls related to the annual evaluation 
on assessment of carrying value of goodwill.
	
z Together with auditors’ valuation expert, evaluated 
the assumptions and methodologies used in the 
DCF models, in particular those relating to the cash 
flow projections used, discount rates and terminal 
growth rates applied, by:
a.	 Evaluating the reasonableness of the cash flow 
projections by comparing with the approved 
budgets, previous year performance, discussions 
with the subsidiary auditors and our knowledge 
and understanding of current business conditions.
b.	 Determining a range of acceptable discount rates 
and terminal growth rates, with reference to 
valuations of similar companies and other relevant 
external data, and comparing this range to the 
discount rates and terminal growth rates adopted 
by the Company.
c.	 Performing sensitivity tests on the DCF Model by 
analysing the impact of using other possible growth 
rates and discount rates within a reasonable and 
foreseeable range.
	
z Tested the arithmetical accuracy of the calculations 
carried out by the management.
	
z Evaluating the sufficiency of disclosures made in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
232
5.	
The following Key Audit Matter and related procedures (as reproduced) were communicated to us by the 
independent auditor of Elgi Compressors USA Inc., a subsidiary of the Holding Company, dated May 23, 2025:
Key audit matter 
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of carrying value of goodwill 
Elgi Compressors USA, Inc. has goodwill balance of 
$15.2  million as at March 31, 2025. For the year ended 
March 31, 2025, we performed an assessment of the 
carrying value of goodwill as required under IND AS 36 by:
	
z Calculating the recoverable amount for the Cash 
Generating Unit using a discounted cash flow 
model, and
	
z Comparing the recoverable amount to the respective 
carrying amount of assets and liabilities.
The preparation of discounted cash flows requires 
assumptions for projections of cash flows for a 
specific period, typically five years. A terminal growth 
rate is applied in determining the terminal value. We 
considered the carrying value of goodwill as a key audit 
matter considering its significance to the financial 
statements and the judgement involved in estimating 
future cash flows, particularly with respect to factors 
such as discount rates, cash flow projections and 
terminal growth rate.
Our audit procedures in relation to the assessment 
of carrying value of goodwill relating to the Cash 
Generating Unit, included the following:
	
z Understood and performed procedures to assess 
the design and test the operating effectiveness of 
relevant controls related to the annual evaluation 
on assessment of carrying value of goodwill.
	
z Evaluated the assumptions and methodologies used 
in the discounted cash flow models, in particular 
those relating to the cash flow projections used, 
discount rates and terminal growth rates applied by:
a.	 Evaluating the reasonableness of the cash flow 
projections by comparing with budgets, prior 
year performance, discussions with management 
and our knowledge and understanding of current 
business conditions.
b.	 Determining a range of acceptable discount rates 
and terminal growth rates with reference to 
valuations of similar entities and comparing them 
to those adopted by the Company.
c.	 Performing sensitivity tests on the DCF Model 
by analyzing the impact of using other possible 
discount rates and growth rates within a 
reasonable range.
	
z Tested 
the 
mathematical 
accuracy 
of 
the 
calculations carried out by management.
	
z Evaluating the sufficiency of disclosures made in 
the financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
233
6.	 The following Key Audit Matters and related procedures (as reproduced) were communicated to us by the 
independent auditor of Industrial Air Compressors Pty Limited., a subsidiary of the Holding Company, dated 
May 08, 2025: 
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Assessment of carrying value of goodwill as per Ind AS 
36 (refer Note 3 of the group reporting package)
Industrial Air Compressors Pty Limited (IAC) in its 
consolidated financial statements, has a goodwill 
balance of A$ 4.96 million as at March 31, 2025, relating 
to the acquisition of F.R. Pulford & Sons Pty Ltd and its 
subsidiary, Advanced Air Compressors Pty Ltd.
For the year ended March 31, 2025, the management of 
IAC performed an assessment of the carrying value of 
goodwill as required under Ind AS 36 by:
	
z Calculating the recoverable amount for the Cash 
Generating Unit (CGU) to which the goodwill has 
been allocated using a Discounted Cash Flow model 
(DCF); and
	
z Comparing the recoverable amount to the respective 
carrying amount of CGU assets and liabilities. 
The preparation of discounted cash flows requires 
assumptions for projections of cash flows for a specific 
period, typically up to 5 years. A terminal growth rate is 
applied in determining the terminal value. 
We considered the carrying value of goodwill as 
a key audit matter, considering its significance to 
the consolidated financial statements, and where 
applicable, management’s judgement involved in 
estimating future cash flows, particularly with respect 
to inputs such as discount rates, cash flow projections 
and terminal growth rates.
Our audit procedures in relation to the assessment of 
carrying value of goodwill included the following:
	
z Understood and performed procedures to assess 
the design and operating effectiveness of relevant 
controls related to the annual goodwill impairment 
assessment.
	
z Evaluated the inputs and assumptions used in 
management’s DCF models, in particular those 
relating to the cash flow projections used, discount 
rates and terminal growth rates applied, by:
a.	 Evaluating the reasonableness of the cash flow 
projections by tracing to approved budgets, 
comparing forecasts to the actual historical cash 
flow performance and assessing the accuracy 
of management’s budgeting and forecasting 
processes.
b.	 Determining a range of acceptable discount 
rates and terminal growth rates, with reference 
to comparable companies and other relevant 
external data and comparing this range to the 
discount rates and terminal growth rates adopted 
by management.
c.	 Performing sensitivity analysis on the DCF model 
by analysing the impact of adopting alternative 
growth rates and discount rates within a 
reasonably possible range.
	
z Evaluating the mathematical accuracy of value in 
use calculations prepared by management.
Other Information
7.	 The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the information included 
in the Management Discussion and Analysis, 
Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s 
Report, Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Report and Report on Corporate Governance, 
but does not include the Consolidated Financial 
Statements and our auditors’ report thereon. 
 
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
does not cover the other information and we do not 
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
 
In connection with our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read 
the other information and, in doing so, consider 
whether 
the 
other 
information 
is 
materially 
inconsistent 
with 
the 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit 
or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
If, based on the work we have performed and the 
reports of the other auditors as furnished to us 
(Refer paragraph 16 and 17 below), we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement of this other 
information, we are required to report that fact. 
 
We have nothing to report in this regard.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
234
Responsibilities of Management and Those 
Charged with Governance for the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
8.	 The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for the preparation and presentation of 
these Consolidated Financial Statements in terms 
of the requirements of the Act that give a true 
and fair view of the consolidated financial position, 
consolidated financial performance, changes in equity 
and consolidated cash flows of the Group including 
its joint ventures, joint operations and the trust, in 
accordance with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting 
Standards specified under Section 133 of the Act. 
The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group and of its joint ventures, the 
management of joint operations and the trustees 
of the trust, are responsible for maintenance of 
adequate accounting records in accordance with the 
provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of 
the Group, its joint ventures, joint operations and 
the trust, and for preventing and detecting frauds 
and other irregularities; selection and application of 
appropriate accounting policies; making judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and the design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls, that were 
operating effectively for ensuring accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, relevant to 
the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements that give a true and fair view 
and are free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, which have been used for the 
purpose of preparation of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, 
as aforesaid.
9.	 In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
the respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group and of its joint ventures, the 
management of joint operations and the trustees 
of the trust, are responsible for assessing the ability 
of the Group, its joint ventures, joint operations and 
the trust, to continue as a going concern, disclosing, 
as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the 
Board of Directors, the management or the trustees, 
either intends to liquidate the Group, its joint venture, 
joint operations and the trust, or to cease operations, 
or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
10.	The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group and of its joint ventures, 
the management of the joint operations and the 
trustees of the trust, are responsible for overseeing 
the financial reporting process of the Group, its joint 
ventures, joint operations and the trust.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements
11.	 Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance 
about 
whether 
the 
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to 
issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. 
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with SAs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can 
arise from fraud or error and are considered material 
if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
12.	As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgement and maintain professional 
scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
	
z Identify and assess the risks of material 
misstatement of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those 
risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 
The risk of not detecting a material misstatement 
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the 
override of internal control.
	
z Obtain an understanding of internal control 
relevant to the audit in order to design 
audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, 
we are also responsible for expressing our opinion 
on whether the Holding Company has adequate 
internal financial controls with reference to 
Consolidated Financial Statements in place and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls.
	
z Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting 
policies 
used 
and 
the 
reasonableness 
of 
accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
235
	
z Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events 
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on 
the ability of the Group, its joint ventures, joint 
operations and the trust, to continue as a going 
concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty 
exists, we are required to draw attention in our 
auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. 
Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 
obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. 
However, future events or conditions may cause 
the Group, its joint ventures, joint operations and 
the trust, to cease to continue as a going concern. 
	
z Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and 
content of the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
including the disclosures, and whether the 
Consolidated Financial Statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner 
that achieves fair presentation. 
	
z Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
regarding the financial information of the entities 
or business activities within the Group, its joint 
ventures, joint operations and the trust, to 
express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. We are responsible for the direction, 
supervision and performance of the audit of the 
financial statements of such entities included in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements of which 
we are the independent auditors. For the other 
entities included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, which have been audited by other 
auditors, such other auditors remain responsible 
for the direction, supervision and performance of 
the audits carried out by them. We remain solely 
responsible for our audit opinion.
13.	We communicate with those charged with governance 
of the Holding Company and such other entities 
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
of which we are the independent auditors regarding, 
among other matters, the planned scope and timing 
of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that 
we identify during our audit.
14.	We also provide those charged with governance 
of the Holding Company, with a statement that we 
have complied with relevant ethical requirements 
regarding independence, and to communicate with 
them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, 
and where applicable, related safeguards.
15.	From the matters communicated with those charged 
with governance, we determine those matters 
that were of most significance in the audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements of the current 
year and are therefore the key audit matters. We 
describe these matters in our auditors’ report 
unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare 
circumstances, we determine that a matter should 
not be communicated in our report because the 
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably 
be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits 
of such communication.
Other Matter
16.	The 
financial 
statements/financial 
information 
of twelve subsidiaries (including their relevant 
subsidiaries and joint ventures), a trust and two joint 
operations included in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, reflect total assets of ` 15,153 million 
and net assets of ` 2,170 million as at March 31, 2025, 
total revenue of ` 16,620 million, total comprehensive 
income (comprising of profit and other comprehensive 
income) of (` 101) million and net cash inflows 
amounting to ` 126 million for the year then ended. 
The Consolidated Financial Statements also include 
the Group’s share of total comprehensive income 
(comprising of profit and other comprehensive 
income) of ` 49 million for the year ended March 31, 
2025 as considered in the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, in respect of two joint ventures, whose 
financial statements/financial information have not 
been audited by us. The financial statements/financial 
information of these subsidiaries, joint ventures, joint 
operations and the trust, have been audited by other 
auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by 
the other auditors/Holding Company’s management, 
and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial 
Statements insofar as it relates to the amounts and 
disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, 
joint ventures, joint operations and the trust, and our 
report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the 
Act including report on Other Information insofar as it 
relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, joint ventures, joint 
operations and the trust, is based on the reports of the 
other auditors and the procedures performed by us. 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
236
17.	 The financial statements of three subsidiaries 
located outside India, included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, which constitute total assets 
of ` 1,606 million and net assets of ` 1,370 million 
as at March 31, 2025, total revenue of ` 211 million, 
total comprehensive income (comprising of profit and 
other comprehensive income) of ` 106 million and 
net cash inflows amounting to ` 38 million for the 
year then ended, have been prepared in accordance 
with accounting principles generally accepted in their 
respective countries and have been audited by other 
auditors under generally accepted auditing standards 
applicable in their respective countries. The Holding 
Company’s management has converted the financial 
statements of such subsidiaries located outside India 
from the accounting principles generally accepted 
in their respective countries to the accounting 
principles generally accepted in India. We have audited 
these conversion adjustments made by the Holding 
Company’s management. Our opinion in so far as it 
relates to the balances and affairs of such subsidiaries 
located outside India, including other information, 
is based on the report of other auditors and the 
conversion adjustments prepared by the management 
of the Holding Company and audited by us.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, 
and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements below, is not modified in respect of 
the above matters with respect to our reliance on 
the work done and reports of the other auditors. 
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements
18.	As required by paragraph 3(xxi) of the Companies 
(Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“CARO 2020”), 
issued by the Central Government of India in terms 
of sub-section (11) of Section 143 of the Act, we 
report that there are no qualifications or adverse 
remarks included by the respective auditors in their 
CARO 2020 reports issued in respect of the standalone 
financial statements of the companies which are 
included in these Consolidated Financial Statements.
19.	As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to 
the extent applicable, that:
a.  We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for 
the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid 
Consolidated Financial Statements.
b.  In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid 
Consolidated Financial Statements have been kept 
so far as it appears from our examination of those 
books and the reports of the other auditors.
c.  The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including other 
comprehensive 
income), 
the 
Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows dealt with 
by this Report are in agreement with the relevant 
books of account and records maintained for 
the purpose of preparation of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
d.  In our opinion, the aforesaid Consolidated 
financial statements comply with the Indian 
Accounting Standards specified under Section 133 
of the Act.
e.  On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors of the Holding 
Company as on April 01, 2025 taken on record by 
the Board of Directors of the Holding Company 
and the reports of the statutory auditors of its 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India, none 
of the directors of the Group companies and 
its joint venture company, incorporated in India 
is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) 
of the Act.
f.  With respect to the adequacy of internal financial 
controls with reference to Consolidated Financial 
Statements of the Group and its joint venture 
company incorporated in India and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our 
separate report in “Annexure A”.
g.  With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditors’ Report in accordance with Rule 11 
of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
in our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us:
	
i.	 The Consolidated Financial Statements disclose 
the impact, if any, of pending litigations on the 
consolidated financial position of the Group, its 
joint ventures, joint operations and the trust 
– Refer Notes 42 and 44 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
237
	ii.	 The 
Group, 
its 
joint 
ventures, 
joint 
operations and the trust, did not have any 
long-term contracts including derivative 
contracts as at March 31, 2025 for which 
there were any material foreseeable losses.
	iii.	 There has been no delay in transferring 
amounts required to be transferred to the 
Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Holding Company, its subsidiary 
and joint venture which are companies 
incorporated in India during the year.
	iv.	 (a)	 The respective managements of the 
Holding Company, its subsidiaries and 
joint venture which are companies 
incorporated in India whose financial 
statements have been audited under 
the Act have represented to us and the 
other auditors of such subsidiaries and 
the joint venture company, respectively 
that, to the best of their knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in Note 46(ii) to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, no 
funds have been advanced or loaned 
or invested (either from borrowed 
funds or share premium or any other 
sources or kind of funds) by the Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries 
or the joint venture company, to or in 
any other persons or entities, including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall, whether directly or 
indirectly, lend or invest in other persons 
or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries or 
the joint venture company (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the 
Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	(b)	 The respective managements of the 
Holding Company, its subsidiaries and 
joint venture which are companies 
incorporated in India whose financial 
statements have been audited under 
the Act have represented to us and 
the other auditors of such subsidiaries 
and 
the 
joint 
venture 
company, 
respectively that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed in 
the Notes 46(ii) to the Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements, 
no 
funds 
have been received by the Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries 
or the joint venture company from any 
persons or entities, including foreign 
entities (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Holding 
Company or any of such subsidiaries 
or the joint venture company shall, 
whether directly or indirectly, lend 
or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	(c)	 Based on the audit procedures, that 
has been considered reasonable and 
appropriate 
in 
the 
circumstances, 
performed by us and those performed 
by the auditors of the subsidiaries and 
joint venture which are companies 
incorporated in India whose financial 
statements have been audited under 
the Act, nothing has come to our or 
other auditors’ notice that has caused 
us or the other auditors to believe that 
the representations under sub-clause (i) 
and (ii) of Rule 11(e) contain any material 
misstatement.
	v.	 The dividend declared and paid by the Holding 
Company, its subsidiary companies and joint 
venture company, during the year, are in 
compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
vi.	Based on our examination, which included 
test checks and that performed by the 
respective auditors of the subsidiaries 
and joint venture, which are companies 
incorporated 
in 
India 
whose 
financial 
statements have been audited under the Act, 
the Group and its joint venture company have 
used accounting software for maintaining 
their books of account which have a feature 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
238
of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and 
that has operated throughout the year for 
all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software. During the course of our audit, we 
did not notice any instance of the audit trail 
feature being tampered with. Further, the 
audit trail has been preserved by the Group 
and its joint venture company as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention.
20.	The Group and its joint venture company, has paid/
provided for managerial remuneration in accordance 
with the requisite approvals mandated by the provisions 
of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP  
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016 
ARUN KUMAR R 
Partner
Place: Coimbatore	
Membership Number: 211867 
Date: May 28, 2025 	
UDIN: 25211867BMOPRP3138
ANNEXURE A TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
239
Annexure A to Independent Auditors’ Report
Referred to in paragraph 19(f) of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the members of Elgi Equipments 
Limited on the Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2025
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements 
under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 
of the Act
1.	 In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements of the Company as of and for 
the year ended March 31, 2025, we have audited 
the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements of Elgi Equipments Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Holding Company”), 
its subsidiaries and a joint venture, which are 
companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal 
Financial Controls
2.	 The respective Board of Directors of the Holding 
Company, its subsidiaries and joint venture company, 
to whom reporting under clause (i) of sub section 3 
of Section 143 of the Act in respect of the adequacy 
of the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements is applicable, which are 
companies incorporated in India, are responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (“the Guidance Note”) issued 
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
(“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, 
implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls that were operating effectively 
for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of 
its business, including adherence to the respective 
company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, 
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, 
the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial 
information, as required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
3.	 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the 
company’s internal financial controls with reference 
to Consolidated Financial Statements based on our 
audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note issued by the ICAI and the Standards 
on Auditing specified under Section 143(10) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an 
audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to 
an audit of internal financial controls and both issued 
by the ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements 
and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to financial statements was 
established and maintained and if such controls 
operated effectively in all material respects.
4.	 Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain 
audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls system with reference to financial 
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our 
audit of internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls with 
reference to financial statements, assessing the 
risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness 
of internal control based on the assessed risk. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, whether due to fraud or error.
5.	 We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors 
in terms of their reports referred to in the Other 
Matter paragraph below is sufficient and appropriate 
to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Holding 
Company’s internal financial controls system with 
reference to Consolidated Financial Statements.
ANNEXURE A TO INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
240
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to financial statements
6.	 A company’s internal financial control with reference 
to financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s 
internal financial control with reference to financial 
statements includes those policies and procedures 
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect 
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of 
the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 
preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, 
or disposition of the company’s assets that could 
have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial 
Controls with reference to financial statements
7.	 Because of the inherent limitations of internal 
financial controls with reference to financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or 
improper management override of controls, material 
misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls with reference to 
financial statements to future periods are subject 
to the risk that the internal financial control with 
reference to financial statements may become 
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or 
that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
8.	 In our opinion, the Holding Company, its subsidiaries 
and joint venture company, which are companies 
incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, 
an adequate internal financial controls system 
with reference to financial statements and such 
internal financial controls with reference to financial 
statements were operating effectively as at March 31, 
2025, based on the internal control over financial 
reporting criteria established by the respective 
companies considering the essential components of 
internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued 
by the ICAI.
Other Matter
9.	 Our aforesaid reports under Section 143(3)(i) of the 
Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness 
of the internal financial controls with reference 
to financial statements insofar as it relates to two 
subsidiaries and a joint venture company, which 
are companies incorporated in India, is based on 
the corresponding reports of the auditors of such 
companies incorporated in India. Our opinion is not 
modified in respect of this matter.
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP   
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ARUN KUMAR R 
Partner
Place: Coimbatore	
Membership Number: 211867 
Date: May 28, 2025 	
UDIN: 25211867BMOPRP3138
Annexure A to Independent Auditors’ Report (Continued...)
Referred to in paragraph 19(f) of the Independent Auditors’ Report of even date to the members of Elgi Equipments 
Limited on the Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
241
Consolidated Financial 
Statements
09
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
242
Particulars
Notes
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Assets
Non-current Assets
Property, plant and equipment
3(a)
2,734
2,784
Right of use assets
3(b)
807
709
Capital work-in-progress
3(a)
530
95
Investment properties
4
43
43
Goodwill
5
2,094
2,053
Other intangible assets
5
237
278
Investments accounted for using the equity method
42
205
215
Financial Assets
(i)	 Investments
6(a)
250
194
(ii)	 Loans
7
61
66
(iii)	Other financial assets
8
62
70
Income tax assets (net)
27(b)
64
97
Deferred tax assets (net)
27(c)
346
345
Other non-current assets
9
211
70
Total non-current Assets
7,644
7,019
Current Assets
Inventories
10
6,085
6,222
Financial Assets
(i)	 Investments
6(b)
351
–
(ii)	 Trade receivables
11
6,084
5,927
(iii)	Cash and cash equivalents
12
1,203
2,294
(iv)	 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents
13
7,542
5,451
(v)	 Loans
15
43
52
(vi)	Other financial assets
16
342
242
Contract assets
14
107
104
Assets held for sale
18
13
28
Other current assets
17
1,001
872
Total Current Assets
22,771
21,192
Total Assets
30,415
28,211
Equity and Liabilities
Equity
Equity share capital
19
317
317
Other equity
20
18,339
15,795
Total Equity
18,656
16,112
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
243
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025 (Continued...)
Particulars
Notes
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Liabilities
Non-current Liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)	 Long term borrowings
21(a)
71
196
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
3(b)
626
543
(iii)	Other financial liabilities
22
3
–
Provisions
23
192
182
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
27(c)
46
138
Total non-current Liabilities
938
1,059
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
(i)	 Borrowings
21(b)
4,837
5,409
(ii)	 Lease liabilities
3(b)
238
233
(iii)	Trade payables
24
(a)	 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
626
510
(b)	 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than 
micro enterprises and small enterprises
2,741
2,944
(iv)	Other financial liabilities
25
991
910
Provisions 
26
591
375
Current tax liabilities (net)
27(b)
35
73
Other current liabilities
28
762
586
Total Current Liabilities
10,821
11,040
Total Liabilities
11,759
12,099
Total Equity and Liabilities
30,415
28,211
The above Consolidated Balance Sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our reports on even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ANVAR JAY VARADARAJ
Director
DIN: 07273942
JAIRAM VARADARAJ
Managing Director
DIN: 00003361
ARUN KUMAR R
Partner
Membership No: 211867
DEVIKA SATHYANARAYANA
Company Secretary
Membership No. F11323
INDRANIL SEN
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
244
Particulars
Notes
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Revenue from operations
29
35,104
32,178
Other income
30
577
550
Total income 
35,681
32,728
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
31
12,951
12,076
Purchases of stock-in-trade
32
4,127
3,610
Changes in inventories of finished goods,  
work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
33
96
3
Employee benefits expense
34
6,828
6,549
Finance costs
35
305
293
Depreciation and amortisation expenses
36
760
766
Other expenses
37
5,853
5,079
Total expenses
30,920
28,376
Profit before exceptional items, share of net profits of 
investments accounted for using equity method and tax
4,761
4,352
Share of net profit of joint ventures accounted for using 
the equity method 
55
52
Profit before tax
4,816
4,404
Income tax expense
27(a)
–  Current tax
1,420
1,406
–  Deferred tax
(106)
(123)
Profit for the year
3,502
3,121
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Change in fair value of FVOCI equity instruments
20(h)
56
52
Deferred tax relating to above item
20(h)
(9)
(3)
Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligations
20(f)
(121)
7
Income tax relating to above item
20(f)
30
(1)
Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
Changes in fair value of interest rate swap
20(h)
(1)
(1)
Changes in foreign currency translation reserve
20(h)
(14)
28
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
(59)
82
Total comprehensive income for the year
3,443
3,203
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
245
Particulars
Notes
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Net Profit attributable to:
–  Owners
100%
3,502
3,121
–  Non-controlling interests
0%
–
–
3,502
3,121
Other comprehensive income attributable to:
–  Owners
100%
(59)
82
–  Non-controlling interests
0%
–
–
(59)
82
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
–  Owners
100%
3,443
3,203
–  Non-controlling interests
0%
–
–
3,443
3,203
Earnings per equity share for profit attributable to 
the owners of Elgi Equipments Limited
48
Nominal value of the shares (INR)
1.00
1.00
(1)	 Basic (INR per share)
11.09
9.87
(2)	 Diluted (INR per share)
11.08
9.87
The above Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(Continued...)
As per our reports on even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ANVAR JAY VARADARAJ
Director
DIN: 07273942
JAIRAM VARADARAJ
Managing Director
DIN: 00003361
ARUN KUMAR R
Partner
Membership No: 211867
DEVIKA SATHYANARAYANA
Company Secretary
Membership No. F11323
INDRANIL SEN
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
246
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
ii)  Other Equity
i)  Equity Share Capital
Particulars 
Notes
Amounts
Balance as at April 01, 2023
19
317
Changes in equity share capital
–
Balance as at March 31, 2024 
19
317
Changes in equity share capital 
–
Balance as at March 31, 2025 
317
Particulars
Notes 
Attributable to the owners of Elgi Equipments Limited
Total 
other 
equity
Reserve and Surplus 
Other reserve 
Capital 
Reserve 
Statutory 
reserve 
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve 
Treasury 
stock 
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account 
Retained 
earnings 
 Total 
FVOCI – 
Equity 
instruments 
Cash 
Flow 
hedge 
reserve 
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve Total 
Balance as at 
April 01, 2023
181
5
251
1,163
(98)
18
11,433
12,953
99
5
337
441
13,394
Profit for the 
year
20
–
–
–
–
–
–
3,121
3,121
–
–
–
–
3,121
Other 
comprehensive 
income (net of 
tax)
20
–
–
–
–
–
–
6
6
49
(1)
28
76
82
Total 
comprehensive 
income for 
the year
–
–
–
–
–
–
3,127
3,127
49
(1)
28
76
3,203
Transactions 
with owners in 
their capacity 
as owners:
Exercise of 
shares under 
ESOP scheme
20
–
–
–
–
17
(10)
20
27
–
–
–
–
27
Purchase of 
shares for 
ESOP scheme
20
–
–
–
–
(219)
–
–
(219)
–
–
–
–
(219)
Employee 
stock option 
expense (refer 
note 42)
20
–
–
–
–
–
22
–
22
–
–
–
–
22
Dividend paid
20
–
–
–
–
–
–
(632)
(632)
–
–
–
–
(632)
Balance as at 
March 31, 2024
181
5
251
1,163
(300)
30
13,948
15,278
148
4
365
517
15,795
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
247
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (Continued...)
Particulars 
Notes 
Attributable to the owners of Elgi Equipments Limited 
Total 
other 
equity
Reserve and Surplus 
Other reserve 
Capital 
Reserve 
Statutory 
reserve 
Securities 
premium 
General 
reserve 
Treasury 
stock 
Share 
options 
outstanding 
account 
Retained 
earnings 
 Total 
FVOCI – 
Equity 
instruments 
Cash 
Flow 
hedge 
reserve 
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
reserve 
Total 
Balance as at 
April 01, 2024
181
5
251
1,163
(300)
30
13,948
15,278
148
4
365
517
15,795
Profit for the 
year
20
–
–
–
–
–
–
3,502
3,502
–
–
–
–
3,502
Other 
comprehensive 
income  
(net of tax)
20
–
–
–
–
–
–
(91)
(91)
47
(1)
(14)
32
(59)
Total 
comprehensive 
income for the 
year
–
–
–
–
–
–
3,411
3,411
47
(1)
(14)
32
3,443
Transactions 
with owners in 
their capacity 
as owners:
Exercise of 
shares under 
ESOP scheme
20
–
–
–
–
66
(26)
35
75
–
–
–
–
75
Purchase of 
shares for 
ESOP scheme
20
–
–
–
–
(400)
–
–
(400)
–
–
–
–
(400)
Employee stock 
option expense 
(refer note 42)
20
–
–
–
–
–
58
–
58
–
–
–
–
58
Dividend paid
20
–
–
–
–
–
–
(632)
(632)
–
–
–
–
(632)
Balance as at 
March 31, 2025
181
5
251
1,163
(634)
62
16,762
17,790
195
3
351
549
18,339
The above Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
As per our reports on even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ANVAR JAY VARADARAJ
Director
DIN: 07273942
JAIRAM VARADARAJ
Managing Director
DIN: 00003361
ARUN KUMAR R
Partner
Membership No: 211867
DEVIKA SATHYANARAYANA
Company Secretary
Membership No. F11323
INDRANIL SEN
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
248
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit before tax 
4,816
4,404
Adjustments for
Depreciation and amortisation expense
760
766
Bad debts and loss allowances
185
55
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (net)
(12)
(66)
Share of profits of joint ventures
(55)
(52)
Loss on joint venture classified as asset held for sale
30
–
Rental income from Investment property (net of expenses)
(8)
(11)
Net unrealised exchange differences
(85)
(70)
Non-cash employee share based payments
58
22
Interest and dividend income classified as investing cash flows
(518)
(430)
Finance costs
305
293
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Increase in trade receivables and contract assets
(345)
(579)
Decrease/(increase) in inventories
137
(198)
(Decrease)/increase in trade payables
(87)
317
Increase in other financial assets
(38)
(18)
Increase in other current assets
(129)
(37)
Increase in provisions
105
77
Increase in other financial liabilities
29
26
Increase in other current liabilities
176
13
Net payments to Unspent CSR account
(18)
(18)
Cash generated from operations
5,306
4,494
Income taxes paid (net of refund)
(1,397)
(1,645)
Net cash inflow from operating activities
3,909
2,849
Cash flows from investing activities
Payments for purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
(948)
(489)
Investment in unquoted equity instruments
–
(7)
Investment in mutual funds
(351)
–
Investments in Joint ventures
(17)
–
Proceeds from divestment/redemption of interest in Joint ventures 
36
14
Loans given to employees (net)
14
(10)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 
16
70
Rental income from Investment property (net of expenses)
8
11
Dividends received on equity instruments
1
1
Dividends and interest received from Joint ventures
35
34
Investments in deposits with Banks
(2,070)
(977)
Interest received
447
342
Net cash outflow from investing activities
(2,829)
(1,011)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
249
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid
(316)
(300)
Purchase of shares for ESOP scheme
(400)
(219)
Proceeds from exercise of shares under ESOP scheme
77
28
Proceeds from long term borrowings from banks
–
133
Repayment of long term borrowings to banks 
(152)
(188)
Net Short term loans (repaid to)/borrowed from Banks
(498)
608
Payment of lease liabilities
(250)
(221)
Dividends paid to Company’s shareholders
(632)
(632)
Net cash outflow from financing activities
(2,171)
(791)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents
(1,091)
1,047
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
2,294
1,247
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year
1,203
2,294
Non-cash financing and investing activities
–  Acquisition/modification of right-of-use assets
327
316
The above Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes.
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Continued...)
As per our reports on even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ANVAR JAY VARADARAJ
Director
DIN: 07273942
JAIRAM VARADARAJ
Managing Director
DIN: 00003361
ARUN KUMAR R
Partner
Membership No: 211867
DEVIKA SATHYANARAYANA
Company Secretary
Membership No. F11323
INDRANIL SEN
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
250
1.  General Information
Elgi Equipments Limited (“the Company” or “the Holding 
Company”) CIN:L29120TZ1960PLC000351 is engaged 
in manufacturing of air compressors. The Company 
has manufacturing plants and its registered office in 
Coimbatore. Elgi Equipments Limited together with its 
subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the ‘group’) is 
engaged in manufacture, trading of air compressors and 
automotive garage equipment and also providing related 
after sales services. The Holding Company is a public 
limited company and listed on both the Bombay Stock 
Exchange and the National Stock Exchange. 
The Consolidated Financial Statements also consist of the 
group’s share of interest in joint ventures (consolidated 
using equity pick up method), joint operations (accounted 
on a line by line basis) and the ESOP trust. For principal 
activities of such entities refer note 42. 
2.1.  Basis of preparation
(i)	 Compliance with Ind AS
The Consolidated Financial Statements comply in all 
material aspects with Indian Accounting Standards 
(Ind AS) notified under Section 133 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (the Act) [Companies (Indian Accounting 
Standards) Rules, 2015] and other relevant provisions 
of the Act. These Consolidated Financial Statements 
have been approved by the Board of Directors in their 
meeting held on May 28, 2025. 
(ii)	 Historical cost convention
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been 
prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the 
following:
a)	 Certain financial assets and liabilities (including 
derivative instruments) and commitments that are 
measured at fair value,
b)	 Defined benefit plans-plan assets measured at fair 
value and
c)	 Share based payments-at grant date fair value
d)	 Assets held for sale measured at lower of carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
(iii)	New and amended standards adopted by the group
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide notification 
dated 9 September 2024 and 28 September 2024 
notified the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Second Amendment Rules, 2024 and Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Third Amendment 
Rules, 2024, respectively, which amended/notified 
certain accounting standards (see below), and are 
effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or 
after 1st April 2024: 
	
z Insurance contracts – Ind AS 117; and
	
z Lease Liability in Sale and Leaseback – Amendments 
to Ind AS 116
These amendments did not have any material impact 
on the amounts recognised in prior periods and are 
not expected to significantly affect the current or 
future periods.
(iv)	Determining material accounting policies
As part of adopting amendments to Ind AS 1 - 
Presentation of Financial Statements, the group 
describes its material accounting policies applied, 
under each of the individual notes to the Financial 
Statements and avoids repeating the text of the 
standard, unless when it is considered relevant to the 
understanding of the note’s content. These accounting 
policies most frequently or significantly require us to 
make judgments, estimates, and assumptions, and 
therefore are critical to understanding our results 
of operation.
Other accounting policies are provided under Note 50 
for completeness purposes. The group’s accounting 
policies and methods are unchanged compared to 
March 31, 2024.
(v)	 Functional currency assessment:
Items included in the financial statements of the 
group are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the group 
operates (‘the functional currency’). The Consolidated 
financial statements are presented in Indian rupee 
(INR), which  is  the Company’s functional and 
presentation currency.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
251
2.2.  Critical estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires the 
use of accounting estimates which, by definition, will 
seldom equal the actual results. Management also 
needs to exercise judgement in applying the group’s 
accounting policies.
This note provides an overview of the areas that 
involved a higher degree of judgement or complexity, 
and of items which are more likely to be materially 
adjusted due to estimates and assumptions turning 
out to be different than those originally assessed. 
Detailed information about each of these estimates 
and judgements is included in relevant notes together 
with information about the basis of calculation for 
each affected line item in the financial statements.
The areas involving critical estimates or judgements are:
	
z Estimation of goodwill impairment – Note 5
	
z Impairment of trade receivables and  
contract assets – Note - 11 and 14
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated. 
They are based on historical experience and other 
factors, including expectations of future events that 
may have a financial impact on the group and that are 
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
252
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
3(a)  Property, plant and equipment and capital work-in progress
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. All other items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost 
less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line or written down value methods to 
allocate their cost, net of their residual values, over their estimated useful lives.
The useful lives have been determined based on Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 except for roads (classified as 
buildings) and tools, jigs and fixtures, patterns and mould and dies (classified as plant and machinery); where useful 
lives have been determined based on technical evaluation carried out by the management’s expert, in order to reflect 
the actual usage of the assets. The residual values are not more than 5% of the original cost of the asset.
Asset Category/Group
Useful life (In years)
Estimated Useful life
As per Schedule II*
Buildings (including factory buildings) and roads 
10-60
3-60
Plant & Machinery
3-30
15
Office Equipment 
2-10
5
Furniture & Fixtures
3-10
10
Vehicle
3-10
8-10
Canteen Equipment
10
10
*Comparable only for Companies incorporated in India.
Leasehold improvements are depreciated at lower of lease period or the respective useful life of the asset. 
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
Refer Note 50(b) for other accounting policies relating to Property, plant and equipment.
Particulars
Land
Building
Plant & 
Machinery
Office 
Equipment
Furniture 
and 
fixtures
Vehicle
Canteen 
Equipment
 Total 
 Capital 
work in 
progress 
Year ended March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying 
amount
610
1,373
3,397
320
313
81
60
6,154
28
Additions
–
40
268
47
46
5
3
409
476
Disposals
(2)
(1)
(15)
(2)
(5)
(4)
(9)
(38)
–
Exchange difference
1
3
3
–
2
(1)
1
9
–
Transfers
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(409)
Closing gross carrying 
amount
609
1,415
3,653
365
356
81
55
6,534
95
Accumulated depreciation 
Opening accumulated 
depreciation
–
831
1,955
210
240
45
41
3,322
–
Depreciation charge 
for the year
–
79
276
50
37
7
7
456
–
Disposals
–
(1)
(13)
(2)
(5)
(4)
(8)
(33)
–
Exchange difference
–
1
1
–
3
–
–
5
–
Closing accumulated 
depreciation
–
910
2,219
258
275
48
40
3,750
–
Net carrying amount
609
505
1,434
107
81
33
15
2,784
95
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
253
Particulars
Land
Building
Plant & 
Machinery
Office 
Equipment
Furniture 
and 
fixtures
Vehicle
Canteen 
Equipment
 Total 
 Capital 
work in 
progress 
Year ended March 31, 2025
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying 
amount
609
1,415
3,653
365
356
81
55
6,534
95
Additions
30
34
235
44
40
3
18
404
809
Disposals
–
(1)
(20)
(10)
(1)
21
–
(11)
–
Exchange difference
1
8
5
–
5
–
1
20
–
Transfers
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(374)
Closing gross carrying 
amount
640
1,456
3,873
399
400
105
74
6,947
530
Accumulated depreciation
Opening accumulated 
depreciation
–
910
2,219
258
275
48
40
3,750
–
Depreciation charge 
for the year
–
70
276
53
41
10
9
459
–
Disposals
–
–
(14)
(10)
(1)
17
–
(8)
–
Exchange difference
–
4
2
–
5
–
1
12
–
Closing accumulated 
depreciation
–
984
2,483
301
320
75
50
4,213
–
Net carrying amount
640
472
1,390
98
80
30
24
2,734
530
Notes:
i)	 Property, plant and equipment pledged as security
	
Refer Note 46 for information on property, plant and equipment pledged as security by the group.
ii)	 Contractual obligations
	
Refer to note 45 for disclosure of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
iii)	Details of benami property held
	
The group does not have any Benami property and therefore the question of whether any proceedings have been 
initiated or pending against the group for holding any benami property is not relevant.
iv)	Assets given under operating lease
	
Reconciliation of gross and net carrying amount of assets given under lease as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 is 
given as follows:
Particulars
Plant & Machinery
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount
54
68
Accumulated depreciation
(22)
(17)
Net carrying amount
32
51
3(a)  Property, plant and equipment and Capital work-in progress (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
254
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
3(a)  Property, plant and equipment and Capital work-in progress (Continued...)
v)	 Capital work-in-progress
	
Capital work-in-progress primarily includes the ongoing construction of a new plant at Kinathkadavu 
(MK2 Project), new corporate office in Bangalore and additions to plant and machinery currently under construction 
and installation.
a)  Ageing of Capital work-in-progress
Particulars
Amounts in Capital work-in-progress for
Less than 
one year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Year ended March 31, 2025
(i)  Projects in Progress
465
52
9
4
530
Year ended March 31, 2024
(i)  Projects in Progress
86
5
4
–
95
(b)  Completion schedule for capital work-in-progress whose completion is overdue or has exceeded its cost compared 
to its original plan:
Particulars
To be completed in
Less than 
one year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Total
Year ended March 31, 2025
(i)  Projects in Progress
Project 1 at Motor Division
115
–
–
–
115
Project 2 at Compressor Centre
–
4
–
–
4
Year ended March 31, 2024
(i)  Projects in Progress
Project 2 at Compressor Centre
3
–
–
–
3
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
255
This note provides information for leases where the group is a lessee.
The group leases various offices, warehouses, equipment and vehicles. Rental contracts are typically made for fixed 
periods of 11 months to 29 years.
Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions. The lease 
agreements do not impose any covenants other than the security interests in the leased assets that are held by the lessor.
Refer Note 50(c) for other accounting policies relating to leases.
i) Amounts recognised in the balance sheet
The balance sheet shows following amounts relating to leases:
a) Right of use assets
Particulars
Land
Building
Plant & 
Machinery
Office 
equipment
Furniture 
and Fixtures
Vehicle
Total
Year ended March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
12
876
8
6
3
322
1,227
Additions (non-cash in nature)
–
127
11
–
–
178
316
Disposals
–
(72)
–
–
–
(81)
(153)
Exchange difference
–
7
–
–
–
5
12
Transfers
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Closing gross carrying amount
12
938
19
6
3
424
1,402
Accumulated depreciation 
Opening accumulated depreciation
2
400
4
4
3
188
601
Depreciation charge for the year
4
145
3
1
–
81
234
Disposals
(1)
(66)
–
–
–
(80)
(147)
Exchange difference
–
2
–
–
–
3
5
Transfers
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Closing accumulated depreciation
5
481
7
5
3
192
693
Net carrying amount
7
457
12
1
–
232
709
Year ended March 31, 2025
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
12
938
19
6
3
424
1,402
Additions (non-cash in nature)
40
244
14
–
–
29
327
Disposals
–
–
(2)
–
–
(87)
(89)
Exchange difference
1
18
–
–
–
10
29
Transfers
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Closing gross carrying amount
53
1,200
31
6
3
376
1,669
Accumulated depreciation 
Opening accumulated depreciation
5
481
7
5
3
192
693
Depreciation charge for the year
2
150
5
1
–
80
238
Disposals
–
–
(2)
–
–
(81)
(83)
Exchange difference
–
8
2
–
–
4
14
Transfers
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Closing accumulated depreciation
7
639
12
6
3
195
862
Net carrying amount
46
561
19
–
–
181
807
3(b)  Right of use assets and Lease liabilities
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
256
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
3(b)  Right of use assets and Lease liabilities (Continued...)
b) Lease liabilities
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Current
238
233
Non-Current
626
543
864
776
Reconciliation:
Opening balance
776
681
Add: Acquisitions/modification of leases during the year  
(non-cash in nature)
327
316
Less: Termination of lease contracts
(6)
(6)
Less: Repayment of leases liabilities
(250)
(221)
Add/less: Exchange difference
17
6
Closing balance
864
776
ii) Amounts recognised in the statement of profit and loss
The statement of profit or loss shows the following amounts relating to leases:
Depreciation of Right of use assets
36
Land
2
4
Building
150
145
Plant & Machinery
5
3
Office equipment
1
1
Furniture and Fixtures
–
–
Vehicle
80
81
238
234
Included in Finance costs
35
Interest expense
43
42
Included in Other expenses
37
Expenses relating to short term leases 
(included in Other expenses)
116
101
159
143
iii) Cash outflow
The total cash outflow for leases is ` 409 million and ` 364 million for the year ended March 31, 2025 and year ended 
March 31, 2024, respectively.
iv) Extension and termination options
Extension and termination options are included in a number of property leases. The majority of extension and 
termination options held are exercisable only by the group and not by the respective lessor.
v) Critical judgements in determining lease term
In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive 
to exercise an extension option, or not exercise a termination option. Extension options (or periods after termination 
options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be extended (or not terminated). 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
257
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Land
Building
Total
Land
Building
Total
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross carrying amount
 39 
 4 
 43 
 39 
 4 
 43 
Additions
–
–
–
–
–
–
Disposal
–
–
–
–
–
–
Transfer to property, plant and equipment*
–
–
–
–
–
–
Closing gross carrying amount
 39 
 4 
 43 
 39 
 4 
 43 
Accumulated depreciation
Opening accumulated depreciation
–
–
–
–
–
–
Depreciation charge for the year
–
–
–
–
–
–
Disposal
–
–
–
­–
–
–
Closing accumulated depreciation
–
–
–
–
–
–
Net carrying amount
 39 
 4 
 43 
 39 
 4 
 43 
*Amounts are below rounding off norms adopted by the group.
(i)  Amounts recognised in profit or loss for investment properties
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Rental income
9
12
Direct operating expenses from property that generated rental income
 (1)
 (1)
Profit from investment properties before depreciation
 8
 11
Depreciation charge for the year
­–
–
Profit from investment property
 8
 11
(ii) Fair value
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Land
Building
Total
Land
Building
Total
Investment property
 663 
 2 
 665 
 778 
 60 
 838 
The fair value disclosure for the year ended March 31, 2024, included the fair value of land amounting to ` 154 million 
and building amounting to ` 57 million which have been reclassified to Property, Plant and Equipment during the current 
year. The related carrying amount is below rounding off norms and hence not disclosed in the movement schedule as 
disposals/transfers.
Estimation of fair value
The fair values of investment properties have been determined as follows:
The group obtained independent valuations for its investment properties. The best evidence of fair value is current prices 
in an active market for similar properties. Where such information is not available, the group considers information 
from a variety of sources including:
	
z current prices in an active market for properties of different nature or recent prices of similar properties in less 
active markets, adjusted to reflect those differences,
	
z discounted cash flow projections based on reliable estimates of future cash flows,
4  Investment Properties
Investment properties (other than land) are depreciated using the written down value method over their estimated 
useful lives. Investment properties have a useful life of 30 for the building. The useful lives have been determined based 
on Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
258
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
4  Investment properties (Continued...)
	
z capitalised income projections based upon a property’s estimated net market income, and a capitalisation rate 
derived from an analysis of market evidence.
The fair values of investment properties have been determined by “S. Pichaiya & associates”, who is a registered valuer 
as defined under rule 2 of Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017. The main inputs used are the 
rental growth rates, expected vacancy rates, terminal yields and discount rates based on comparable transactions and 
industry data. All resulting fair value estimates for investment properties are included in level 3.
5  Goodwill and Other intangible assets
The intangible assets includes technical know-how, customer relationships, brand, non-compete fees, proprietory 
information and computer software which are recorded at the cost of acquisition and are amortized over a period of 
their legal/useful life as below,
Asset Group
Elgi Compressors 
USA Inc
Industrial Air 
Compressors Pty Ltd
ATS Elgi 
Limited
Elgi Equipments Ltd 
and Others
Computer software
–
5
5
5
Know-how & Drawings
–
–
–
5
Customer relationships
8-10
15
–
–
Non-compete fees
5
3
10
3
Proprietory information
–
–
10
–
Refer Note 50(e) for other accounting policies related to goodwill and other intangible assets.
Particulars
Computer 
software 
Know-
how & 
Drawings
Customer 
relationships 
Brand 
names
Non-
compete 
fees
 Proprietary 
information 
 Total 
intangible 
assets  Goodwill 
Year ended March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross 
carrying amount
 131 
 47 
 384 
 138 
 156 
 31 
 887 
 2,033 
Additions
 11 
 3 
–
–
–
–
 14 
–
Disposals
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Exchange differences 
–
–
 5 
 (2)
 (1)
–
 2 
 20 
Closing gross carrying 
amount
 142 
 50 
 389 
 136 
 155 
 31 
 903 
 2,053 
Accumulated 
amortisation
Opening accumulated 
amortisation
 107 
 19 
 155 
 129 
 142 
–
 552 
–
Amortisation for 
the year
 14 
 5 
 41 
 9 
 4 
 3 
 76 
–
Disposals
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Exchange differences 
–
–
 1 
 (2)
 (2)
–
 (3)
–
Closing accumulated 
amortisation
 121 
 24 
 197 
 136 
 144 
 3 
 625 
–
Closing net carrying 
amount
 21 
 26 
 192 
–
 11 
 28 
 278 
 2,053 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
259
5  Goodwill and Other intangible assets (Continued...)
Particulars
Computer 
software 
Know-
how & 
Drawings
Customer 
relationships 
Brand 
names
Non-
compete 
fees
 Proprietary 
information 
 Total 
intangible 
assets  Goodwill 
Year ended March 31, 2025
Gross carrying amount
Opening gross 
carrying amount
 142 
 50 
 389 
 136 
 155 
 31 
 903 
 2,053 
Additions
 9 
 11 
–
–
–
–
 20 
–
Disposals
 (1)
–
–
–
–
–
 (1)
–
Exchange differences 
 1 
–
 3 
 (1)
 (1)
–
 2 
 41 
Closing gross carrying 
amount
 151 
 61 
 392 
 135 
 154 
 31 
 924 
 2,094 
Accumulated 
amortisation
Opening accumulated 
amortisation
 121 
 24 
 197 
 136 
 144 
 3 
 625 
–
Amortisation for 
the year
 16 
 2 
 40 
–
 2 
 3 
 63 
–
Disposal
 (1)
–
–
–
–
–
 (1)
–
Exchange differences 
 1 
–
 1 
 (1)
 (1)
–
–
–
Closing accumulated 
amortisation
 137 
 26 
 238 
 135 
 145 
 6 
 687 
–
Closing net carrying 
amount
 14 
 35 
 154 
–
 9 
 25 
 237 
 2,094 
(ii) Impairment tests for goodwill
Goodwill is monitored by management at the level of each Cash generating unit (CGU):
Particulars
Italy
Belgium
USA
Australia
India
Total
Portables
EPSAC
Pattons
Michigan
Portables
Pulford 
Others
March 31, 2025
 159 
 367 
1300*
 267 
 1 
 2,094 
March 31, 2024
 155 
 359 
 1,013 
 195 
 61 
 269 
 1 
 2,053 
*During the year, the management reorganized and consolidated its reporting structure in the USA, introducing 
changes in the ways of working and monitoring by the management team in both the current year and the recent 
past. As a result, the method of goodwill monitoring has changed internally. Accordingly, the three CGUs in the 
USA region have been aggregated, and the goodwill has been reallocated to a single combined CGU.
(iii) Significant estimate
Key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations
The group tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment on an annual basis as at year end. The recoverable 
amount of a cash generating unit (CGU) is determined based on value-in-use calculations which require the use 
of assumptions. The calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management 
covering a five year period. Cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates 
stated below.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
260
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
5  Goodwill and Other intangible assets (Continued...) 
The following table sets out the key assumptions:
Particulars
Italy
Belgium
USA
Australia
Portables
EPSAC 
Pattons
Michigan
Portables
Pulford 
Year ended March 31, 2025
Long term growth rate (%)
2.00
2.00
3.00
 2.01 
Post-tax discount rate (%)
13.00
12.50
11.95
12.00
Year ended March 31, 2024
Long term growth rate (%)
 2.00 
 2.00 
2.50
2.50
2.50
 2.50 
Post-tax discount rate (%)
 12.00 
 11.50 
12.50
12.50
12.50
 12.00 
Management has determined the values assigned to the assumptions as follows:
Assumption
Approach used to determining values
Sales
Average annual growth rate over the explicit forecast period; based on past performance 
and management’s expectations of market development.
Budgeted gross margin
Based on past performance and management’s expectations for the future.
Other operating costs
Management forecasts these costs based on the current structure of the business, adjusting 
for inflationary increases but not reflecting any future restructurings.
Annual capital 
expenditure
Expected cash costs in the CGUs. This is based on the historical experience of management, 
and the planned refurbishment expenditure. No incremental revenue or cost savings are 
assumed in the value-in-use model as a result of this expenditure.
Long-term growth rate
This is the weighted average growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget 
period. The rates are consistent with forecasts included in industry reports.
Post-tax discount rates
Reflect specific risks relating to the relevant businesses and the countries in which they operate.
The group has considered and assessed reasonably possible changes for key assumptions and have not identified any 
instances that could cause carrying amount of the above mentioned CGU’s to exceed its recoverable amount.
6  Financial Assets - Investments (non-current)
(i)  Classification of financial assets at amortised cost
The group classifies its financial assets at amortised cost only if both of the following criteria are met: 
	
z the asset is held within a business model whose objective is to collect the contractual cash flows, and 
	
z the contractual terms give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest. 
Financial assets classified at amortised cost comprise trade receivables, loans and other financial assets such as 
security deposits.
(ii)  Classification of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income:
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) comprise:
Equity securities (listed and unlisted) which are not held for trading, and for which the group has irrevocably elected 
at initial recognition to recognise changes in fair value through OCI rather than profit or loss. These are strategic 
investments and the group considers this classification to be more relevant.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
261
6  Financial Assets - Investments (non-current) (Continued...) 
(iii) Derivatives
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments. However, where 
derivatives do not meet the hedge accounting criteria, they are classified as ‘held for trading’ for accounting purposes 
and are accounted for at FVPL. They are presented as current assets or liabilities to the extent they are expected to be 
settled within 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
(iv) Classification of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
The group classifies investment in mutual funds at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) as they do not qualify for 
measurement at either amortized cost or FVOCI and are held for trading.
The group’s accounting policy for cash flow hedges is set out in note 50(p)(i). Refer note 50(f) for other accounting 
policies relating to financial assets.
Particulars
No. of 
Shares 
Face Value 
Per Share 
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
(a) Investment in Equity Instruments (fully paid-up)
At Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income
Quoted
Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd 
50
` 10/-
1
1
State Bank of India
3,600
` 1/-
3
3
HDFC Bank Limited
25,160
` 1/-
46
36
Magna Electro Castings Ltd
66,454
` 10/-
59
29
Rajshree Sugars & Chemicals Ltd 
2,29,000
` 10/-
9
13
Pricol Ltd
1,21,172
` 1/-
54
48
L.G.Balakrishnan & Bros.Ltd 
4,992
` 10/-
6
6
LGB Forge Limited*
18,720
` 1/-
–
–
Elgi Rubber Company Limited
7,63,700
` 1/-
51
37
Insurance Australia Group Limited*
264
AUD 1/-
–
–
Unquoted
B.C.C. Caraglio*
258
Euro 1/-
–
–
First Energy TN1 Pvt Ltd
14,40,000
` 10/-
14
14
First Energy 5 Pvt Ltd
6,70,000
` 10/-
7
7
Non-Current Investments
250
194
b) Current Investments
At Fair Value through Profit or Loss
Unquoted
Investments in mutual funds
351
–
Current Investments
351
–
Total Investments
601
194
*Amounts are below rounding off norms adopted by the group
aggregate amount of quoted investments and market value thereof
229
173
aggregate amount of unquoted investments
372
21
Details of crypto currency or virtual currency
The group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current or previous year.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
262
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
7  Loans (Non-current)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Loans considered good - Unsecured
Loans to employees
 61 
 66 
 61 
 66 
8  Other financial assets (Non-current)
Derivatives designated as hedges
Interest rate swap
–
3
Others
Security deposits
62
67
62
70
9  Other non-current assets
Capital advances
211
70
211
70
10  Inventories
The cost of individual items of inventory are determined on a first-in first-out basis. 
a)	 Raw materials and components*
2,114
2,229
b)	 Work-in-progress
437
387
c)	 Finished goods
2,701
2,864
d)	 Stock-in-trade*
688
613
e)	 Stores and spares and packing materials
83
83
f)	
Loose tools
62
46
6,085
6,222
*Include goods in-transit ` 206 million and ` 160 million as on March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively.
Notes: 
a)	 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense includes ` 63 million (March 31, 2024 - ` 47 million) in respect of 
provision for slow-moving inventories and has been reduced by ` 31 million (March 31, 2024 - ` 52 million) in respect of 
reversal of such provisions.
b)	 Raw materials, Work in progress and Finished goods include R&D inventory.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
263
11  Trade receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of 
business and reflect the group’s unconditional right to consideration (that is payment is due, only on the passage of 
time). Trade receivables are recognized initially at the transaction price as they do not contain significant financing 
components. The group holds the trade receivables with the objective of collecting the contractual cash flows and 
therefore measures them subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method (i.e. EIR is nil), less 
loss allowance.
For trade receivables, the group applies the simplified approach required by Ind AS 109, which requires expected 
lifetime losses to be recognized at the initial recognition of receivables.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Unsecured, considered good
6,182
5,952
Unsecured, credit impaired
171
84
6,353
6,036
Less: Loss allowances (refer 39A(iii)(b))
(269)
(109)
6,084
5,927
Ageing of trade receivables:
Particulars 
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from the due date 
 Loss 
allowances
Total
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
to 1 year
1–2 
years
2–3 
years
More than 
3 years
As at March 31, 2025
Undisputed trade  
receivables - considered good
4,889
1,085
102
91
4
11
(98)
6,084
Undisputed trade  
receivables - credit impaired
–
–
–
1
34
27
(62)
–
Disputed trade  
receivables - credit impaired
–
3
21
60
9
16
(109)
–
Total trade receivables
4,889
1,088
123
152
47
54
(269)
6,084
As at March 31, 2024
Undisputed trade receivables - 
considered good
4,511
1,138
193
79
18
13
(25)
5,927
Undisputed trade  
receivables - credit impaired
–
–
4
1
7
4
(16)
–
Disputed trade  
receivables - credit impaired
–
7
27
17
1
16
(68)
–
Total trade receivables
4,511
1,145
224
97
26
33
(109)
5,927
For receivables from related parties, refer note 43.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
264
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
12  Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(a)	 Cash on hand 
 2 
 2 
(b)	 Funds in transit 
 80 
 79 
(c)	 Balance with banks 
–  In current accounts
 901 
 776 
–  In EEFC accounts
 13 
 80 
–  In deposit accounts (with original maturity of 3 months or less)
 207 
 1,357 
 1,203 
 2,294 
There are no repatriation restrictions with regard to cash and cash equivalents as at year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024, respectively.
13  Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 
–  In deposit accounts (with original maturity period of more than 
3 months but remaining maturity less than 12 months)*
 7,485 
 5,415 
–  In unclaimed dividend account**
 12 
 9 
–  In unspent CSR account (for ongoing projects)***
 45 
 27 
 7,542 
 5,451 
*Includes margin money deposit of (refer note 46).
**Earmarked for payment of unclaimed dividend.
***Earmarked for spending on ongoing CSR projects.
14  Contract assets
Retention receivables
 142 
 131 
Less: Loss allowances (refer note 39A(iii)(b))
 (35)
 (27)
 
 107 
 104 
15  Loans (Current)
Loans considered good - Unsecured
Loan to employees 
 43 
 52 
 43 
 52 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
265
16  Other financial assets (Current)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Derivatives not designated as hedges
Foreign exchange forward contract
 5 
 15 
Derivatives designated as hedges
Interest rate swap*
–
 1 
Others
Security deposits
 18 
 8 
Interest accrued
 245 
 177 
Others
 74 
 41 
 342 
 242 
*Amount below rounding off norm adopted by the group.
17  Other current assets 
Income/refund receivable
 19 
 22 
Prepaid expenses
 319 
 217 
Balance with Government authorities
 480 
 441 
Rent advances
 13 
 10 
Advance to suppliers
 128 
 143 
Others*
 42 
 39 
 1,001 
 872 
*Includes assets related to Gratuity fund ` Nil and ` 1 million for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, 
respectively.
18  Assets held for sale
Investments in jointly controlled entities (Of Elgi Compressors USA Inc.) 
G3 Industrial Solutions, LLC.*
–
 28 
Compressed Air Solution of Texas, LLC
 13 
–
 13 
 28 
*Divested during the year ended March 31, 2025. 
In September 2024, the Parent Company’s Board of Directors approved the proposal of divestment of the entire stake 
held by the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Elgi Compressors USA Inc., in its joint venture Compressed Air Solution 
of Texas, USA.
The joint venture partner have expressed interest in buying out the share of Elgi Compressors USA Inc. in the said 
entity, as per the operating agreement. The divestment formalities are completed in May 2025. The asset held for sale 
is measured at the lower of the carrying amount and the fair value less costs to sell.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
266
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
19  Equity share capital
(i)  Authorised:
Particulars
Number of shares (in millions)
Amount
Equity shares of ` 1 each 
At March 31, 2023
 320 
 320 
Increase during the year
–
–
At March 31, 2024
 320 
 320 
Increase during the year
–
–
At March 31, 2025
 320 
 320 
(ii)  Issued, Subscribed and fully paid up:
Particulars
Number of shares (in millions)
Equity share 
capital (par value)
Equity shares of ` 1 each 
At March 31, 2023
 317 
317
Increase during the year
–
–
At March 31, 2024
 317 
317
Increase during the year
–
–
At March 31, 2025
 317 
317
Terms and rights attached to equity shares
The Holding Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of ` 1/- per share. Each shareholder is eligible for 
one vote per share held. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of the shareholders 
in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except in the case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the equity 
shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Holding Company after distribution of all preferential 
amounts, in proportion to their shareholding. During the year ended March 31, 2025, the amount of final dividend per 
share recognised as distributions to equity shareholders is ` 2 per share (March 31, 2024: ` 2 per share).
(iii)  Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares during the period of five 
years immediately preceding the reporting date:
Particulars
Number of shares (in millions)
Equity shares allotted as fully paid up bonus shares by capitalizing a 
part of the securities premium during the year ended March 31, 2021
158 
On September 28, 2020, the Holding Company alloted bonus equity shares of ` 1/- each, credited as fully paid up equity 
shares to the holders of the existing equity shares of the Company in the proportion of one equity share of the Holding 
Company for every one existing equity shares of the Holding Company, by way of capitalizing a part of the securities 
premium account of the Holding Company.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
267
(iv)  Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Holding Company
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Number of 
shares
% holding
Number of 
shares
% holding
Dark Horse Portfolio Investment Private Limited*
 63,697,752 
 20.10 
 53,386,780 
 16.85 
Jairam Varadaraj
 28,221,616 
 8.91 
 28,221,616 
 8.91 
Pari Washington India Master Fund, Ltd. 
 22,077,311 
 6.97 
 23,592,229 
 7.44 
(v)  Details of shareholding of promoters
Promoter Name
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
% Change 
during 
the year
Number of 
shares
% of total 
shares
Number of 
shares
% of total 
shares
Jairam Varadaraj
 28,221,616 
 8.91 
 28,221,616 
 8.91 
–
Anvar Jay Varadaraj
 1,925,248 
 0.61 
 1,925,248 
 0.61 
–
Varun Jay Varadaraj
 1,916,684 
 0.60 
 1,916,684 
 0.60 
–
Maya Jay Varadaraj
 1,916,648 
 0.60 
 1,916,648 
 0.60 
–
Sudarsan Varadaraj
 204,984 
 0.06 
 204,984 
 0.06 
–
Harsha Varadaraj
 80,000 
 0.03 
 80,000 
 0.03 
–
Varshini Varadaraj
 158,588 
 0.05 
 158,588 
 0.05 
–
T Balaji
 68,500 
 0.02 
 68,500 
 0.02 
–
Dark Horse Portfolio Investment  
Private Limited*
 63,697,752 
 20.10 
 53,386,780 
 16.85 
 3.25 
Elgi Ultra Industries Private Limited*
–
–
 10,310,972 
 3.25 
(3.25) 
Elgi Rubber Company Limited
 664,160 
 0.21 
 664,160 
 0.21 
–
Total
 98,854,180 
 31.19 
 98,854,180 
 31.19 
–
*Considered as Core Investment Companies in the group based on the definition specified in 3(1)(v) of the RBI Master 
directions - Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions 2016. Further, Elgi Ultra Industries Private Limited 
merged with Dark Horse Portfolio Investment Private Limited during the year ended March 31, 2025.
19  Equity share capital (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
268
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
20  Other equity
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Reserves & Surplus
Capital reserve
 181 
 181 
Securities premium
 251 
 251 
Statutory reserve
 5 
 5 
General reserve
 1,163 
 1,163 
Share options outstanding account
 62 
 30 
Retained earnings
 16,762 
 13,948 
Treasury stock
 (634)
 (300)
Other reserves
 549 
 517 
 18,339 
 15,795 
a)  Capital reserve
Opening balance
 181 
 181 
Additions during the year
–
–
Deductions/adjustments during the year
–
–
Closing balance
 181 
 181 
b)  Securities premium
Opening balance
 251 
 251 
Additions during the year
–
–
Deductions/adjustments during the year
–
–
Closing balance
 251 
 251 
c)  Statutory reserve
Opening balance
 5 
 5 
Additions during the year
–
–
Deductions/adjustments during the year
–
–
Closing balance
 5 
 5 
d)  General reserve
Opening balance
 1,163 
 1,163 
Additions during the year
–
–
Deductions/adjustments during the year
–
–
Closing balance
 1,163 
 1,163 
e)  Share options outstanding account
Opening balance
 30 
 18 
Employee stock option expense
 58 
 22 
Exercise of shares under ESOP scheme 
–
 (2)
Transfer to retained earnings
 (26)
 (8)
Closing balance
 62 
 30 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
269
20  Other equity (Continued...)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
f)  Retained earnings
Opening balance
 13,948 
 11,433 
Net profit for the year
 3,502 
 3,121 
Item of other comprehensive income recognised directly  
in retained earnings
–  Remeasurement of post-employment benefit obligation, net of tax
 (91)
 6
–  Transfer to retained earnings of gain from treasury shares
 11 
 13 
–  Income tax on gain on exercise of treasury shares
 (2)
 (1)
–  Transfer from share options outstanding account
 26 
 8 
Appropriations:
Dividend on equity shares net of dividend distributed to Elgi Employee 
Stock Option Trust and jointly controlled entities 
 (632)
 (632)
Closing balance
 16,762 
 13,948 
g)  Treasury stock
Opening balance
 (300)
 (98)
Purchase of shares for ESOP scheme 
 (400)
 (219)
Exercise of shares under ESOP scheme 
 66 
 17 
Closing balance
 (634)
 (300)
h)  Other reserves
FVOCI - Equity instruments
Opening Balance
 148 
 99 
Change in fair value of equity instruments (net of tax)
 47 
 49 
Closing balance
 195 
 148 
Cash flow hedging reserve
Opening balance
 4 
 5 
Change in fair value of interest rate swap (net of tax) (refer note 39(C) (ii))
 (1)
 (1)
Closing balance
 3 
 4 
Foreign currency translation reserve
Opening balance
 365 
 337 
Movement during the year
 (14)
 28 
Closing balance
 351 
 365 
Total Other reserves
 549 
 517 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
270
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
20  Other equity (Continued...)
Nature and purpose of other reserves
Capital reserve:
Represents the profit of a capital nature which is not available for distribution as dividend.
Securities premium:
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Statutory reserve:
Represents reserve created for statutory purpose not available for distribution as dividend.
General reserve:
This is available for distribution to shareholders.
Retained earnings:
Group’s share of cumulative earnings since its formation minus the dividends/capitalisation and earnings transferred 
to general reserve.
Share options outstanding account:
The share options outstanding account is used to recognise the grant date fair value of options issued to employees 
under Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock Option Plan, 2019.
Treasury stock:
Represents the purchase value of shares of the group held by Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock Option Trust 
as given below:
Particulars
No. of Shares
Amount
As at March 31, 2025
Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock Option Trust
 1,207,238 
 634 
 1,207,238 
 634 
As at March 31, 2024
Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock Option Trust
 727,200 
 300 
 727,200 
 300 
Cash flow hedging reserve:
The cash flow hedging reserve is used to recognise effective portion of gain or losses on derivatives that are designated 
and qualify as cash flow hedges. Amounts are subsequently reclassified to profit or loss account.
FVOCI equity investments:
The group has elected to recognise changes in the fair value of certain investments in equity securities in other 
comprehensive income. These changes are accumulated within the FVOCI equity investments reserve within 
equity. The group transfers amounts from this reserve to retained earnings when the relevant equity securities are 
derecognised.
Foreign currency translation reserve:
Exchange Differences arising on translation of the foreign operations are recognised in other comprehensive income 
as described in the accounting policy and accumulated in a separate reserve within equity.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
271
21  Borrowings
(a)  Borrowings (Non-Current)
Particulars
Terms of Repayment
Coupon rate
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Secured
Term Loan
from Banks
Foreign Currency Loan
–  AUD
20 equated quarterly 
installments starting 
from October 27, 2020
90 day 
AUD-BBR-BBSW 
+ Agreed Spread
 62 
 186 
Unsecured
from Banks
–  EURO
17 equated quarterly 
installments starting 
from April 30, 2023
6 months 
EURIBOR+Agreed 
Spread
–
 27 
–  EURO
8 equated quarterly 
installments starting 
from June 30, 2025
12 months 
EURIBOR+Agreed 
Spread
 138 
 135 
Total non- current borrowings
 200 
 348 
Less: Current maturities of long term 
debt (Note no- 21(b)-below) 
 (129)
 (152)
Less: Interest accrued but not due on 
borrowings (Note no- 21(b)-below) 
–
–
Non-current borrowings
 71 
 196 
(a)  Nature of security: 
(i)	 The term loan of ` 62 million (AUD 1.15 million) as on March 31, 2025 (` 186 million i.e AUD 3.45 million as on 
March 31, 2024) availed by Industrial Air Compressors Pty Limited from Standard Chartered Bank (United Kingdom) 
is secured by a corporate guarantee issued by the Holding Company with charge created on specific assets of the 
Holding Company.
Also refer note 46 for value of assets pledged as security.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
272
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(b)  Current Borrowings 
Particulars
Terms of Repayment
Coupon rate
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Secured
from Banks
Lines of credit
–  USD
Payable on Demand
30 day SOFR + 
Agreed Spread
 978 
 996 
Other facilities
–  EURO
Payable within  
360 days with  
renewal option
EURIBOR +  
Agreed Spread
 2,486 
 2,428 
Packing Credit
–  INR
Payable within  
180 days 
REPO rate + 
Agreed Spread
–
 150 
Current maturities of  
long-term debt
 62 
 125 
Interest accrued and due on 
Current borrowings
 4 
 6 
Total (A)
 3,530 
 3,705 
Unsecured
from Banks
Lines of credit
–  EURO
Payable on Demand
 0.8 % to 5% 
 492 
 722 
Other facilities
–  EURO*
Payable within 360 days 
with renewal option
EURIBOR +  
Agreed Spread
 742 
–
Packing Credit 
–  INR
Payable within 180 days 
REPO rate + 
Agreed Spread
–
 940 
Current maturities of long-term debt
 67 
 27 
Interest accrued and due on 
Current borrowings
 6 
 15 
Total (B)
 1,307 
 1,704 
Total current borrowings (A) + (B) 
 4,837 
 5,409 
Nature of security:
(i)	 The line of credit of ` 978 million (USD 11.45 million) as on March 31, 2025 (` 996 million i.e. USD 12.95 million as on 
March 31, 2024) availed by Elgi Compressors USA Inc. from HSBC (USA) is secured by substantially all the assets of 
USA subsidiaries and by a corporate guarantee issued by the Holding Company.
21  Borrowings (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
273
(ii)	 The Other facilities availed by Elgi Compressors Europe SRL of ` 1,565 million (EUR 17 million) as on March 31, 
2025 (` 1,529 million i.e. EUR 17 million as on March 31, 2024) from Citi Bank (United Kingdom) and ` 921 million 
(EUR 10 million) as on March 31, 2025 (` 899 million i.e. EUR 10 million as on March 31, 2024) from HDFC Bank are 
secured by a pari passu charge on the specific assets of Holding Company and further backed by a corporate 
guarantee issued by the Holding Company.
(iii)	The Packing credit facility is Nil as on March 31, 2025 (` 150 million as on March 31, 2024) availed by Elgi Equipments 
Limited from State Bank of India is secured by a charge on stocks and receivables of the Holding Company.
Also refer note 46 for value of assets pledged as security. 
*The facility amounting to ` 742 million (EUR 8 million) from ICICI Bank (United Kingdom) is backed by a corporate 
guarantee issued by the group entities. However, such guarantee does not result in the classification of the aforesaid 
borrowings as secured.
There are no defaults in the repayments of above borrowings during the current year.
The group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government 
authority.
Net debt reconciliation
This section sets out an analysis of net debt (i.e, liabilities arising from financing activities) and the movements in net 
debt for each of the periods presented.
Particulars
Note
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Non-current Borrowings (including current 
maturities and interest accrued)
21(a)
 200 
 348 
Current borrowings (including interest accrued)
21(b) 
 4,708 
 5,257 
Lease liabilities
3(b)
 864 
 776 
Cash and cash equivalents
12
 (1,203)
 (2,294)
Deposits with banks  
(excluding restricted bank balances)
13
 (7,485)
 (5,415)
 (2,916)
 (1,328)
Reconciliation:
Opening net (cash)/debt
 (1,328)
 83 
Cash flows 
(979)
(2,024) 
Proceeds from long term borrowings from banks
–
 133 
Repayment of long term borrowings to banks 
 (152)
 (188)
Net Short term loans (repaid to)/borrowed from banks
 (498)
 608 
Acquisition/modification of leases  
(non-cash in nature)
 327 
 316 
Termination of lease contracts
 (6)
 (6)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (250)
 (221)
Interest expense
 305 
 293 
Interest paid 
 (316)
 (300)
Translation difference 
 (19)
 (22)
Closing net cash
 (2,916)
 (1,328)
21  Borrowings (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
274
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
22  Other financial liabilities (Non-current)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Dealer deposits
 3 
–
 3 
–
23  Provisions (Non-current)
Provision for compensated absences (refer Note 26(a))
 113 
 112 
Provision for defined benefits (refer Note 26(a))
 79 
 70 
 192 
 182 
24  Trade payables
Due to micro enterprises and small enterprises
 626 
 510 
Due to creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 2,741 
 2,944 
 3,367 
 3,454 
Note: For payables to related parties refer note 43.
Ageing of trade payables:
Particulars
Not due
Outstanding for following periods from  
the due date of payment
Unbilled
Total
Less than 
1 year
1-2 
years
2-3 
years
More than 
3 years
As at March 31, 2025
Undisputed
Outstanding dues to micro and 
small enterprises
 580 
 22 
–
–
–
 24 
 626 
Outstanding dues to others
 1,685 
 267 
 7 
 2 
 3 
 778 
 2,742 
Total trade payables
 2,265 
 289 
 7 
 2 
 3 
 802 
 3,368 
As at March 31, 2024
Undisputed
Outstanding dues to micro and 
small enterprises
 503 
 1 
–
–
–
 6 
 510 
Outstanding dues to others
 1,911 
 461 
 14 
 7 
 1 
 550 
 2,944 
Total trade payables
 2,414 
 462 
 14 
 7 
 1 
 556 
 3,454 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
275
25  Other financial liabilities (Current)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Unclaimed dividends
 12 
 9 
Dealer deposits
 32 
 35 
Employee benefit expenses payable
 794 
 778 
Capital creditors
 93 
 41 
Others
 60 
 47 
 991 
 910 
26  Provisions (Current)
Provision for warranty
 350 
 265 
Provision for gratuity (refer note 26(a))
 150 
 22 
Provision for compensated absences (refer note 26(a))
 91 
 88 
 591 
 375 
(i)  Information about individual material provisions and significant estimates 
Provision for Warranty
Provision is made for estimated warranty claims in respect of products sold which are still under warranty at the 
end of the reporting period. These obligations are expected to be settled over more than one financial year and the 
provision has been discounted to reflect the time value of money. The provision is classified as current considering 
the inability of the group to unconditionally defer settlement beyond one year. Management estimates the provision 
based on historical warranty claim information and any recent trends that may suggest future claims could differ from 
historical amounts.
(ii)  Movements in provisions
Movements in each class of provision during the financial year, are set out below:
Particulars
Provision for 
Warranty
Compensated 
absences
Opening
 265 
 200 
Additional provisions recognised
 350 
 25 
Amounts utilised/reversed during the year
 (265)
 (21)
Closing 
 350 
 204 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
276
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
26(a)  Employee benefit obligations
(i)  Compensated absences
The leave obligations cover the group’s liability for earned leave and sick leave.
The total provision for compensated absences amounts to ` 204 million and ` 200 million as at March 31, 2025 and 
March 31, 2024, including provision towards sick leave amounting to ` 20 million and ` 23 million respectively.
The provision classified as current amounts to ` 91 million and ` 88 million as at March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 
including provision towards sick leave amounting to ` 4 million and ` 5 million respectively. The current classification 
is resulting from the group’s expectation to settle the full amount of current leave obligation in the next 12 months as 
determined by a qualified actuary.
(ii)  Defined contribution plans
Provident Fund:
The group also has certain defined contribution plans. Contributions are made to provident fund in India for employees 
at the rate of 12% of basic salary as per regulations. The contributions are made to registered provident fund and social 
security funds administered by the government of respective geography. The obligation of the group is limited to the 
amount contributed and it has no further contractual nor any constructive obligation.
Superannuation Fund:
The group contributes a percentage of eligible employees salary towards superannuation fund administered by a fund 
managed by Life Insurance Corporation of India.
The expense recognised during the period towards defined contribution plan is ` 418 million March 31, 2024 – 
` 423 million
(iii)  Post-employment benefit obligations - Gratuity
The group provides for gratuity for employees in India as per the payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are 
in continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of Gratuity payable on retirement/
termination is the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied 
for the number of years of service. The gratuity is a funded plan and the group makes contribution to recognised fund in 
India. The group does not fully fund the liability and maintains a target level of funding to be maintained over a period 
of time based on estimations of expected gratuity payments.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
277
Balance sheet amounts – Gratuity (India)
Particulars
Present 
value of 
obligation
Fair value 
of plan 
assets
Total
(A)
(B)
(A)–(B)
April 01, 2023
 337 
 295 
 42 
Current service cost
 27 
–
 27 
Transfer In/Out*
 (2)
–
 (2)
Interest expense/(income)*
 25 
 21 
 4 
Total amount recognised in profit or loss
 50 
 21 
 29 
Remeasurements
(Gain)/loss from change in financial 
assumptions*
 3 
 1 
 2 
Experience (gains)/losses*
 (13)
 (4)
 (9)
Total amount recognised in other 
comprehensive income
 (10)
 (3)
 (7)
Employer contributions
–
 43 
 (43)
Benefit payments
 (38)
 (38)
–
March 31, 2024
 339 
 318 
 21 
Gratuity assets grouped under Other Current 
assets (refer note 17)
 1 
Gratuity liabilities grouped under Current 
provisions (refer note 26)
 22 
*To be construed as gain/(loss) for column ‘B’.
April 01, 2024
 339 
 318 
 21 
Current service cost
 28 
–
 28 
Interest expense/(income)*
 23 
 22 
 1 
Total amount recognised in profit or loss
 51 
 22 
 29 
Remeasurements
(Gain)/loss from change in financial assumptions*
 9 
 (1)
 10 
Experience (gains)/losses*
 111 
–
 111 
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive 
income
 120 
 (1)
 121 
Employer contributions
–
 21 
 (21)
Benefit payments
 (50)
 (50)
–
March 31, 2025
 460 
 310 
 150 
Gratuity liabilities grouped under Current 
provisions (refer note 26)
 150 
*To be construed as gain/(loss) for column ‘B’.
26(a)  Employee benefit obligations (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
278
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(iv)  Post-employment benefits
The significant actuarial assumptions were as follows
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Discount Rate*
6.68%
7.20%
Rate of increase in compensation levels*
6.80%
6.92%
Attrition Rate*
9.36%
8.45%
*Represents weighted average rate
(v)  Sensitivity Analysis
A.  Discount Rate + 50 BP
Defined Benefit Obligation [PVO]
 447 
 330 
B.  Discount Rate - 50 BP
Defined Benefit Obligation [PVO]
 472 
 346 
C.  Salary Escalation Rate + 50 BP
Defined Benefit Obligation [PVO]
 469 
 345 
D.  Salary Escalation Rate - 50 BP
Defined Benefit Obligation [PVO]
 452 
 331 
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions 
constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When 
calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method 
(present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end 
of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the defined benefit liability recognised in the 
balance sheet.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the 
prior period.
(vi)  Major Category of Plan Assets as a % of total Plan Assets
Funds managed by LIC of India
100%
100%
The expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the assessment made at the beginning of the year on 
the return expected on its existing portfolio, along with the estimated increment to the plan assets and expected yield 
on the respective assets in the portfolio during the year.
(vii)  Risk exposure
The group operates the India Gratuity Plan through a trust fund which invests in Life Insurance Corporation of India. 
Asset Volatility: A large portion of the investment made by the LIC is in government bonds and securities and other 
approved securities. Hence, the group is not exposed to the risk of asset volatility as at the balance sheet date.
Changes in bond yield: A decrease in bond yield will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an 
increase in value of plan’s bond holdings.
Inflation Risk: In the pension plans, the pensions in the payment are not linked to inflation, so this is a less material risk.
26(a)  Employee benefit obligations (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
279
(viii)  Defined benefit liability and employer contributions
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 7.59 years (March 31, 2024 – 7.67 years).
The expected contribution to LIC for the next year is ` 150 million.
The following payments are expected future payments (undiscounted) of the defined benefit obligation in the future years.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Within next 12 months (next annual reporting period)
 97 
 89 
Between 1 to 2 years
 75 
 41 
Between 2 to 5 years
 197 
 140 
Beyond 5 years
 269 
 205 
Total
 638 
 475 
(ix)  Provision for other employee terminal benefits
The group operates defined benefit plans in United Arab Emirates (UAE), Italy and Indonesia under the respective 
regulatory group framework. The terminal benefits are paid to the employees on termination or completion of their 
term of employment.
Balance sheet amounts – other employee terminal benefits (UAE, Italy and Indonesia)
Particulars
UAE
Italy
Indonesia
Total
Balance as at April 01, 2023
27
29
10
66
Provided during the year
 9 
 24 
 2 
 35 
Paid during the year
 (6)
 (26)
–
 (32)
Exchange difference
 1 
–
–
 1 
Balance as at March 31, 2024
 31 
 27 
 12 
 70 
Balance as at April 01, 2024
 31 
 27 
 12 
 70 
Provided during the year
 8 
 25 
 1 
 34 
Paid during the year
–
 (25)
–
 (25)
Exchange difference
 1 
 (1)
–
–
Balance as at March 31, 2025
 40 
 26 
 13 
 79 
Provision for defined benefits – Non-Current (refer note 23)
 79 
The above plans are unfunded as on March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
(x)  Summary for funded and Unfunded Plan
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Funded Plans
Present value of funded obligations
 460 
 339 
Fair value of plan assets
 310 
 318 
Net Deficit (A)
 150 
 21 
Unfunded Plans (B)
 79 
 70 
Total Deficit (A) + (B)
 229 
 91 
26(a)  Employee benefit obligations (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
280
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(a)  Income tax expense
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(a)  Income tax expense
Current tax
Current tax on profits for the year
 1,420 
 1,406 
Total current tax expense
 1,420 
 1,406 
Deferred tax
Deferred tax expense/(benefit) for the year
 (106)
 (123)
Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)
 (106)
 (123)
Income tax expense
 1,314 
 1,283 
(b)  Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied 
by India’s tax rate
Profit before income tax expense
 4,816 
 4,404 
Tax at the Indian tax rate of 25.168% (2023-2024–25.168%) 
 1,212 
 1,108 
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible/(taxable) 
in calculating taxable income:
Tax effect due to non-taxable income for India tax purposes
–  Corporate social responsibility expenditure and donations
 31 
 13 
–  Deduction u/s 24 of IT Act (Income from house property)
 (1)
 (2)
–  Others
–
 3 
Deferred tax asset not recognised on current year losses in overseas 
subsidiaries
 70 
 131 
Share of profit of joint ventures picked up net of tax
 (14)
 (13)
Effect of differential overseas tax rate*
 (3)
 49 
Others
 19 
 (6)
Income tax expense
 1,314 
 1,283 
(c)  Undisclosed income
There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during the current or previous year in the tax assessments 
under the Income Tax Act, 1961, that has not been recorded in the books of account.
*Applicable tax rates in the following subsidiaries that are material are as follows:
United Arab Emirates (UAE)
9.0%
0.0%
Australia
30.0%
30.0%
Italy
27.5%
27.5%
Belgium
25.0%
25.0%
Brazil
34.0%
34.0%
United State of America (USA)
26.5%
26.5%
27  Income Taxes
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
281
(b)  Income tax assets/liabilities
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Income tax assets (Net)
 64 
 97 
Current Tax Liabilities (Net)
 (35)
 (73)
Net tax asset/(liability) at the end of the year
 29 
 24 
Opening Balance
 24 
 (213)
Add: Tax paid (net of refund received)
 1,397 
 1,645 
Less: Current tax payable for the year
 (1,420)
 (1,406)
Less: Current tax payable on gain on sale of treasury shares recognised 
directly in retained earnings
 (2)
 (1)
Less: Income tax on other comprehensive income
 30 
 (1)
Net Current tax asset/(liability) at the end of the year
 29 
 24 
(c)  Deferred tax asset/liabilities
Particulars
Deferred tax asset (Net)
Deferred tax liabilities (Net)
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible 
assets (including Goodwill)
 31 
 (1)
 282 
 268 
Right of use assets
 (52)
 (30)
 145 
 108 
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 (1)
 (4)
–
–
Fair value gains on Equity instruments
 (16)
 (7)
–
–
Set-off of deferred tax assets in relation to:
Provision for compensated absences
 45 
 36 
–
–
Provision for Warranty
 85 
 67 
–
–
Allowance for doubtful debts
 20 
 20 
 (52)
 (4)
Lease liabilities
 44 
 34 
 (156)
 (120)
VRS
 6 
 11 
–
–
Accumulated Loss
–
–
 (174)
 27 
Accrued expenses
 12 
 43 
 3 
 (139)
Unrealised Gain in Stock
 136 
 137 
–
–
Other timing differences
 36 
 39 
 (2)
 (2)
 346 
 345 
 46 
 138 
27  Income Taxes (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
282
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
The gross movement in the deferred income tax account for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 is 
as follows:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Net deferred tax (asset)/liability at the beginning of the year
 (207)
 (87)
(Credits)/charge in profit and loss relating to temporary differences
 (106)
 (123)
(Credits)/charge in other comprehensive income relating to temporary 
differences
 9 
 3 
Translation differences
 4 
–
Net deferred tax (asset)/liability at the end of the year
 (300)
 (207)
Tax losses
Unused accumulated tax losses for which no deferred tax asset has 
been recognised 
 3,095 
 2,907 
Potential tax benefit at 25% (represents respective country’s income 
tax rate)
 774 
 727 
Deferred tax asset has not been recognized for unused tax losses that were incurred by a subsidiary in Europe due to 
the lack of convincing evidence (i.e. objective evidence despite other subjective evidences such as future cash flow 
projections) that sufficient taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses or unused tax credits 
can be utilised by the entity. They can be carried forward without limitation in time.
Certain subsidiaries of the group have undistributed earnings, which if distributed, would be subject to tax. An assessable 
temporary difference exists but, no deferred tax liability has been recognised as the parent entity is able to control the 
timing of the distribution from the subsidiaries. These subsidiaries are not expected to distribute the dividends out of 
accumulated earnings in the foreseeable future.
28  Other current liabilities
Contract liabilities
 476 
 376 
Statutory payable
 273 
 205 
Other liabilities
 13 
 5 
 762 
 586 
Contract liabilities includes advance received from customers and income received in advance arising due to allocation of 
transaction price towards freight on shipments not yet delivered to customer.
29  Revenue from operations
The accounting policy for revenue from operations is as follows:
(a) 	Sale of products
The group manufactures and sells a range of air compressors, automotive equipments and related parts. Sales 
are recognised when control of the product has transferred, being when the products are delivered to the 
customers and there are no unfulfilled obligations that could affect the customer’s acceptance of products. 
27  Income Taxes (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
283
Delivery  occurs  when  the  products have been shipped from the warehouse to the specific location in case of 
domestic sales and when a bill of lading is generated in case of exports, the risk of obsolescence and loss have 
been transferred to the customer and either the customer has accepted the product in accordance with the sales 
contract, the acceptance provision has lapsed, or the group has objective evidence that all criteria for acceptance 
have been satisfied. Where the group sells goods and also has transportation obligation and where the control of 
the goods is transferred first, the sale of goods and transportation revenue are treated as separate performance 
obligations. The group’s obligation to repair/replace faulty product under the standard warranty terms is recognised 
as a provision (refer note 26). A receivable is recognised when the goods are delivered as this is the point in time that 
the consideration is unconditional because only the passage of time is required before the payment is due. The credit 
facility is as per standard industry terms, thus there is no significant financing component.
(b) 	Sale of services
The performance obligation under service contract are installation, maintenance and other ancillary services set 
forth in the contracts. Revenue from rendering of services is recognised over a period of time by reference to the 
stage of completion as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefit provided by the group’s 
performance as the group performs. In case of transportation revenue, the group recovers cost of transportation 
from the customers. The cost is either billed separately in the invoice or included in the total transaction price. 
Where the transaction price is inclusive of cost of transportation, the group splits the transaction price into Sale 
of product and Sale of services. Revenue from Annual Maintenance Contracts are recognized over the period of the 
contract. The cost pertaining to unfulfilled performance obligations are deferred and recognized over the contract 
period. Payment for the service rendered is made as per the credit terms in the agreements with the customers. 
The credit period is as per industry standards, thus there is no significant financing component.
Refer Note 50(q) for other accounting policies relating to revenue.
29  Revenue from operations (Continued...)
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Revenue from contracts with customers
The group derives following types of revenue: 
Sale of products
32,535 
29,924 
Sale of services
2,365 
2,100 
Other operating revenues
204 
154 
Total
35,104 
32,178 
a)  The group has disaggregated revenue from contracts with customers for the year ended March 31, 2025 and 
March  31, 2024 by nature of product and geography. The group believes that disaggregation best depicts how 
the nature and cash flows are effected by industry, market and other economic factors. Refer to note 41 Segment 
information for information related to disaggregation of revenue.
b)  Revenue recognised for the year ended March 31, 2025, from the opening balance of contract liabilities is ` 320 million 
(March 31, 2024: ` 266 million).
c)  Regarding remaining performance obligations, the disclosure regarding allocation of transaction price does not arise 
as the contracts that have an original expected duration of more than one year are not significant.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
284
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
30  Other income
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Interest income - Bank Deposits
482 
414 
Interest income - Others
35 
15 
Dividend income*
1 
1 
Gain on fair value/redemption of mutual funds
1 
– 
Profit on sale of assets 
20 
66 
Rental receipts
9 
20 
Net gain on foreign currency transaction and translation (other than 
considered as finance cost)
–
10 
Miscellaneous income (net)
29 
24 
577 
550 
*All dividends from equity investments designated at FVOCI relate to investments held at the end of reporting period. 
There were no investments derecognised during the reporting period.
31  Cost of material consumed
Opening stock of raw materials*
 2,180 
 2,067 
Purchases
 12,851 
 12,189 
 15,031 
 14,256 
Less:
Inventory of materials at the end of the year*
 2,080 
 2,180 
 12,951 
 12,076 
*Excluding R & D inventory.
32  Purchases of stock-in-trade
Oil
 424 
 383 
Others*
 3,703 
 3,227 
 4,127 
 3,610 
*Consists of numerous items which are individually insignificant.
33  Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
Opening inventory*
–  Finished goods
 2,852 
 3,045 
–  Work-in-progress
 381 
 368 
–  Stock-in-trade
 613 
 392 
Closing inventory*
–  Finished goods
 2,692 
 2,852 
–  Work-in-progress
 430 
 381 
–  Stock-in-trade
 687 
 613 
 37 
 (41)
Add/(Less): Foreign currency translation difference
 59 
 44 
 96 
 3 
*Excluding R & D inventory.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
285
34  Employee benefits expense 
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Salaries, wages and bonus
 5,838 
 5,595 
Contribution to Provident fund, Social security funds & 
Superannuation scheme
 418 
 423 
Gratuity (Refer note 26(a))
 29 
 29 
Post employment pension benefits (refer note 26(a))
 34 
 35 
Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS)
–
 27 
Employee stock option expense (refer note 47)
 55 
 20 
Staff welfare expenses
 454 
 420 
 6,828 
 6,549 
Note: For managerial remuneration refer note 43.
35  Finance costs
Interest expenses (relating to lease liabilities)
 43 
 42 
Interest expenses (other financing arrangements)
 262 
 251 
 305 
 293 
36  Depreciation and amortisation expense
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 459 
 456 
Depreciation of right of use assets
 238 
 234 
Amortisation of intangible assets
 63 
 76 
 760 
 766 
37  Other expenses
Packing & forwarding
 311 
 320 
Consumption of stores
 149 
 141 
Tools consumed
 94 
 87 
Commission
 299 
 289 
Repairs and maintenance
–  Building
 82 
 78 
–  Plant and machinery
 75 
 75 
–  Others
 134 
 136 
Communication expenses
 55 
 64 
Information system expenses
 237 
 189 
Power and fuel
 285 
 265 
Transport charges
 1,017 
 867 
Travelling & conveyance
 414 
 394 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
286
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Insurance
 104 
 93 
Advertisement & publicity
 238 
 229 
Printing and stationery
 29 
 30 
Research & development material cost
 87 
 80 
After sales expenses
 565 
 483 
Factory expenses
 40 
 36 
Rates and taxes
 37 
 30 
Payment to the auditors (refer note 37(a))
 12 
 10 
Subscription & membership
 22 
 22 
CSR expenses
 71 
 52 
Donations
 55 
–
Rent
 116 
 101 
Legal and consultancy charges (refer note 47)
 708 
 718 
Contract staffing
 206 
 131 
Directors’ sitting fees
 7 
 2 
Bank charges
 40 
 46 
Net loss on foreign currency transaction and translation
 26 
–
Assets condemned & written off/loss on sale of assets
 8 
–
Bad debts and loss allowances
 185 
 36 
Loss on joint venture classified as asset held for sale
 30 
–
Miscellaneous expenses
 115 
 75 
 5,853 
 5,079 
37(a)  Details of payment to auditors
Payment to auditors 
–  audit fees 
 7 
 6 
–  limited review 
 2 
 1 
–  certification services 
 1 
 1 
–  other audit related services 
 1 
 1 
–  reimbursement of out of pocket expenses 
 1 
 1 
 12 
 10 
37  Other expenses (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
287
Financial instruments by category
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
FVTPL
FVOCI Amortised cost 
 FVTPL 
 FVOCI Amortised cost 
Financial assets
Investments 
–  Equity instruments*
–
 250 
–
–
 194 
–
–  Mutual Funds 
 351 
–
–
–
–
–
Loans 
 104 
 118 
Trade receivables
–
–
 6,084 
–
–
 5,927 
Cash and other bank balances 
–
–
 8,745 
–
–
 7,745 
Derivatives not designated as hedges 
–  Foreign exchange forward contracts 
 5 
–
–
 15 
–
–
Security deposits
–
–
 80 
–
–
 75 
Derivatives designated as hedges 
–  Interest rate swap 
–
–
–
–
 4 
–
Others 
–
–
 319 
–
–
 218 
Total financial assets 
 356 
 250 
 15,332 
 15 
 198 
 14,083 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings 
–
–
 4,908 
–
–
 5,605 
Trade payables
–
–
 3,367 
–
–
 3,454 
Dealer deposits 
–
–
 35 
–
–
 35 
Employee benefit expenses payable 
–
–
 794 
–
–
 778 
Others 
–
–
 165 
–
–
 97 
Total financial liabilities 
–
–
 9,269 
–
–
 9,969 
*The equity shares which are not held for trading and for which the group has made irrevocable election at initial 
recognition to recognise the changes in fair value through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) rather than profit or loss 
as these are strategic investments and the group considered this to be more relevant.
(i)  Fair value hierarchy
This section explains the judgements and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments 
that are (a) recognised and measured at fair value and (b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are 
disclosed in the financial statements. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining fair 
value, the group has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the accounting standard. 
An explanation of each level follows underneath the table.
38  Fair value measurements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
288
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements
As at March 31, 2025
Notes
Level 1
Level 2
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Financial Investments at FVTPL:
Derivatives not designated as hedges
–  Foreign exchange forward contracts
16
–
 5 
–
 5 
Unquoted mutual funds
6 (b)
 351 
–
–
 351 
Financial Investments at FVOCI:
Quoted Equity Investments
6 (a)
 229 
–
–
 229 
Unquoted Equity Investments
6 (a)
–
–
 21 
 21 
Derivatives designated as hedges
–
–  Interest rate swap
8, 16
–
–
–
–
Total financial assets
 580 
 5 
 21 
 606 
Assets and liabilities which are measured at amortised cost for which fair values are disclosed
Financial assets
Loans
–  Loans to employees
7,15
–
–
 104 
 104 
Security deposits
8,16
–
–
 80 
 80 
Total financial assets
–
–
 184 
 184 
Financial Liabilities
Borrowings
21(a)
–
–
 4,908 
 4,908 
Total financial liabilities
–
–
 4,908 
 4,908 
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements
As at March 31, 2024
Notes
Level 1
Level 2
 Level 3 
 Total 
Financial assets
Financial Investments at FVOCI:
Quoted Equity Investments
6(a)
 173 
–
–
 173 
Unquoted Equity Investments
6(a)
–
–
 21 
 21 
Derivatives designated as hedges
–  Interest rate swap
8, 16
–
 4 
–
 4 
Total financial assets 
 173 
 4 
 21 
 198 
Assets and liabilities which are measured at amortised cost for which fair values are disclosed
Financial assets
Loans
–  Loans to employees
7,15
–
–
 118 
 118 
Security deposits
8,16
–
–
 75 
 75 
Total financial assets 
–
–
 193 
 193 
Financial Liabilities
Borrowings
21 (a)
–
–
 5,605 
 5,605 
Total financial liabilities
–
–
 5,605 
 5,605 
38  Fair value measurements (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
289
Quoted prices in an active market (Level 1): Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted 
prices in the active market. This category consists quoted equity shares. The fair value of all equity instruments which 
are traded in stock exchanges is valued using closing price as at the reporting period. Mutual funds are valued using 
closing NAV. Since mutual funds invested by the group are not quoted/traded on a recognized stock exchange, those 
have been disclosed as ‘unquoted’. However, mutual funds are valued using closing NAV which is directly observable.
Valuation techniques with observable inputs (Level 2): The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an 
active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques which maximise 
the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs 
required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2. This level of hierarchy includes 
Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap.
Valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3): If one or more of the significant inputs is not 
based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3. Investment in unquoted equity instrument (First 
Energy TN1 Pvt Ltd and First Energy 5 Pvt Ltd), pursuant to power purchase arrangement, is determined to have cost as 
an appropriate measure of fair value due to restriction to sell at face value.
There are no transfers between level 1, level 2 and level 3 during the year.
The group’s policy is to recognise transfers into and transfers out of fair value hierarchy levels as at the end of the 
reporting period.
(ii) Valuation technique used to determine fair value
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
–  the use of quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments
–  the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date
–  the fair value of the remaining financial instruments is determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
(iii) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Carrying amount
Fair value
Carrying amount
Fair value
Financial assets
Loans
Loans to employees
 104 
 104 
 118 
 118 
Security deposits
 80 
 80 
 75 
 75 
Total financial assets 
 184 
 184 
 193 
 193 
Financial Liabilities 
Borrowings 
 4,908 
 4,908 
 5,605 
 5,605 
Total financial liabilities 
 4,908 
 4,908 
 5,605 
 5,605 
The carrying amounts of trade receivables, trade payables, dealer deposits, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings and 
other financial liabilities and financial assets are considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their short-term 
nature and in the case of borrowings due to fact that they are subject to variable market rate of interest.
The fair values for loans to employees were calculated based on cash flows discounted using a current lending rate. They are 
classified as level 3 fair values in the fair value hierarchy due to the inclusion of unobservable inputs including counterparty 
credit risk. The borrowings carry a variable rate of interest and hence their carrying amount is considered as fair value.
For financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, the carrying amounts are equal to the fair values.
For equity instruments measured at FVOCI whose fair value measurement was performed using unobservable inputs 
(Level 3), the reconciliation from opening balance to closing balance and relationship between such unobservable inputs 
and fair value has not been disclosed considering that the carrying amount of such instruments is not significant.
38  Fair value measurements (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
290
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
The group’s activities expose it to market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
This note explains the group’s exposure to financial risks and how these risks could affect the group’s future financial 
performance. Current years profit and loss information has been included where relevant to add further context.
Risk
Exposure arising from
Measurement
Management
Credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, debt 
mutual funds, trade receivables, 
loan to subsidiaries (including 
guarantees), derivative financial 
instruments, financial assets 
measured at amortised cost.
Ageing analysis, 
Credit ratings
Diversifying bank deposits, 
mutual fund plans and AMCs, 
setting appropriate credit limits, 
and utilizing letters of credit for 
specific transactions.
Liquidity risk
Borrowings and other liabilities
Rolling cash flow 
forecasts
Availability of committed credit 
lines and borrowing facilities
Market risk – 
foreign exchange
Recognised financial assets and 
liabilities not denominated in Indian 
rupee (INR)
Cash flow forecasting 
Sensitivity analysis
Foreign exchange forward 
contracts
Market risk – 
Interest rate
Long term borrowings at variable 
rates
Sensitivity analysis
Interest rate swaps
Market risk – 
security prices
Investments in equity securities
Sensitivity analysis
Portfolio diversification
The group’s risk management is carried out by treasury department under policies approved by the board of directors. 
Group’s treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the group’s operating units. 
The board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as 
foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial 
instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
Where all relevant criteria are met, hedge accounting is applied to remove the accounting mismatch between the 
hedging instrument and hedged item. This will effectively result in recognising interest expense at the fixed interest 
rate for the hedged floating rate loans.
(A)  Credit risk
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, favourable derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks 
and debt mutual funds, as well as credit exposures to customers including outstanding receivables.
(i)  Credit risk management
Credit risk is managed at individual company level. In relation to banks and financial institutions, only high rated banks/
institutions are accepted.
The group assesses the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and 
other factors. Individual risk limits are set based on internal and external ratings in accordance with the limits set by 
the group. The finance function consists of a separate team who assess and maintain an internal credit rating system. 
The compliance with the credit limits by customers is regularly monitored by the finance function.
(ii)  Security
For some trade receivables, the group may obtain security in the form of guarantees, deeds of undertaking or letter of 
credit, which can be called upon if counter party is in default under the terms of the agreement.
39  Financial risk management
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
291
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
(iii)  Impairment of financial assets
The group assigns the following internal credit ratings to each class of financial assets based on the assumptions, 
inputs and factors specific to the class of the financial asset. The group provides for expected credit loss based on 
the following:
Internal 
rating
Category
Description of category
Basis for recognition of expected  
credit loss provision
Cash & 
Investments
Loans and 
deposits
Trade receivables
C1
High quality 
assets, 
negligible 
credit risk
Assets where the counter-party 
has strong capacity to meet the 
obligations and where the risk of 
default is negligible or nil
12-month 
expected 
credit losses
12-month 
expected 
credit 
losses
Life-time 
expected credit 
losses (simplified 
approach)
C2
Doubtful 
assets, credit 
impaired
Assets are written off when there 
is no reasonable expectation of 
recovery, such as a debtor declaring 
bankruptcy or failing to engage in 
a repayment plan with the group. 
Where loans or receivables have been 
written off, the group continues to 
engage in enforcement activity to 
attempt to recover the receivable due. 
Where recoveries are made, these are 
recognised in profit or loss.
Asset is written off
For the years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024
a)  Expected credit loss for loans, security deposits and investments
The group’s investments and deposits at amortized cost are considered to have low credit risk since they have a low risk 
of default and the issuer has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations in the near term.
For loans to related parties and employees, the group considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of 
loan and whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting 
period. To assess whether there is a significant increase in credit risk, the group compares the risk of a default occurring 
on the loan as at the reporting date with the risk of default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers available 
reasonable and supportive forward looking information. The following indicators are considered:
	 internal credit rating
	 actual or expected significant adverse changes in business, financial or economic conditions that are expected to 
cause a significant change to the borrower’s ability to meet its obligations
	 actual or expected significant changes in the operating results of the borrower
	 significant increases in credit risk on other financial instruments of the same borrower
	 macroeconomic information (such as market interest rates or growth rates)
The resultant internal credit rating for loans, deposits and investments is C1. The entity estimates that the 12-month 
expected credit loss in this scenario and the estimated gross carrying amount at default to be immaterial and hence 
there is no expected credit loss recognised for the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
292
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
b)  Expected credit loss for trade receivables under simplified approach
Customer credit risk is managed by the group based on the groups’s established policy, procedures and control relating 
to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an on an internal credit rating 
system. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and assessed for its recoverability. 
An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date, where receivables are grouped into homogenous credit 
groups and assessed for impairment. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of 
each class of financial assets disclosed in Note 11. The group evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade 
receivables as low, as its customers has sufficient capacity to meet the obligations and the risk of default is negligible.
The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of sales over a period of 24 months before the reporting 
date and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within this period. The historical loss rates are adjusted 
to reflect current and forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of the customers to 
settle the receivables if any.
Trade receivables and contract assets are written off where there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators 
that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery include, amongst others, the failure of a debtor to engage in a 
repayment plan with the group, and a failure to make contractual payments for a period of greater than 720 days past 
due and the same is considered as credit impaired. 
Impairment losses on trade receivables are presented as loss allowances under other expenses. Subsequent recoveries 
of amounts previously written off are credited against the same line item.
The group has computed the expected credit loss allowance for trade receivables based on a provision matrix. The 
provision matrix takes into account historical credit loss experience and adjusted for forward-looking information.
Particulars
Not due 
 Overdue by/past due by 
Total
 Less than 
3 months 
 3 to 6 
months 
 6 months 
to 1 year 1- 2 years
More than 
2 years
As at March 31, 2025
Gross carrying amount – Trade 
receivables
 4,889 
 1,062 
 26 
 123 
 152 
 101 
 6,353 
Gross carrying amount – Contract 
assets
 142 
–
–
–
–
–
 142 
Expected loss rate
1%
0%
0%
19%
49%
0%
Expected credit losses (Loss allowance 
provision – Trade receivables)
–
–
–
 24 
 75 
–
 98 
Expected credit losses (Loss allowance 
provision – Contract assets)
 35 
–
–
–
–
–
 35 
Loss Allowance – Credit Impaired
–
–
 3 
 21 
 61 
 86 
 171 
Total Loss allowance provision
 35 
–
 3 
 45 
 136 
 86 
 304 
Carrying amount of Trade receivables 
(net of credit loss allowance)
 4,889 
 1,062 
 23 
 78 
 16 
 15 
 6,084 
Carrying amount of Contract assets 
(net of credit loss allowance)
 107 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 107 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
293
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
As at March 31, 2024
Gross carrying amount – Trade 
receivables
 4,511 
 872 
 273 
 224 
 97 
 59 
 6,036 
Gross carrying amount – Contract 
assets
 131 
–
–
–
–
–
 131 
Expected loss rate
1%
0%
1%
2%
9%
12%
Expected credit losses (Loss allowance 
provision – Trade receivables)
 – 
 3 
 2 
 4 
 9 
 7 
 25 
Expected credit losses (Loss allowance 
provision – Contract assets)
 27 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 27 
Loss Allowance – Credit Impaired
 – 
 7 
 – 
 31 
 18 
 28 
 84 
Total Loss allowance provision
 27 
 10 
 2 
 35 
 27 
 35 
 136 
Carrying amount of Trade receivables 
(net of credit loss allowance)
 4,511 
 862 
 271 
 189 
 70 
 24 
 5,927 
Carrying amount of Contract assets 
(net of credit loss allowance)
 104 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 104 
(iv)  Reconciliation of loss allowance provision 
Loss allowance on April 01, 2023
 111 
Changes in loss allowance
 25 
Loss allowance on March 31, 2024
 136 
Changes in loss allowance 
 168 
Loss allowance on March 31, 2025
 304 
(B)  Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability 
of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities to meet obligations when due and to close out 
market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group’s treasury maintains flexibility in 
funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines. Management monitors rolling forecasts of The group’s 
liquidity position (comprising the undrawn borrowing facilities below) and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of 
expected cash flows. 
Particulars
Not due 
 Overdue by/past due by 
Total
 Less than 
3 months 
 3 to 6 
months 
 6 months 
to 1 year 1- 2 years
More than 
2 years
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
294
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(i)  Financing arrangements
The group has access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the end of the reporting period:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Floating rate
Expiring within one year (including other facilities)
 4,842 
 3,553 
The credit facility sanctioned by the banks are subject to renewal every year.
Subject to the continuance of satisfactory credit ratings, the bank loan facilities may be drawn at any time and can be 
renewed for further period of 1 year.
(ii)  Maturities of financial liabilities
The tables below analyse the group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on their contractual 
maturities for:
a)  all non-derivative financial liabilities, and
b)  net and gross settled derivative financial instruments for which the contractual maturities are essential for an 
understanding of the timing of the cash flows.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal 
their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant. For interest rate swaps the cash flows have been 
estimated using forward interest rate applicable at the end of the reporting period.
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities:
Particulars
Less than 
3 months
3 months to 
6 months
6 months to 
1 year
Between 1 
and 2 years
Between 2 
and 5 years
Total
March 31, 2025
Non–derivatives
Borrowings
 2,783 
 441 
 1,633 
 73 
–
 4,930 
Lease liabilities
 64 
 57 
 132 
 348 
 315 
 916 
Trade payables
 3,367 
–
–
–
–
 3,367 
Other financial liabilities
 991 
–
–
–
–
 991 
Total non–derivative liabilities
 7,205 
 498 
 1,765 
 421 
 315 
 10,204 
March 31, 2024
Non–derivatives
Borrowings 
 2,756 
 882 
 1,771 
 128 
 68 
 5,605 
Lease liabilities 
 62 
 55 
 117 
 297 
 245 
 776 
Trade payables 
 3,454 
–
–
–
–
 3,454 
Other financial liabilities 
 910 
–
–
–
–
 910 
Total non–derivative liabilities 
 7,182 
 937 
 1,888 
 425 
 313 
 10,745 
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
295
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
(C)  Market risk
(i)  Foreign currency risk
The group operates internationally and a portion of the business is transacted in several currencies and consequently 
the group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from foreign currency transactions, primarily with respect to the 
USD, EUR, AUD, BRL, RMB. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and 
liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the company’s functional currency (INR). The risk is measured through 
a forecast of highly probable foreign currency cash flows.
Amounts in million in respective currency
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
USD
EUR
AUD
BRL
RMB
USD
EUR
AUD
BRL
RMB
Financial assets
Trade receivables 
–*
 1 
 1 
 2 
 – 
 2 
 1 
 1 
 6 
 – 
Loans (including accrued interest) 
 9 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 9 
 – 
 – 
 5 
 – 
Cash and cash equivalent
–*
   –*
 – 
 – 
 – 
 1 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
Net exposure to foreign currency risk (assets) 
 9 
 1 
 1 
 2 
 – 
 12 
 1 
 1 
 11 
 – 
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 
 1 
 2 
 – 
 – 
 4 
 1 
 4 
 1 
 – 
 10 
Net exposure to foreign currency risk (liabilities) 
 1 
 2 
 – 
 – 
 4 
 1 
 4 
 1 
 – 
 10 
*Amounts below rounding off norm adopted by the group. 
Note: Trade receivables are disclosed after offsetting forward contracts in the corresponding currency as applicable.
Sensitivity
The sensitivity of profit or loss to changes in the exchange rates arises mainly from foreign currency denominated 
financial instruments. Amounts in brackets represents loss.
Particulars
Impact on profit after tax
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
USD sensitivity
Functional currency/USD Increases by 5% 
 27 
 34 
Functional currency/USD decreases by 5% 
 (27)
 (34)
EURO sensitivity
Functional currency/EURO Increases by 5% 
 (6)
 (10)
Functional currency/EURO decreases by 5% 
 6 
 10 
AUD sensitivity
Functional currency/AUD Increases by 5% 
 1 
–
Functional currency/AUD decreases by 5% 
 (1)
–
BRL sensitivity
Functional currency/BRL Increases by 5% 
 1 
 7 
Functional currency/BRL decreases by 5% 
 (1)
 (7)
RMB sensitivity
Functional currency/RMB Increases by 5% 
 (2)
 (4)
Functional currency/RMB decreases by 5% 
 2 
 4 
The above sensitivity has been computed assuming there is no change in functional currency to INR.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
296
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(ii)  Cash flow and Fair value interest rate risk
The group’s main interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings with variable rates, which exposes the group to 
cash flow interest rate risk. During the year ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, the groups borrowings at variable 
rate are mainly denominated in USD and AUD.
The group’s fixed rate borrowings are carried at amortised cost. They are therefore not subject to interest rate risk as 
defined in Ind AS 107, since neither the carrying amount nor the future cash flows will fluctuate because of a change 
in the market interest rate.
At the end of the reporting period the group has following variable rate long term borrowings and interest rate swap 
contracts outstanding,
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Weighted average 
interest rate
Amount
Weighted average 
interest rate
Amount
Term Loan – Variable rate borrowings
–  EUR
5.20%
 138 
5.00%
 27 
–  AUD
5.99%
 62 
5.65%
 186 
Interest rate swap
–  AUD
4.45%
 (62)
4.45%
 (186)
 138 
 27 
The analysis for maturities of borrowings is provided in the note no 39 B(ii) above. 
Sensitivity
Profit or loss is sensitive to higher/lower interest expenses from borrowings as the result of change in interest rate.
Particulars
Impact on Profit after tax
Impact on other components of equity
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Interest rate increase by 50 basis points*
(1)
–
1 
2 
Interest rate decrease by 50 basis points*
1 
–
(1)
(2)
*Holding all other variables constant
Impact of Hedging activities:
a)  Disclosure of effects of hedge accounting of Interest rate swap on financial position:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Type of hedge & risk
Cash Flow Hedge - Interest rate risk  Cash Flow Hedge - Interest rate risk 
Nominal Value
–  Assets
 62 
 186 
–  Liabilities
–
–
Carrying amount of hedging Instrument
–  Assets
–
 4 
–  Liabilities
–
–
Maturity Date
August 2018 - July 2025
August 2018 - July 2025
Hedge ratio
1:1
1:1
Rate
4.45%
4.45%
Change in fair value of hedged item (net of tax)
 –
 2 
Change in value of hedging instrument used as 
basis for recognising hedge ineffectiveness
–
 (2)
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
297
Hedge effectiveness:
Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness 
assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument.
The group enters into interest rate swaps that have similar critical terms as the hedged item, such as reference rate, 
reset dates, payment dates, maturities and notional amount. The group does not hedge 100% of its loans; therefore, the 
hedged item is identified as a proportion of the outstanding loans up to the notional amount of the swaps. As all critical 
terms matched during the year, there is economic relationship.
Hedge ineffectiveness for interest rate swaps may occur due to:
	 the credit value/debit value adjustment on the interest rate swaps which is not matched by the loan, and
	 differences in critical terms between the interest rate swaps and loans.
There was no recognised ineffectiveness during financial year ended March 31, 2025 or March 31, 2024 in relation to 
interest rate swaps.
Refer table below in relation to disclosures of effect of hedge accounting on financial performance.
(b)  Disclosure of effect of hedge accounting on financial performance:
Interest rate swap
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Cash flow hedging reserve
Opening balance
 4 
 5 
Add: Changes in fair value of interest rate swaps
– 
 2 
Less: Amounts of (gain)/loss reclassified to profit or loss
 (2)
 (3)
Less: Deferred tax asset relating to above (net)
 1 
–
Closing balance
 3 
 4 
(ii)  Price risk
The group’s exposure to equity securities price risk arises from investments held by the group and classified in the 
balance sheet as fair value through OCI.
To manage its price risk arising from investments in equity securities, the group diversifies its portfolio. Diversification 
of the portfolio is done in accordance with the limits set by the group.
The majority of the group’s equity instruments are publicly traded and are included in the Bombay Stock Exchange 
(BSE) index.
Sensitivity
The table below summarises the impact of increases/decreases of the index on the group’s equity and total comprehensive 
income for the period. The analysis is based on the assumption that the equity index had increased by 5% or decreased by 
5% with all other variables held constant, and that all the group’s equity instruments moved in line with the index.
Particulars
 Impact on other components of equity
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
BSE Sensex – increase 5%
10 
8 
BSE Sensex – decrease 5%
(10)
(8)
Other components of equity would increase/decrease as a result of gains/losses on equity securities classified as fair 
value though other comprehensive income.
Since the income from mutual funds during the current period is not material, the sensitivity disclosure has not 
been provided.
39  Financial risk management (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
298
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(a)  Risk management
The group’s objectives when managing capital are to
	 safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern, so that they can continue to provide returns for 
shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and
	 maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Consistent with others in the industry, the group monitors capital on the basis of the following ratio:
Net debt (total borrowings and lease liabilities net of cash and cash equivalents and deposits with Banks and Financial 
Institutions) divided by Total equity (as shown in the balance sheet).
The above mentioned ratio of the group is as follows:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Net debt (refer note 21)*
–
–
Total equity
 18,656 
 16,112 
Net debt to equity ratio
–
–
*Presented as nil since it is negative. For the purpose of monitoring compliance with externally imposed requirements, 
the group considers gross debt as specified in the facility agreement which is without offsetting cash balances.
(i)  Loan covenants
Under the terms of major borrowing facilities, the group is required to comply with the following financial covenants:
–  The consolidated gearing ratio shall not exceed 1.5 times;
–  The consolidated leverage ratio shall not exceed 3.3 times; and
–  The consolidated debt service coverage ratio shall not fall below 1.5 times.
The group has complied with all the loan covenants throughout the reporting period. As at March 31, 2025,  
the gearing ratio is 0.34, leverage ratio is 0.87 and debt service coverage ratio is 10.54. 
(b)  Dividends (gross of dividend paid to joint venture and ESOP Trust)
(i)  Equity shares
Final dividend recognised for the year ended March 31, 2025 of ` 2.00/- 
(March 31, 2024 – ` 2.00/- per fully paid share)
 634 
 634 
(ii)  Dividends not recognised at the end of the reporting period
For the year ended March 31, 2024, directors had recommended the 
payment of a final dividend of ` 2.00/- per fully paid equity share which was 
subsequently approved by the shareholders in the annual general meeting.
 634 
Subsequent to the year ended March 31, 2025, the directors have 
recommended the payment of a final dividend of ` 2.20/- per fully paid 
equity share. This proposed dividend is subject to shareholders’ approval in 
the ensuing annual general meeting.
697
40  Capital management
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
299
(a)  Description of segments and principal activities
The chief operating decision maker (CODM) (i.e. the Managing Director of Elgi Equipments Limited) examines the 
group’s performance from a product perspective and has identified two reportable segments of its business:
a)  Air compressors
b)  Automotive equipment
(b)  Segment Revenue
The segment revenue is measured in the same way as in the statement of profit or loss.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Air Compressors
 32,118 
 29,586 
Automotive equipment
 3,015 
 2,616 
Less: Inter segment revenue (Air Compressors)
 (29)
 (24)
Income from operations
 35,104 
 32,178 
(c)  Segment profit before tax
Segment profit before tax is measured in the same way as in the statement of profit and loss.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Air Compressors
 4,511 
 4,085 
Automotive equipment
 250 
 267 
Add/(Less): Inter segment profit/(loss)
–
–
Total
 4,761 
 4,352 
Share of net profit of joint ventures accounted for using the equity method
 55 
 52 
Total profit before tax
 4,816 
 4,404 
(d)  Segment Assets
Segment assets are measured in the same way as in the financial statements. These assets are allocated based on the 
operations of the segment.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Air Compressors
 28,377 
 26,457 
Automotive equipment
 2,044 
 1,764 
Less: Inter segment assets (Automotive equipment)
 (6)
 (10)
Total Segment Assets
 30,415 
 28,211 
(e)  Segment Liabilities
Segment liabilities are measured in the same way as in the financial statements. These liabilities are allocated based 
on the operations of the segment.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
a)  Air Compressors 
 11,098 
 11,597 
b)  Automotive equipment
 667 
 512 
Less: Inter segment liabilities (Automotive equipment) 
 (6)
 (10)
Total Segment Liabilities
 11,759 
 12,099 
41  Segment Information
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
300
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(f)  Capital Employed
Capital employed is measured as the difference between segment assets and segment liabilities.
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
a)  Air Compressors 
 17,279 
 14,860 
b)  Automotive equipment 
 1,377 
 1,252 
Add: Inter segment capital employed (Automotive equipment) 
–
–
Total Capital employed
 18,656 
 16,112 
(g)  Other profit and loss disclosures
Specified amounts included in the measure of segment profit or loss (i.e., Adjusted EBITDA) reviewed by the CODM
Other material expense items- Cost of goods sold*
a)  Air Compressors 
 15,435 
 14,156 
b)  Automotive equipment 
 1,762 
 1,552 
Less: Inter segment cost of goods sold (Air Compressors) 
 (23)
 (19)
Total Cost of goods sold
 17,174 
 15,689 
*Cost of goods sold i.e., the aggregate of cost of material consumed, purchases of stock-in-trade and changes in inventories 
of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade, is disclosed as a material expense in management’s assessment. 
This change in disclosure is arising from the recent changes/interpretations based on global pronouncements related 
to segment reporting.
Note:
(i)	 The group has provided the segment information to the extent consistently reviewed by the CODM.
(ii)	 Revenues from transactions with no single external customer amount to 10 per cent of the group’s revenues.
41  Segment Information (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
301
41  Segment Information (Continued...)
(h)  Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
Sales between segments are carried out at arm’s length and are eliminated on consolidation. The segment revenue is 
measured in the same way as in the statement of profit and loss.
Geography
Total revenue
Inter-company 
revenue
Revenue from external 
customers
(A)
(B)
(A)+(B)
March 31, 2025
India 
 19,011 
 (86)
 18,925 
Other regions
Americas
 9,576 
 (2,051)
 7,525 
Europe
 5,524 
 (1,577)
 3,947 
Australia
 2,039 
 (509)
 1,530 
Others
 4,296 
 (1,119)
 3,177 
 40,446 
 (5,342)
 35,104 
March 31, 2024
India 
 16,683 
 (56)
 16,627 
Other regions
Americas
 10,268 
 (2,791)
 7,477 
Europe
 5,176 
 (1,512)
 3,664 
Australia
 2,154 
 (573)
 1,581 
Others
 3,526 
 (697)
 2,829 
 37,807 
 (5,629)
 32,178 
The inter-company revenue from one region to another has been disclosed in the buying region and eliminated 
accordingly.
(i) The total non-current Assets other than financial instruments, investments accounted under equity method 
and deferred tax assets broken down by location of assets in shown below:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
India
 3,220 
 2,749 
Americas
 2,137 
 1,997 
Europe
 826 
 819 
Australia
 429 
 454 
Others
 108 
 110 
Total non-current assets
 6,720 
 6,129 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
302
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(a) Subsidiaries
The group’s subsidiaries are set out below. Unless otherwise stated, they have share capital consisting solely of equity 
shares that are held directly by the group, and the proportion of ownership interests held equals the voting rights held 
by the group. The country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of business.	
Name of entity
Place of 
business
Ownership interest held by the group
Principal activities
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
%
%
ATS Elgi Limited
India
 100 
 100 
Manufacture and trading of 
automotive equipment
Elgi Gulf FZE
U.A.E.
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
Elgi Gulf Mechanical and 
Engineering Equipment  
Trading LLC*
U.A.E.
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
Elgi Compressors Do Brasil 
Imp.E.Exp LTDA
Brazil
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
Elgi Equipments Australia  
Pty Limited
Australia
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors 
Elgi Compressors Italy S.R.L
Italy
 100 
 100 
Manufacture and trading of 
compressors
Rotair SPA*
Italy
 100 
 100 
Manufacture and trading 
of compressors, hydraulic 
hammers and rampi cars
Elgi Compressors Europe S.R.L
Belgium
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
Elgi Compressors Iberia S.L.*
Spain
 100 
 100 
Marketing of air compressors
Elgi Compressors Nordics*
Sweden
 100 
 100 
Marketing of air compressors
Elgi Compressors Eastern 
Europe sp. z.o.o.*
Poland
 100 
 100 
Marketing of air compressors
Elgi Compressors UK and 
Ireland Limited*
United  
Kingdom
 100 
 100 
Marketing of air compressors
Elgi Compressors Southern 
Europe S.r.l*
Italy
 100 
 100 
Marketing of air compressors
Elgi Compressors France SAS*
France
 100 
 100 
Marketing of air compressors
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.
USA
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
Patton’s Inc*
USA
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors 
and servicing of compressors
Patton’s Medical LLC.*
USA
 100 
 100 
Manufacturing and Trading of 
compressed air systems and 
vacuum pumps for medical 
applications
Michigan Air Solutions LLC*
USA
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors 
and servicing of compressors
Industrial Air Compressors Pty Ltd Australia
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
42  Interests in other entities
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
303
Name of entity
Place of 
business
Ownership interest held by the group
Principal activities
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
%
%
F.R. Pulford & Son Pty Limited*
Australia
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors, 
nitrogen systems, altitude 
training systems
Advanced Air Compressors 
Pty Ltd*
Australia
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
Adisons Precision Instruments 
Manufacturing Company Limited India
 100 
 100 
Renting out of property
PT Elgi Equipments Indonesia
Indonesia
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
Elgi Compressors (M) SDN. BHD. 
Malaysia
 100 
 100 
Trading of air compressors
Ergo Design Private Limited
India
 100 
 100 
Design services
*Step-down subsidiaries 
(b)  Joint Operations
The group has 98% interest in a joint arrangement called L.G. Balakrishnan & Bros (Firm) which was set up as partnership 
together with Elgi Ultra Private Limited to earn rental income from Investment Property.	
The group has 80% interest in a joint arrangement called Elgi Services which was set up as partnership together with 
Elgi Ultra Private Limited.
The principal place of business of the joint operations is in India.	
The joint agreements in relation to the above joint arrangements require unanimous consent from both parties for all 
relevant activities. The two partners have direct rights to the assets of the partnership and are jointly and severally 
liable for the liabilities incurred by the partnership. These entities are therefore classified as a joint operations and the 
group recognises its direct right to the jointly held assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
(c)  Joint Venture
Set out below are the joint ventures of the group as at March 31, 2025 which, in the opinion of the directors, are material 
to the group. The entities listed below have share capital consisting solely of equity shares, which are held directly by 
the group. The country of incorporation or registration is also their principal place of business, and the proportion of 
ownership interest is the same as the proportion of voting rights held.
42  Interests in other entities (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
304
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Name of the entity
Principal 
Place of 
business
 Proportion of 
the ownership 
interest 
Relationship
 Carrying amount
 Profit or loss
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited
India
26%
Joint venture
 120 
 108 
 37 
 35 
Industrial Air Solutions LLP
India
50%
Joint venture
 4 
 1 
 (6)
 10 
Evergreen Compressed Air  
and Vacuum LLC**
USA
50%
Joint venture
 35 
 34 
 2 
 (2)
PLA Holding Company LLC**
USA
50%
Joint venture
 36 
 31 
 11 
 (17)
Immaterial joint ventures  
(iii) below**
 23 
 69 
 11 
 26 
Total Investments accounted for using 
the equity method
 218 
 243 
 55 
 52 
Less: Classified as Assets held for sale 
(refer note 18)
 13 
 28 
Investments accounted for using equity 
method as per Balance sheet
 205 
 215 
Share of net profit of joint ventures 
accounted for using the equity method
 55 
 52 
**Jointly controlled entity of Elgi Compressors USA Inc.
Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited was set up as a company together with JP Sauer & Sohn Maschinenbau GMBH to sell 
compressors and their parts along with rendering engineering services. 
The Holding Company has 50% share in Industrial Air Solutions LLP which was set up as Limited liability partnership in 
India with Mr. Rajeev Sharma, for distribution of products of Elgi Equipments Limited. 
The Holding Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Elgi Compressors USA Inc, has set up a joint venture called 
Evergreen Compressed Air and Vacuum LLC, with Mr. Michael Keim for a share of 50% each. The joint venture is having 
registered office at Seattle, USA and is the distributor of products of Elgi Equipments Limited. 
The Holding Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Elgi Compressors USA Inc. has set up a joint venture called 
Compressed Air Solutions of Texas, LLC, with Mr. Bryan Becker for a share of 50% each. The joint venture is a distributor 
of products for compressed air systems mainly in the state of Texas. The joint venture is held for sale as at March 31, 2025.
The Holding Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Elgi Compressors USA Inc, has set up a joint venture called 
PLA Holding Company, LLC, with Mr. Jeffery Brandon Todd for a share of 50% each. The joint venture was formed in the 
state of North Carolina. PLA Holding Company, LLC, wholly owns Pattons of California, LLC, a California company which 
is a distributor of products for compressed air systems mainly in the state of California.
The Holding Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary Elgi Compressors USA Inc., has set up a joint venture called 
G3 Industrial Solutions, LLC, with Mr. Chad Gooding and Mr. Luke Johnson for a share of one-third for each. The joint 
venture is a distributor of products for compressed air systems, mainly in the states of Kansas City and Missouri. 
The joint venture was divested during the year.
The Holding Company through its wholly owned subsidiary Elgi Compressors USA Inc, has set up a joint venture called 
Gentex Air Solutions, LLC, with Mr. James Gery Naico and Mr. Diego Hernandez for a share of one third for each. The joint 
venture is a distributor of products for compressed air systems mainly in the states of North Carolina. 
The Holding Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary Elgi Compressors USA Inc., has set up a joint venture 
called CS Industrial Services, LLC, with Mr. Kevin Melisz and Mr. Jeff Kurczewski for a share of one-third for each. 
The joint venture is a distributor of products for compressed air systems mainly in the states of Western New York. 
The joint venture was divested during the year.
42  Interests in other entities (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
305
(i)  Commitments and contingent liabilities in respect of joint ventures
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Commitments – joint ventures
Capital commitments
–
–
Contingent liabilities – joint ventures
Share of joint ventures contingent liabilities in respect of legal matters 
against the entity and guarantees
 33 
 31 
(ii)  Summarised financial information for material joint ventures	
The tables below provide summarised financial information for the joint ventures that are material to the group. The 
information disclosed reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint ventures and not the 
group’s share of those amounts. They have been amended to reflect adjustments made by the entity when using the 
equity method, including fair value adjustments made at the time of acquisition and modifications for differences in 
accounting policies.
Summarised balance sheet
Elgi Sauer 
Compressors 
Limited*
Industrial Air 
Solutions LLP
Evergreen 
Compressed Air 
and Vacuum LLC 
PLA Holding 
Company LLC
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents
 39 
 43 
 2 
 17 
 11 
 10 
 23 
 29 
Other assets
 508 
 364 
 113 
 91 
 109 
 58 
 67 
 58 
Total current assets
 547 
 407 
 115 
 108 
 120 
 68 
 90 
 87 
Total non-current assets*
 385 
 400 
 13 
 9 
 4 
 5 
 31 
 29 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities 
(excluding trade payables)
 18 
 9 
–
–
 7 
 3 
 4 
 10 
Other liabilities
 294 
 202 
 73 
 66 
 50 
 20 
 105 
 112 
Total current liabilities
 312 
 211 
 73 
 66 
 57 
 23 
 109 
 122 
Non-current liabilities
Employee benefit 
obligations & Others
 160 
 182 
–
–
 8 
 11 
–
–
Total non-current liabilities
 160 
 182 
–
–
 8 
 11 
–
–
Net assets
 460 
 414 
 55 
 51 
 59 
 39 
 12 
 (6)
*Excludes the impact of fair value gain on shares held by Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited in Elgi Equipments Limited.
42  Interests in other entities (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
306
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Reconciliation to  
carrying amounts
Elgi Sauer 
Compressors 
Limited*
Industrial Air 
Solutions LLP
Evergreen 
Compressed Air 
and Vacuum LLC 
PLA Holding 
Company LLC
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
Share Capital-Opening
 7 
 7 
 8 
 8 
 19 
 19 
 15 
 15 
Capital Investments
–
–
–
–
 13 
–
–
–
Share Capital – Closing [A]
 7 
 7 
 8 
 8 
 32 
 19 
 15 
 15 
Share Capital – Class B 
Interest* [B]
–
–
–
–
 30 
 30 
 67 
 67 
Other Equity-Opening
 407 
 366 
 43 
 40 
 (10)
 (9)
 (88)
 (63)
Profit for the year 
 143 
 134 
 24 
 21 
 6 
 (3)
 18 
 (31)
Other comprehensive 
income**
 3 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Interest on capital
–
–
 1 
 1 
–
–
–
–
Dividends paid and 
Partners drawings
 (100)
 (93)
 (21)
 (19)
–
–
–
–
Translation difference
–
–
–
–
 1 
 2 
–
 6 
Other Equity – Closing [C]
 453 
 407 
 47 
 43 
 (3)
 (10)
 (70)
 (88)
Closing net assets [A+B+C]
 460 
 414 
 55 
 51 
 59 
 39 
 12 
 (6)
Group’s share in % [D]
26%
26%
50%
50%
50%
50%
50%
50%
Group’s share in 
Share Capital  
(including Class B interest) 
[A*D+B]
 2 
 2 
 4 
 4 
 39 
 40 
 74 
 76 
Group’s share in Other Equity 
in INR millions [C*D]
 118 
 106 
 24 
 21 
 (2)
 (5)
 (35)
 (44)
Unrealised profit in stock
–
–
 (24)
 (24)
 (2)
 (1)
 (3)
 (1)
Carrying amount
 120 
 108 
 4 
 1 
 35 
 34 
 36 
 31 
*Class B shares have certain preferences over ordinary equity shares.
**Excludes the impact of fair value gain on shares held by Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited in Elgi Equipments Limited.
42  Interests in other entities (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
307
Summarised statement  
of profit and loss
Elgi Sauer 
Compressors 
Limited
Industrial Air 
Solutions LLP
Evergreen 
Compressed Air 
and Vacuum LLC 
PLA Holding 
Company LLC
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
March 31, 
2025
March 31, 
2024
Revenue
 837 
 703 
 526 
 459 
 351 
 221 
 275 
 257 
Interest income
 2 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Depreciation and 
amortisation
 17 
 15 
 1 
 1 
 2 
 3 
–
 4 
Income tax expense
 57 
 46 
 13 
 12 
–
–
–
–
Profit for the year
 143 
 134 
 24 
 21 
 6 
(3) 
 18 
(31) 
Other comprehensive income*
 3 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Total comprehensive income
 146 
 134 
 24 
 21 
 6 
(3)
 18 
(31) 
Dividends received
 26 
 24 
 11 
 9 
–
–
–
–
*Excludes the impact of fair value gain on shares held by Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited in Elgi Equipments Limited.
(iii) Individually immaterial joint ventures
In addition to the interest in joint ventures disclosed above, the group has interests in a number of individually immaterial 
joint ventures that are accounted for using equity method:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Aggregate carrying amount of individually immaterial joint ventures*
 23 
 69 
Aggregate amounts of group’s share of:
Profit for the year (net of Unrealised profits on stock)
 11 
 26 
Other comprehensive income
–
–
Total comprehensive income
 11 
 26 
*Includes Compressed Air Solutions of Texas, LLC classified as Assets held for sale (refer note 18).
42  Interests in other entities (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
308
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(a)  Name of the related parties and nature of relationship:
(i)  Where control exists:
Subsidiaries
Interests in subsidiaries are set out in note 42.
(ii)  Other related parties with whom transactions have taken place during the year
Joint venture
Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited
Industrial Air Solutions LLP
Evergreen Compressed Air and Vacuum LLC (jointly controlled entity 
of Elgi Compressors USA Inc.)
Compressed Air Solutions of Texas, LLC (jointly controlled entity of 
Elgi Compressors USA Inc.)*
PLA Holding Company LLC. (jointly controlled entity of Elgi Compressors USA Inc.)
Patton’s of California LLC. (wholly owned subsidiary of PLA Holding Company LLC.)
G3 Industrial Solutions, LLC. (jointly controlled entity of Elgi Compressors USA Inc.)**
Gentex Air Solutions, LLC. (jointly controlled entity of Elgi Compressors USA Inc.)
CS Industrial Services, LLC. (jointly controlled entity of Elgi Compressors USA Inc.)**
Post employment benefit plan
Elgi Equipments Gratuity Fund 
(Refer note 26(a))
Elgi Equipments Superannuation Fund
Key management personnel
Mr. Jairam Varadaraj, Managing Director, Elgi Equipments Ltd
Mr. Indranil Sen, Chief Financial Officer, Elgi Equipments Limited
Mr. Anvar Jay Varadaraj, Executive Director, Elgi Equipments Ltd 
Non-Executive Directors
Mr. Sudarsan Varadaraj
Mrs. Aruna Thangaraj [Re-appointed on July 31, 2024]
Mr. N. Mohan Nambiar [Retired on April 10, 2024]
Mr. Suman Kumar Das [Appointed on July 31, 2024]
Mr. Srinivasan Ravindran [Appointed on July 31, 2024]
Mr. Srinivasan Krishnamurthi [Appointed on July 31, 2024]
Mr. M. Ramprasad [Cessation w.e.f. August 01, 2024]
Mr. B. Vijaykumar [Cessation w.e.f. August 01, 2024]
Dr. Ganesh Devaraj [Cessation w.e.f. August 01, 2024]
Other companies/firms in 
which directors or their 
relatives are interested
L.G. Balakrishnan & Bros Limited
Elgi Ultra Industries Private Limited#
Elgi Ultra Private Limited
Elgi Rubber Company Limited
LGB Forge Limited
Festo India Private Limited
AGT Electronics Limited
Pricol Engineering lndustries Pvt Limited
Dark Horse Portfolio Investment Private Limited
*classified as asset held for sale as at March 31, 2025. 
**divested during the year ended March 31, 2025. 
#Elgi Ultra Industries Private Limited was merged with Dark Horse Portfolio Investment Private Limited during the 
year ended March 31, 2025.
43  Related party transactions 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
309
(b)  Particulars of transactions with related parties
Description
Joint Ventures & Others
Key Management Personnel
Total
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
Transactions during the year
Purchase of goods
 11 
 16 
–
–
 11 
 16 
Sale of goods
 963 
 783 
–
–
 963 
 783 
Receiving of services
 76 
 59 
–
–
 76 
 59 
Providing of services  
(sale of services)
 12 
 18 
–
–
 12 
 18 
Payment for acquisition of 
business
–
–
–
–
–
–
Interest received 
 1 
 1 
–
–
 1 
 1 
Reimbursement of expenses
  To related parties
 5 
 3 
–
–
 5 
 3 
  By related parties
 2 
 1 
–
–
 2 
 1 
Investments in Joint ventures
 17 
–
–
–
 17 
–
Divestment/redemption of 
interest in Joint ventures 
 36 
 14 
–
–
 36 
 14 
Dividends received
 37 
 33 
–
–
 37 
 33 
Dividends paid
 129 
 143 
 45 
 61 
 174 
 204 
Key management personnel 
compensation*
–
–
–
–
–
–
Short-term employee benefits
–
–
 68 
 55 
 68 
 55 
Other long-term benefits
 3 
 3 
 3 
 3 
*The Key management personnel compensation does not include gratuity since the same is computed actuarially for all 
the employees and amount attributable to key management personnel cannot be ascertained separately and does not 
include unvested share based payments. 
The remuneration paid to the Managing Director of the Holding Company amounting to ` 26 million and to Executive 
Director amounting to ` 18 million is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 read with schedule  V to the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
43  Related party transactions (Continued...)
Particulars
Joint Ventures & Others
Key Management Personnel
Total
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
2024-25
2023-24
Balances at year end
Investments accounted for using the 
equity method
 205 
 215 
–
–
 205 
 215 
Assets held for sale
 13 
 28 
–
–
13
28
Trade receivable at the end of the year
 269 
 223 
–
–
 269 
 223 
Other receivables at the end of the year
 11 
 2 
–
–
 11 
 2 
Payable at the end of the year
 7 
 8 
–
–
 7 
 8 
(c)  Terms and conditions
Transactions relating to dividends, subscriptions for new equity shares were on the same terms and conditions that 
applied to other shareholders.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
310
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Particulars
Joint ventures & Others
2024-25
2023-24
Purchase of goods
Pricol Engineering lndustries Pvt Limited
 2 
–
Festo lndia Private Limited
 2 
–
LGB Forge Limited
 7 
 13 
Sale of goods
Industrial Air Solutions LLP
 425 
 355 
Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited
 2 
 2 
Gentex Air Solutions, LLC
 94 
 62 
G3 Industrial Solutions, LLC
 155 
 80 
Pattons of California, LLC.
 55 
 113 
Compressed Air Solutions of Texas, LLC
 73 
 104 
Evergreen Compressed Air and Vaccum LLC.
 108 
 45 
CS Industrial Services, LLC
 45 
 14 
LGB Forge Limited
 4 
 6 
Receiving services
Elgi Ultra Private Limited
 1 
 4 
AGT Electronics Limited
 70 
 53 
Providing services
Elgi Sauer Compressors Ltd
 5 
–
Elgi Ultra Private Limited
 4 
–
Investments in Joint ventures*
Evergreen Compressed Air and Vacuum LLC 
 13 
–
Gentex Air Solutions, LLC
 4 
–
Divestment/redemption of interest in Joint ventures*
Compressed Air Solutions of Texas, LLC
–
 12 
CS Industrial Services, LLC
 8 
 2 
G3 Industrial Solutions, LLC
 28 
–
Dividends received
Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited
 26 
 24 
Industrial Air Solutions LLP
 11 
 9 
Dividends paid
Dark Horse Portfolio Investment Private Limited
 107 
 107 
Elgi Ultra Industries Private Limited
 21 
 21 
Trade receivables
Industrial Air Solutions LLP
 53 
 47 
G3 Industrial Solutions, LLC
 64 
 18 
Pattons of California, LLC.
 60 
 86 
Evergreen Compressed Air and Vacuum LLC
 38 
 12 
Gentex Air Solutions, LLC
 24 
 41 
Compressed Air Solutions of Texas, LLC
 23 
 14 
*Includes the impact of translation at the closing exchange rate. 
43(a)  Details of material transactions/balances with related parties
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
311
44  Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
Contingent liabilities
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts
(i)	 The group has disputed demands for excise 
duty, service tax and sales tax and other matters 
amounting to ` 38 million and ` 49 million in India as 
on March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively. 
The group has deposited ` 14 million and ` 5 million 
against the above-mentioned disputes as on 
March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024, respectively.
	
The group has filed appeals with appropriate 
authorities of Central Excise and Sales Tax 
Department against their claims.
(ii)	 The group had deposited a sum of ` 19 million with 
the Railways department of the Government of 
India regarding a Road Under Bridge (RUB) project 
undertaken by the Railways near the group’s factory 
at Kodangipalayam village. As Railways had planned 
for a limited-use subway and as the RUB project 
undertaken would benefit the public at large, the 
deposit was made as directed by the Madras High 
Court as an interim measure, pending finality as to 
whether the group has to bear the full cost or only the 
differential cost. The group received an unfavourable 
order on June 03, 2020, from the single judge of the 
Madras High Court holding that neither party is 
required to make any payment to the other. The group 
filed an appeal against this order before the division 
bench and was able to get a stay of the single judge’s 
order. The group appealed to the division bench, and 
the matter was referred to arbitration.
	
On September 05, 2024, the arbitrator issued an award 
in favor of the group, upholding its claim of ` 11 million, 
after deducting ` 8 million as the incremental cost 
of RUB which is already accounted for in the group’s 
books, to be paid along with interest at 9% per annum, 
accruing from October 29, 2014. Additionally, litigation 
expenses and ` 1 million towards arbitrator fees 
have been awarded by the arbitrator. All claims and 
counterclaims by the Railways were rejected by the 
arbitrator. After the arbitral award, the group received 
notice from Railways’ lawyers that the Railways have 
applied to Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation 
Act, 1996, to set aside the award. The group has filed a 
Caveat and has also filed an execution petition before 
the Hon’ble High Court of Madras for the enforcement 
of the arbitrator’s award.
(iii)	 The group has evaluated the impact of the 
Supreme Court Judgment in case of “Vivekananda 
Vidyamandir And Others Vs The Regional Provident 
Fund Commissioner (II) West Bengal” and the related 
circular (Circular No. C-I/1(33)2019/Vivekananda Vidya 
Mandir/284) dated March 20, 2019 issued by the 
Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation in relation 
to non-exclusion of certain allowances from the 
definition of “basic wages” of the relevant employees 
for the purposes of determining contribution to 
provident fund under the Employees’ Provident 
Funds & Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. In the 
assessment of the management, the aforesaid matter 
is not likely to have a significant impact.
(iv)	 The Holding Company received summons’ in the 
previous years, from a statutory authority, i.e, 
under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 
(‘FEMA’), seeking information primarily relating to 
imports, exports including sales to subsidiaries and 
subsidiaries to their customers and overseas direct 
investments, including transactions of earlier years.
	
The group has submitted all the relevant information 
sought for by the authority from time to time to 
address the queries raised in the summons’ and 
hearings. The Holding Company’s application for no-
objection certificates during the previous year for 
making overseas investments/providing guarantees 
in favour of its subsidiaries was not cleared by 
the statutory authorities and no reasons were 
cited. In the management’s assessment, this is not 
likely to have a significant impact on the financial 
statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 
2025 and March 31, 2024.
(v)	 The subsidiary - Rotair SpA has been subject to a tax 
audit by the Italian Tax Authority covering the fiscal 
year ended March 31, 2022, primarily focusing on 
transfer pricing and certain intercompany transactions. 
As of March 31, 2025, a provision of ` 11 million has been 
recognized, representing the best estimate of the 
potential liability based on the Company’s settlement 
proposal. The potential exposure, including taxes, 
interest, and penalties, is estimated at approximately 
` 63 million (net of provision).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
312
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
44A  Whistle blower
The group has received whistle-blower complaints during the year and based on the preliminary findings in relation 
to certain complaints and in the assessment of the management, there is no impact on the financial statements and 
the related internal controls as of March 31, 2025.
45  Commitments
(a)  Capital commitments
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on 
capital account
 1,532 
 342 
46  Assets Pledged as security
(a)  Charge on Assets
 10,401 
 10,910 
(b)  Charge on Property, Plant & equipment
 1,647 
 1,729 
(C)  Cash Margin
 309 
 315 
 12,357 
 12,955 
(i)	 Borrowing secured against current assets
	
The Holding Company has working capital limits from banks and financial institutions received on the basis of 
security of current assets. The provisional/final quarterly returns or statement of current assets filed by the group 
with banks and financial institutions are in agreement with the unaudited books of accounts.
(ii)	 Utilisation of borrowed funds and share premium
	
The group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (Intermediaries) with the understanding that the Intermediary shall:
(a)	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
	
The group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (Funding Party) 
with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the group shall:
(a)	 directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
(b)	 provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
313
47  Share based payments
Employee Stock Option Plan
The establishment of Elgi Equipments Limited Employee Stock Options Plan, 2019 (Elgi ESOP 2019) was approved 
by the Board of Directors at its meeting held on December 16, 2019 and the shareholders by way of postal ballot on 
January 31, 2020.
The plan shall be administered through a Trust via acquisition of the equity shares from the secondary market.
The Elgi ESOP 2019 plan is designed to provide benefits to the eligible employees of the Parent and its subsidiaries. 
Under the plan, the participants are granted options which vest upon completion of three years of service from the 
grant date. Participation in the plan is at the board’s discretion and no individual has a contractual right to participate 
in the plan or to receive any guaranteed benefits.
Once vested, the options remain exercisable for a period of three months.
Options are granted under the plan for no consideration and carry no dividend or voting rights. When exercisable, 
each option is convertible into one equity share. 
Set out below is the summary of options granted under the plan:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Average exercise 
price per share 
option (`)
Number of 
Options
Average exercise 
price per share 
option (`)
Number of 
Options
Opening balance
 340 
 496,800 
 274 
 522,000 
Granted during the year*
 592 
 347,000 
 430 
 175,900 
Exercised during the year
 269 
 (288,300)
 202 
 (139,400)
Forfeited during the year
 566 
 (4,900)
 353 
 (61,700)
Closing balance
 534 
 550,600 
 340 
 496,800 
Vested and exercisable
–
–
–
–
*The Holding company granted 339,600 shares and 7,400 shares of ` 1/- each at exercise price of ` 592.10 per share 
on May 27, 2024 and June 11, 2024 respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2025 and 175,900 shares of ` 1/- each at 
exercise price of ` 430 per share on August 28, 2023 for the year ended March 31, 2024.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024:
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Grant date
Expiry date
Exercise 
price (`)
Share 
Options
Contractual 
life 
(in Yrs)
Exercise 
price (`)
Share 
Options
Contractual 
life 
(in Yrs)
August 03, 2021
November 01, 2024
–
–
–
 225 
 229,600 
 0.59 
September 26, 2022
December 25, 2025
 450 
 79,300 
 0.74 
 450 
 105,800 
 1.74 
August 28, 2023
June 30, 2026
 430 
 128,400 
 1.25 
 430 
 161,400 
 2.25 
May 27, 2024
June 30, 2026
 592 
 26,000 
 1.25 
–
–
–
May 27, 2024
June 30, 2027
 592 
 309,500 
 2.25 
–
–
–
June 11, 2024
June 30, 2026
 592 
 7,400 
 1.25 
–
–
–
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
314
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(i)  Fair value of options granted
The fair value at grant date is independently determined using the Black-Scholes Model which takes into account 
the exercise price, the term of the option, the share price at the grant date and expected volatility of the underlying 
share, the expected dividend yield and the risk-free rate for the term of the option. The model inputs for the options 
granted included:
Grant phase
 2 
 3 
 4 
 5 
 5 
 5 
No. of options
 474,300 
 152,600
 175,900
 313,600
 26,000
 7,400
Grant date
August 03, 
2021
September 26, 
2022
August 28, 
2023
May 27, 
2024
May 27, 
2024
June 11, 
2024
Expiry date
November 01, 
2024
December 25, 
2025
June 30, 
2026
June 30, 
2026
June 30, 
2027
June 30, 
2026
Exercise price
 225.00 
 450.00 
 430.00 
 592.10 
 592.10 
 592.10 
Share price at grant date
 212.50 
 421.45 
 463.95 
 652.40 
 652.40 
 609.75 
Fair value
 65.29 
 189.46 
 186.45 
 289.15 
 212.33 
 177.78 
Expected price volatility
40.41%
60.50%
49.20%
52.43%
42.42%
41.98%
Risk-free interest rate
4.98%
7.34%
7.17%
7.01%
7.01%
7.01%
Expected dividend yield*
0.38%
0.27%
0.43%
0.31%
0.31%
0.33%
Latest dividend declared
 0.80 
 1.15 
 2.00 
 2.00 
 2.00 
 2.00 
*The expected volatility is computed using standard deviation of returns of the share prices, for the term equal to 
residual maturity of the option life.
(ii)  Expense arising from share based transactions:
Total expense arising from the employee stock options plan recognised in profit or loss as a part of employee benefit 
expenses for March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2024 is:
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
Employee stock option expense (refer note 34)
 55 
 20 
Legal & Consultancy charges (refer note 37)
 3 
 2 
Expense carried to statement of profit and loss
 58 
 22 
47  Share based payments (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
315
48  Earnings per equity share for profit attributable to the owners of 
Elgi Equipments Limited
Particulars
March 31, 2025
March 31, 2024
(a)  Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the 
Holding Company
 11.09 
 9.87 
(b)  Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of the 
Holding Company
 11.08 
 9.87 
(c)  Reconciliations of earnings used in calculating earnings per share
Basic earnings per share
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Holding Company used 
in calculating basic earnings per share
 3,502 
 3,121 
Diluted earnings per share
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Holding Company
–  used in calculating basic earnings per share
 3,502 
 3,121 
–  used in calculating diluted earnings per share
 3,502 
 3,121 
(d)  Weighted average number of equity shares used as the 
denominator in calculating basic earnings per share	
 315.70 
 316.18 
Adjustments for calculation of diluted earnings per share:
 0.49 
 0.12 
Weighted average number of equity shares used as the 
denominator in calculating diluted earnings per share
 316.19 
 316.30 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
316
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Name of the entity 
in the Group
Net Assets i.e. Total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit or loss
Share in other comprehensive 
income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
As % of 
consolidated other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
As % of total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
Parent
Elgi Equipments Limited
(refer note 1)
March 31, 2025
93%
 17,265 
100%
 3,501 
53%
 (31)
101%
 3,470 
March 31, 2024
91%
 14,693 
103%
 3,222 
65%
 53 
102%
 3,275 
Subsidiaries 
Indian
ATS Elgi Limited
March 31, 2025
7%
 1,373 
7%
 250 
27%
 (16)
7%
 234 
March 31, 2024
8%
 1,239 
6%
 199 
2%
 2 
6%
 201 
Adisions Precision Instruments Manufacturing 
Company Limited
March 31, 2025
1%
 118 
0%
 3 
0%
–
0%
 3 
March 31, 2024
1%
 115 
0%
 1 
0%
–
0%
 1 
Ergo Design Private Limited
March 31, 2025
0%
 3 
0%
 (3)
0%
–
0%
 (3)
March 31, 2024
0%
 6 
0%
–
0%
–
0%
–
Foreign
Elgi Gulf FZE
March 31, 2025
2%
 280 
6%
 196 
(7%)
 4 
6%
 200 
March 31, 2024
1%
 81 
2%
 71 
1%
 1 
2%
 72 
Elgi Compressors Do Brasil Imp.E.Exp LTDA
March 31, 2025
2%
 426 
4%
 146 
61%
 (36)
3%
 110 
March 31, 2024
2%
 315 
5%
 170 
2%
 2 
5%
 172 
Elgi Equipments Australia Pty Limited
March 31, 2025
2%
 332 
2%
 87 
7%
 (4)
2%
 83 
March 31, 2024
2%
 250 
3%
 87 
(2%)
 (2)
3%
 85 
Elgi Compressors Italy S.R.L
March 31, 2025
7%
 1,396 
4%
 143 
(53%)
 31 
5%
 174 
March 31, 2024
8%
 1,221 
6%
 178 
13%
 11 
6%
 189 
Rotair SPA
March 31, 2025
3%
 543 
0%
 (5)
(10%)
 6 
0%
 1 
March 31, 2024
4%
 671 
7%
 229 
4%
 3 
7%
 232 
Elgi Compressors Europe S.R.L(Consolidated)
March 31 2025
(16%)
 (2,991)
(7%)
 (255)
115%
 (68)
(9%)
 (323)
March 31, 2024
(17%)
 (2,668)
(16%)
 (499)
(28%)
 (23)
(16%)
 (522)
Elgi Compressors USA Inc. (Consolidated) (refer note 2)
March 31, 2025
12%
 2,312 
(10%)
 (336)
(102%)
 60 
(8%)
 (276)
March 31, 2024
16%
 2,588 
(8%)
 (243)
49%
 40 
(6%)
 (203)
49  Additional information required by Schedule III
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
317
49  Additional information required by Schedule III (Continued...)
Name of the entity 
in the Group
Net Assets i.e. Total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit or loss
Share in other comprehensive 
income
Share in total 
comprehensive income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
 Amount 
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
Amount 
As % of 
consolidated other 
comprehensive 
income
Amount 
As % of total 
comprehensive 
income
Amount
PT Elgi Equipments Indonesia
March 31, 2025
0%
 53 
0%
 4 
2%
 (1)
0%
 3 
March 31, 2024
0%
 50 
0%
 (2)
(2%)
 (2)
0%
 (4)
Industrial Air Compressors Pty Ltd (Consolidated)
March 31, 2025
1%
 195 
0%
 (1)
5%
 (3)
0%
 (4)
March 31, 2024
0%
 199 
2%
 50 
(2%)
 (2)
1%
 48 
Elgi Compressors (M) SDN.BHD.
March 31, 2025
0%
 (79)
(1%)
 (42)
7%
 (4)
(1%)
 (46)
March 31, 2024
0%
 (33)
(1%)
 (34)
0%
–
(1%)
 (34)
Joint Ventures
(Investment as per equity method)
Indian
Elgi Sauer Compressors Limited (refer note 3)
March 31, 2025
1%
 120 
1%
 37 
0%
–
1%
 37 
March 31, 2024
1%
 108 
1%
 35 
0%
–
1%
 35 
Industrial Air Solutions LLP
March 31, 2025
0%
 4 
0%
 12 
0%
0%
 12 
March 31, 2024
0%
 1 
0%
 10 
0%
–
0%
 10 
Sub-total
March 31, 2025
115%
 21,350 
106%
 3,737 
98%
 (62)
108%
 3,675 
March 31, 2024
117%
 18,836 
110%
 3,474 
102%
 83 
111%
 3,557 
Add/(less): Consolidation adjustments and  
inter-company eliminations
March 31, 2025
(15%)
 (2,694)
(6%)
 (235)
2%
 3 
(8%)
 (232)
March 31, 2024
(17%)
 (2,724)
(10%)
 (353)
(2%)
 (1)
(11%)
 (354)
Total
March 31, 2025
100%
 18,656 
100%
 3,502 
100%
 (59)
100%
 3,443 
March 31, 2024
100%
 16,112 
100%
 3,121 
100%
 82 
100%
 3,203 
Note:
(1)	 Elgi Equipments Limited includes the group’s share in the assets and results of L.G. Balakrishnan & Bros. and Elgi 
Services classified as Joint Operations and ESOP Trust.
(2)	 Elgi Compressors USA Inc. includes the share of profit or loss of joint ventures - Evergreen Compressed Air and 
Vacuum LLC, Compressed Air Solutions of Texas LLC, PLA Holding Company LLC, G3 Industrial Solutions LLC, Gentex 
Air Solutions LLC and CS Industrial Services, LLC.
(3)	 The amounts presented for Elgi Sauer exclude fair value gain on shares of Elgi Equipments Limited.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
318
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
(a)  Principles of consolidation and equity accounting
(i)  Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured 
entities) over which the group has control. The group 
controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has 
rights to, variable returns from its involvement with 
the entity and has the ability to affect those returns 
through its power to direct the relevant activities of the 
entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date 
on which control is transferred to the group. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account 
for business combinations by the group.
The group combines the financial statements of 
the parent and its subsidiaries line by line adding 
together like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income 
and expenses. Intercompany transactions, balances 
and unrealised gains on transactions between group 
companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also 
eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence 
of an impairment of the transferred asset. Accounting 
policies of subsidiaries have been changed where 
necessary to ensure consistency with the policies 
adopted by the group.
(ii)  Joint arrangements
Under Ind AS 111 Joint Arrangements, investments in joint 
arrangements are classified as either joint operations 
or joint ventures. The classification depends on the 
contractual rights and obligations of each investor, 
rather than the legal structure of the joint arrangement. 
The group has both joint operations and joint ventures.
Joint operations
The group recognises its direct right to the assets, 
liabilities, revenues and expenses of joint operations and 
its share of any jointly held or incurred assets, liabilities, 
revenues and expenses.
Joint ventures
Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using 
the equity method (see (iii) below), after initially being 
recognised at cost in the consolidated balance sheet.
(iii)  Equity method
Under the equity method of accounting, the investments 
are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter 
to recognise the group’s share of the post-acquisition 
profits or losses of the investee in profit and loss and 
the group’s share of other comprehensive income of 
the investee in other comprehensive income. Dividends 
received or receivable from associates and joint ventures 
are recognised as a reduction in the carrying amount of 
the investment.
When the group’s share of losses in an equity-accounted 
investment equals or exceeds its interest in the entity, 
including any other unsecured long-term receivables, 
the group does not recognise further losses, unless it 
has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of 
the other entity.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and 
its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the 
extent of the group’s interest in these entities. Unrealised 
losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides 
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. 
Accounting policies of equity accounted investees have 
been changed where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the policies adopted by the group.
The carrying amount of equity accounted investments 
are tested for impairment in accordance with the policy 
described in note 50(u) below.
(iv)  Changes in ownership interests
When the group ceases to consolidate or equity account 
for an investment because of a loss of control, joint 
control or significant influence, any retained interest in 
the entity is remeasured to its fair value with the change 
in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss. This 
fair value becomes the initial carrying amount for the 
purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained 
interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. 
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income in respect of that entity are 
accounted for as if the group had directly disposed of 
the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that 
amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive 
income are reclassified to profit or loss.
50  Other Accounting Policies
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
319
If the ownership interest in a joint venture or an associate 
is reduced but joint control or significant influence is 
retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income 
are reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
(b)  Property, plant and equipment
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly 
attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying 
amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, 
only when it is probable that future economic benefits 
associated with the item will flow to the group and the 
cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying 
amount of any component accounted for as a separate 
asset is derecognised when replaced. All other repairs 
and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the 
reporting period in which they are incurred.
An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately 
to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount 
is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Gains 
and losses on disposals are determined by comparing 
proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in 
profit or loss within other income/(expense).
Refer Note 3(a) for entity specific accounting policies on 
Property, plant and equipment.
(c)  Leases
As a lessee
Leases are recognised as right of use assets and 
corresponding liabilities at the date at which the leased 
asset are available for use by the group. 
Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially 
measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities 
include the net present value of the following lease 
payments:
	 fixed 
payments 
(including 
in-substance 
fixed 
payments), less any lease incentives receivable
	 variable lease payment that are based on an index or 
a rate, initially measured using the index or rate as at 
the commencement date
	 amounts expected to be payable by the group under 
residual value guarantees
  the exercise price of a purchase option, if the group is 
reasonably certain to exercise that option and
  payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the 
lease term reflects the group exercising that option. 
Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain 
extension options are also included in the measurement 
of the liability. The lease payments are discounted using 
the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot 
be readily determined, which is generally the case for 
leases in the group, the lessee’s incremental borrowing 
rate is used, being the rate that the individual lessee 
would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to 
obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset 
in a similar economic environment with similar terms, 
security and conditions.
To determine the incremental borrowing rate, the group:
	 where possible, uses recent third-party financing 
received by the individual lessee as a starting point, 
adjusted to reflect changes in financing conditions 
since third party financing was received
	 uses a build-up approach that starts with a risk-free 
interest rate adjusted for credit risk for leases held 
by group, which does not have recent third party 
financing and 
	 makes adjustments specific to the lease, such as 
term, country, currency and security.
Lease payments are allocated between principal and 
finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or 
loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant 
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the 
liability for each period.
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the 
following:
	 the amount of the initial measurement of lease 
liability
	 any lease payments made at or before the 
commencement date less any lease incentives 
received
	 any initial direct costs and
	 restoration costs.
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
320
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
Right-of-use assets are generally depreciated over the 
shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term on 
a straight-line basis. If the group is reasonably certain 
to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is 
depreciated over the underlying asset’s useful life.
Payments associated with short-term leases of 
equipment are recognised on a straight-line basis as an 
expense in profit or loss. Short-term leases are leases 
with a lease term of 12 months or less.
As a lessor
Lease income from operating leases where the group 
is a lessor is recognised in other income on a straight-
line basis over the lease term unless the receipts are 
structured to increase in line with expected general 
inflation to compensate for the expected inflationary 
cost increases. The respective leased assets are included 
in the balance sheet based on their nature.
(d)  Investment properties
Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for 
capital appreciation or both and that is not occupied by 
the group, is classified as investment property. Investment 
property is measured initially at its cost, including related 
transaction costs. Subsequent expenditure is capitalised 
to the asset’s carrying amount only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with the 
expenditure will flow to the group and the cost of the 
item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and 
maintenance costs are expensed when incurred. When 
part of an investment property is replaced, the carrying 
amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
Refer Note 4 for entity specific accounting policies on 
investment properties. 
(e)  Intangible assets
(i)  Goodwill:
Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising 
from other assets acquired in a business combination 
that are not individually identifiable or separately 
recognised. Goodwill is not amortized but it is tested 
for impairment annually or more frequently if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that it might 
be impaired and is carried at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the 
purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to 
cash generating unit which is expected to benefit from 
business combination in which the goodwill arose.
(ii)  Other Intangible assets:
Development costs that are directly attributable to the 
design and testing of identifiable and unique products 
controlled by the group are recognised as intangible 
assets when the following criteria are met:
	 it is technically feasible to complete the asset so that 
it will be available for use
	 management intends to complete the asset and use 
or sell it
	 there is an ability to use or sell the product
	 it can be demonstrated how the asset will generate 
probable future economic benefits
	 adequate technical, financial and other resources to 
complete the development and to use or sell the asset 
are available and
	 the expenditure attributable to the asset during its 
development can be reliably measured.
Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of 
the products include employee costs and an appropriate 
portion of relevant overheads.
Capitalised development costs are recorded as intangible 
assets and amortised from the point at which the asset is 
available for use. Research and development expenditure 
that do not meet the criteria for recognition as intangible 
assets are recognised as an expense as incurred. 
Development costs previously recognised as an expense 
are not recognised as an asset in the subsequent period.
Refer Note 5 for entity specific accounting policies on 
intangible assets. 
(f)  Investments and other financial assets
(i)  Classification
The group classifies its financial assets in the following 
measurement categories:
a)  those to be measured subsequently at fair value 
(either through other comprehensive income or 
through profit or loss) and
b)  those measured at amortised cost.
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
321
The classification depends on the entity’s business model 
for managing the financial assets and the contractual 
terms of the cash flows. For assets measured at fair 
value, gains and losses will either be recorded in profit 
or loss or other comprehensive income. For investments 
in equity instruments, that are not held for trading, 
this will depend on whether the group has made an 
irrevocable election at the time of initial recognition to 
account for the equity investment at fair value through 
other comprehensive income.
The group reclassifies debt investments when and 
only when its business model for managing those 
assets changes.
(ii)  Recognition
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are 
recognised on trade-date, the date on which the group 
commits to purchase or sale of financial asset.
(iii)  Measurement
At initial recognition, the group measures a financial 
asset (excluding trade receivables which do not contain 
significant financing component) at its fair value plus, 
in the case of a financial asset not at fair value through 
profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly 
attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. 
Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value 
through profit or loss are expensed in profit or loss.
Debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends 
on the group’s business model for managing the asset 
and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There 
are three measurement categories into which the group 
classifies its debt instruments:
a)  Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection 
of contractual cash flows where those cash flows 
represent solely payments of principal and interest 
are measured at amortised cost. Interest income 
from these financial assets is included in the finance 
income using the effective interest rate method. Any 
gain or loss arising on derecognition is recognised 
directly in profit or loss and presented in other 
income/(other expenses). Impairment losses are 
presented as separate line item in the statement of 
profit and loss.
b)  Fair value through other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI): Assets that are held for collection of 
contractual cash flows and for selling the financial 
assets, where the assets’ cash flows represent solely 
payments of principal and interest, are measured 
at fair value through other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI). Movements in the carrying amount are taken 
through OCI, except for the recognition of impairment 
gains or losses, interest income and foreign exchange 
gains and losses which are recognised in profit and 
loss. When the financial asset is derecognised, the 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in 
OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss and 
recognised in other income/(expense). Interest 
income from these financial assets is included 
in other income using the effective interest rate 
method. Foreign exchange gains and losses are 
presented in other income/(other expenses) and 
impairment expenses are presented as separate line 
item in statement of profit and loss.
c)  Fair value through profit or loss: Assets that do not 
meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVOCI are 
measured at fair value through profit or loss. A gain 
or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently 
measured at fair value through profit or loss and is 
not part of a hedging relationship is recognised in 
profit or loss and presented net in the statement of 
profit and loss within other income/(expense) in the 
period in which it arises. Interest income from these 
financial assets is included in other income.
Equity instruments
The group measures all equity investments at fair value 
(other than investments in joint ventures where it is 
accounted using the equity method). Where the group’s 
management has elected to present fair value gains and 
losses on equity investments in other comprehensive 
income, there is no subsequent reclassification of fair 
value gains and losses to profit or loss following the 
derecognition of the investment. Dividends from such 
investments are recognised in profit or loss as other 
income when the group’s right to receive payments is 
established.
All investments in equity instruments and contracts on 
those instruments are measured at fair value. However, 
in limited circumstances, cost may be an appropriate 
estimate of fair value. That may be the case if insufficient 
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
322
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
more recent information is available to measure fair 
value, or if there is a wide range of possible fair value 
measurements and cost represents the best estimate of 
fair value within that range.
The entity accounts for its investment in power purchase 
agreements at cost as the change in performance of the 
investee or market or economic environment will not 
impact the ultimate cash flows of the equity instrument.
Changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss are recognised in other income/
(expense) in the statement of profit and loss. Impairment 
losses (and reversal of impairment losses) on equity 
investments measured at FVOCI are not reported 
separately from other changes in fair value.
(iv)  Impairment of financial assets
The group assesses on a forward looking basis the 
expected credit losses associated with its assets carried 
at amortised cost and FVOCI debt instruments. The 
impairment methodology applied depends on whether 
there has been a significant increase in credit risk. Note 
39 details how the group determines whether there has 
been a significant increase in credit risk.
For trade receivables only, the group applies the 
simplified approach permitted by Ind AS 109 Financial 
Instruments, which requires expected lifetime losses to 
be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
(v)  Derecognition of financial assets
A financial asset is derecognised only when
a)  The group has transferred the rights to receive cash 
flows from the financial asset or
b)  The group retains the contractual rights to receive 
the cash flows of the financial asset, but assumes a 
contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or 
more recipients.
Where the group has transferred an asset, it evaluates 
whether it has transferred substantially all risks and 
rewards of ownership of the financial asset. In such 
cases, the financial asset is derecognised. Where the 
group has not transferred substantially all risks and 
rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the financial 
asset is not derecognised.
Where the group has neither transferred a financial 
asset nor retained substantially all risks and rewards 
of ownership of the financial asset, the financial asset 
is derecognised if the group has not retained control 
of the financial asset. Where the group retains control 
of the financial asset, the asset is continued to be 
recognised to the extent of continuing involvement in 
the financial asset.
(vi)  Income recognition
a)  Interest income
Interest income from financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss is disclosed as interest income 
within other income. Interest income on financial assets 
at amortised cost and financial assets at FVOCI is 
calculated using effective interest method is recognised 
in statement of profit and loss as part of other income.
Interest income is calculated by applying the effective 
interest rate to the gross carrying amount of financial 
assets except for financial assets that subsequently 
become credit impaired. For credit-impaired financial 
assets the effective interest rate is applied to the net 
carrying amount of the financial asset (after deduction 
of loss allowance).
b)  Dividends
Dividends are recognised in profit or loss only when the 
right to receive payment is established, it is probable 
that the economic benefits associated with the dividend 
will flow to the group and the amount of the dividend 
can be measured reliably.
(g)  Inventories
Raw materials and stores, work in progress, traded and 
finished goods
Raw materials and stores, work in progress, traded and 
finished goods are stated at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Cost of raw materials and traded goods 
comprises cost of purchases. Cost of work-in-progress 
and finished goods comprises direct materials, direct 
labour and an appropriate proportion of variable and 
fixed overhead expenditure, the latter being allocated 
on the basis of normal operating capacity. Cost of 
inventories also include all other costs incurred in 
bringing the inventories to their present location 
and condition. Costs are assigned to individual items 
of inventory on the basis of first-in first-out basis. 
Costs of purchased inventory are determined after 
deducting rebates and discounts. Net realisable value 
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
323
is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of 
business less the estimated costs of completion and 
the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Refer Note 10 for group-specific accounting policies 
relating to inventories. 
(h)  Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of 
cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on 
hand, deposits held at call with financial institutions, 
other short-term, highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash and which are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. Other 
facilities availed from Bank are shown within borrowings 
in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
Cash Flow Statement: The Cash flow from Operating 
activities are prepared under the Indirect method, 
whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the effects of 
transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or 
accruals of past or future operating cash receipts or 
payments and items of income or expense associated 
with investing or financing cash flows.
(i)  Non-current assets (or disposal groups) held for sale 
and discontinued operations
Non-current assets (or disposal groups) are classified as 
held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered 
principally through a sale transaction rather than 
through continuing use and a sale is considered highly 
probable. They are measured at the lower of their 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, except 
for assets such as deferred tax assets, assets arising 
from employee benefits, financial assets and contractual 
rights under insurance contracts, which are specifically 
exempt from this requirement.
An impairment loss is recognised for any initial or 
subsequent write-down of the asset (or disposal group) 
to fair value less costs to sell. A gain is recognised for 
any subsequent increases in fair value less costs to sell 
of an asset (or disposal group), but not in excess of any 
cumulative impairment loss previously recognised. A 
gain or loss not previously recognised by the date of 
the sale of the non-current asset (or disposal group) is 
recognised at the date of de-recognition.
Non-current assets (including those that are part of a 
disposal group) are not depreciated or amortised while 
they are classified as held for sale. Interest and other 
expenses attributable to the liabilities of a disposal group 
classified as held for sale continue to be recognised.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the 
assets of a disposal group classified as held for sale 
are presented separately from the other assets in 
the balance sheet. The liabilities of a disposal group 
classified as held for sale are presented separately from 
other liabilities in the balance sheet.
A discontinued operation is a component of the entity 
that has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale 
and that represents a separate major line of business 
or geographical area of operations, is part of a single 
co-ordinated plan to dispose of such a line of business or 
area of operations, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively 
with a view to resale. The results of discontinued 
operations are presented separately in the statement of 
profit and loss.
(j)  Contributed Equity
Equity shares are classified as equity. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of 
new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, 
net of tax, from the proceeds.
(k)  Employee Benefits
(i)  Short-term obligations
Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-
monetary benefits that are expected to be settled 
wholly within 12 months after the end of the period in 
which the employees render the related service are 
recognised in respect of employees’ services up to the 
end of the reporting period and are measured at the 
amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are 
settled. The liabilities are presented as other financial 
liability in the balance sheet.
(ii)  Other long-term employee benefit obligations
The liabilities for earned leave that are not expected to 
be settled wholly within 12 months after the end of the 
period in which the employees render the related service 
are measured as the present value of expected future 
payments to be made in respect of services provided 
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
324
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
by employees up to the end of the reporting period 
using the projected unit credit method. The benefits 
are discounted using the market yields at the end of 
the reporting period that have terms approximating to 
the terms of the related obligation. Remeasurements 
as a result of experience adjustments and changes in 
actuarial assumptions are recognised in profit or loss.
The amount of non-current and current portions of 
leave obligation is normally determined by a qualified 
Actuary and presented accordingly.
(iii)  Post-employment obligations
The group operates the following post-employment 
schemes:
a)  defined benefit plans such as gratuity and
b)  defined contribution plans such as provident fund 
and Superannuation fund.
Gratuity obligations
The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in 
respect of defined benefit gratuity plans is the present 
value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of 
the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. 
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by 
actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation 
denominated in INR is determined by discounting the 
estimated future cash outflows by reference to market 
yields at the end of the reporting period on government 
bonds that have terms approximating to the terms of 
the related obligation.
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the 
discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit 
obligation and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is 
included in employee benefit expense in the statement 
of profit and loss.
Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience 
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in the period in which they occur, directly 
in other comprehensive income. They are included in 
retained earnings in the statement of changes in equity 
and in the balance sheet.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation 
resulting 
from 
plan 
amendments 
or 
curtailments are recognised immediately in profit or loss 
as past service cost.
Defined contribution plans
The group pays provident fund and superannuation 
fund contributions to Employee Provident Fund 
Account as per Employees Provident Fund Act, 1952 
and Life Insurance Corporation of India, respectively. 
The group has no further payment obligations once 
the contributions have been paid. The contributions 
are accounted for as defined contribution plans and 
the contributions are recognised as employee benefit 
expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are 
recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund 
or a reduction in future payments is available.
(iv)  Bonus plans
The group recognises a liability and an expense for 
bonuses. The group recognises a provision where 
contractually obliged or where there is a past practice 
that has created a constructive obligation.
(vi)  Share based payments
Share based compensation benefits are provided to the 
employees via Elgi Equipments Limited Employees Stock 
Option Plan, 2019, an employee stock option scheme.
Employee Options:
The fair value of options granted under the Elgi 
Equipments Limited Employee Stock Option Plan, 2019 
is recognised as an employee benefit expense with a 
corresponding increase in the equity. The total amount 
to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair 
value of the options granted. Refer note 47.
	 including any market performance conditions (e.g., 
the entity’s share price)
	 excluding the impact of any service and non-market 
performance vesting conditions (e.g. profitability, 
sales growth targets and remaining an employee of 
the entity over a specified time period) and
	 including the impact of any non-vesting conditions 
(e.g. the requirement for employees to hold the shares 
for a specific period of time).
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, 
which is the period over which all of the specified vesting 
conditions are to be satisfied. At the end of each period, 
the entity revises its estimates of the number of options 
that are expected to vest based on the non-market 
vesting and service conditions. It recognises the impact 
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
325
of the revision to original estimates, if any, in profit or 
loss, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
(l)  Trade and Other Payables
These amounts represent liabilities for goods and 
services provided to the group prior to the end of 
financial year which are unpaid. Trade and other 
payables are presented as current liabilities unless 
payment is not due within 12 months after the reporting 
period. They are recognised initially at their fair value 
and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method.
(m)  Provisions
Provisions for legal claims, service warranties, volume 
discounts and returns are recognised when the group 
has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources 
will be required to settle the obligation and the amount 
can be reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognised 
for future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the 
likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement 
is determined by considering the class of obligations as 
a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood 
of an outflow with respect to any one item included in 
the same class of obligations may be small.
Provisions are measured at the present value of 
management’s best estimate of the expenditure 
required to settle the present obligation at the end of the 
reporting period. The discount rate used to determine 
the present value is a pre-tax rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and 
the risks specific to the liability. The increase in the 
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as 
interest expense.
(n)  Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of 
transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost. Any difference between the 
proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption 
amount is recognised in profit or loss over the period 
of the borrowings using the effective interest method. 
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are 
recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent 
that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be 
drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the 
draw down occurs. To the extent there is no evidence 
that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be 
drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for 
liquidity services and amortised over the period of the 
facility to which it relates.
Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when 
the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, 
cancelled or expired. The difference between the 
carrying amount of a financial liability that has been 
extinguished or transferred to another party and the 
consideration paid, including any non-cash assets 
transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit 
or loss as other income/(other expenses).
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the 
group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the 
liability for at least 12 months after the reporting period. 
(o)  Borrowing costs
General and specific borrowing costs that are directly 
attributable 
to 
the 
acquisition, 
construction 
or 
production of a qualifying asset are capitalised during 
the period of time that is required to complete and 
prepare the asset for its intended use or sale. Qualifying 
assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial 
period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment 
of specific borrowings, pending their expenditure on 
qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs 
eligible for capitalisation.
Other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in 
which they are incurred.
(p)  Derivatives and hedging activities
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging 
purposes and not as speculative investments. However 
where derivatives do not meet the hedge accounting 
criteria, they are classified as ‘held for trading’ for 
accounting purposes and are accounted for FVPL. They 
are presented as current assets and liabilities to the 
extent they are expected to be settled within 12 months 
after the end of the reporting period.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on 
the date a derivative contract is entered into and are 
subsequently re-measured to their fair value at the end 
of each reporting period. The accounting for subsequent 
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
326
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative 
is designated as hedging instrument and if so, the nature 
of item being hedged.
The group designates derivatives as hedges of a 
particular risk associated with cash flows of recognised 
assets and liabilities and highly probable forecast 
transactions (cash flow hedges).
At inception of hedge relationship, the group documents 
the economic relationship between hedging instruments 
and hedged items including whether the changes in 
the cash flows of hedging instruments are expected to 
offset changes in cash flows of hedged items. The group 
documents its risk management objective and strategy 
for undertaking its hedge transactions.
The full fair value of hedging derivative is classified 
as a non current asset or liability when the remaining 
maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, it is 
classified as current asset or liability when the remaining 
maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
(i)  Cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of 
derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow 
hedges is recognised in cash flow hedging reserve within 
equity. The gain or loss relating to ineffective portion 
is recognised immediately in profit or loss, within other 
income/(other expenses).
Changes in the fair value of derivative that are designated 
and qualified as cash flow hedges are recognised in 
equity in the cash flow hedging reserve (net of tax). 
This gain or loss is released to profit or loss in the same 
period when the forecast transactions occur, thereby 
offsetting any exchange fluctuations that would have 
been recognised in the absence of the hedge.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of the 
interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings 
is recognised in profit or loss within ‘finance cost’ at 
the same time as the interest expense on the hedged 
borrowings. When the forecast transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss and 
deferred costs of hedging that were reported in equity 
are immediately reclassified to profit or loss within 
other gains/(losses).
If the hedge ratio for risk management purposes is no 
longer optimal but the risk management objective 
remains unchanged and the hedge continues to qualify 
for hedge accounting, the hedge relationship will be 
rebalanced by adjusting either the volume of the 
hedging instrument or the volume of the hedged item 
so that the hedge ratio aligns with the ratio used for risk 
management purposes. Any hedge ineffectiveness is 
calculated and accounted for in profit or loss at the time 
of the hedge relationship rebalancing.
(ii)  Derivatives that are not designated as hedges
The group enters into certain derivative contracts to 
hedge risks which are not designated as hedges. Such 
contracts are accounted for at fair value through profit 
or loss and are included in other income/(expense).
(q)  Revenue from operations
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains 
control of a promised goods or service and thus has the 
ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from 
the goods or service in an amount that reflects the 
consideration (transaction price) to which the entity 
expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and 
services. For each contract with a customer, the group 
applies the below five step process before revenue can 
be recognised:
*  identify contracts with customers
*  identify the separate performance obligation
*  determine the transaction price of the contract
*  allocate the transaction price to each of the separate 
performance obligations, and
*  recognise the revenue as each performance obligation 
is satisfied.
Duty Drawback: Income from duty drawback is 
recognised on an accrual basis
Royalty: Royalty is recognised on accrual basis in 
accordance with terms of respective agreements.
Retention receivables arising from project contracts 
have been classified as contract assets as per Ind AS 115 
and regrouped accordingly.
Refer Note 29 for entity-specific policies on revenue. 
(r)  Government grants
Grants from the government are recognised at their fair 
value where there is a reasonable assurance that the 
grant will be received and the group will comply with all 
the attached conditions.
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
327
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Government grants relating to income are deferred and 
recognised in the profit or loss over the period necessary 
to match them with the costs that they are intended to 
compensate. Government grant is recognised either as 
other income or adjusted against expenses depending 
upon the nature of the grant and the same is followed 
consistently.
Government grants relating to purchase of property, 
plant and equipment are presented by deducting the 
grant from carrying amount of the asset.
(s)  Income taxes
The income tax expense or credit for the period is the tax 
payable on the current period’s taxable income based 
on the applicable income tax rate adjusted by changes 
in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to 
temporary differences and to unused tax losses.
Current tax liabilities (assets) for the current and prior 
periods are measured at the amount expected to be 
paid to (recovered from) the taxation authorities, using 
the tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or 
substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period. 
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in 
tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable 
tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes 
provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts 
expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability 
method, on temporary differences arising between the 
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying 
amounts in the financial statements. However, deferred 
tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the 
initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred income tax is also 
not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an 
asset or liability in a transaction other than a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction affects 
neither accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax loss). 
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and 
laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted 
by the end of the reporting period and are expected 
to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is 
realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible 
temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is 
probable that future taxable amounts will be available 
to utilise those temporary differences and losses.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for temporary 
differences between the carrying amount and tax bases 
of investments in subsidiaries and interest in joint 
arrangements where the group is able to control the 
timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and 
it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised for temporary 
differences between the carrying amount and tax 
bases of investments in subsidiaries and interest in 
joint arrangements where it is not probable that the 
differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and 
taxable profit will not be available against which the 
temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets 
and liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate 
to the same taxation authority. Current tax assets and 
tax liabilities are offset where the entity has a legally 
enforceable right to offset and intends either to settle 
on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the 
liability, simultaneously.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, 
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in 
other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this 
case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, respectively.
(t)  Business combinations
A business combination is a transaction or other event 
in which an acquirer obtains control of one or more 
businesses and results in the consolidation of the 
assets and liabilities acquired. Business combinations 
are accounted for by applying the acquisition method. 
The group also elects to apply the optional test 
(the concentration test) which permits a simplified 
assessment of whether an acquired set of activities and 
assets is not a business on each transaction basis.
The consideration transferred is the sum of the acquisition-
date fair values of the assets transferred, equity 
instruments issues or liabilities incurred by the acquirer 
to former owners of the acquiree. Deferred consideration 
payable is measured at its acquisition-date fair value. 
Contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer 
is recognised at the acquisition-date fair value. At each 
reporting date subsequent to the acquisition, contingent 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
328
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
consideration payable is measured at its fair value with 
any changes in the fair value recognised in profit or loss 
unless the contingent consideration is classified as equity, 
in which case the contingent consideration is carried at its 
acquisition-date fair value.
Goodwill is recognised initially at the excess of: (a) the 
aggregate of the consideration transferred, the fair 
value of the non-controlling interest and the acquisition 
date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity 
interest (in case of step acquisition); over (b) the net fair 
value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed. If the net fair value of the acquirer’s interest in 
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
is greater than the aggregate of the consideration 
transferred, the fair value of the non-controlling 
interest and the acquisition date fair value of the 
acquirer’s previously held equity interest, the difference 
is immediately recognised as a gain in the profit or loss.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
(u)  Impairment of assets
Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite 
useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested 
annually for impairment, or more frequently if events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that they might 
be impaired. Other assets are tested for impairment 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate 
that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An 
impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which 
the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable 
amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an 
asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value in 
use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets 
are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are 
separately identifiable cash inflows which are largely 
independent of the cash inflows from other assets or 
groups of assets (cash-generating units).
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered 
an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the 
impairment at the end of each reporting period.
(v) Foreign currency translation
(i)  Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of the 
group’s entities are measured using the currency of 
the primary economic environment in which the entity 
operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated 
financial statements are presented in Indian rupee 
(INR), which is Elgi Equipment Limited’s functional and 
presentation currency.
(ii)  Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
functional currency using the exchange rates at the 
dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains 
and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation of monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
at year end exchange rates are generally recognised in 
profit or loss. They are deferred in equity if they relate 
to qualifying cash flow hedges.
Foreign 
exchange 
differences 
regarded 
as 
an 
adjustment to borrowing costs are presented in the 
statement of profit and loss, within finance costs. All 
other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented 
in the statement of profit and loss on a net basis within 
other income.
Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a 
foreign currency are translated using exchange rates at 
the date when the fair value was determined. Translation 
differences on assets and liabilities carried at fair value 
are reported as a part of the fair value gain or loss.
(iii)  Group companies
The results and financial position of foreign operations 
(none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary 
economy) that have a functional currency different 
from the presentation currency are translated into the 
presentation currency as follows:
	 assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate 
at the date of that balance sheet
	 income and expenses are translated at average 
exchange rates (unless this is not a reasonable 
approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates 
prevailing on the transaction dates, in which incomes 
and expenses are translated at the dates of the 
transactions) and
	 all resulting foreign exchange differences are 
recognised in other comprehensive income.
On Consolidation, exchange differences arising from the 
translation of any net investment in foreign entities and 
of borrowings and other financial instruments designated 
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
329
as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is sold, the associated 
exchange differences are reclassified to profit or loss as 
a part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the 
acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets 
and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at 
the closing rate.
The results and financial position of foreign operation 
which have a functional currency similar to the group 
are translated using the same principle enumerated in 
Note (v)(ii) above.
(w)  Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent 
with the internal reporting provided to the chief 
operating decision maker. The Managing Director (MD) 
of the group has been identified as the chief operating 
decision maker of Elgi Equipments Limited. He assesses 
the financial performance and position of the group 
and makes strategic decisions. The business activities 
of the group comprise of manufacturing and sale of 
compressors. Accordingly, there is no other reportable 
segment as per Ind AS 108 Operating Segments. Refer 
note 41 for segment information presented.
(x)  Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net 
amount is reported in the balance sheet where there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised 
amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis 
or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 
The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on 
future events and must be enforceable in the normal 
course of business and in the event of default, insolvency 
or bankruptcy of the group or the counterparty.
(y)  Dividends
Provision is made for the amount of any dividend 
declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer 
at the discretion of the entity, on or before the end of 
the reporting period but not distributed at the end of 
the reporting period.
(z)  Earnings Per Share
(i)	 Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing:
	 the profit attributable to owners of the group
	 by the weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the financial year, adjusted 
for bonus elements in equity shares issued during 
the year and excluding treasury shares (note 48).
(ii)	 Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in 
the determination of basic earnings per share to take 
into account:
	 the after income tax effect of interest and other 
financing costs associated with dilutive potential 
equity shares and
	 the weighted average number of additional 
equity shares that would have been outstanding 
assuming the conversion of all dilutive potential 
equity shares.
(aa)  Insurance Claims
Insurance claims are accounted for on the basis of claims 
admitted/expected to be admitted and to the extent 
that the amount recoverable can be measured reliably 
and it is reasonable to expect ultimate collection.
(ab)  Exceptional items
Exceptional items are those which in the management’s 
judgement are material items that derive from events 
or transactions falling within the ordinary activities 
of the group but are not expected to be recurring. 
The nature and amount of exceptional items are 
relevant to the users of the financial statements in 
understanding the financial position or performance 
of the group. The same is presented separately in the 
statement of profit and loss (before tax) and balance 
sheet as applicable. 
(ac)  Rounding of amounts
All amounts disclosed in the financial statements 
and  notes have been rounded off to the nearest 
millions as per the requirement of Schedule III, unless 
otherwise stated.
50  Other Accounting Policies (Continued...)
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as at and for the year ended March 31, 2025 
(All amounts are in Millions in INR unless otherwise stated)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
330
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
The group has no transactions with the companies struck off under Companies Act, 2013 or Companies Act, 1956. 
51  Relationship with struck off companies
52  Compliance with number of layers of companies 
The group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013.
As per our reports on even date
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
For Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP
Firm Registration Number: 012754N/N500016
ANVAR JAY VARADARAJ
Director
DIN: 07273942
JAIRAM VARADARAJ
Managing Director
DIN: 00003361
ARUN KUMAR R
Partner
Membership No: 211867
DEVIKA SATHYANARAYANA
Company Secretary
Membership No. F11323
INDRANIL SEN
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
Place: Coimbatore
Date: May 28, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
331
FORM AOC–1
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub–section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2O14)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries:
(All amounts are in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Name of the Subsidiary 
Adisons Precision 
Instruments 
Manufacturing 
Company Limited
ATS Elgi Limited
Elgi Gulf FZE 
Elgi Compressors 
Do Brasil IMP. 
E.EXP.LTDA
Elgi Equipments 
Australia Pty 
Limited
Industrial Air 
Compressors Pty 
Ltd
F.R.Pulford & 
Son Pty Ltd
Advanced Air 
Compressors Pty 
Ltd
Financial Year of the 
Subsidiary ended
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Reporting Currency
INR
INR
AED
BRL
AUD
AUD
AUD
AUD
Exchange Rate
1.00 
 1.00 
23.27 
14.80 
53.80 
53.80 
53.80 
53.80 
Share Capital
11 
 1 
2 
110 
– 
– 
73 
– 
Reserves and Surplus
107 
1,376 
279 
316 
332 
(109)
240 
535 
Total Liabilities
– 
667 
321 
116 
176 
754 
518 
115 
Total Assets (Excluding 
Investments)
118 
2,044 
602 
542 
508 
1 
637 
649 
Investments (Other than 
Investments in Subsidiaries 
and joint ventures)
– 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 –* 
Turnover
– 
3,015 
1,558 
698 
589 
 – 
856 
331 
Profit before Taxation
4 
335 
202 
230 
126 
(8)
(134) 
148 
Tax Expense
1 
86 
7
83 
39 
2 
(40) 
44 
Profit/(loss) after Taxation
3 
249 
195 
147 
87
(6)
(94) 
104 
Proposed Dividend
– 
– 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
% of Shareholding
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
*Amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the group.
FORM AOC-1 PART “A”: SUBSIDIARIES
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
332
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
FORM AOC–1
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub–section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2O14)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries:
(All amounts are in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Name of the Subsidiary 
Elgi Compressors 
Italy S.r.l.
Rotair Spa
Elgi Compressors 
Europe S.R.L
Elgi Compressors 
Iberia S.L.
Elgi Compressors 
Eastern Europe 
sp. z.o.o.
Elgi Compressors 
France SAS
Elgi Compressors 
Nordics
Elgi Compressors 
UK and Ireland 
Limited
Financial Year of the 
Subsidiary ended
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Reporting Currency
EURO
EURO
EURO
EURO
EURO
EURO
EURO
EURO
Exchange Rate
92.07 
92.07 
92.07 
92.07 
92.07 
 92.07 
 92.07 
92.07 
Share Capital
320 
55 
4 
–* 
–*
1 
–* 
 – 
Reserves and Surplus
1,076 
488 
(3,066)
 13 
9 
15 
9 
11 
Total Liabilities
23 
1,277 
5,160 
9 
6 
27 
11 
 13 
Total Assets (Excluding 
Investments)
467 
1,820 
2,095 
22 
15 
 42 
20 
24 
Investments (Other than 
Investments in Subsidiaries 
and joint ventures)
 – 
–* 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
Turnover
 – 
2,332 
2,482 
68 
38 
113 
52 
81 
Profit before Taxation
148 
13 
(264)
3 
2
5 
3 
4 
Tax Expense
5 
19 
 8 
1 
–* 
2 
1 
1 
Profit/(loss) after Taxation
143 
(6) 
(272)
2 
2 
 3 
2 
3 
Proposed Dividend
 – 
– 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
% of Shareholding
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
*Amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the group.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
333
FORM AOC–1
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub–section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2O14)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries:
(All amounts are in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
Name of the Subsidiary 
Elgi Compressors 
Southern Europe 
SRL
Elgi Compressors 
USA Inc.
Michigan Air 
Solutions, LLC
Patton’s Inc.
Patton’s Medical 
LLC.
PT Elgi Equipments 
Indonesia
Elgi Compressors 
(M) SDN. BHD.
Ergo Design 
Private Limited
Financial Year of the 
Subsidiary ended
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Monday 
March 31, 2025
Reporting Currency
EURO
USD
USD
USD
USD
IDR
MYR
INR
Exchange Rate
92.07 
85.44 
 85.44 
 85.44 
 85.44 
 0.01 
 19.27 
 1.00 
Share Capital
1 
 1,088 
467 
 2,789 
9 
19 
 18 
– 
Reserves and Surplus
14 
953 
 (152)
(663)
 (165)
34 
 (97)
3 
Total Liabilities
36 
6,221 
647 
2,429 
1,636 
68 
144 
13 
Total Assets (Excluding 
Investments)
50 
4,836 
961 
4,547 
1,480 
121 
65 
16 
Investments (Other than 
Investments in Subsidiaries 
and joint ventures)
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
Turnover
103 
4,103 
710 
1,742 
1,633 
122 
89 
20 
Profit before Taxation
6 
60 
 (191)
 (374)
54 
4
 (42)
(3) 
Tax Expense
3 
 18 
 (49)
 (97)
14 
– 
 – 
– 
Profit/(loss) after Taxation
3 
42 
 (142)
 (277)
40 
4
 (42)
 (3) 
Proposed Dividend
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
 – 
% of Shareholding
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
*Amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the group.
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
334
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
FORM AOC–1 PART “B” : ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES
*Amounts are below rounding off norms adopted by the group. 
**Classified as asset held for sale. 
#Excludes unrealised profits on Inter–company stock, Inter–Co dividend.
FORM AOC–1
Part “B”: Associates and Joint Ventures
Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2O13 related to Associate Companies and Joint Ventures
(All amounts are in INR Million, unless otherwise stated)
S. 
No.
Name of Associates or 
Joint Ventures
Elgi Sauer 
Compressors Ltd
Industrial Air 
Solutions LLP
Evergreen 
Compressed Air and 
Vaccum LLC
PLA Holding 
Company, LLC
Compressed  Air 
Solutions  Of Texas, 
LLC**
Gentex Air 
Solutions, LLC
L.G.Balakrishnan & 
Bros (Firm)
Elgi Services
1
Shares of Associate or 
Joint Ventures held by the 
Company on the year end
No. of Shares
168,994 
–Amount of Investment 
in Associates or Joint 
Venture
2 
4 
52 
74 
9 
19 
 124 
–* 
–Extent of Holding
26%
50%
50%
50%
50%
33.33%
98%
80%
2
Description of how there 
is significant influence
Joint Venture
Joint Venture
Joint Venture
Joint Venture
Joint Venture
Joint Venture
Joint Operation 
Joint Operation 
3
Reason why the 
associate/joint venture is 
not consolidated
Consolidated 
to the extent 
of holding 
i.,e 26%
Consolidated to the 
extent of holding 
i.,e 50%
Consolidated to the 
extent of holding 
i.,e 50%
Consolidated to the 
extent of holding 
i.,e 50%
Consolidated to the 
extent of holding 
i.,e 50%
Consolidated to the 
extent of holding i.,e 
33.33%
Consolidated to the 
extent of holding 
i.,e 98%
Consolidated to the 
extent of holding 
i.,e 80%
4
Networth attributable to 
Shareholding as per latest 
audited Balance Sheet*
120 
4 
35 
36 
13 
10 
 124 
–* 
5
Profit/Loss for the Year
i. Considered in 
Consolidation#
37
12
3
9
11 
–
–* 
–* 
ii. Not Considered in 
Consolidation
107 
12 
3
9
11 
–
–* 
–* 
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
335
Subsidiaries 
India: ATS ELGI LIMITED, Private Industrial Estate, Kurichy, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, India – 641021, Tel: +91–422–2589999, 
Fax: +91–422–2589800, Web: www.ats–elgi.com, Email: enquiry@ats–elgi.com
ADISONS PRECISION INSTRUMENTS MANUFACTURING COMPANY LTD, Elgi Industrial Complex III, Trichy Rd., Singanallur, 
Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, India – 641005
ERGO DESIGN PRIVATE LIMITED, India House, New no. 1443/1, Trichy Road, Coimbatore – 641018. Tel: +91 422 230 4141, 
Fax: +91 422 238 6301
Australia: ELGI EQUIPMENTS AUSTRALIA PTY LTD, 7/66 Pritchard Road, Virginia, Queensland – 4014. Tel : +61 7 3106 0589 (Dir), 
Email: enquiry@elgi.com.au, Web: www.elgi.com.au
INDUSTRIAL AIR COMPRESSORS PTY LTD Level 38, 345 Queen St, Brisbane Old 4000, Australia
F.R. PULFORD & SON PTY LTD 3 Squill Place, Arndell Park NSW 2148. Web: www.pulford.com.au/ Phone no: 1300 138 124, 
Email: sales@pulford.com.au
ADVANCED AIR COMPRESSORS PTY LTD 3 Squill Place, Arndell Park NSW 2148. Web: www.advancedair.com.au/ 
E–mail: aacair@advancedair.com.au. Phone no: 02 9193 8100 196
Brazil: ELGI COMPRESSORS DO BRASIL IMP.E.EXP LTDA, Rua Quinze de Novembro, 200 Galpão II – Bairro Paineiras, 
Itupeva – São Paulo CEP: 13.295–000, Brasil. Tel: +55 (11) 4496 5519, 4496 6611, E–mail: enquiry@elgi.com.br, 
Web: www.elgi.com/br/
Indonesia: PT ELGI EQUIPMENTS INDONESIA, Kawasan Pergudangan, Bizpark Commercial Estate, Pulogadung Jl, Raya 
Bekai Km. 21, 5 Block A3 No. 12, Kel. Rawa Terate, Kec. Cakung, Pulogadung Jakarta Timur 13920, Tel: +62–21–46822216, 
46827388, E–mail: indonesia–enquiry@elgi.com, Web: www.elgi.co/id/
Italy: ELGI COMPRESSORS ITALY S.R.L, Via Del Babuino 51, 00187 –Rome(RM) Tel: +39 011 0620887, 
Email: elgi_italy@elgi.com 
ELGI COMPRESSORS SOUTHERN EUROPE S.R.L, Corso Unione Sovietica 612/3/C 10135 Torino – Italy 
ROTAIR SPA, Via Bernezzo–67, 12023, Caraglio (CN), Italy, Tel: +39–0171619676, Fax: +39 0171619677, 
E–mail: info@rotairspa.com, Web: www.rotairspa.com
Belgium: ELGI COMPRESSORS EUROPE S.R.L, Dreve Richelle 167, 1410 Waterloo, Brussels, Belgium, 
E–mail: euenquiry@elgi.com, Web: www.elgi.com/eu/
Middle East: ELGI GULF FZE, PO Box: 120695, P6–27, SAIF Zone, Sharjah, U.A.E. Tel: +971 6 557 9970, +971 50 457 6470, 
Fax: +971 6 557 9980, E–mail: gulfenquiry@elgi.com, Web: www.elgi.com/me/
ELGI GULF MECHANICAL AND ENGINEERING EQUIPMENT TRADING LLC, 20/1 Empire Heights, Podium Level 3, Business 
Bay, Dubai UAE.
USA: ELGI COMPRESSORS USA, INC 1500–N Continental Blvd Charlotte, NC 28273 USA Tel: 704–943–7966, 
E–mail: usa.sales@elgi.com, Web: www.elgi/us/
PATTONS INC. 3201 South Boulevard. Charlotee, NC 28209, USA. Tel.: 704–523–4122, E–Mail: info@pattonsinc.com, 
Web: https://www.pattonsinc.com PATTONS INC 4610 Entrance Drive Suite H, Charlotte, NC 28273
PATTONS MEDICAL LLC, 4610 Entrance Drive Suite H, Charlotte, NC 28273, USA. Tel: 704–529–5442, 
E–Mail: sales@pattonsmedical.com, Web: https://www.pattonsmedical.com
MICHIGAN AIR SOLUTIONS LLC, 4511 Clay Ave SW Grand Rapids, MI 49548, USA. Tel: 800–727–2479, 
E–mail: info@mi–air.com, Web: https://www.mi–air.com
GROUP ENTITIES’ ADDRESS
ANNUAL REPORT 2024-25
336
ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED
UK: ELGI COMPRESSORS UK & IRELAND, 4th Floor, Imperial House, 8 Kean St, London WC2B 4AS, United Kingdom. 
Tel: 0800 844 52 60, E–Mail: elgi–uk_ireland@elgi.com
Sweden: ELGI COMPRESSORS NORDICS, Box 11920, 404 39 Goteborg, Gothenburg, Sweden. Tel: +46812111175, 
Email: elgi_nordics@elgi.com
Poland: ELGI COMPRESSORS EASTERN EUROPE SP. Z.O.O, ul. BITWY WARSZAWSKIEJ 1920 R., nr 7, lok Warsaw, Poland. 
Tel: +48221530318, E–Mail: elgi_easterneurope@elgi.com, Web: https://www.elgi.com/eu/pl/
France: ELGI COMPRESSORS FRANCE SAS, 10 Rue De Penthièvre 75008 Paris, France. Tel + 33 9 73038248, 
E–Mail: elgi_france@elgi.com, Web: https://www.elgi.com/eu/fr/
Spain: ELGI COMPRESSORS IBERIA SL, Calle Marques de Urquijo 28008 Madrid, Espana VAT: B88550454. 
Tel: + 34910602138, E–Mail: elgi_iberia@elgi.com, Web: https://www.elgi.com/eu/es/
ELGI COMPRESSORS Europe S.R.L Dreve Richelle 167, 1410 Waterloo, Belgium. 
Malaysia: ELGI COMPRESSORS (M) SDN. BHD, No.7, Jalan Anggerik Mokara 31/44, Sek. 31, Kota Kemuning, 40460 Shah 
Alam, Selangor, Malaysia. Tel: +603–5120 1544, Email: malaysia–enquiry@elgi.com, Web: www.elgi.com.my
Joint Ventures 
India: ELGI SAUER COMPRESSORS LIMITED, S.F. No. 322/2B Part, Codissia Industrial Park Limited, Kallapalayam 
Village, Sulur Taluk, Coimbatore – 641201, India, Tel: +91–422–2589634, 2589510, Fax: +91–422–2573697, 
E–mail: info@elgisauer.com, Web: www.elgisauer.com
INDUSTRIAL AIR SOLUTIONS LLP, 1, R R Industrial Estate, Opposite Shanthi Gears Regd Office, Singanallur, Coimbatore, 
Tamil Nadu – 641005, Tel: 0422 227 1862
USA: EVERGREEN COMPRESSED AIR AND VACUUM LLC, 810 SW 34th St, Suite D, Renton, WA 98057, USA. 
Tel: 206–474–4451, E–Mail: info@evergreencompressedair.com, Web: https://www.evergreencompressedair.com
PLA HOLDING COMPANY LLC, 16312 Bloomfield Ave, Cerritos, CA 90703
PATTONS of CALIFORNIA LLC, 16312 Bloomfield Avenue, Cerritos, CA 90703, USA. Tel: 562 229 0955, 
E–Mail: info@pattonsca.com, Web: https://www.pattonsca.com
GENTEX AIR SOLUTIONS, LLC., 12801 Harmon Road Unit #105 Fort Worth, TX 76177, Tel: 817–930–2621 
Email: Sales@gentexair.com, Web: https://www.gentexair.com
Overseas Offices
Thailand: ELGI EQUIPMENTS LIMITED, 223/66 14th Floor, Country Complex BLDG A, Sanphawut Rd, Bangna Tai, 5 Bangna, 
Bangkok 10260. Tel: +662–7455160, E–mail: thailand–enquiry@elgi.com, Web: www.elgi.com/th/
