 
 
August 29, 2024 
 
 
 
 
 
 
        EFL/BSE/2024-25/41  
 
 
 
 
 
 
        
BSE Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,  
Dalal Street, 
Mumbai 400001 
 
                                             Scrip Code: 543482 
                               Scrip ID: EUREKAFORBE  
 
Sub: 
Notice of the 15th (Fifteenth) Annual General Meeting (“AGM Notice”) and 
Integrated Annual Report for the Financial Year 2023-24 of Eureka Forbes Limited 
(“the Company”) pursuant to Regulation 30 and Regulation 34 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time (“SEBI LODR”) 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
Pursuant to Regulation 30 read with Paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III and Regulation 34 of 
the SEBI LODR and in continuation to our letter no. EFL/BSE/2024-25/39 dated August 26, 2024, 
we wish to inform that the 15th (Fifteenth) Annual General Meeting of the Company is scheduled 
to be held on Friday, September 20, 2024 at 12:00 Noon IST through Video Conferencing 
(“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) in accordance with the relevant circulars issued by 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Securities and Exchange Board of India. In this regard, we wish 
to inform the following:  
 
1. The Notice of 15th (Fifteenth) Annual General Meeting and Integrated Annual Report for 
Financial Year 2023-24 are being sent through electronic mode to all the Members whose email 
addresses are registered with the Company/Registrar and Transfer Agent (“RTA”)/Depository 
Participant (“DP”). The Integrated Annual Report together with the Notice of the AGM is being 
dispatched to the Members today, i.e. August 29, 2024.  
 
2. In terms of Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of the Companies 
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended and Regulation 44 of the SEBI 
LODR, the Company has provided the facility to its Members to cast their vote electronically 
through e-voting facility on all the resolutions as set out in the AGM Notice, who are holding 
shares on the cut-off date i.e. Friday, September 13, 2024.  
 
3. The remote e-voting will commence on Tuesday, September 17, 2024 at 09:00 AM IST and 
end on Thursday, September 19, 2024 at 05:00 PM IST. The e-voting instructions and the 
process to join meeting through VC/OAVM is set out in the AGM Notice.  
 
4. The AGM Notice together with the explanatory statement and Integrated Annual Report for 
Financial Year 2023-24 are enclosed herewith.  
 
Thanking you, 
 
For Eureka Forbes Limited 
 
 
Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer 
PRAGYA 
KAUL
Digitally signed by 
PRAGYA KAUL 
Date: 2024.08.29 
22:41:12 +05'30'
Notice
01
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
NOTICE is hereby given that the 15th (Fifteenth) Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM/the Meeting”) of the Members of 
Eureka Forbes Limited (CIN: L27310MH2008PLC188478) 
(“the Company”) will be held on Friday, September 20, 
2024 at 12:00 Noon IST through Video Conferencing 
(“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) in conformity 
with the regulatory provisions and the Circulars issued by 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) and Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) to transact the 
following businesses.
The venue of the AGM shall be deemed to be the Registered 
Office of the Company at B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon 
Innova, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai, 
Maharashtra – 400 013.
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.	
To receive, consider and adopt:
	
a.	
the Audited Standalone Financial Statements of 
the Company for the Financial Year ended March 
31, 2024 together with the Report of the Board of 
Directors and the Auditors’ thereon; and
	
b.	
the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements 
of the Company for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2024 together with the Report of the 
Auditors’ thereon.
2.	
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Sahil Dalal (DIN: 
07350808) who retires by rotation and being eligible, 
offers his candidature for re-appointment.
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
Corporate Identity Number: L27310MH2008PLC188478
Registered Office: B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, 
Lower Parel, Mumbai, Maharashtra - 400013, India.
Phone No.: +91 22 4882 1700 Fax No.: +91 22 4882 1701
Website: www.eurekaforbes.com; E-mail: compliance@eurekaforbes.com
Notice convening 15th Annual General Meeting
SPECIAL BUSINESS
3.	
To ratify remuneration payable to Cost Auditors.
	
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“Resolved that pursuant to the provisions of 
Section148 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Rule 14 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, and other applicable provisions if any of the 
Companies Act, 2013 and Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (including any 
statutory modification(s) or re- enactment thereof) 
as amended from time to time, the remuneration of 
` 7,00,000 (Rupees Seven Lakhs Only) plus applicable 
taxes and out of pocket expenses payable to M/s. J. 
Chandra & Associates (Firm Registration No.: 000384), 
Cost Accountants, the Cost Auditors appointed by 
the Board of Directors of the Company, to conduct 
the audit of the cost records of the Company for the 
Financial Year ending March 31, 2025 be and is hereby 
ratified and confirmed.
	
Resolved further that the Board be and is hereby 
authorized to do all such act(s), deed(s) and thing(s) 
as it may consider necessary, expedient or desirable, 
including delegation of all or any of its powers herein 
conferred to any Committee of Directors and/or any 
person, to give effect to the above resolution.”
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Eureka Forbes Limited
Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
ICSI Membership No.: ACS 17167
Place: Mumbai
Date: August 08, 2024
02
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Notes:
1)	
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has vide its 
General Circular No. 14/2020 dated April 08, 2020, 
General Circular No.17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, 
General Circular No. 22/2020 dated June 15, 2020, 
General Circular No. 33/2020 dated September 28, 
2020, General Circular No. 39/2020 dated December 
31, 2020, General Circular No. 10/2021 dated June 23, 
2021, General Circular No. 20/2021 dated December 
08, 2021, General Circular No. 3/2022 dated May 05, 
2022, General Circular No. 10/2022 dated December 
28, 2022 and General Circular No. 9/2023 dated 
September 25, 2023 (“MCA Circulars”) and SEBI 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 
dated May 12, 2020, SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/
CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated January 15, 2021, SEBI 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 
dated May 13, 2022 SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/
PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4 dated January 5, 2023 and SEBI/
HO/CFD/CFD/-PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/167 dated October 
07, 2023 (“SEBI Circulars”) and all other relevant 
circulars issued from time to time has permitted 
the holding of the AGM through VC/OAVM and has 
dispensed with the physical presence of the Members 
at a common venue. Hence, Members are requested to 
attend and participate at the ensuing AGM through VC/
OAVM facility being provided by the Company through 
National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”).
	
The deemed venue for the AGM shall be the Registered 
Office of the Company.
2)	
The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) with respect 
to the business set out in the Notice mentioning the 
material facts concerning the business Item No. 3 is 
annexed hereto.
	
Further, the relevant details pursuant to Regulation 
36(3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and 
Secretarial Standards - 2 on General Meetings issued 
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, in 
respect of Director seeking re-appointment at this 
AGM is also annexed.
3)	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a Member entitled 
to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint 
a proxy to attend and vote on his/her behalf and the 
proxy need not be a Member of the Company. Since 
this AGM is being held pursuant to the MCA Circulars 
and SEBI Circulars through VC/OAVM facility, physical 
attendance of Members has been dispensed with. 
Accordingly, the facility for appointment of proxies by 
the Members will not be available for the AGM and 
hence the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are not 
annexed to this Notice.
	
Since the Company will hold the AGM through VC/
OAVM, without the physical presence of the Members 
in terms of MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars, the route 
map for the Venue of the Meeting is not annexed to 
this Notice.
	
However, the Body Corporates are entitled to appoint 
authorised representatives to attend the AGM through 
VC/OAVM and participate there at and cast their votes 
through e-voting.
4)	
The Members can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM 
mode 30 minutes before the scheduled time of the 
commencement of the AGM. The Company may close 
the window for joining the VC/OAVM facility 15 minutes 
after the scheduled time to start the AGM. The facility 
of participation at the AGM through VC/OAVM will be 
made available for 1,000 Members on first come first 
serve basis.
	
This will not include large Members (Members holding 
2% or more shareholding), Promoters, Institutional 
Investors, Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, the 
Chairpersons of the Audit Committee, Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee, Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee and Auditors, who are allowed to attend 
the AGM without restriction on account of first come 
first serve basis.
	
The attendance of the Members attending the AGM 
through VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose of 
reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
5)	
In compliance with the provisions of Sections 108 of the 
Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management 
and Administration) Rules, 2014 (“Rules”), Regulation 
44 of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial 
Standard - 2, the Company is providing remote 
e-voting facility to enable Members to cast their votes 
electronically on the matters included in this Notice. For 
this purpose, the Company has engaged the services 
of National Securities Depository Limited (“NSDL”) to 
provide e-voting facility to enable the Members to cast 
their votes electronically. The facility of casting votes 
by a Member using remote e-voting system as well as 
e-voting at the AGM will be provided by NSDL.
	
Members are requested to follow the procedure as 
stated in the instructions of this Notice for casting of 
votes electronically.
	
The cut-off date for determining the Members eligible 
to vote on resolution proposed to be considered 
at the Meeting is Friday, September 13, 2024. The 
remote e-voting period will commence on Tuesday, 
September 17, 2024 at 09:00 AM IST and ends on 
Thursday, September 19, 2024 at 05:00 PM IST. 
The remote e-voting will not be allowed beyond the 
Notice
03
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
aforesaid date and time. The remote e-voting module 
shall be disabled thereafter.
	
The Resolution will be deemed to have been passed 
on the date of the Meeting, if approved by the 
requisite majority.
	
Only those Members whose names are appearing on 
the Register of Members/List of Beneficial Owners as 
on the cut-off date, shall be entitled to cast their vote 
through remote e-voting or voting through VC/OAVM 
at the AGM, as the case may be. A person who is not 
a Member on the cut-off date should treat this notice 
for information purpose only.
	
The Members who have cast their vote by remote 
e-voting prior to the AGM may also attend and 
participate in the proceedings of the AGM through 
VC/OAVM but shall not be entitled to cast their votes 
again. The Members can opt for Only one mode of 
voting i.e. remote e-voting or e-voting at the AGM.
6)	
The Board of Directors have appointed Mr. Mihen 
Halani, Proprietor of M/s. Mihen Halani & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries (Membership No. 
FCS 9926 and CP No. 12015), as the Scrutinizer to 
scrutinize the remote e-voting and e-voting at the AGM 
in a fair and transparent manner. The Scrutinizer will 
submit his report to the Chairman/Company Secretary 
of the Company after completion of the scrutiny of 
the remote e-voting and e-voting at the AGM. The 
results will be announced by the Chairman/Company 
Secretary of the Company within two working days 
from the conclusion of the AGM and will be posted on 
the Company’s website at www.eurekaforbes.com and 
will also be posted on the website of NSDL at www.
evoting.nsdl.com. The results shall also be intimated to 
the Stock Exchange where the shares of the Company 
are listed i.e. BSE Limited at www.bseindia.com.
7)	
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 113 of the 
Act, Body Corporate Members who intend their 
authorised representative(s) to attend the AGM are 
requested to send, to the Company, a certified copy 
of the Resolution of its Board of Directors or other 
governing body, authorizing such representative(s) 
along with the respective specimen signature(s) of 
those representative(s) authorised to attend the AGM 
through VC/OAVM facility and participate thereat and 
cast their votes through e-voting. The said resolution/ 
authorization shall be sent to the scrutinizer by 
an e-mail through its registered e-mail address to 
compliance@eurekaforbes.com/mihenhalani@mha-cs.
com with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in. Such 
Members can also upload their Board Resolution/
Power of Attorney/Authority Letter etc. by clicking on 
“Upload Board Resolution/Authority Letter” displayed 
under “e-voting” tab in their login.
8)	
The Members may also note that the Notice of the 
AGM and Integrated Annual Report for the Financial 
Year 2023-24 is also available on the Company’s 
website at www.eurekaforbes.com and on the website 
of Stock Exchange where the shares of the Company 
are listed i.e. BSE Limited at www.bseindia.com and 
also on the website of NSDL at www.evoting.nsdl.
com for download. Members may note that relevant 
documents referred in the Notice shall be made 
available in accordance with applicable statutory 
requirement based on request received by the 
Company for inspection at compliance@eurekaforbes.
com.
9)	
Voting rights shall be reckoned in proportion to the 
paid-up equity shares registered in the name of 
the Members as on the Cut-off date being Friday, 
September 13, 2024.
10)	 Members who would like to express their views/
have questions may send their questions in advance 
mentioning their name, demat account number/
folio number, e-mail address, mobile number at 
compliance@eurekaforbes.com. Questions/queries 
received by the Company during the period starting 
from Wednesday, September 11, 2024 to Sunday, 
September 15, 2024 shall only be considered and 
responded during the AGM. Members who would 
like to express their views or ask questions during 
the AGM may register themselves as a speaker by 
sending an e-mail to compliance@eurekaforbes.
com starting from Wednesday, September 11, 2024 
to Sunday, September 15, 2024, mentioning their 
name, demat account number/folio number, e-mail id, 
mobile number. Those Members who have registered 
themselves as a speaker will only be allowed to express 
their views/ask questions during the Meeting. The 
Company reserves the right to restrict the number of 
questions and number of speakers, as appropriate for 
smooth conduct of the AGM, depending on availability 
of time. The queries may be raised precisely and in brief 
to enable the Company to answer the same suitably 
depending on the availability of time at the Meeting.
11)	 In terms of section 101 of the Act, read with the rules 
made thereunder, the listed companies may send 
the notice of AGM along with the Integrated Annual 
Report 2023-24 by electronic mode. Pursuant to the 
said provisions of the Act read with MCA Circulars 
and SEBI Circular, electronic copy of the Notice of 
the AGM of the Company are being sent to all the 
Members whose e-mail address are registered with 
the Company/Depository Participant(s).
	
For Members who have not received the notice due 
to change/non-registration of their e-mail address 
with the Company/RTA/Depository Participants, they 
may request, for the notice and Integrated Annual 
Report 2023-24 by sending an e-mail at rnt.helpdesk@
04
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
linkintime.co.in or compliance@eurekaforbes.com. 
Post receipt of such request and verification of records 
of the Member, the Member would be provided soft 
copy of the notice and Integrated Annual Report. It 
is clarified that for registration of e-mail address, 
the Members are however requested to follow due 
procedure for registering their e-mail address with the 
Company/Registrar & Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”) in 
respect of physical holdings and with the Depository 
Participants in respect of electronic holdings. Those 
Members who have already registered their e-mail 
addresses are requested to keep their e-mail address 
validated with their Depository Participants/RTA/
Company to enable servicing of notices/documents 
electronically to their e-mail address.
	
The Members who have not received any 
communication regarding this AGM for any reason 
whatsoever and are eligible for vote are also entitled 
to vote and may obtain the User ID and password or 
instructions for remote e-voting by contacting NSDL 
at evoting@nsdl.co.in.
	
Any person becoming the Member of the Company 
after the dispatch of Notice of the Meeting and holding 
shares as on the cut-off date for e-voting i.e. Friday, 
September 13, 2024 may obtain the User ID and 
password by referring to the e-voting instructions 
attached to this Notice and also available on the 
Company’s website www.eurekaforbes.com and the 
website of NSDL www.evoting.nsdl.com. Alternatively, 
Member may send request providing the e-mail 
address, DP ID/Client ID, mobile number, number of 
shares held and self-attested PAN copy via e-mail to 
rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in for obtaining the Notice 
of AGM.
12)	 As per Regulation 40 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
securities of listed companies can be transferred only 
in dematerialized form with effect from April 01, 2019. 
Further, the transmission and transposition of securities 
shall also be effected in dematerialized form only as 
per SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 
dated January 25, 2022. In view of this and to eliminate 
all risks associated with physical shares and for ease 
of portfolio management, Members holding shares in 
physical form are requested to consider converting 
their holdings into dematerialized form. Members can 
contact the Company or Company’s Registrar and 
Transfer Agent – Link Intime India Private Limited for 
assistance in this regard.
13)	 Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular 
No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/655 
dated November 3, 2021 and SEBI/HO/MIRSD/
MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 2022 
has mandated the listed Companies to issue securities 
in demat form only while processing service requests, 
viz. Issue of duplicate securities certificate, claim from 
Unclaimed Suspense Account, Renewal/Exchange 
of securities certificate, Endorsement, Sub-division/
Splitting of securities certificate, Consolidation of 
securities certificates/folios, Transmission and 
Transposition. And after verifying the same the RTA/ 
Company shall issue ‘Letter of Confirmation’ in lieu of 
physical securities certificate(s) within 30 days of its 
receipt after removing objections, if any, which shall 
be valid for a period of 120 days from the date of its 
issuance. Accordingly, Members are requested to 
make service requests by submitting a duly filled and 
signed Form ISR – 4, the format of which is available 
on the Company’s website.
14)	 Nomination: Members can avail the facility of 
nomination in respect of shares held by them in 
physical form pursuant to Section 72 of the Act read 
with relevant rules. Members desiring to avail of this 
facility may send their nomination in the prescribed 
Form SH – 13 duly filled in and signed to the Company 
or RTA.
15)	 Instructions for Members for remote e-voting and 
joining Annual General Meeting are as under:
	
The remote e-voting period begins on Tuesday, 
September 17, 2024 at 09:00 AM IST and ends on 
Thursday, September 19, 2024 at 05:00 PM IST. The 
remote e-voting module shall be disabled by NSDL 
for voting thereafter. The Members, whose names 
appear in the Register of Members/Beneficial 
Owners as on the record date (cut-off date) i.e. 
Friday, September 13, 2024, may cast their vote 
electronically. The voting right of Members shall 
be in proportion to their share in the paid-up equity 
share capital of the Company as on the cut-off 
date, being Friday, September 13, 2024.
Notice
05
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
How do I vote electronically using NSDL e-voting system?
The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-voting system consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
Step 1: Access to NSDL e-voting system
A)	 Login method for e-voting and joining virtual Meeting for individual Members holding securities in 
demat mode
	
In terms of SEBI Circular dated December 09, 2020 on e-voting facility provided by Listed Companies, individual 
Members holding securities in demat mode are allowed to vote through their demat account maintained with 
Depositories and Depository Participants. Members are advised to update their mobile number and e-mail address 
in their demat accounts in order to access e-voting facility.
Login method for individual Members holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of Members
Login Method
Individual 
Members holding 
securities	in 
demat	
mode 
with NSDL
1.	
Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-services website of NSDL viz. https://eservices.nsdl.com 
either on a personal computer or on a mobile. On the e-services home page click on the 
“Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under ‘IDeAS’ section, this will 
prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you 
will be able to see e- voting services under Value added services. Click on “Access to e- voting” 
under e-voting services and you will be able to see e-voting page. Click on Company name or 
e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be re-directed to e-voting website of NSDL 
for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual Meeting & voting during 
the Meeting.
2.	
If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://eservices.
nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS Portal”	or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/
SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
3.	
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://
www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a personal computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of 
e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/
Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen 
digit demat account number held with NSDL), password/OTP and a verification code as shown 
on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site 
wherein you can see e-voting page. Click on Company name or e-voting service provider i.e. 
NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the 
remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the Meeting.
4.	
Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning the QR 
code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.
Individual 
Members holding 
securities	in 
demat	
mode 
with CDSL
1.	
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi/Easiest facility, can login through their existing user 
ID and password. Option will be made available to reach e-voting page without any further 
authentication. The users to login Easi/Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.
cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then user your existing 
my easi username & password.
2.	
After successful login the Easi/Easiest user will be able to see the e-voting option for eligible 
companies where the e-voting is in progress as per the information provided by company. On 
clicking the e-voting option, the user will be able to see e-voting page of the e-voting service 
provider for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period. Additionally, there are also 
links provided to access the system of all e-voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit 
the e-voting service providers’ website directly.
06
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Type of Members
Login Method
3.	
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at CDSL website www.
cdslindia.com and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option.
4.	
Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by providing Demat Account Number 
and PAN No. from a e-voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will 
authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & e-mail as recorded in the Demat 
Account. After successful authentication, user will be able to see the e-voting option where 
the e-voting is in progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-voting service 
providers.
Individual 
Members (holding 
securities	in 
demat mode) 
login through 
their depository 
participants
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository 
Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-voting facility. Upon login, you will be able to see 
e-voting option. Once you click on e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository 
site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature. Click on Company name or 
e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for casting 
your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual Meeting & voting during the Meeting.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget 
Password option available at abovementioned website.
Helpdesk for Individual Members holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to 
login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL
Login type
Helpdesk details
Individual 
Members 
holding 
securities in demat mode with NSDL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending 
a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at 022 - 4886 7000
Individual 
Members 
holding 
securities in demat mode with CDSL
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a 
request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 1800 21 09911
B)	 Login Method for e-voting and joining virtual Meeting for Members other than individual Members 
holding securities in demat mode and Members holding securities in physical mode.
	
How to Log-in to NSDL e-voting website?
	
1.	
Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.
com/ either on a personal computer or on a mobile.
	
2.	
Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/
Member’ section.
	
3.	
A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, your Password/OTP and a verification code as shown 
on the screen.
	
	
Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDEAS, you can log-in at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ 
with your existing IDEAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your log-in credentials, click on 
e-voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.
	
4.	
Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat 
(NSDL or CDSL) or Physical
Your User ID is:
a)	
For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with NSDL
8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID
For example if your DP ID is IN300*** and Client ID is 12****** then your 
user ID is IN300***12******.
b)	
For Members who hold shares in 
demat account with CDSL
16 Digit Beneficiary ID
For example if your Beneficiary ID is 12************** then your user ID is 
12**************
c)	
For Members holding shares in 
Physical form
EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the Company
For example if folio number is 001*** and EVEN is 101456 then user ID 
is 101456001***
Notice
07
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
5.	
Password details for Members other than individual 
Members are given below:
	
a)	
If you are already registered for e-voting, then you 
can user your existing password to login and cast 
your vote.
	
b)	
If you are using NSDL e-voting system for the first 
time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’ 
which was communicated to you. Once you 
retrieve your ‘initial password’, you need to enter 
the ‘initial password’ and the system will force 
you to change your password.
	
c)	
How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
	
	
(i)	
If your e-mail ID is registered in your demat 
account or with the Company, your ‘initial 
password’ is communicated to you on your 
e-mail ID. Trace the e-mail sent to you from 
NSDL from your mailbox. Open the e-mail 
and open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. 
Open the .pdf file. The password to open 
the pdf file is your 8 digit client ID for NSDL 
account, last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL 
account or folio number for shares held in 
physical form. The .pdf file contains your 
‘User ID’ and your ‘initial password’.
	
	
(ii)	
If your e-mail ID is not registered, please follow 
steps mentioned below for those Members 
whose e-mail ids are not registered.
6.	
If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the 
“Initial password” or have forgotten your password:
	
a)	
Click on “Forgot User Details/Password?” (If you 
are holding shares in your demat account with 
NSDL or CDSL) option available on www.evoting.
nsdl.com.
	
b)	
“Physical User Reset Password?” (If you are 
holding shares in physical mode) option available 
on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
	
c)	
If you are still unable to get the password by 
aforesaid two options, you can send a request 
at evoting@nsdl.com mentioning your demat 
account number/folio number, your PAN, your 
name, mobile no., email address and your 
registered address etc.
	
d)	
Members can also use the OTP (One Time 
Password) based login for casting the votes on 
the e-voting system of NSDL.
7.	
After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms 
and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
8.	
Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
9.	
After you click on the “Login” button, Home page of 
e-voting will open.
Step 2: Cast your vote electronically and join 
General Meeting on NSDL e-voting system
How to cast your vote electronically and join 
General Meeting on NSDL e-voting system?
1.	
After successful login at Step 1, you will be able to see 
all the companies “EVEN” in which you are holding 
shares and whose voting cycle and General Meeting 
is in active status.
2.	
Select “EVEN” of Company for which you wish to 
cast your vote during the remote e-voting period 
and casting your vote during the General Meeting. 
For joining virtual Meeting, you need to click on “VC/
OAVM” link placed under “Join Meeting”.
3.	
Now you are ready for e-voting as the Voting 
page opens.
4.	
Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. 
assent or dissent, verify/modify the number of shares 
for which you wish to cast your vote and click on 
“Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
5.	
Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast 
successfully” will be displayed.
6.	
You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you 
by clicking on the print option on the confirmation page.
7.	
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will 
not be allowed to modify your vote.
General Guidelines for Members
1.	
Institutional Members (i.e. other than individuals, HUF, 
NRI etc.) are required to send scanned copy (PDF/JPG 
Format) of the relevant Board Resolution/ Authority 
letter etc. with attested specimen signature of the 
duly authorized signatory(ies) who are authorized to 
vote, to the Scrutinizer by e-mail to mihenhalani@
mha-cs.com with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.
co.in and the Company at compliance@eurekaforbes.
com. Institutional Members (i.e. other than individuals, 
HUF, NRI etc.) can also upload their Board Resolution/
Power of Attorney/Authority Letter etc. by clicking on 
“Upload Board Resolution/Authority Letter” displayed 
under “e-voting” tab in their login.
2.	
It is strongly recommended not to share your password 
with any other person and take utmost care to keep 
your password confidential. Login to the e-voting 
website will be disabled upon five unsuccessful 
attempts to key in the correct password. In such 
an event, you will need to go through the “Forgot 
08
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
User Details/Password?” or “Physical User Reset 
Password?” option available on www.evoting.nsdl.
com to reset the password.
3.	
In case of any queries, you may refer the Frequently 
Asked Questions for Members and e-voting user 
manual for Members available at the download section 
of www.evoting.nsdl.com or call on.: 022 - 4886 7000 
or send a request at evoting@nsdl.com.
Process for those Members whose e-mail address 
are not registered with the depositories for 
procuring User ID and password and registration 
of e-mail address for e-voting for the resolution 
set out in this notice:
1.	
In case shares are held in physical mode please provide 
Folio No., name of Member, scanned copy of the share 
certificate (front and back), PAN (self-attested scanned 
copy of PAN card), AADHAR (self-attested scanned 
copy of Aadhar Card) by e-mail to compliance@
eurekaforbes.com or rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in.
2.	
In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide 
DPID-CLID (16 digit DPID + CLID or 16 digit beneficiary 
ID), Name, client master or copy of consolidated 
account statement, PAN (self-attested scanned copy 
of PAN card), AADHAR (self-attested scanned copy of 
Aadhar Card) to compliance@eurekaforbes.com. If you 
are an individual Member holding securities in demat 
mode, you are requested to refer to the login method 
explained at step 1 (A) i.e. Login method for e-voting 
and joining virtual Meeting for individual Members 
holding securities in demat mode.
3.	
Alternatively Members may send a request to evoting@
nsdl.com for procuring User ID and password for 
e-voting by providing above mentioned documents.
4.	
In terms of SEBI Circular dated December 09, 2020 
on e-voting facility provided by Listed Companies, 
individual Members holding securities in demat 
mode are allowed to vote through their demat 
account maintained with Depositories and Depository 
Participants. Members are required to update their 
mobile number and e-mail ID correctly in their demat 
account in order to access e-voting facility.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR E-VOTING 
ON THE DAY OF THE AGM ARE AS UNDER:
1.	
The procedure for e-voting on the day of the AGM is 
same as the instructions mentioned above for remote 
e-voting.
2.	
Only those Members/ Members, who will be present 
in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and have not 
casted their vote on the resolution through remote 
e-voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so, 
shall be eligible to vote through e-voting system in 
the AGM.
3.	
Members who have voted through remote e-voting will 
be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will not 
be eligible to vote at the AGM.
4.	
The details of the person who may be contacted for 
any grievances connected with the facility for e-voting 
on the day of the AGM shall be the same person 
mentioned for remote e-voting.
INSTRUCTIONS 
FOR 
MEMBERS 
FOR 
ATTENDING THE AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE 
AS UNDER:
1.	
Members will be provided with a facility to attend the 
AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL e-voting 
system. Members may access by following the steps 
mentioned above for access to NSDL e-voting system. 
After successful login, you can see link of “VC/OAVM” 
placed under “Join Meeting” menu against Company 
name. You are requested to click on VC/OAVM link 
placed under Join Meeting menu. The link for VC/
OAVM will be available in Member/Member login where 
the EVEN of Company will be displayed. Please note 
that the Members who do not have the User ID and 
Password for e-voting or have forgotten the User ID 
and Password may retrieve the same by following the 
remote e-voting instructions mentioned in the notice 
to avoid last minute rush.
2.	
Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through 
Laptops for better experience.
3.	
Further Members registered as speakers will be 
required to allow camera during AGM and hence are 
requested to use internet with a good speed to avoid 
any disturbance during the Meeting.
4.	
Please note that participants connecting from Mobile 
Devices or Tablets or through Laptop connecting via 
Mobile Hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due 
to fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore 
recommended to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN connection 
to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
5.	
All queries/ grievances connected with the NSDL 
e-voting system may be addressed to Ms. Pallavi 
Mhatre, Senior Manager, National Securities 
Depository Limited, Trade World, ‘A’ Wing, 4th Floor, 
Kamala Mills Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower 
Parel, Mumbai 400 013 or send an email to evoting@
nsdl.com or call : 022-48867000 and 022-24997000.
Notice
09
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Item No. 3:
As per the provisions of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) 
Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, the Company 
is required to have an audit of its cost records conducted 
by a cost accountant in practice for products covered under 
the said rules.
The Board, based on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee, has approved the appointment of M/s. J Chandra 
and Associates, Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No.: 
000384), as the Cost Auditors to conduct the audit of the 
cost records of the Company, for the Financial Year ending 
March 31, 2025, at a remuneration of ` 7,00,000/- (Rupees 
Seven Lakhs Only) plus applicable taxes and reimbursement 
of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses.
In accordance with Section 148(3) of the Act, read with 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the 
remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors as recommended 
by the Audit Committee and approved by the Board of 
Directors has to be ratified by the Members of the Company.
Accordingly, the consent of the Members is sought for 
passing an Ordinary Resolution as set out in Item No. 3 of 
the Notice for ratification of the remuneration payable to the 
Cost Auditors, for the Financial Year ending March 31, 2025.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of 
the Company including their relatives are, in any way, 
concerned or interested (financially or otherwise) in the 
proposed resolution.
The Board recommends ratification of remuneration of Cost 
Auditors, as set out in Item No. 3 of the Notice for approval 
by the Members as an Ordinary Resolution.
By Order of the Board of Directors
For Eureka Forbes Limited
Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Membership No: 17167
Place: Mumbai
Date: August 08, 2024
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
(Pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013)
10
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Details of Director seeking re-appointment at the 15th Annual General Meeting of the Company pursuant 
to Regulation 36 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard – 2 on General Meetings issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India
Name of the Director
Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal
DIN
07350808
Nationality
Indian
Date of first appointment on the Board
April 26, 2022 as an Additional Director
Date of Birth and Age
July 04, 1980 (44 years)
Qualifications
A BBA with High Distinction from The Ross School of Business at the University of 
Michigan and an MBA from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
Capacity
Non-Executive and Non- Independent Director
Experience and expertise in Specific 
Functional Areas/Brief resume
Mr. Sahil Dalal joined Advent in 2009 and leads Advent India’s investing efforts in the 
Retail, Consumer & Leisure sector, and the Technology/Technology Services sector. 
Prior to Advent, Sahil was an associate with JLL Partners, a New York-based private 
equity firm where he focused on buyout and growth equity transactions. Prior to JLL 
Partners, Sahil spent three years with Bear Stearns in New York as an analyst in its 
Investment Banking Division. Sahil has 17 years of experience in Private Equity and 
20 years of experience in financial services. Sahil has a BBA with High Distinction 
from The Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan and an MBA from 
The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Sahil has led, co-led, and 
supported on 12 investments at Advent. He is also a director in Advent India PE 
Advisors Private Limited, DFM Foods Limited and Modenik Lifestyle Private Limited 
and was previously a Director at Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited.
List of Directorship held in other 
companies
Unlisted Companies:
•	
DFM Foods Limited
•	
Advent India PE Advisors Private Limited
•	
Modenik Lifestyle Private Limited
Companies from which the Director has 
resigned in the past three years
Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals Limited
Membership/Chairmanship in the 
Committees of the Boards of Companies 
in which he is a Director as on March 31, 
2024
DFM Foods Limited
1.	
Audit Committee - Member
2.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee - Member
3.	
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee - Member
4.	
Risk Management Committee - Member
Modenik Lifestyle Private Limited
1.	
Audit Committee - Member
2.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee - Member
3.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee - Member
Advent India PE Advisors Private Limited
1.	
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee - Member 
2.	
Prevention of Sexual Harassment Committee - Member
Eureka Forbes Limited
1.	
Audit Committee - Member
2.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee - Member
3.	
Risk Management Committee - Member
Terms and Conditions of appointment/ 
reappointment
In terms of Section 152(6) of the Companies Act, 2013, appointment as a Non-
Executive Non- Independent Director subject to retirement by rotation
Details of remuneration sought to be paid
NIL
(Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal has waived his right to sitting fees, commission and any other 
remuneration as may be entitled as Director of the Company)
Last drawn remuneration
NIL
Notice
11
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Name of the Director
Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal
Number of meetings of Board attended 
during the year
5 out of 6 meetings held
Number of shares held in the Company 
including shareholding as a beneficial 
owner
NIL
Justification for choosing the individual 
for appointment as an Independent 
Director
Not Applicable
Relationship with other Directors’/KMPs
Not related to any Director/Key Managerial Personnel
EUREKA FORBES
RE-IMAGINING
Confident Start. Exciting Future.
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Human Capital
Social and  
Relationship Capital
Natural Capital
To view this report online and for 
further information, visit our website:
www.eurekaforbes.com
ABOUT THIS INTEGRATED 
ANNUAL REPORT
Our inaugural Integrated Annual Report for 2023-24 strives to present a 
comprehensive overview of our financial and non-financial performance, 
marking a significant step towards enhanced transparency and our commitment 
to positive change for all stakeholders of Eureka Forbes Limited.
Financial Capital
Intellectual Capital
Manufactured Capital
BUILDING OUR CAPITALS
CONTENTS
02	
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
	
02   Building Categories - our DNA
	
06   About Eureka Forbes Limited 
12	
RE-IMAGINING EUREKA FORBES
20	
LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
	
20   Chairman’s Message
	
22   MD & CEO’s Message
24	
VALUE CREATION 
26	
Financial Capital
30	
Intellectual Capital
36	
Manufactured Capital
40	
Human Capital
44	
Natural Capital
48	
Social and Relationship Capital
52	
OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
52 	 Risk Management
54	
Board of Directors
56	
Key Managerial Personnel
56	
Management Executive Committee
57	
Awards & Recognitions
58	
Corporate Information
59	 STATUTORY REPORTS
59	
Management Discussion & Analysis
68 	 Board’s Report with Annexures
139	 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
139	 Standalone
211 	Consolidated
REPORTING PERIOD
The Integrated Annual Report covers the 
period from April 1, 2023 to March 31, 2024, 
and includes an exhaustive analysis of historical 
data trends wherever applicable. It includes 
all aspects of our business operations and 
strategy. It also explicates the Company’s 
business model and overall performance, 
along with the outcomes of our actions and 
performance during the reporting period.
REPORTING BOUNDARY
This report extends beyond financial reporting, 
and includes non-financial performance, 
opportunities, risks and outcomes, which 
relate to our key stakeholders and significantly 
impact our ability to create value. All the 
information presented in this report pertains to 
the consolidated operations of Eureka Forbes 
Limited unless otherwise specified.
FEEDBACK
We seek regular feedback from our 
stakeholders to enable us to address their 
queries and provide clarifications on material 
topics that capture their key concerns. Any 
feedback, suggestions, or stakeholder 
concerns can be communicated to us via email 
at compliance@eurekaforbes.com, or sent to 
Eureka Forbes Limited, B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, 
Marathon Innova, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, 
Lower Parel, Mumbai - 400013, India.
AGREED STANDARDS (NATIONAL & 
GLOBAL)
The non-statutory section of the report 
has been prepared based on the guiding 
principles and content elements of the 
International Integrated Reporting Council’s 
(IIRC) Integrated Reporting <IR> framework, 
now part of the IFRS Foundation. 
The statutory and financial section of the 
Report has been prepared in accordance with: 
	• Companies Act, 2013 (and the Rules 
made thereunder) 
	• Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015
	• Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)
	• Business Responsibility and Sustainability 
Reporting (BRSR) based on the National 
Guidelines for Responsible Business 
Conduct (NGRBC)
	• Secretarial Standards issued by the 
Institute of Company Secretaries of India 
(ICSI)
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
In this report, we have disclosed information to help investors and shareholders comprehend our 
prospects and take informed investment decisions. This report, and other statements – written 
and oral – that we periodically make, contain information that lists out anticipated results based 
on the Management’s plans and assumptions. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify such 
statements by using words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expects’, ‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, 
‘believes’, and words of similar substance, in connection with any discussion of future performance. 
We cannot guarantee that all projections will be realised, although we believe we have been prudent 
in our assumptions. The achievement of results is subject to risks, uncertainties and even inaccurate 
assumptions. Should any known or unknown risk or uncertainty materialise, or should underlying 
assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated 
or projected. Readers should keep this in mind. We undertake no responsibility to publicly update 
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
BUILDING CATEGORIES - OUR DNA
INTRODUCING NEW CATEGORIES AND CHANNELS TO INDIA 
With category creation and consumer education embedded in its DNA, Eureka Forbes Limited is a brand 
rooted in values, and trusted for its innovative and impactful health and hygiene solutions. The first direct to 
consumer company in India, it has a wide range of water purifying and cleaning offerings, crafted to make 
a positive transformation in the lives of the consumers. The trust gained over years has made us market 
leader in the categories of our presence. 
1982
Vacuum Cleaners - India’s first
1984
Water Purifiers
2
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Jab Nal Se 
Kapda Hatega, 
Tabhi Sar ka 
Kapda Hatega
Genuine Service
TAKING THE LEGACY FORWARD: PIVOTING BACK TO CONSUMER EDUCATION TO BUILD CATEGORY 
We are gearing up to take our proud legacy forward. With this ambition, we are continually augmenting 
our proposition to create a product bouquet that resonates with the deepest needs and aspirations of the 
consumers. Our award-winning flagship water purifier brand, Aquaguard, and the Forbes vacuum cleaners 
have and will continue to partner our customers in their journey towards happier, healthier and safer lives.
3
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
OUR CONSUMERS ARE CHANGING. AND SO ARE WE.
Our innovations based on deep insights will meet the needs of the modern consumer. Adapting to evolving 
trends, aspirations and consumer profile will form the cornerstone of this exciting journey. It is and will be 
our continuous endeavour to provide every Indian with access to safe and healthy water, along with clean 
earth and pure air.
4
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
5
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
ABOUT EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
A household name in water purifiers, vacuum cleaners and air purifiers in India, Eureka Forbes has been 
making a positive difference to millions of lives with its unique solutions for over four decades. 
DIVERSIFIED PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
With our pulse on the transforming needs of our customers, and our deep understanding of the evolving market trends, 
we have progressively built a wide and diversified bouquet of products. Our range spans all the three categories of 
water, cleaning and air and are designed not just to serve the immediate needs of our customers but to deliver a 
lifetime of health and happiness. Our presence in highly underpenetrated categories gives us immense headroom for 
growth, which we intend to capitalise on the back of our competitive strengths. We have strategically been focussing 
on addressing category barriers to expand our penetration, with focus on increased affordability, building relevance and 
improving availability. 
Our innovation pipelines are robust and we have launched several new and industry first products to meet the evolving 
consumer need – in water, cleaning and air. 
Water Purifiers
Our trusted water purifiers 
are sold under the brand 
name Aquaguard
Designed with Reverse Osmosis (RO) and Ultraviolet 
(UV) technologies, they deliver the ultimate promise of 
healthy, clean and safe drinking water. They are crafted 
to cater to diverse customer requirements and more 
than 21 different water conditions.
6
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
The launch of Aquaguard Champ & Aquaguard Delight at affordable prices starting at ` 6,499 drove 
immense volume growth and brought in first time users in the water purifier category.
Our comprehensive range of vacuum cleaners encompass canister, handheld, wet & dry, upright and 
robotic vacuums. These are designed to clean different types of surfaces in dry or wet & dry modes. 
Our innovative robotic vacuum cleaners deploy advanced technologies to add a new layer of comfort 
to the cleaning experience of our customers.
Our air purifiers are known by the brand name Forbes. 
Our products have been devised with Surround 360 
Air Intake Technology to fast purify the indoor air and 
protect the users against airborne diseases. They are 
equipped with True HEPA 13 filters and are suitable for 
use in homes, offices and semi commercial spaces. The 
Forbes Air Purifier comes with advance 4 Stage Filtration 
system  that eliminate 99.97% of particulate matters.
Air Purifiers
Our air purifiers are known by 
the brand name Forbes
7
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
OMNI CHANNEL PRESENCE
We are India’s first Direct – to – Consumer (D2C) Company. Our Unique Direct Sales Network gave us Privileged Access 
to people’s homes and we continue to retain that trust. This channel and the associated relationship remains unique to us. 
We have adapted over the years to the evolving Go To Market landscape and now are present across all trade formats 
with a balanced revenue profile. 
Our channels compliment our product portfolio and provide us the ability to drive category creation, replacement and 
cross selling. 
Retail
E-commerce
D2C
Service
Direct Sales
4200+ Frontline Teams, 100K+ 
Households Met Every Month
Partnerships with 70+ National and 
Regional Modern Trade Accounts 
Available in 20,000+ Outlets 
Across 2400+ Towns
8
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
EXTENSIVE SERVICE NETWORK
14 MILLION+
Customer Relationships
8,000+ 
Technicians
19,500+ 
Pin Codes 
Our deep and well spread out service network built over 4 decades gives us an ability to respond fast and is also a source 
of competitive advantage. 
Our partners and the large network of service technicians provide the backbone of this network and have been instrumental 
in delivering highest ever NPS in FY24. 
We are investing in technology to modernise this network to meet the aspirations of the new age customer and to strengthen 
the relationships with our partners. 
Map not to scale. For illustrative purpose only.
9
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
LONG LASTING CUSTOMER 
RELATIONSHIPS 
As a consumer-centric business, we prioritise 
customer service and experience in all our 
offerings. We remain focussed on elevating our 
customer experience to best in class, through 
premium innovations and deeper category 
penetration across our product lines. Unmatched 
quality of products, coupled with on demand 
service and customer convenience in ordering 
products or services, are the levers of our 
customer proposition. 
A personalised touch makes each of our services 
an experience to cherish and an opportunity 
to transform the entire customer lifecycle. We 
have initiated several steps to strengthen direct 
relationship with our customers. 
With the aim of improving service delivery and 
fostering longer term customer relationship, 
Digital based complaint and Annual Maintenance 
Contract (AMC) sales through our Direct-to 
Consumer channels and digital assets have been 
scaled up exponentially. 
	• The user-friendly Eureka Forbes Service App 
offers faster booking convenience. 
	• Our service technicians are certified experts, 
ensuring seamless and high quality assistance. 
	• Easy accessibility of our service centres 
ensures hassle-free customer experience.
100K
Households met every month
10
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
CUSTOMER FIRST AND ALWAYS 
Digital integration has enabled us to enhance our services, and we also train 
our partners to ensure uncompromising customer orientation. 
Leverage customer insights and market understanding to create 
customised solutions, centred around a ‘Customer First’ approach. 
Transform our customer experience through greater Control and 
Visibility of our services. 
11
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Re-imagine EFL as a  
D2C Health and Hygiene Tech Leader -  
Provide Every Indian Access to Safe & Healthy water,  
Clean Earth & Pure Air
Grow  
Water
Penetration
Premiumisation
Expand  
Portfolio
Convenient  
Cleaning
Air
Excel in  
Service
Customer  
Experience
Lifetime Value
Build D2C  
Platform
Convenience
Commerce
Capability
Innovations
Execution 
Excellence
Productivity
REIMAGINING EUREKA FORBES
Confident start. Exciting future.
A year of new beginnings. 
A time for reimagining 
the future.
FY24 marked a turning point 
for Eureka Forbes, as it 
accelerated its transformation 
into a direct-to-consumer health 
tech powerhouse.
Provide Every Indian Access to Safe & Healthy Water, 
Clean Earth & Pure Air
OUR VISION
12
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
` 6,499
AFFORDABILITY 
Launch of Aquaguard Sure & 
Aquaguard Delight at 
RELEVANCE
Category Creating 
Campaign Targeted at 
Cloth Filter Users
ACCESSIBILITY 
Distribution Expansion
PENETRATION 
The low starting base of water purifier penetration at 6% provides a significant opportunity for growing 
this category manifold. The need is universal. We are Re-Imagining the levers of Affordability, Consumer 
Education and Access to tap into this opportunity. Focus is on non users through launch of products at 
relevant price points and backed by category creating campaigns. Expanding distribution to more outlets 
and leveraging e commerce will be critical in driving the lever of access. Our early interventions have been 
promising and have led to strong volume growth on the back of new consumer entrants to the category.
Aquaguard CHAMP
Aquaguard DELIGHT NXT
HIGHEST-EVER*
70% 
7000+ 
Strong 
Volume Growth 
of New Economy  
SKU Buyers Were New 
Category Entrants
New 
Category Outlets
Source: Consumer Research. *In FY24, Covid Adjusted.
13
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
6-7 YEARS 
Average Replacement Cycle of 
LARGE VINTAGE 
Installed Base 
PREMIUMISATION
A growing economy, higher disposable incomes, greater health awareness and changing lifestyles provide 
us an opportunity to Re-Imagine and create additional use cases. Water purifiers can be more than just 
purifiers. Our innovations are aimed at addressing the diverse needs of customers through propositions 
covering aesthetics, convenience and value added water. Innovations will enable tapping into the significant 
opportunities arising from reducing the replacement cycles and upgrading the large customer base. 
14
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Source: IQAIr
% Value Contribution of 
Convenient Cleaning to Market
FY’23 
46%
FY18 
<5%
FY’30P
69% 
EFL Convenient Cleaning 
Revenue
FY’23 
X
FY’24
2.1x 
2023
2024
83 Out Of 100 Most Polluted Cities 
Globally Are In India 
Poor Air Quality is Not Just A North or a Winter Issue
Global Air Quality Index
26
Japan
30
USA
31
Canada
31
UK
32
Germany
34
Korea Republic
36
France
49
Italy
71
China 
108
India
Delhi
182
193
88
220
185
58
210
106
310
179
163
Lucknow
Varanasi
Faridabad
Ahmedabad
Kanpur
Hyderabad
Mumbai
Pune
Chennai
Bengaluru
VACUUM CLEANING AND AIR
Convenient cleaning and changing lifestyles provide the necessary foundation for this category to scale 
up. Newer segments like robotics are witnessing an inflection point and provide a chance to Re-Imagine 
this category.  
Given the poor air quality and growing awareness of this being a pan country challenge, the Air category 
provides a significant long term opportunity. Our initial aim will be to develop deeper consumer insights to 
help design relevant consumer propositions. 
Map not to scale. For illustrative purpose only.
15
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Initiatives: Service Business 
Awareness
Authentication 
Affordability 
Access
Filter Design with QR Code
Tiered AMC
1-Hour Service
Service campaign
FORTIFYING SERVICE 
NETWORK 
IMPROVING SPEED & 
QUALITY OF SERVICE
DIGITISING 
SERVICE 
EXPERIENCE
Our Customer 
Service Has 
Improved Significantly
NPS SCORES
>70% 
Highest-ever 
of Complaints Attended 
To In 1 Hour
CUSTOMER SERVICE
A delightful customer experience provides us an opportunity to create a life long relationship and is a 
source of value creation. Our transformation initiatives Re-Imagine diverse aspects – ease and speed of 
service, giving control to the customer, choice of service propositions and protecting consumer health. Our 
investments will be focussed in digitisation and infrastructure upgrade.
16
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Customer  
Relationships
 Long Standing Relationships 
With Customers Through 
Different Life-stages 
Two Channels Which 
Have Physical Access To 
Customers’ Homes 
CONVENIENCE
CUSTOMISATION 
COMMERCE
Easy Complaint 
Booking & Tracking
Personalised Offers 
for AMCs 
Cross-selling & 
Replacement Selling
DIRECT TO CONSUMER (D2C)
We were India’s first Direct to Consumer (D2C) Company and the trust gained by our EuroChamps over 
decades has led to strong customer relationships. We are Re-Imagining Direct in a Digital First way. Our 
focus is to build new digital assets, enhance seamless UI/UX interface and use the power of personalisation 
and data science to improve customer service and unlock growth through a non linear GTM model. 
14  
Million 
DIRECT
SERVICE
1 Million+ 
Active App Installed Base
76% 
Complaints Booked Digitally
17
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
BUILDING CAPABILITY 
People will be at the heart of this transformation. While preserving our legacy knowledge and business 
understanding, we are Re-Imagining our capabilities and culture based on owners mindset and customer 
obsession.  
Building A New Leadership Team 
80% of Our Top Two Levels Are New
1
Acquire New Age Capabilities
Engineering, Product, IoT, Data Science
2
Structure To Enable Strategy	
Silos Broken, Regions Empowered
3
Seed & Embed New Culture Codes
Customer Centric, Agile, Collaborative
4
Driving Shared Ownership
100% Of Managers Have Stock Options
5
18
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
CORE VALUES
Customer Centricity
Don’t just satisfy, delight.
Commitment
Once given, always adhered to.
Diversity
Welcoming and 
celebrating differences.
Respect
Give it, to get it.
Excellence
Forever striving to learn 
and improve.
Innovation
If there’s a better way to do it,  
it will be found.
Integrity
Doing the right thing, the 
right way.
Responsiveness
Moving with the speed of right.
Responsibility
Not just promise, deliver.
Communication
Transparent, open and two-way.
19
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
FY24 PERFORMANCE RECAP
Our transformation strategy ‘Udaan’ is proving 
to be a game-changer for the Company, with 
considerable progress made on several fronts 
during the year.
FY24 was the first full year of our transformation 
journey, and it was in many ways a pivotal year 
for the Company. It was a year where not only 
did we decisively reverse the business trajectory 
compared to our long-term trends but also 
deployed strong building blocks for the future. 
After a long period of declining volumes, the 
Company has reported four successive quarters 
of broad-based volume growth, across both 
water purifiers and vacuum cleaners. 
Growth in our continuing business went up from 
2.5% in H1 to 14% in H2, leading to a full-year 
growth of 7.9%. This has reinforced our belief in 
the growth potential of the categories in which 
we operate. 
In terms of profitability, adjusted EBITDA margins 
for the year increased from 6.3% in FY23 to 
10.3% in FY24, making it the first time that the 
Company crossed the double-digit mark. 
This shift from a low single-digit margin profile 
at which the business had been operating 
for years to a double-digit margin was a key 
accomplishment of the year. 
Our enhanced margin profile also gives us the 
headroom to further strengthen our growth 
investments as we go ahead. 
I would also like to highlight here the strong cash 
flow generation that enabled Eureka Forbes to 
close the year with a cash surplus of ` 108 crores, 
as compared to a net debt of ` 50 crores at the 
end of FY23. Profit After Tax increased 435.5% 
YoY to ` 91.5 crores, from ` 17.1 crores in FY23.
Hence, on all key outcomes of growth, margins 
and cash, the business made a step change vs 
past performance. 
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to present before you the first Integrated 
Annual Report of Eureka Forbes. 
Over the last two years, I have written to you about the 
transformation journey that we have embarked upon. 
As I reflect on the year gone by, it gives me great 
satisfaction to share that the impact of the transformation 
efforts is now increasingly visible in business outcomes. 
LEADERSHIP MESSAGE
20
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
THE POTENTIAL 
The future looks exciting and packed with unlimited 
possibilities. The low penetrations of our product 
categories provide significant headroom for growth 
ahead. This will be further enabled by some very 
powerful macro factors like urbanisation, more 
women in the workforce, increasing importance being 
given to health and hygiene, growth in electrification, 
improved availability and access to piped water 
and increasing disposable incomes. In addition, we 
are also seeing an increasing inclination amongst 
consumers to upgrade their lifestyles and spend on 
premium and differentiated products.
We firmly believe that your Company is well placed 
to seize these opportunities. 
Our deep strengths - strong brands, omni-channel 
capabilities, in product innovation and in digital 
- provide the necessary foundation for growth. We will 
bring to that a boldness of vision and imagination to 
build a Eureka Forbes that will grow and thrive over 
the next forty years and more.
RE-IMAGINING EUREKA FORBES
Historically, Eureka Forbes has been built as a 
Company that connects directly with customers, 
through our Direct Sales team and our service 
network. We will contemporise that outreach using 
Digital technology and the power of data to re-fashion 
Eureka Forbes as a new age D2C Company.
We will bring a step change in our selling capabilities 
and our service levels.
Our focus will be to both expand our distribution and 
also upgrade our in-store presence across formats. 
We will also continue to invest in our Direct Sales 
channel and use it to drive sales of new concepts and 
our premium products.
Service transformation will be a key focus area in 
the second phase of our transformation journey 
ahead. We will elevate our customer experience 
by strengthening our service infrastructure and 
improving both the speed and quality of service.
Under-pinning these will be a big push on Technology 
and digitisation which will be areas of sharp focus. 
We will build new age digital capabilities in all 
aspects of our business – from customer facing to 
the back-end.
In addition, we will bring deep consumer insights 
and combine that with the power of science and 
technology to continue to bring a number of 
differentiated and cutting-edge innovations that will 
delight our customers.
All the above initiatives will be key priorities as we 
embark in the 2nd phase of our transformation 
journey. Driving change in a Company with a four-
decade legacy is an exciting and step-by-step 
process. Our breakout from our past performance and 
our strong plans make me confident about the future 
and give me conviction that Re-imagining Eureka 
Forbes will restore its historic and rightful glory. The 
trust reposed by you and our various stakeholders 
gives us the energy to be bigger and better as we 
go ahead. I look forward to your continued support.
Regards,
Arvind Uppal 
Chairman
21
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to share with you my reflections on our exciting transformation journey “Udaan’ for FY24.
What is needed therefore is nothing less than a complete 
Re-Imagining of Eureka Forbes.
RE-IMAGINING EUREKA FORBES – DRIVING ACCESS
Powered by our strong customer-centric focus, we made 
significant interventions during the year to promote product 
affordability, access, authentication and awareness.
Aquaguard Sure & Delight were launched at an attractive 
price point of ` 6,499/-. On the service side, the launch of 
tiered and segmented AMCs helped reduce the entry barrier 
for customers by offering AMCs at prices as low as ` 599.
Between them, we have significantly lowered the total cost 
of ownership which has led to strong volume growth for us 
in FY24.
RE-IMAGINING 
EUREKA 
FORBES 
– 
DRIVING 
INNOVATION
We launched a number of new industry-first innovations 
across all the three categories of Electric Water Purifiers, 
Vacuum Cleaners and Air Purifiers. We rolled out several 
innovations in H2 of FY24 on the back of our targeted 
investments in R&D. Amongst these were the Aquaguard 
SlimTech range and the Aquaguard Blaze Insta Hot product 
in water, and the Forbes Z series and Forbes Robotics range 
in vacuum cleaners.
Premium and contemporary designs catering to the evolving 
lifestyle aspirations of our customers further powered our 
innovation thrust during the year.
The new launches and designs were backed by several 
innovative campaigns, which led to a massive scale-up in 
Eureka Forbes’ brand visibility and customer addition. Our 
‘Nal Se Kapda’ campaign was directed at driving category 
penetration, and our research endorsed the success of the 
promoting, showing that more than 70% of the customers 
acquired were first-time category entrants. Our campaign 
on robotics also helped drive significant growth in the 
segment. In addition, our campaigns on Aquaguard Superio 
Stainless Steel and on the Slimtech range were noticed and 
liked by consumers.
RE-IMAGINING 
EUREKA 
FORBES 
– 
DRIVING 
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
Customer service was another key priority area for the 
Company and we launched several initiatives to enrich 
customer experience. The service expectations of today’s 
customers are higher and the benchmarks are category-
agnostic. Taking this into consideration, we targeted an 
industry-first strategy of one-hour service under our project 
Eureka Forbes was started more than four decades 
back with a vision to touch and improve the lives of our 
customers and their faith in us has made Aquaguard an 
iconic Indian brand. We are now tasked with the once-in-a-
lifetime mandate of transforming the Company and making 
it future ready for the next few decades.
FY24 was an important year in our journey and marked the 
passage of the first phase of our transformation where we 
laid the foundations for the future.
Before I speak about the outcomes, it is important 
to understand the principles and approach of 
this transformation.
EFL is an organisation with a rich four-decade legacy and 
one with exciting possibilities ahead of it. However, to truly 
unlock this potential requires much more than incremental 
improvements or tweaks. Above all, it requires us to think 
boldly, to build on our deep legacy strengths and then to 
envision a future where these are deployed.
MD & CEO’S MESSAGE
LEADERSHIP MESSAGE
22
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Gatiman. Consequently, more than 70% of complaints now 
get resolved in an hour.
Recognising the risk to consumer health posed by 
unauthorised service operators, we launched, for the first 
time ever, a campaign on Genuine Eureka Forbes Service, 
aimed at educating and protecting our customers from fake 
filters and fake AMC sellers. The launch of new distinctive 
filter packaging with a QR code further contributed to 
driving the awareness and adoption of genuine Aquaguard 
service and filters.
We have also covered significant ground in terms of 
increasing our service capacity as well as our service 
network and service infrastructure.
RE-IMAGINING EUREKA FORBES – DRIVING DIGITAL
Digitisation emerged as a major tool to drive customer 
delight and the Company made substantial investments 
in upgrading its digital assets to make them more 
customer-friendly. This has led to a significant step-up 
in our digital customer engagement, with 75% of our 
customer engagement taking place online (through our 
app and website) in FY24 as against less than 30% in the 
previous fiscal.
Upgradation of our app and deployment of UI/UX made it 
easier and more convenient for our customers to buy AMCs 
online, leading to a significant increase in our online D2C 
AMC sales
We have established a centralised digital platform for all 
our technicians. We have also shifted to digital invoices, so 
that the customer is assured of the genuineness of Eureka 
Forbes AMC purchased.
REIMAGINING EUREKA FORBES – REBUILDING OUR 
CAPABILITIES
In order to power our transformation, it was critical to 
strengthen and build some critical capabilities. Towards 
that, we invested in increasing our team and capabilities 
in R&D, Digital, Engineering, Product Management, Data 
Science and Category Marketing.
Many of these new age capabilities have made us future-
ready and will help us leverage the exciting opportunities 
that lie ahead of us.
REIMAGINING EUREKA FORBES – OUR APPROACH 
FOR THE TRANSFORMATION
Given the long term challenges in the business, our 
approach has been tailored to aim for outcomes over 
different phases. In the 1st phase we just concluded, our 
focus was on addressing certain structural challenges.
These challenges included long term trend of no growth 
in volumes, rebuilding our innovation funnel, achieving 
threshold level of profitability and to improve cash 
generation. Our other area of focus was on investing for 
and creating necessary capabilities and building an aligned 
and energised organisation to drive the transformation. I am 
particularly pleased by our industry-first ESOP plan for all 
managers launched during FY24. All our managers our now 
owners of the Company.
I am glad to share that on all the above parameters, we have 
been able to achieve visible positive outcomes. We have 
had several quarters of sustained volume growth, a double 
digit adjusted EBITDA margin profile and have now become 
a cash surplus Company. While we have achieved these 
outcomes, we have also made significant investments in 
our foundational capabilities, the early results of which are 
visible in our innovations and will be critical as we go ahead.
FY 24 PERFORMANCE – EARLY RESULTS OF PHASE 1 
OF OUR TRANSFORMATION
Beyond the specific numbers, the most important outcome 
has been the reversal of several long term trends in the 
business and certain structural gaps being addressed. 
The impact of our interventions have been most visible in 
product business growth, margins and cash position.
After a prolong period of no volume growth, FY24 witnessed 
sustained volume growth and was broad based and also 
gained momentum during the course of the year with a 
2.5% growth in H1 stepping up to 14% in H2. Operating 
efficiencies drove margin accretion and cash generation.
The FY24 numbers were the overt demonstration of the 
latent capabilities we efficaciously built and nurtured during 
the year. Our transformation-led ‘Udaan’ strategy completed 
its first full year of execution and our change initiatives 
gathered momentum, propelled by our proactive efforts 
during the year. The above outcomes, besides providing 
us with a strong foundation also give us the confidence 
in our strategy and execution as we step into phase II of 
this transformation.
LOOKING AHEAD: PHASE II OF UDAAN TRANSFORMATION
Transformation, as we all know, is not a one-stop destination 
but a continuous journey. At Eureka Forbes, we are 
continually scaling our transformational initiatives to build 
on our future-readiness. As we step into the next phase 
of this journey, our approach will be to preserve and build 
on the outcomes of phase I and target specific areas and 
outcomes in phase II. Our focus now will be on sustained 
and profitable growth enabled by increased growth spends 
and operating efficiencies and leverage.
While we drive these outcomes, our guiding principle will be 
to stay focused on the long term to create long term value 
for our stakeholders.
I am confident that with the energy from the outcomes 
achieved so far and disciplined execution of our strategic 
agenda we shall scale new heights of excellence and growth. 
We look forward to the continuing support and trust of our 
customers, people, partners, investors and shareholders as 
we embark ahead on our progressive journey.
Our transformation flight Udaan has reached an initial 
milestone but there is more to come as we take off the 
flight for the next phase. Stay strapped in….the best is yet 
to come.
Regards,
Pratik Rashmikant Pota
Managing Director & CEO
23
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CREATING VALUE THROUGH 
OUR ACTIONS
VALUE CREATION MODEL
CAPITALS ENGAGED
INPUT
	•
Manufacturing units : 2
	•
Warehouses : 23
Efficient, Scalable and 
Responsible Manufacturing 
Manufactured Capital
Customer Centricity
Agility
Culture
Research and 
Innovation
Procurement
	•
Equity paid capital : ` 193 Crores
	•
Net surplus : ` 108 Crores
Sustainable Profitable Growth, 
Long Term Value Creation
Financial Capital
	•
Doubling of R&D spends
	•
Digitisation investments :  
New customer app
	•
New consumer campaigns targeted  
at non user
Fostering Knowledge, 
Stimulating Innovation
Intellectual Capital
	•
Employees : 2,633
	•
Training hours : 8,646
	•
100% managers on ESOP
Building a Future Ready 
Organisation 
Human Capital
	•
100% utilisation of CSR budgets 
	•
Partnerships with NGO
Forging Strong Bonds Rooted in 
Mutual Trust
Social and  
Relationship Capital
	•
ISO 14001 Environment Management 
System Certificate
	•
100% water recycling 
Nurturing a More 
Sustainable Future
Natural Capital
24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Accountability
Collaboration
Ownership
Product  
Manufacturing
Sales and 
Branding
Supply Chain
Consumer 
After-Sales 
Service
BUSINESS 
ACTIVITIES
OUTPUT
	•
Zero fatalities at manufacturing sites
	•
Reduced cost of production
	•
3.96 Inventory Turnover Ratio
	•
Green Gold Certificate
Manufactured Capital
	•
Revenue : ` 2,189 Crores  
12.7% product revenue growth
	•
Adj. EBITDA : ` 226 Crores at 10.3%; 
+ 71.9% YoY 
Financial Capital
	•
5 product launches 
	•
+1mn active installed app base
	•
App rating improved from 1.8 to 4.3
Intellectual Capital
	•
0.31% of revenue spent on health, 
safety and well-being
	•
Owners mindset
Human Capital
	•
10 Schools in Satara District Benefited
	•
2500 students and teachers impacted
Social and Relationship Capital
	•
Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) at both 
manufacturing facilities
Natural Capital
25
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
SUSTAINABLE 
PROFITABLE 
GROWTH, LONG 
TERM VALUE 
CREATION
At Eureka Forbes, we have strategically aligned our 
business approach to optimise the allocation of 
financial capital, ensuring long term value creation for 
our stakeholders. Simultaneously, we are consistently 
reinforcing our financial foundation to drive both 
profitable and sustainable growth for the company. 
Our robust financial management processes ensure 
judicious utilisation of funds to steer sustained growth 
and long-term sustainable business operations.
CREATING STAKEHOLDER VALUE
Our long-term value-creation model is anchored 
in driving sustainable profitable growth through 
category expansion. Our foundational strengths and 
transformation will enable us to be a significant leader 
in a market which is expected to grow by 2.5x in the 
next few years. Our larger scale, business mix and 
operating efficiencies will enable margin expansion 
and our business model will enable continuing strong 
cash flow generation and sustaining high return on 
capital employed (ROCE) exceeding 100%. This 
holistic strategy ensures robust value creation, aligning 
operational excellence with financial performance to 
deliver superior returns and sustained growth.
26
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
27
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
MULTIPLE LEVERS IN PLACE TO DRIVE EFFICIENCIES
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Diverse Product portfolio & 
balanced omni-channel presence
1
Multiple drivers for revenue growth.
Today’s Product volume =  
Future service Revenue
2
Large annuity-based service 
Revenue: 36% revenue from service
Consistent revenue stream & 
negative working capital
3
Healthy Gross margins
Operating leverage flow through
4
Franchisee-based service model 
Limited fixed cost increase 
with scale
5
Manufacturing - Largely in-house 
and assembly operation
Low Capex
> 100% ROCE%
Our business model is based on a diverse product and channel mix, service revenue stream, healthy gross margins and 
low capex intensity. The model provides for deriving operating leverage benefits and generating strong cash flows.
We retain a diverse set of levers to drive efficiencies. These provide us the flexibility of having multiple margin expansion 
drivers while we focus on increasing growth investments. 
1.	
Product Portfolio is balanced across various price points and also between product and service businesses and 
provides the basis of healthy gross margins
2.	
Product Value Engineering and Vendor Price Negotiations related opportunities arise from larger scale and 
standardisation 
3.	
Shared Services and Process Automation provide us the levers to streamline operations 
4.	
Logistics and IT Cost provide the opportunity to drive operating leverage with scale
28
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
OUR LONG-TERM VALUE CREATION MODEL
Source: Technopak Report 2024 for TAM
Value 
Creation
Category Unlock
Significant Leader in 
` 23.5K Cr TAM
Margin Expansion
Operating Leverage
Efficiencies
Capital Efficiency
Cash Generation 
ROCE > 100%
29
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FOSTERING  
KNOWLEDGE, 
STIMULATING 
INNOVATION
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
At Eureka Forbes, the repository of knowledge and 
skills we have progressively developed, and the 
innovative strengths we have nurtured, have helped 
us unlock enhanced value for our stakeholders over 
the years. This intellectual capital of the Company has 
emerged as a key asset on which we have built our 
foundations for long-term future growth. It lends us 
the competitive edge needed to stay ahead in the fast 
evolving consumer and market landscape.
Our investments in the intangible assets that comprise 
our intellectual capital are aimed at augmenting the 
Company’s trust, credibility and profitability. They 
contribute to strengthening our brand proposition 
and propelling our value creation efforts. They equip 
us to pioneer path breaking products and solutions 
to match the transforming needs and aspirations of 
the new-age consumers. We made significant 
progress in bolstering our intellectual capital in areas 
covering R&D, product innovation, digitisation and 
consumer insights. 
STRENGTHENING R&D TO FUTURE PROOF 
Driven by our focus on crafting impactful solutions to meet 
consumer needs across the entire product lifecycle, we, at 
Eureka Forbes, continue to boost our Research & Development 
(R&D) prowess through targeted investments.
30
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
31
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
During FY24, we made several significant investments 
towards enhancing our R&D capabilities and innovation 
strength. These include:
	• Building new capabilities in niche areas of design, 
engineering and development, tooling, validation 
and IoT.
	• Creating a category structure for each of the 3 
categories in both R&D and marketing organisations.
	• Creating and strengthening of exclusive testing 
facilities, for robotic vacuum cleaner lab, air purifier 
lab and engineering testing facility, etc.
INNOVATING BREAKTHROUGH TECHNOLOGIES
Our R&D efforts have led to the launch of several 
innovative, first-of-their-kind technologies, crafted to 
meet the aspirational desires of our growing customer 
expanse. They are designed to deliver a range of benefits 
that include product improvement, cost reduction and 
product development. Some of our impactful new 
technologies include:
	• Intellimix technology in water softeners to optimise the 
regeneration process, resulting in reduced regeneration 
cycles and salt usage, as well as increased water savings.
	• The slimmest storage water purifier with glass finish and 
water quality indication.
	• Slim Glass Tech UV Bar Inline water purifier, equipped 
with cutting-edge 5th Gen UV LED technology and 
premium toughened glass.
32
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
98% YoY
R&D investment increase 
REVAMP OF DIRECT 2 CONSUMER (D2C) APP : 
CONVENIENCE, CUSTOMISATION AND COMMERCE
We revamped the entire customer service journey on our 
Direct-to-Consumer (D2C) app, as part of our strategy to 
provide seamless experience and low-touch experience. 
Our early results have been encouraging : +1 million active 
installed base, > 70% customer engagement scale up and 
non linear scale up of AMC sales via our digital assets. 
We are committed to continuing heavy investments in the 
D2C channel and undertaking various IT transformation 
initiatives to enable our field service teams with cutting 
edge technology.
Led by our ‘Go Digital First’ efforts, we launched new UI/UX features on our app and website to drive 
customer connect, convenience and commerce, thus boosting customer delight and enriching their 
experience. We have also augmented the service booking experience on these platforms for our customers.
D2C
33
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSUMER INSIGHT LED AWARD WINNING CAMPAIGN  
“SAR KA KAPDA HATANA HAI TOH PEHLE NAL KA KAPDA HATANA HOGA”
Based on insight of consumer belief that filtering drinking water with a cloth and sieve was effective in eliminating diseases, 
we took as our responsibility the task to break that myth. Our Penetration Campaign was designed to educate consumers 
about the dangers of drinking water filtered through a cloth and sieve. This clutter breaking campaign was awarded the 
EFFIE 2023, SILVER, in the Home Furnishings and Appliances Category. This was the only award in this category, which 
had no Gold or Bronze. 
“Sar Ka Kapda Hatana Hai Toh Pehle  
Nal Ka Kapda Hatana Hoga”
34
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
“Nakli Filters De Asli Bimari”
DRIVING CONSUMER AWARENESS ON FAKE FILTERS 
WITH CAMPAIGN OF ‘NAKLI FILTERS DE ASLI BIMARI’
For the 1st time ever, the brand undertook a campaign 
to educate consumers on the dangers of fake filters 
with the message of ‘Nakli Filters De Asli Bimari’. The 
campaign also lowered the barriers for AMC purchase by 
offering Aquaguard genuine AMC from ` 599. A variation 
of this campaign educated consumers about access to 
genuine filters and services via the Eureka Forbes app. 
It also provided consumers a means to check the filter’s 
authenticity by simply scanning a QR code on genuine 
Eureka Forbes filters.
35
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
EFFICIENT, 
SCALABLE AND 
RESPONSIBLE 
MANUFACTURING
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
As an organisation with focus on category growth, 
premiumisation and operational excellence, we, at 
Eureka Forbes, have prioritised Manufactured Capital 
as a key enabler of our growth strategy. Our state-of-
the-art manufacturing facilities, high-end equipment, 
robust infrastructure and technological resources 
constitute our Manufactured Capital. We make regular 
investments to boost the quality, safety and efficiency 
of our manufacturing processes. Our large scale 
manufacturing strength is aligned with the evolving 
consumer preferences by creating best-in-class 
products and innovative solutions.
STATE-OF-THE-ART MANUFACTURING FACILITIES
Our manufacturing locations are located in Dehradun in 
Uttarakhand state in the north and Bengaluru in Karnataka 
in the south of India. This gives us a pan-India edge, 
enabling us to ensure seamless delivery of our products for 
consumers across the country. With integrated and automated 
assembly lines, as well as robust supply chain efficiencies, 
our manufacturing facilities are designed to ensure the quality 
and reliability of our products and solutions. We also take 
regular, concerted steps to ensure sustainable manufacturing 
at our facilities.
Both our manufacturing facilities are ISO9001, ISO14001, 
GC Mark & IS16240 certified, endorsing our strong focus on 
product and process quality. The Dehradun manufacturing 
facility is additionally IS 14724: 1999. We also have backward 
integration for the production of membranes.
36
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
37
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FOCUSING ON MANUFACTURING 
EXCELLENCE
At Eureka Forbes, we make targeted investments 
towards enhancing our manufacturing, which we 
see as a key pillar of our strategic focus. We are 
committed to improving the operational performance 
at our manufacturing facilities through continuous 
augmentation of quality, cost, delivery, safety and 
manpower prowess.
The key drivers of our sourcing excellence include:
Automation: Process Automation to minimise cost 
while maximising output at the highest possible 
quality by changing the layout and hierarchy of the 
production process.
Make vs Buy: to use cost-benefit analysis to make 
a strategic choice between in-house manufacturing 
and outsourcing.
Quality Processes Optimisation: to enhance the 
quality of the production process.
Rapid product design to innovation scale up: 
to ensure continuous launch of new products 
with uncompromising quality and total customer 
satisfaction for our products.
ENHANCING MANUFACTURING QUALITY & 
PROCESSES
The ethos of operational excellence is embedded 
in the business strategy at Eureka Forbes. In line 
with this philosophy, we have adopted the lean 
manufacturing principle across our facilities, with 
a focus on minimising waste while concurrently 
maximising productivity. It is our continuous 
endeavour to enhance the operational, maintenance 
and process efficiencies at our plants. A host of 
automations and process upgrades led to quality and 
productivity enhancement during FY24. 
An important initiative undertaken by the Company 
during the year was the addition of multiple lines to 
its Mono line. We also added a Belt Conveyor to the 
free flow palletised line at our Bengaluru plant, to 
facilitate continuous transportation of large volumes 
of products. In another key development, membrane 
production started at our Bengaluru plant with state 
of- art machinery and equipment, thereby leading to 
a reduction in the logistic cost.
	• In-house RO Membrane Rolling capacity enhanced 
by 70% to eliminate the dependency on China 
Sourcing of rolled membrane elements
	• Advanced membrane rolling setup for higher 
efficiency RO membranes
	• Customised Assembly Line setup for new 
innovation roll out e.g. Slimtech series of products
	• Digital Traceability with encrypted QR code for 
genuine filter authentication logic
2
Manufacturing Facilities
Leed Gold Certificate
Awarded to the Dehradun facility
Green Certificate
Awarded to both the facilities
38
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
INVESTING IN SUSTAINABLE 
MANUFACTURING
As a responsible corporate, we are committed to 
making our manufacturing systems and processes 
more sustainable. We continued to take various 
measures to promote energy efficiency and conserve 
water at our plants during the year. (Cross referred 
to – Natural Capital)
TOWARDS GREATER FUTURE-READINESS
The ever evolving consumer aspirations and market 
demands are leading to a rapid transformation in the 
manufacturing landscape in India. We are cognizant 
of the importance of anticipating future needs, and 
taking proactive actions to seize the opportunities 
of tomorrow.
To build on our future-readiness, we are moving 
towards digitalisation of the free flow conveyor, 
automation of the filters, and auto manpower 
allocation. We also plan to deploy analytics 
for monitoring of key manufacturing KPIs (Key 
Performance Indicators).
India’s Largest  
Manufacturing Setup
For electric water purifiers
39
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
BUILDING A 
FUTURE READY 
ORGANISATION
HUMAN CAPITAL
In our transformation journey human capital is the key 
engine that will drive the Company’s long-term growth. 
Our focus is on building an ecosystem that encourages 
clear alignment, capability building and employee 
connect, with the aim to attract and retain the best-in 
class talent.
In a transforming organisation the focus has been on 
creating the right organisation structures, hiring for 
capabilities, aligning Goals and Incentives and most 
importantly creating a culture to align with the new 
direction, ensuring that our employees understand and 
embrace these changes.
Initiatives have been around ensuring frequent and 
transparent communication, bringing employees 
together to create belongingness and recognising the 
right set of behaviours and results.
Skill upgradation has been a pivotal enabler to ensure 
our employees can adapt to the new roles, technologies 
and processes.
8,646+
Training hours in FY24 
100%
Managers with ESOPs
Owners Mindset
40
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
41
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
STAYING CONNECTED WITH EMPLOYEES
FY24 witnessed the launch of several initiatives to boost 
our employee connect.
Employee Listening Framework
We launched “Voice of EFL” survey, aimed at seeking 
feedback from employees on what is going well and what 
needs change to build in the organisation: 
	• The survey covers broad pillars of leadership direction, 
work environment, management support, team culture,
	• Comprehensive action planning was undertaken 
on the basis of the inputs received. Action plans 
were formulated and executed in various areas like 
communication, engagement activities, reward and 
recognition processes, etc.
	• The First Edition of Voice of EFL was launched in 
September 2023 and saw a participation rate of 80.1%. 
The second edition, launched in May 2024, had a 
participation rate of 85%.
	• Action undertaken in response to Voice of EFL feedback 
was communicated to the employees through multiple 
town halls
Shaabash Awards
Launched in FY24 to celebrate and recognise 
transformation success stories, these awards recognise 
exceptional contribution of our teams and managers on 
a quarterly and annual basis. 
CREATING AN OWNER’S MINDSET AND A HIGH 
PERFORMANCE CULTURE 
We work continuously to ensure employee alignment 
with the Company’s overall business goals, with a clear 
focus on creating an environment of ownership and a high 
performance work culture.
ESOP Roll-Out: The roll-out of our ambitious, wide 
reaching ESOP programme to 100% of our managerial 
population was in line with our employee alignment focus. 
This industry-leading programme is not restricted to the 
leadership levels but signals every employee’s critical role 
in our transformation journey.
Frontline Incentive Programme: This is a critical tool 
that drives high performance across our different channels. 
The incentive design is based on both key input and output 
measures that are essential to the respective channel. 
These are monthly and quarterly; also includes the annual 
aspirational clubs of MD achiever and High Flier Club. 
Communication Forums: The Annual SMART meets 
provide employees across the organisation with a platform 
to come together to understand the strategy for the coming 
year while celebrating the achievements of the previous 
year. These meetings have emerged as a foundational 
element reinforcing our culture code, along with bi-annual 
leadership meets focussing on fostering a collaborative 
leadership. We have also put in place a comprehensive 
leadership communication framework, with monthly and 
quarterly town halls hosted at the Regional, Functional and 
Organisation level.
42
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
ENSURING ETHICAL CONDUCT
Our Code of Conduct, which constitutes the cornerstone 
of our corporate governance philosophy, outlines a 
comprehensive framework that drives legal compliance, 
ethical business operations and utmost professionalism. 
Aligning with our corporate values, it requires our 
employees to maintain a high standard of ethical conduct, 
act with integrity, and respect human rights. Deviation from 
these norms can lead to serious consequences, including 
employment termination.
As part of our ongoing efforts to strengthen our corporate 
governance framework, we have relooked and recrafted the 
policies on Code of Ethics and Conduct (CoEC), Prevention 
of Sexual Harassment of women at workplace (PoSH), and 
Whistle Blower. We have put in place a structured framework 
to ensure 100% coverage of our employees through 
awareness programmes. During FY24, we introduced 
classroom sessions, virtual facilitated programmes, and a 
new e-learning course on CoEC and PoSH. 
BUILDING SKILLS TO BOOST EXCELLENCE
As we focus on new product launches, creating customer 
centricity in our actions and a high growth culture; building 
capability is pivotal to bringing these goals to life During 
the year:
	• We designed and launched various functional and 
behavioural skill building interventions for the business 
teams. In the first phase, we focussed on our Service and 
Direct Sales team. The programme is oriented towards 
empowering the team leads and the first line managers 
of the frontline teams in these channels to provide 
service excellence. The programme seeks to reinforce 
our business partnership model to accelerate business 
growth and enhance customer experience.
	• We have also developed various organisation-wide 
learning initiatives, both in-person and virtual, around 
multiple topics. Frontline sales managers have undergone 
skill building interventions around grooming, selling, 
objection handling, techniques to manage different types 
of customers, demonstration skills, etc. In FY24, more 
than 300 executives from the frontline sales teams were 
covered by these interventions.
	• Another focus area at Eureka Forbes has been continued 
skill enhancement of the frontline teams through the 
launch of LMS (learning management system). The 
LMS is aimed at building the frontline teams’ capability 
and understanding of our products and service 
standards, thus equipping them to deliver exceptional 
customer experience.
training sessions covered a wide range of topics to ensure 
comprehensive skill enhancement and knowledge sharing. 
The topics included:
	• Field Visits
	• Soft Skills
	• Products including new innovations for all 3 categories 
of Water, Vacuum and Air 
	• Water Testing Kit
	• New AMC propositions 
	• Frontline Sales Training
A total of 1,590 employees actively participated in these 
training programmes, reflecting our workforce’s engagement 
and dedication to professional growth.
We have trained our people managers on 
feedback skills, goal setting, effective appraisal 
conversation, and compliance with the code of 
conduct. More than 500 people managers have 
so far undergone these awareness sessions. 
Eureka Forbes’ Human Resources (HR) 
function has closely partnered with business 
to fuel business growth. The HR team has 
worked on re-organisation initiatives and 
enabled smooth transition of leaders and 
employees into the new structure. 
Training Programmes
During the financial year 2023-24, the Company 
successfully conducted around 2,712 training 
programmes, demonstrating our commitment to 
continuous employee development and excellence. These 
43
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NURTURING 
A MORE 
SUSTAINABLE 
FUTURE
NATURAL CAPITAL
The various resources that we deploy in our 
operations, and those that are impacted by our 
business constitute our Natural Capital. We 
are cognisant of the importance of protecting 
these resources, and minimising the ecological 
footprint of our business to foster a more 
sustainable future for all. We are committed to 
the pursuance of sustainable practices, and have 
integrated environmental responsibility into our 
strategic roadmap.
Our sustainable development journey is powered 
by our sustained focus on low-carbon and 
ecofriendly processes. Reducing energy and water 
consumption in our activities, and enhancing the 
use of renewable energy in our operations are key 
facets of our efficient resource management and 
responsible manufacturing journey. We also focus 
on biodiversity conservation through plantation 
activity within the premises of our factories and 
the nearby communities.
44
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
45
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
ROBUST ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT 
FRAMEWORK
We strictly adhere to all environmental norms and regulations, 
and have in place robust environment management 
programmes aimed at reduction in water, electricity and 
paper consumption. We regularly monitor and maintain the 
key consumption metrics as part of our efforts to realise our 
ecological targets.
The objectives of our programmes are reviewed on an 
annual basis. Both our factories are ISO 14001:2015 
certified, and we annually review all aspects and impacts 
associated with the processes / activities undertaken as per 
the certification at the facilities.
We have in place a clearly articulated operating policy on 
manufacturing, which guides our objectives and actions for 
reducing our environmental footprint.
REDUCING WATER USAGE
Re-use of RO reject water for toilet flushing, and rigorous 
monitoring of water leakages helped in 16.1% increase in 
water savings at our Dehradun location during FY24 over 
the previous financial year.
We successfully achieved our water reduction targets 
during the year as a result of several focused initiatives. 
We have fitted digital flow meters for remote monitoring and 
Piezometer for ground water level sensing at the Dehradun 
factory. We have also installed Effluent & Sewage Treatment 
Plants at both our plants to facilitate recycling and reuse of 
treated water.
ENHANCING ENERGY CONSERVATION
Use of energy-efficient equipment is a vital aspect of 
our efforts to minimise the use of thermal energy across 
our operations. During FY24, we took several actions to 
promote energy conservation at our facilities.
	• Fitted a Retrofitting Emission Control Device (RECD) to 
mitigate emissions (PM,HC & CO) at the Bengaluru factory.
	• Installed a new high-efficiency VFD air compressor at the 
Dehradun facility.
	• Switched to solar / LED lights to reduce the use of 
thermal energy.
	• Replaced 20 old air conditioning (AC) systems with new 
energy-efficient and environment-friendly R32 refrigerant 
at the Dehradun location.
During FY24, we took various targeted 
initiatives to foster environmental 
sustainability, with focus on minimising 
our water usage and promoting energy 
efficiencies across our operations.
ISO 14001 Environment  
Management System Certificate
Awarded to both the facilities
Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) 
At both manufacturing facilities
46
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
ENSURING SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN
Our sustainability spirit extends beyond our own operations, 
to the entire supply chain of our business - from sourcing 
of raw material to final packaging of the products. We 
take regular steps to align our suppliers and vendors to 
the Company’s sustainable development goals. Relevant 
clauses have been incorporated in the vendor agreements 
to promote sustainability, and we encourage our suppliers 
to comply with all the prevalent laws pertaining to 
environment protection. 
Several initiatives were taken during the year to ensure 
supply chain sustainability in our operations.
	• Replaced corrugated boxes with re-usable PP boxes for 
supply of plastic components by suppliers; the PP boxes 
can be re-used around 30 times each.
	• Shifted to honeycomb buffer designing instead of 
thermocol or EPE foam buffer for one of our new 
products, thus reducing the use of raw material.
	• Ensured compliance with Restriction of Hazardous 
Substances (RoHS) directive in PCBs, through test 
certificates and self-declarations from all our suppliers.
	• Caged trolley has been designed by one of our plastic 
part suppliers to avoid use of packing boxes, thus 
reducing the packaging waste. 
100%
Waste recycled or diverted from landfills through 
authorised recyclers
47
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
FORGING STRONG 
BONDS ROOTED IN 
MUTUAL TRUST
SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Driven by shared values and commitments, we 
strive to strengthen the strong relationships we 
have built with our customers, retailer and dealer 
partners, and the communities around which we 
operate. It is our firm belief that these bonds, which 
are rooted in mutual trust, are pivotal in enhancing 
the Company’s reputation as a partner of choice. 
It is our continuous endeavour to nurture these 
bonds with the aim of fostering trust and creating 
inclusive value.
The Eureka Forbes’ business strategy is all-
encompassing, and focused on collective 
growth and value creation. Our key investments 
towards building our customer, dealer, retailer 
and community relationships ensure shared 
value creation, centred around holistic long-term 
development. Our concerted interventions to 
promote their interests empower these stakeholder 
groups to build a valuable future for themselves 
and the world at large.
48
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
49
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
PARTNERING WITH DEALERS & RETAILERS TO 
DRIVE GROWTH
Cognisant of their critical role in ensuring business growth 
and expansion, we have identified channel management as 
a key imperative across our dealer and retail network. The 
longevity of our retail partners, coupled with our elaborate 
dealer network especially in general trade, is a testimony to 
our collaborative strength and is at the root of our long-term 
growth strategy. 
Our retail partnerships span the entire lifecycle of the 
retailers, from the induction of the right partners to copiloting 
their business growth in their respective territories. 
We partner them in all the important activity systems, 
such as joint business planning, timely business health 
checks, operational co-working, and robust technological 
infrastructure, to support their day-to-day operations.
DIRECT SALES INITIATIVES 
	• Execution of agenda on Upselling (Replacement) & 
Cross-selling to our existing customer base through 
CLTV Programme, leading to additional 30% monthly 
fixed appointments for the field team and helped achieve 
incremental sale.
	• Network optimisation in all Indian cities/towns with over 
one lakh population (OLP), by identifying white spaces 
(having no Company presence) and underpenetrated 
markets in all OLP cities/towns, and aligning New Partner 
Addition Plan (both for FY24 & FY25) to address all such 
gaps by FY25.
	• Introduction of JOS App for Partner Channel, enabling; 
•
Onboarding of 700+ partners on Lead Management 
App, along with 750+ Partner Manpower (AWEs), 
in FY24
•
Field team performance management on key metrics, 
including attendance, lead generation, demo count, 
sales conversion, etc. 
•
Sharing of centrally generated high quality digital and 
CLTV leads with select qualified partners.
ENRICHING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
With customers central to our relationship ethos, we 
launched a 360° intervention encompassing a host of 
initiatives to drive customer experience and address 
service opportunity during FY24. Our enhanced customer 
experience was manifest in our service metrics, which were 
at an all-time high during the year.
MARKED IMPROVEMENT  
IN KEY CUSTOMER METRICS
A key outcome of our customer service 
enhancement efforts has been the significant 
improvement in our 24-hour complaint closure 
Turnaround Time (TAT). 
Our complaint closures showed strong 
improvements with > 70% complaints attended 
to in 1 hour. 
We achieved our highest ever customer NPS.
We also exited the year with a substantial 33% 
reduction in quality related complaint issues vs 
start of the year.
The launch of our service campaign on TV, 
Print and Digital media was a significant 
initiative towards promoting service 
excellence at Eureka Forbes during FY24.
50
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
At Eureka Forbes, our social outreach extends beyond our 
immediate stakeholders to the community at large. We 
believe in building relationships that value the community, 
just as we value our customers. Our initiatives are aimed at 
creating harmony in society.
We have in place a well-articulated Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) framework aimed at promoting 
healthcare, sanitation, hygiene including preventive 
healthcare and making available safe drinking water.
Our on-ground partner - AquaKraft Group Ventures, is a 
water sustainability and impact group focussed on providing 
actionable solutions on ground in the area of sanitation and 
drinking water.
	• We worked closely with - AquaKraft Group Ventures to 
provide safe and clean water in government schools 
through installation of RO and UV filters.
	• Ten municipal schools were identified in Satara, 
Maharashtra, and Aquakraft set up indigenous water 
purification machines in these institutions, besides 
supporting them in water quality testing.
	• We undertook awareness and sensitisation programmes 
among students, as well as teaching and non-
teaching staff through WASH (water, sanitation and 
hygiene) sessions.
Impact
Our CSR initiative seeks to contribute to 
sustainable development and enhance the 
overall well-being of communities.
(During FY24)
~2,500 
School students, teaching & 
non-teaching staff benefitted
100%
CSR Obligation fulfilled
51
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Covers the risk of non-
compliance due to non-
adherence to product 
related guidelines or other 
regulatory pronouncements.
MITIGATION MEASURES
	• Controls are built in the Product development 
process to address regulatory requirements
	• An in-house team, backed by access to 
external experts, enables easy identification of 
the changes and quick roll-out of capabilities to 
ensure compliances.
REGULATORY / 
COMPLIANCE RISK
Defined as the risk 
of inability to drive 
category growth and 
market share.
MITIGATION MEASURES
	• Significant investments have been made in R&D 
and Marketing capabilities.
	• Our offerings encompass multiple price points 
– from entry level to premium. The diverse 
price points are available for both products 
and services.
	• We have an innovation roadmap to ensure a 
steady pipeline of unique innovations.
	• Our omni channel presence including strong 
Go To Market presence and access to 
consumer homes.
MARKET RISK
MAPPING & MITIGATING  
RISKS EFFECTIVELY
RISK MANAGEMENT
We have implemented a comprehensive Risk Management Framework designed to integrate risk 
management into the everyday operations of our business. Business Risk Assessment procedures 
are in place to facilitate self-assessment of business risks, operational controls, and compliance with 
Corporate Policies.
The objective of this risk assessment framework is to provide operating management with a proactive and value-
added review process, enabling them to maintain a view of enterprise and macro risks and have associated 
mitigating controls. This ongoing process continuously monitors the evolution of risks and ensures the delivery of 
effective mitigating action plans. The Board holds overall responsibility for risk management and regularly reviews 
the effectiveness of our internal control systems and risk management approach.
The major risks identified by the Company are mapped below, along with the mitigation measures:
52
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Encompasses the 
risk of poor customer 
experience and associated 
reputation risks due to 
failure to honour service 
commitments or/and redress 
customer grievances.
MITIGATION MEASURES
	• Our extensive service network is being fortified 
with infrastructure upgrade and expansion.
	• Significant digital capability has been and 
continued to be put in place to give control 
to customers.
	• Organisational interventions like “Customer 
Day” and extensive engagement with 
business partners to further drive mindset of 
customer experience.
CONSUMER / 
REPUTATION RISK
Described as the risks to 
transformation initiatives due 
to cultural and other change 
resistance issues.
MITIGATION MEASURES
	• Strategy alignment session and cascades done 
with all employees of the company.
	• First ever ESOP program covering all managers 
rolled out.
	• Sustained employee engagement and 
recognition programmes across levels in place 
to drive the transformation agenda.
	• New people capabilities have been built and 
scaled up in areas like R&D, Technology, D2C 
and Sales organisation.
PEOPLE RISK
Identified as supply risks 
caused by unexpected 
disruptions or geopolitical or 
other external factor.
MITIGATION MEASURES
	• Supply network is de-risked through a detailed 
vendor development roadmap.
	• Robust strategic partnerships are in place and 
are being progressively enhanced.
SUPPLY CHAIN RISK
INFORMATION /  
CYBERSECURITY  
RISK
Covers security related 
vulnerabilities attributable 
to external factors such as 
cyberattack, ransomware, 
data leaks etc, or business 
continuity risk due to 
inadequate disaster 
recovery controls.
MITIGATION MEASURES
	• Detailed Disaster recovery process is in place.
	• Several data security measures in areas like 
customer data, call masking etc put in place.
	• Cybersecurity awareness trainings have been 
initiated across the organisation.
	• In house capability and access to external 
experts in place.
53
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal
Non-Executive - Non Independent Director
Mr. Sahil Dalal joined Advent in 2009 and leads Advent 
India’s investing efforts in the Retail, Consumer & Leisure 
sector, and the Technology / Technology Services sector. 
Prior to Advent, Mr. Sahil was an associate with JLL 
Partners, a New York-based private equity firm where 
he focussed on buyout and growth equity transactions. 
Prior to JLL Partners, Mr. Sahil spent three years with 
Bear Stearns in New York as an analyst in its Investment 
Banking Division. Sahil has 17 years of experience in 
Private Equity and 20 years of experience in financial 
services. Sahil has a BBA with High Distinction from The 
Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan 
and an MBA from The Wharton School at the University 
of Pennsylvania. He has led, co-led, and supported 
on 12 investments at Advent. He is also a director in 
Advent India PE Advisors Private Limited, DFM Foods 
Limited and Modenik Lifestyle Private Limited and was 
previously a Director at Crompton Greaves Consumer 
Electricals Limited.
M
M
M
Mr. Arvind Uppal
Non-Executive - Non Independent Director, Chairman
Mr. Uppal is a BTech from IIT Delhi and holds a Masters 
in Business Administration from FMS, Delhi. He has also 
completed an Executive Program at I.M.D Switzerland. 
With over thirty-two years in the consumer industry, he 
first gained prominence at Nestlé, particularly for his 
work on the Maggi brand across multiple countries. 
He then served as President Asia Pacific for Whirlpool 
Corporation, leading a notable operational turnaround. 
Presently, Mr. Arvind Uppal is the Non-Executive 
Chairman of Whirlpool of India Ltd. and a Director at Gulf 
Oil Lubricants India Limited. He holds board positions at 
Amber Enterprises India Limited and acts as an Industry 
Advisor to Advent International.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr. Vinod Rao
Non-Executive - Independent Director
Mr. Vinod Rao holds a Bachelor of Commerce from 
Madras University and is a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India. He attended a Senior 
Executive Programme at London Business School. With 
over 35 years in finance roles, Mr. Vinod Rao has worked 
with global giants such as Diageo, PepsiCo, and ICI, 
spanning industries like FMCG and consumer durables. 
His last executive role was Group Treasurer and Head of 
Investor Relations at Diageo Plc, London. He possesses 
expertise in both developed and developing markets, 
including India and Europe. Additionally, he serves as a 
Trustee for the UK-based Isha Foundation.
M
M
C
M
C
C
M
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota
Executive Director, Managing Director & CEO
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota holds a Master of Business 
Administration in Marketing from the Indian Institute of 
Management, Calcutta (1990 - 1992), and a Bachelor 
of Engineering in Electrical and Electronics from Birla 
Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani (1986 - 1990). 
With a career extending over 30 years, Mr. Pratik 
Rashmikant Pota has occupied significant roles across 
various sectors. Most notably, he served as the CEO of 
Jubilant Foodworks Ltd (JFL), where he was instrumental 
in a complete business turnaround and the expansion 
of Domino’s as India’s leading D2C brand. During his 
term, the Company’s market capitalisation surged ten-
fold. Prior to his transformative role at JFL, Mr. Pratik 
Rashmikant Pota took on leadership responsibilities at 
reputable organisations such as PepsiCo, Airtel, and 
Hindustan Unilever Ltd.
M
M
54
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
Non-Executive - Independent Director
Mrs. Gurveen Singh earned her Bachelor’s in Philosophy 
Honours from Lady Sri Ram College, Delhi University, 
and further honed her skills with a Post Graduate degree 
in ‘Personnel Management and Industrial Relations’ from 
Xavier Labour Relations Institute, Jamshedpur. She is a 
seasoned specialist in Human Resource Management 
with a 42-year career span. She retired as the Chief 
Human Resources Officer of Reckitt Benckiser PLC, a 
FTSE 20 Company, in 2020. She holds board positions 
with Manjushree Technopack Ltd., Viyash Life Sciences 
Private Limited and VLCC Health Care Limited. Her 
career also includes key HR roles in the hospitality, 
manufacturing and FMCG industry. She also had a 
global career with Reckitt Benckiser both in developing 
and developed markets. Mrs. Gurveen Singh has been 
instrumental in establishing foundational HR functions in 
prominent companies, thereby facilitating their growth.
M
C
M
C
M
	 Audit Committee
	 Nomination and Remuneration Committee
	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee
	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
	 Risk Management Committee
C - Chairperson/Chairman
M - Member
Mr. Shashank Shankar Samant
Non-Executive - Independent Director
Mr. Shashank Shankar Samant is an alumnus of 
Savitribai Phule Pune University. He currently serves as 
Chairman of GlobalLogic, after retiring as its President 
& CEO in 2022. Before GlobalLogic, he was President 
of Ness Technologies, leading the Company to a 
NASDAQ IPO in 2004. He has also made significant 
contributions to Hewlett-Packard’s Verifone division and 
was instrumental in establishing IBM’s first India-based 
software engineering lab. At the onset of his career, he 
was part of Citicorp’s team that developed FlexCube 
banking technology. Additionally, Mr. Shashank Shankar 
Samant serves on the boards of Office Depot, Rackspace 
Technology, and Cyderes.
M
M
Mr. Homi Adi Katgara
Non-Executive - Independent Director
Mr. Homi Katgara, Partner, is the youngest of the fourth 
generation of the founding family which established 
Jeena & Company 124 years ago, making them the 
pioneers of Freight Forwarding in India.
During his tenure of nearly forty years in the forwarding 
industry, Mr. Katgara has been actively involved in the 
day to day management of Jeena & Company. He is 
also a Partner and a Director in various Jeena group 
Companies and with his demanding schedule also 
finds the time to be the Managing Trustee at Masina 
Hospital which is one of the oldest and most venerated 
institutions of Bombay.
Mr. Katgara has been the Past President of the Air 
Cargo Club of Bombay and has also served on the 
committee at the Rotary Club of Bombay and the 
Balloting & Disciplinary Committee of The Willingdon 
Sports Club – one of the Premier Sporting Clubs in 
Bombay. He was also a Committee Member of the Indo 
Canadian Business Chamber.
Apart from the above, he is also into real estate and 
on the philanthropic side, strongly believes in “giving 
back to society what we have received from it” which 
he does through Charitable Trusts & Foundations set 
up by the family.
His interests include tennis, squash, badminton, 
snooker, ping pong, swimming and scuba diving.
M
M
55
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota
Managing Director & CEO
Ms. Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Mr. Gaurav Pradip Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Ajit Dheer
Chief Operating Officer
Ms. Mahnaz Shaikh
Chief Human Resources Officer
Mr. Gaurav Pradip Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Nithyanand Shankar
Chief Digital Business Officer
Mr. Satish Satyarthi
Chief Innovation & R&D Officer
Mr. Vikas Jayna
Chief Technology Officer
Mr. Anurag Kumar
Chief Growth Officer
Mr. Suresh Redhu
Chief Technical Officer
Mr. Anirudha Karnataki
Chief Supply Chain & 
Procurement Officer
56
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
OUR REWARDING JOURNEY OF FY24
AWARDS & RECOGNITION
WINNERS OF THE RED DOT QUALITY LABEL
The outstanding quality and design of our product was chosen by the international 
journey from among a large number of submissions from companies and design 
studios from all over the world. 
The Red Dot Design Award is an international annual design competition for product 
and industrial design, brand and communication design, as well as design concepts, 
in which the Red Dot quality label is awarded to winners. It is an award for superlative 
design quality. The international jury only awards the highly sought-after seal of quality 
to products that are characterised by outstanding design. 
This achievement opens up opportunities to showcase our Red Dot Winner 2024 
status across various platforms, such as website, point of sale, packaging, and more. 
We honour this great achievement with the Red Dot Winner Label, and an exclusive 
presentation of our award in the Red Dot Design Yearbook.
We are thrilled to announce that our Red Dot Design victory is now live! Please check 
the website link: Red Dot Design Award: Slim Tech Bar (red-dot.org). We are 
featured in the Red Dot Design Award Winner 2024 section under Kitchen Appliances. 
WINNERS OF EFFIE 2023, SILVER IN THE HOME 
FURNISHINGS AND APPLIANCES CATEGORY
Our clutter-breaking and highly successful campaign - ‘Sar Ka Kapda Hatana hai toh 
pehle Nal ka Kapda Hatana Hoga’, was awarded the Silver in the Home Furnishings 
and Appliance Category (there was no Gold or Bronze in this category) at EFFIE 2023.
EFFIE honours effective marketing communications across India, with the recognition 
coming not only from the advertising industry, but also from the client and academicians.
The campaign that won the honours underlined our Brand Aquaguard mission - A 
mission to eliminate water-borne diseases from each household in India. Consumers 
in India believed that filtering drinking water with a cloth and sieve was effective in 
eliminating diseases. As a leader in water purification systems it was our responsibility 
to demolish that myth, and to tell consumers that ‘Sar Ka Kapda Hatana hai toh pehle 
Nal ka Kapda Hatana Hoga ‘. 
57
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CORPORATE INFORMATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr. Arvind Uppal
Chairman, Non – Executive, Non – Independent Director 
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota
Managing Director & CEO
Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
Mr. Vinod Rao
Independent Director
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
Independent Director
Mr. Homi Adi Katgara
Independent Director
Mr. Shashank Shankar Samant
Independent Director
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota
Managing Director & CEO
Mr. Gaurav Pradip Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Ms. Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary and Compliance Officer
BANKERS
Axis Bank Ltd.
ICICI Bank Ltd.
Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.
State Bank of India
HDFC Bank Ltd.
AUDITORS
M/s. Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
Statutory Auditor
M/s. Mihen Halani & Associates
Secretarial Auditor
M/s. J Chandra & Associates
Cost Auditor
CORPORATE AND REGISTERED OFFICE
B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova, 
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel. 
Mumbai - 400 013
REGISTRAR AND SHARE TRANSFER AGENT
Link Intime India Private Limited 
C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West), 
Mumbai - 400 083 
Phone: +91 22 4918 6000 
E-mail: info@linkintime.co.in. 
Contact Person: Mr. Ishwar Suvarna 
CIN: U67190MH1999PTC118368
PLANT LOCATIONS
Dehradun
Khasra Number 3946,3961 & 3962, 
Lal Tappar Industrial Area, Majri 
Grant, Dehradun-Haridwar Highway, 
Tehsil – Rishikesh, Dist. – Dehradun, 
Uttarakhand- 248140
Bengaluru
Plot No.143, C-4, Bommasandra 
Industrial Area, Hosur Road, 
Bengaluru - 560 099
58
Eureka Forbes Limited
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
59
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
We are pleased that you have engaged with our first 
Integrated Annual Report and trust that you have found it 
insightful. As you delve into the MD&A section, we aim to 
provide a comprehensive analysis of how Eureka Forbes is 
driving value for its stakeholders through strategic initiatives 
and operational excellence. This section has been crafted 
with meticulous care to provide a detailed analysis of our 
performance and future outlook, reflecting our commitment 
to transparency and stakeholder value
ECONOMIC OVERVIEW
Global Economy
The global economy is navigating a dynamic landscape, 
influenced by geopolitical conflicts, higher interest rates, 
and volatility in energy prices and food markets. According 
to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the global 
economy achieved a modest growth rate of 3.3% in 2023. 
Inflation has eased from last year’s peaks and is expected 
to continue its downward trend.  
Global
2022
2023
2024
2025
3.5 3.3 3.2 3.3
2.6
1.7 1.7 1.8
4.1
4.4 4.3 4.3
EMDEs
Advanced Economies
in various regions. Despite these uncertainties, the global 
economy is projected to grow at 3.2% in 2024 and 3.3% 
in 2025. Advanced Economies (AEs) are expected to grow 
at 1.7% in 2024 and 1.8% in 2025. Emerging Markets and 
Developing Economies (EMDEs) are projected to maintain 
a steady growth of 4.3% in both 2024 and 2025. Global 
inflation is expected to decrease from 6.8% in 2023 to 5.9% 
in 2024 and 4.5% in 2025.
Source: World Economic Outlook-IMF, April and July 2024
India Economy
The Indian economy maintained a steady growth trajectory 
in FY 2023-24 and remains the fastest-growing major 
economy. According to the National Statistical Office (NSO), 
the Indian GDP grew by 8.2% in FY 2023-24, up from 7% 
in FY 2022-23. This growth is aided by robust private 
consumption, increased investments, and a stable interest 
rate environment. Inflation softened to 5.4% from 6.7% 
last year, staying within the RBI’s target, while the Index 
of Industrial Production (IIP) averaged a healthy 146.7, 
reflecting 5.9% YoY growth. Furthermore, the government’s 
focus on infrastructure development, digitalisation, ease of 
doing business, and inclusive growth has enhanced overall 
business conditions.
Outlook
As per RBI estimates, the Indian economy is projected 
to grow at 7.2% in FY 2024-25. India’s economic activity 
continues to sustain its momentum on the back of 
investment demand, steady urban consumption, improving 
rural consumption and strong consumer and government 
spending. While geopolitical tensions, volatility in global 
commodity prices, and geo-economic fragmentation pose 
risks, financial conditions in India remain accommodative. 
Expectations of a favourable monsoon and continued 
infrastructure development are expected to bolster the 
agriculture and manufacturing sectors, respectively. 
Improved banking sector health is likely to enhance credit 
growth, further driving economic expansion.
Source: NSO, RBI
Outlook
The global economy presents a mixed outlook, shaped by 
geopolitical conflicts, high debt levels, and extreme weather 
events. Despite its resilience, global growth faces risks from 
rising interest rates, potential price surges due to geopolitical 
tensions, and increased instability from upcoming elections 
Eureka Forbes Limited
60
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Water purifier industry
The water purifier market in India has witnessed substantial 
expansion in recent years, driven by several factors, 
including the increasing prevalence of water-borne 
diseases, government initiatives such as the Jal Jeevan 
Mission aimed at enhancing access to safe drinking water, 
and advancements in purification technology that effectively 
address inorganic contaminants. As India’s population 
continues to expand and its geographical diversity presents 
unique challenges, ensuring comprehensive access to safe 
drinking water remains a critical issue.
The water purifier market is poised for further growth, 
propelled by various macroeconomic factors. Rising income 
level is a major catalyst, with the rapidly expanding middle 
class, projected to reach 1 billion by 2047, substantially 
increasing demand for water purification solutions. 
Urbanisation and modern lifestyle shifts have driven a 
significant surge in demand for water purifiers, leading to 
a considerable increase in market size. The World Bank 
estimates that by 2036, 40% of Indians will reside in urban 
areas, up from 31% in 2011, which will further boost the 
demand for water purification solutions. Additionally, the 
rising participation of women in the workforce, with the 
female labour force participation rate climbing from 33% in 
2022 to 37% in 2023, is contributing to greater household 
purchasing power. Other factors fuelling the growth of the 
water purifier market include significant improvements 
in infrastructure, evidenced by the rise in piped water 
access from 16.8% in 2019 to 77.2% in 2024, and high 
electrification rates of 96.7%, which support the efficient 
use of modern water purifiers. Furthermore, heightened 
awareness of health and hygiene post-pandemic is also 
contributing to the surge in demand for water purifiers, 
significantly expanding the market.
Under Jal Jeevan Mission, out of the total target of over 19 
crore households, ~76% have been provided with tap water 
connections. The success of this mission, coupled with the 
Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (SAUBHAGYA) 
initiative providing electricity to every Indian household, 
significantly bolsters the water purifier market. Government 
campaigns promoting clean drinking water also contribute 
to raising awareness about the importance of water hygiene, 
further expanding market potential.
Trends Shaping the Industry
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Middle class, the 
fastest-growing 
segment of the 
population, is projected 
to reach 1 billion by 
2047. (Source: PRICE 
ICE Survey)
Growing incomes:
Female labour force 
participation rate 
increased from 33% in 
2022 to 37% in 2023. 
(Source: PLFS and 
MoSPI)
Increased female 
workforce participation
Households with piped 
water rose from 16.8% 
in 2019 to 77.2% 
in 2024. (Source: 
Jal Jeevan Mission 
Dashboard)
Piped water access:
Urbanisation:
40% of Indians are 
expected to reside in 
towns and cities by 
2036, up from 31% in 
2011. (Source: World 
Bank)
96.7% of Indian 
households are now 
electrified. (Source: 
IRES)
Electrification:
Unpredictable 
domestic help:
There has been a 
marked increase in the 
frequency and intensity 
of home cleaning and 
hygiene practices 
post Covid
Heightened focus on 
health & hygiene:
There is an increasing 
need for reliable and 
convenient backup 
solutions due to the 
variability in domestic 
help availability
Our categories address health needs and in a relatively short period of time, there is a convergence of several category 
specific factors that provide tail winds to the categories in which we operate.  Over and above these are factors associated 
with India’s growth story, demographic profile, urbanisation etc which provide further momentum.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
61
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Despite the strong market growth, water purifier penetration 
in India remains significantly lower compared to other Asian 
countries, with only 6% per capita penetration. Limited 
awareness and affordability constraints are the primary 
factors contributing to the low penetration of water purifiers 
in India. In contrast, China boasts a 21% penetration rate, 
South Korea leads with 60%, and Thailand stands at 20%. 
This disparity highlights substantial growth opportunities 
for the Indian market.
Water Purifier Penetration
Penetration %
Per Capita (’000$)
60%
40%
20%
0%
India  
6%
China  
21%
South Korea 
60%
Thailand  
20%
0.0
20.0
40.0
60.0
Source: Technopak Report 2024, World Bank
India presents a vast total addressable market for both water 
purifier products and services due to a large base of non-
users who still rely on traditional purification methods such 
as boiling, cloth, and sieves. Currently, urban penetration for 
water jars stands at 11%, while electric water purifiers have 
a slightly higher penetration rate of 12%. This indicates 
significant untapped potential for modern water purification 
solutions as more consumers transition from conventional 
methods to advanced technologies.
Water Purifier- Total Addressable Market (` Cr) 
Source: Technopak Report 2024
FY30P
FY23
10,200
9,000
4,350 3,660
CAGR: 13%
WP - Product
CAGR: 14%
WP -  Service
The water purifier market in India is poised for impressive 
growth. According to Technopak, the water purifier product 
segment is projected to expand at a compound annual 
growth rate (CAGR) of 13% from FY 2022-23 to FY 2029-
30, while the water purifier service segment is anticipated 
to grow at a robust CAGR of 14% over the same period. 
Additionally, the water softener segment is expected to 
experience a CAGR of 10%.
The Company’s robust brand strength and enduring 
customer relationships, evidenced by its 62% first 
preference among consumers, and its extensive customer 
database of over 14+ million, provide a strong foundation 
for capturing a growing market share. With an omni-channel 
go-to-market strategy supported by a 4,200-strong frontline 
team and a service network that covers more than 19,500 
pin codes, Eureka Forbes is well-positioned to reach a 
wide audience and address diverse consumer needs. Its 
focus on innovation and superior products across various 
price points aligns perfectly with the expanding market 
for water purifiers. Its ability to communicate effectively 
across different market segments and its ongoing efforts 
to penetrate underserved regions offer substantial growth 
potential. Moreover, the robust replacement market for water 
purifiers represents a significant opportunity for continued 
expansion. With these strategic advantages, Eureka Forbes 
is well-placed to leverage the growing demand and secure 
a leading position in the evolving water purifier landscape.
Vacuum cleaner industry
The vacuum cleaner market in India has been growing 
significantly. Several key factors are driving the market 
growth including favourable demographics, increasing 
female workforce participation and rising disposable 
incomes, which are driving higher purchasing power and, 
consequently, greater demand for home appliances. Rapid 
urbanisation is also a significant contributor, as a substantial 
portion of the population migrates to cities, leading to 
smaller living spaces that require efficient and convenient 
cleaning solutions. In this context, vacuum cleaners have 
emerged as a popular choice for urban households. The 
unpredictability of domestic help further highlights the need 
for reliable and convenient cleaning solutions, enhancing 
the appeal of vacuum cleaners in the Indian market. 
Furthermore, there is a growing awareness of the benefits 
of technology in making household tasks more efficient, 
leading to increased adoption of vacuum cleaners to access 
difficult-to-reach areas. This trend extends beyond homes 
with domestic help, as vacuum cleaners are increasingly 
used to improve chore management. In industrial and 
commercial settings, such as malls, the integration of 
manual labour with advanced technology boosts cleaning 
efficiency while maintaining aesthetic standards.
Eureka Forbes Limited
62
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Source: Technopak Report 2024, World Bank
Vacuum Cleaner Penetration
Penetration %
Per Capita (’000$)
150%
100%
50%
0%
India  
2%
China  
20%
Japan  
90%
Hong Kong  
80%
Thailand  
20%
0.0
20.0
40.0
60.0
80.0
100.0
India’s vacuum cleaner penetration is considerably lower 
compared to its Asian counterparts, with a mere 2% per 
capita. In contrast, Japan dominates with a staggering 90% 
penetration rate, followed by Hong Kong at 80% and China 
at 20%. This significant gap highlights the vast potential for 
market growth in India. As awareness of cleanliness and 
health intensifies, demand for vacuum cleaners is expected 
to rise across residential, industrial, and commercial 
sectors, indicating a promising opportunity for market 
expansion and development. The Indian vacuum cleaner 
market is projected to grow at 17% CAGR during FY 2022-
23- FY 2029-30. This growth is anticipated to be driven by 
growing awareness of hygiene in the post-pandemic era, 
coupled with the various benefits of vacuum cleaners. 
Vacuum Cleaner- Total Addressable Market (` Crores)
Source: Technopak Report 2024
FY30P
FY23
509
CAGR: 17%
1,548
Vacuum  
Cleaners
Vacuum cleaners equipped with HEPA filters are particularly 
effective at removing household allergens such as pollen, 
dust, and pet dander. While deep-cleaning models remain 
popular, the rise in dust allergies has led to increased use of 
handheld vacuums for daily cleaning, mitigating risks of eye 
allergies and respiratory issues. Furthermore, government 
initiatives like the Swachh Bharat Mission, which promote 
cleanliness and sanitation, are also driving vacuum cleaner 
adoption across industrial, commercial, and residential 
sectors. These efforts are enhancing market opportunities 
for leading players by encouraging cleaner environments 
and supporting the growth of the vacuum cleaner industry.
Air purifier industry
Air quality in India has significantly deteriorated in recent 
years, impacting not only the northern regions or winter 
months but the entire country. The situation has been 
exacerbated by adverse winter conditions, contributing to 
worsening air quality indexes. India is home to 83 of the 
world’s 100 most polluted cities, underscoring the severity 
of the problem. 
Global Air Quality Index
Japan
USA
Canada
Germany
France
Italy
China
India
Korea, Republic
UK
26
30
31
31
32
34
36
49
71
108
Source: IQAIr
The rising levels of air pollution and air-borne diseases 
have propelled the demand for air purifiers, which are 
increasingly seen as essential for maintaining healthier 
indoor environments. The growing awareness of health 
issues and the pursuit of cleaner living spaces have led 
to a surge in the use of air purifiers in homes. Additionally, 
their application in industrial and commercial settings 
has become widespread, as they effectively combat 
construction dust, asbestos, weld smoke, and other 
pollutants, as well as eliminate odours and smoke particles. 
The air purifier market is projected to expand at a robust 
CAGR of 18% from FY 2022-23 to FY 2029-30, driven by 
the increasing need for effective air purification solutions 
across various sectors.
Air Purifier - Total Addressable Market (` Crores)
Source: Technopak Report 2024
FY30P
FY23
230
CAGR: 18%
749
Air Purifier
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
63
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
BUSINESS DIVISIONS
Our business has a healthy spread of revenues across 
the product business and services business. Even within 
the respective portfolio, our offerings span various price 
segments. The same balanced revenue profile is also 
reflected in our channel split. 
Revenue Contribution
Note: 1. Revenue Contribution for Continuing Business in FY24. 2. Other 
Revenue include Non-electric Water Purifiers, Air, Softener, B2B Water 
Products. 3. Service Revenue includes Sale of AMC, Filter and Spares.
Service  
36%
Electric Water  
Purifiers  
42%
Vacuum  
Cleaners 
14%
Others  
9%
STRENGTHENING EUREKA FORBES
EFL has demonstrated formidable marketing strength 
by effectively addressing key category barriers to drive 
market penetration. It tackled affordability issues with 
the launch of Aquaguard Sure and Aquaguard Delight, 
priced at `  6,499, making advanced water purification 
solutions more accessible to a broader audience. To 
enhance relevance, the Company initiated a category-
creating campaign specifically targeting users of cloth 
filters, resulting in 70% of new economy SKU buyers being 
new entrants to the category. Additionally, its distribution 
strategy expanded accessibility by establishing over 7,000 
new category outlets, further broadening its market reach 
and strengthening its competitive position.
The Company’s marketing strategy further excels through 
its premium innovations designed to drive product upgrades 
and faster replacement cycles. By focusing on elevating 
customer experience to best-in-class standards, it has 
made substantial investments in fortifying its service network, 
digitising the service experience, and enhancing the speed 
and quality of service delivery. These efforts have led to 
significant improvements in customer service, as evidenced 
by the highest-ever Net Promoter Scores (NPS) and over 
70% of complaints being addressed within one hour.
Despite having a large installed base, the Company 
recognises that there is an opportunity to increase service 
uptake among its own customers. To address this, it has 
launched several initiatives, such as increasing awareness 
through targeted service campaigns and implementing 
authentication measures like QR codes on filters to combat 
the prevalence of counterfeit products. The introduction of 
tiered AMCs aims to make genuine service more affordable, 
while improved service access, including the commitment to 
one-hour response times, ensures greater convenience for 
customers. These comprehensive strategies are designed 
to capture a larger share of the service market and reinforce 
the Company’s position as a leader in customer satisfaction 
and service excellence.
EFL is strategically positioned to excel as a strong Direct 
2 Consumer (D2C) business by focusing on the 3Cs: 
Convenience, Customisation, and Commerce. It enhances 
convenience through streamlined complaint management 
and tracking systems, while customisation is achieved 
by offering personalised AMCs. The commerce aspect 
is driven by effective cross-selling and replacement 
selling strategies.
Leveraging a rich dataset of 14 million customers and 
maintaining long-standing relationships across various 
life stages, EFL benefits from direct access to customers 
through physical channels. The Company’s D2C strategy 
is already showing promising results. Its app, which 
boasts over 1 million active installations, facilitates digital 
interactions with over 76% of complaints booked online. 
The introduction of new, convenient UI/UX and personalised 
offers further enhances the customer experience, making 
it easier for users to engage with the Company’s products 
and services. This approach not only strengthens customer 
relationships but also drives increased engagement and 
sales through its D2C channels.
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
The execution of the transformation strategy has been 
planned in different phases keeping in mind business 
priorities.  In FY24, the focus of the business was on 
restarting volume growth, building an innovation pipeline, 
achieving threshold profitability, making investments for the 
future and cash generation. FY 24 was the 1st full financial 
year of the transformation.  
Our interventions restored volume growth and the latter 
part of the year witnessed several launches which added 
momentum.  Our key launches for FY 24 include:
•	 Water Purifiers: Aquaguard SlimTech Glass, Aquaguard 
Blaze Insta, Aquaguard Designo Nxt,  Aquaguard Aura 2X 
Life, Aquaguard Ritz, Aquaguard Marvel Nxt, Aquaguard 
Delight Nxt, Aquaguard Vector RO, RO UV Alkaline, Nova 
UV+UF+SS 
•	 Vacuum Cleaners: Forbes Robotic Vacuum Cleaners, 
Forbes Uprights Vacuum Cleaners, Forbes Zerobend, 
Forbes Robo LVac Voice Nuo, Forbes Buddy Pet 
Grooming Kit
•	 Air Purifiers: Forbes Air Purifier 355 Surround 360°, 
Forbes Air Purifier 150 Surround 360
Cost optimisation program was initiated and resulted in 
significant savings in discretionary spends. The program is 
on going and will continue for further opportunities.  
Significant investments were made in several areas for 
capability building and these now provide the platform for 
the next phase of the transformation.   
Eureka Forbes Limited
64
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
 
Long- Term  
(FY12 - FY22)
FY 23
FY 24
Volume growth -  Product*
Negative
Low single digit
Strong double digit
Revenue Growth
Low single digit
2.2%
6.1%**
5.2%
7.9%**
Adj EBITDA %
3.8% (avg)
6.30%
10.30%
Net Surplus/ (Debt)
Net Debt
` (50) cr
` 108 Cr
Market Share
Decline
Decline
Gain
Our FY24 Performance indicates a clear break-out from long term historical trends. 
The break-out has been witnessed on all 3 parameters of revenue, profitability and cash.
Note: * Electric Water Purifier + Vacuum cleaner, ** Continuing Business
Adjusted (Adj.) EBITDA is defined as PBT (before exceptional items) + Finance cost + Depreciation + ESOP charge less other non-operating income. Full 
year market share basis internal estimates.
Phase I Transformation
Reduce non-consumer facing 
discretionary spends
Strategic Objectives
Key Initiatives
Outcomes
01
02
03
04
Restore 
Product Growth
Achieve Threshold  
Profitability create headroom 
for growth investments
Invest For Future  
Capabilities
Start Cash Generation
Drive Volume growth and 
Innovation launches
Right size organisation & 
Invest in structural  
capabilities
Operational efficiencies
12.7% 
Product revenue growth
17% 
other expense reduction  
vs FY23
36% 
Head Count reduction;  
fully re-invested in 
capability creation
` 307 Cr 
cash generation;  
from DEBT to SURPLUS
Notes: 
1. Product Revenue growth is for FY24 and continuing business. 
2. Other expense defines as Other expense less Advertisement and Sales promotion expense. 
3. Headcount reduction as of 31st March 2024 vs as of 31st March 2022. 
4. Capex increase in FY24 vs last 5 year average. 
5. Cash generation since September 2022 to 31st March 2024.
The Company’s Phase I of transformation has significantly strengthened its financial profile by restoring product growth, achieving 
profitability thresholds, creating headroom for growth investments, investing in future capabilities and initiating cash generation. 
This robust foundation supports EFL’s continued growth and strategically positions the Company for future advancements.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
65
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
KEY FINANCIAL METRICS
In FY 2023-24, EFL demonstrated robust financial performance, with revenue climbing to ` 2,189.23 Crores from ` 2,080.42 
Crores in FY 2022-23. EBITDA increased to ` 191.87 Crores, up from ` 131.68 Crores in the previous year. Additionally, the 
Company achieved a significant boost in net profitability, recording a PAT of ` 91.57 Crores compared to ` 17.08 Crores 
in FY 2022-23.
1.  Product Revenue growth is for FY24 and for continuing business.
2.  Adjusted ( Adj) EBITDA is defined as PBT (before exceptional items) + Finance cost + Depreciation + ESOP charge less other non-operating income.
3.  Adjusted (ADJ) PBT is defined as PBT (before exceptional items) + ESOP charge. Adjusted (Adj) PAT is defined as PAT reported  + ESOP charges net of tax.
4.  Working Capital equals to current assets minus current liabilities.
Product Revenue Growth	
EWP
10.6%
VC
18.9%
Other
13.8%
Total
12.7%
Adj. EBITDA Margin	
FY24
10.3%
FY23
6.3%
Q4 FY24
11.2%
400 bps
Adj. PBT Margin	
FY23
3.2%
FY24
7.9%
470 bps
Adj. PAT	
(` Crores)
FY23
17
FY24
118
590%
Capital Efficiency FY24
>100% 
ROCE
Negative
Working Capital
Net Surplus/(Debt)	
(` Crores)
Sep22
(199)
FY24
108
+307
Eureka Forbes Limited
66
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Key financial performance, operational highlights and ratio analysis financial performance	
(` Crores)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
FY24
FY23
FY24
FY23
Revenue
2,189.23
2,080.42
 2,189.25 
2,084.51
Earning before interest, taxes, 
depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA)
191.87
131.68
198.64
145.02
Profit Before Tax (PBT)
122.40
26.94
128.47
38.51
Profit After Tax (PAT)
91.57
17.08
95.65
26.47
Fixed Asset
270.66
270.25
273.60
272.96
Total Comprehensive Income
89.21
12.35
93.52
21.49
Loan funds
24.92
120.80
24.92
121.02
Key Financial Ratio
Key ratio/indicator
Standalone
Consolidated
Refer  
Note
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Debtors turnover (in days)
 22.00 
 24.00 
 22.00 
 24.00 
Inventory turnover ratio
 3.96 
 3.42 
 3.76 
 3.27 
Interest coverage ratio
 13.60 
 2.36 
 14.14 
 2.90 
a
Current ratio
 0.61 
 0.49 
 0.64 
 0.52 
Debt equity ratio
 0.01 
 0.03 
 0.01 
 0.03 
b
Operation profit margin
4.51%
1.54%
4.70%
2.00%
c
Net profit margin
4.18%
0.82%
4.37%
1.27%
d
Return on the net worth
2.21%
0.42%
2.30%
0.65%
d
Basic EPS (`)
4.73
0.88
4.94
1.37
c
Notes: Explanation for change in the ratio by more than 25%	
	
	
	
	
a)	
Higher earning and repayment of borrowings during current year.		
	
	
	
b)	
Repayment of borrowings during current year.	
	
	
	
	
c)	
Higher net profit after tax during the current year due to increased operational revenue and effective cost management.	
	
	
d)	
Higher net profit after tax during the current year with improved efficiency.	 	
	
	
	
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Company has a robust risk management system covering all aspects of business including all essential operations, 
functional areas and business segments. The Risk Management framework ensures the safeguarding of the interests of all 
stakeholders led by thorough identification, analysis, and mitigation of foreseeable business risks. A bottoms-up approach 
ensures timely risk recognition which helps in undertaking appropriate risk mitigation measures. The flexible nature of the 
risk management framework allows it to accommodate shifting business requirements.
For more details please refer to the Risk Management section of the Integrated Annual Report.
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
67
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND 
ADEQUACY
The Company has framed its Internal Financial Controls 
(IFC) in adherence to Section 134(5)(e) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (Act). The IFC ensures organised and efficient 
business operations, safeguarding of assets, adherence to 
established policies, prevention of frauds and errors and 
thorough maintenance of accounting records. The internal 
controls are in accordance with the size and complexity 
of business operations providing reasonable assurance 
regarding all the aforementioned IFC elements.
HUMAN RESOURCES
Human capital is considered an essential pillar of 
organisational growth at EFL. The Company strongly 
believes that its people will be the key to the success of this 
transformation.  Significant investments have been made 
in creating fresh capabilities while equally preserving our 
legacy strengths.  
Our key focus is to foster a sense of ownership in our 
EuroChamps.  We also recognise that we also need to 
reimagine our culture codes and have rolled out several 
learning and development interventions which in turn results 
in a robust team with an optimistic work environment. The 
Company fosters diversity and inclusivity. The HR team 
promotes a performance led work culture providing equal 
growth opportunities and a sense of ownership amongst 
all employees. The team ensures that employee goals are 
aligned with business goals. Employees are an integral part 
of the organisational growth creating sustainable value for 
all stakeholders. EFL continues to promote a performance-
led work culture intertwined with high importance for 
teamwork. The Company constantly looks to strengthen its 
talent pool to further enhance efficiency and responsibility. 
OUTLOOK
With the water purifier, vacuum cleaner, and air purifier 
industries on a double digit growth trajectory, Eureka 
Forbes is strategically positioned to emerge as a leading 
beneficiary. With its robust product portfolio and innovative 
strategies, the Company is well-equipped to capitalise on 
the expanding market opportunities.
We are embarking on an ambitious re-imagination of our 
business model to ensure long-term success over the next 
forty years. Leveraging our deep, long-standing strengths, 
we are actively rebuilding our foundations to adapt to 
current and future market demands. Operating in categories 
that are currently under-penetrated, Eureka Forbes has a 
long runway for growth. We have an exciting transformation 
strategy designed to reposition the Company in the 
market and drive sustained, profitable growth. To lead this 
transformative journey and achieve our ambitious goals, 
we have assembled a high-caliber team. While the early 
results have been encouraging, the Company is confident 
that its best achievements are yet to come, signalling a 
bright future ahead.
AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
During the year, the Company won the following awards:
•	 Red Dot Quality Label Winner 2024 for the outstanding 
product quality and design
•	 EFFIE 2023, SILVER in the Home Furnishings and 
Appliances Category for the highly successful campaign 
- ‘Sar Ka Kapda Hatana hai toh pehle Nal ka Kapda 
Hatana Hoga’
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
Statements forming part of the Management Discussion 
and Analysis Report covered in this Report may be forward-
looking within the meaning of applicable securities laws 
and regulations. Actual results may differ materially from 
those expressed in the statement. Important factors 
that could influence the Company’s operations include 
demand and supply conditions, changes in government 
regulations, exchange rates, tax laws, monsoons, natural 
hazards, national and global economic developments and 
other factors.
68
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
BOARD’S REPORT
Dear Member,
Your Directors are pleased to present to you the report on the business and operations of your Company along with the Audited 
Financial Statements, both Standalone and Consolidated of the Company, for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024.
1.	
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
(` in Lakhs)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
Financial 
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Financial 
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Financial 
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Financial 
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Revenue and other Income 
(Total Revenue)
2,19,775.57
2,09,083.84
2,19,802.97
2,09,473.85
Earnings before Finance Cost, 
Depreciation, Share of Net Profit 
of Joint ventures and before 
Exceptional Items & Tax
19,186.56
13,168.01
19,864.47
14,501.62
Profit 
after 
Finance 
Cost, 
Depreciation, Share of Net Profit 
of Joint ventures and before 
Exceptional Items & Tax
13,755.24
6,695.79
14,362.27
7,852.98
Profit before Tax (PBT)
12,240.34
2,693.99
12,847.37
3,851.18
Tax Expense
3,083.49
985.97
3,282.40
1,203.94
Profit for the year
9,156.85
1,708.02
9,564.97
2,647.24
Other Comprehensive Income 
(235.88)
(472.78)
(212.70)
(498.35)
Total Comprehensive Income
8,920.97
1,235.24
9,352.27
2,148.89
Earnings Per Share - Basic (`) 
4.73
0.88
4.94
1.37
Earnings Per Share - Diluted (`)
4.72*
0.88
4.93*
1.37
	
*Impact due to grant of Stock Options has been considered while arriving at the diluted EPS.
	
The Consolidated and Standalone Financial Statements 
of your Company for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2024 have been prepared in accordance with 
Indian Accounting Standards (IND-AS), the relevant 
provisions of Sections 129 and 133 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and Regulation 33 of Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(“SEBI Listing Regulations/SEBI LODR”) which have 
been reviewed by the Statutory Auditors.
2.	
OVERVIEW 
OF 
COMPANY’S 
FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE
	
•	
Standalone income, comprising Revenue from 
Operations and other income, for the year was 
` 2,19,775.57 Lakhs, 5.11% higher compared to 
` 2,09,083.84 Lakhs in Financial Year 2022-23.
	
•	
Total Standalone Revenue from Operations for the 
year increased to ` 2,18,922.63 Lakhs vis-à-vis 
` 2,08,041.88 Lakhs in Financial Year 2022-23.
	
•	
Standalone Profit before Tax for the year was 
` 12,240.34 Lakhs vis-à-vis ` 2,693.99 Lakhs in 
Financial Year 2022-23.
	
•	
Standalone Profit after Tax for the year was 
` 9,156.85 Lakhs compared to ` 1,708.02 Lakhs 
in Financial Year 2022-23.
	
•	
Consolidated income, comprising Revenue 
from Operations and other income, for the 
year was `  2,19,802.97 Lakhs, 4.93% higher 
compared to ` 2,09,473.85 Lakhs in Financial 
Year 2022-23.
	
•	
Total Consolidated Revenue from Operations 
for the year increased to ` 2,18,925.02 Lakhs 
vis-à-vis ` 2,08,450.51 in Financial Year 2022-23.
	
•	
Consolidated Profit before Tax for the year was 
` 12,847.37 Lakhs vis-à-vis ` 3,851.18 Lakhs in 
Financial Year 2022-23.
69
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
•	
Consolidated Profit after Tax for the year was 
` 9,564.97 Lakhs compared to ` 2,647.24 Lakhs 
in Financial Year 2022-23.
3.	
CHANGE IN THE NATURE OF BUSINESS
	
During the year under review, there was no change in 
the nature of the business of the Company. 
4.	
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
REPORT 
	
Management Discussion & Analysis Report as 
stipulated under the SEBI Listing Regulations is 
presented in a separate section forming part of this 
Integrated Annual Report. It provides details about 
the overall industry structure and development, 
opportunities and threats, performance of various 
products, outlook, risks and concerns. 
5.	
DIVIDEND
	
Your Directors propose to retain the entire Profit 
After Tax (PAT) in the Statement of Profit and Loss 
and do not recommend any dividend. The balance 
in the Statement of Profit and Loss account remains 
available for distribution in future.
	
Pursuant to Regulation 43A of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, your Company has approved and 
adopted a Dividend Distribution Policy. The same is 
available on the website of the Company at the link: 
www.eurekaforbes.com/media/investor-relations/
Dividend-Distribution-Policy.pdf. 
	
During the year under review, the Board of Directors 
made certain revisions to the Dividend Distribution 
Policy to better serve the interests of the Company 
and its shareholders. These revisional aspects of 
the policy are to ensure that it remains aligned with 
the Company’s financial goals, capital requirements, 
the expectations of shareholders and SEBI Listing 
Regulations. By conducting this review, the Board 
aimed to uphold transparency, accountability and 
responsible stewardship of shareholder funds.
6.	
TRANSFER TO RESERVES
	
Your Company does not propose to transfer any 
amount to the General Reserve.
7.	
UNCLAIMED 
DIVIDEND 
TO 
INVESTOR 
EDUCATION AND PROTECTION FUND (“IEPF”)
	
As per the provisions of the Act read with the IEPF 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) 
Rules, 2016, all unpaid or unclaimed dividends are 
required to be transferred to the IEPF Authority, after 
completion of seven years.
	
Further, according to the said Rules, the shares on 
which dividend has not been paid or claimed by the 
shareholders for seven consecutive years or more shall 
also be transferred to the IEPF Authority. Although the 
Company has never declared a dividend, there are 
shares in the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
(IEPF) due to a Composite Scheme of Arrangement.
	
Members whose shares are transferred to IEPF as 
stated above, can still claim the shares from the IEPF 
Authority by submitting an application in Web Form 
No. IEPF-5 available on www.iepf.gov.in. The voting 
rights on shares transferred to the IEPF Authority shall 
remain frozen until the rightful owner claims the shares. 
The shares held in such Demat account shall not be 
transferred or dealt with in any manner whatsoever 
except for the purpose of transferring the shares 
back to the claimant as and when he approaches the 
Authority. All benefits except rights issue accruing on 
such shares e.g. bonus shares, split, consolidation, 
fraction shares etc., shall also be credited to such 
Demat account. Any further dividend received on such 
shares shall be credited to the IEPF Fund.
8.	
MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENTS, 
IF ANY, AFFECTING THE FINANCIAL POSITION 
OF THE COMPANY OCCURRED DURING 
THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND BETWEEN THE 
END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR TO WHICH 
THIS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RELATE AND 
THE DATE OF THE REPORT
	
There were no material changes and commitments 
affecting the financial position of the Company, that 
have occurred during the Financial Year and between 
the end of the Financial Year to which the Financial 
Statements relate and the date of this report.
9.	
DETAILS OF SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL 
ORDERS PASSED BY THE REGULATORS OR 
COURTS OR TRIBUNALS IMPACTING THE 
GOING CONCERN STATUS AND COMPANY’S 
OPERATIONS IN FUTURE 
	
No significant and material orders passed by the 
regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going 
concern status and Company’s operations in future.
10.	 SUBSIDIARY, JOINT VENTURE AND ASSOCIATE 
COMPANIES
	
Your Company has three (03) Direct Subsidiaries and 
one (01) Step-down Subsidiary.
	
During the year under review, the Board of your 
Company approved closure of Euro Forbes Limited, 
subsidiary of the Company and Forbes Lux FZE, Wholly-
Owned Subsidiary (“WOS”) of Euro Forbes Limited.
	
The details of the Subsidiaries are as follows: 
	
a.	
Forbes Aquatech Limited
	
	
Forbes Aquatech Limited having CIN: 
U28122KA2003PLC032492 is a Subsidiary of the 
Company incorporated on September 03, 2003 
70
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
to manufacture, buy, sell, exchange, alter, 
improve, market, distribute, import or export or 
otherwise deal in all kinds of water filters, water 
purifiers, purifiers of all types and kinds, and 
allied products and also to supply, undertake 
and execute any works involving or relating 
to water purifiers, water filters, other products 
for purification of water or any other liquids or 
material of all kinds.
	
	
Total Revenue booked for the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2024 was `  562.53 Lakhs 
(including ` 14.95 Lakhs as other income). The 
Profit After Tax for the current year was ` 9.69 
Lakhs as compared to a loss of ` 74.13 Lakhs in 
the previous year.
	
b.	
Infinite Water Solutions Private Limited
	
	
Infinite Water Solutions Private Limited having 
CIN: U74999MH2008PTC180918 is a WOS of 
the Company incorporated on April 27, 2008 
to manufacture, buy, sell, exchange, alter, 
improve, market, distribute, import or export or 
otherwise deal in all kinds of water filters, water 
purifiers or other water purification systems of all 
types and kinds and allied products, including 
manufacturing and processing of home reverse 
osmosis membrane elements and other related 
water treatment products and also to supply, 
undertake and execute any works involving or 
relating to water purifiers, water filters, other 
products for purification of water or other liquids 
or material of all kinds.
	
	
Total Revenue booked for the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2024 was ` 5,716.03 Lakhs 
(including ` 32.36 Lakhs as other income). The 
Profit after Tax for the current year was ` 559.31 
Lakhs as compared to a profit of ` 701.51 Lakhs 
in the previous year.
	
c.	
Euro Forbes Limited
	
	
Euro Forbes Limited having registration number 
145214 is a WOS incorporated on April 12, 2011 in 
Dubai to carry out general trading and investment 
holding worldwide and to invest in Companies/
Properties, joint Business Ventures with overseas 
entities and Investment in Overseas Entities and 
also Investment in properties of Dubai World, 
Nakeel, Emaar, Dubai Holdings and/or any other 
approved projects by Jebel Ali Free Zone.
	
	
Total Revenue booked for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2024 was ` 0.39 Lakhs (including 0.39 
Lakhs as other income). Net Profit After Tax was 
` 0.39 Lakhs as compared to a loss of ` 7.38 
Lakhs in the previous year.
	
d.	
Forbes Lux FZE
	
	
Forbes Lux FZE having registration number 
147235, is a WOS of Euro Forbes Limited, Dubai 
and is a step-down Subsidiary of the Company 
incorporated on June 26, 2011 in Dubai to trade 
in Cookers & Cook Stoves Trading, Refrigerators, 
Washing Machines & Household Electrical 
Appliances, Trading Water Heaters, Filters & 
Purifications Devices, Electrical & Electronic 
Appliances Spare Parts.
	
	
Total Revenue booked for the Financial Year 
ended March 31, 2024 was `  53.76 Lakhs 
(including ` 53.76 Lakhs as other income). Net 
Loss After Tax was ` 123.23 Lakhs as compared 
to a loss of ` 617.84 Lakhs in the previous year.
	
	
The Company does not have any material 
subsidiary. The policy for determining material 
subsidiaries of the Company has been provided 
in the following link www.eurekaforbes.com/ 
media/investor-relations/Policy-on-Material-
Subsidiary.pdf.
	
	
Pursuant to Section 136 of the Act, the Audited 
Financial Statements including the Consolidated 
Financial Statements and related information 
of the Company and Audited Annual Accounts 
of each of its Subsidiaries are placed on the 
website of the Company at: www.eurekaforbes.
com/investor-relations/financial-information/
subsidiaries-eurekaforbes-ltd/. 
	
	
Further, the Company does not have any Associate 
or Joint Ventures. Further, no companies became 
or ceased to be subsidiaries, Joint Ventures or 
Associate Companies of the Company during the 
year under review.
	
	
Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Act, statement 
containing the salient features of the Financial 
Statements of the Company’s subsidiaries are 
set out in the Form AOC-1, attached herewith as 
Annexure – 1.
11.	 EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION PLAN 2022
	
The Company had by way of Postal Ballot passed a 
special resolution on November 10, 2022, to approve 
the Employee Stock Option Plan 2022 (“ESOP 2022”) 
in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat 
Equity) Regulations, 2021.
	
ESOP 2022 was conceptualised with a view to motivate 
the key workforce seeking their contribution to the 
corporate growth, to create an employee ownership 
culture, to attract, retain, incentivise, and motivate its 
eligible employees for ensuring sustained growth.
	
Under the above plan, the Company can grant 
up to 1,75,21,597 (One Crore Seventy-Five Lakhs 
71
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Twenty-One Thousand Five Hundred and Ninety-
Seven) options exercisable into not more than 
1,75,21,597 (One Crore Seventy-Five Lakhs Twenty-
One Thousand Five Hundred and Ninety-Seven) fully 
paid-up equity shares of ` 10/- (Rupees Ten Only) each.
	
During the year under review, 1,56,79,262 (One Crore Fifty-
Six Lakhs Seventy-Nine Thousand Two Hundred and 
Sixty-Two) options were granted to the eligible 
employees under ESOP 2022. 
	
The disclosures required to be made under SEBI 
(Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 are made available on the website 
of the Company under www.eurekaforbes.com/media/
investor-relations/ESOP-Disclosure/FY-2023-24.pdf. 
12.	 PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR 
INVESTMENTS
	
The Company has not given any loan or provided any 
security or guarantee which are covered under the 
provisions of Section 186 of the Act during the year 
under review.
	
The details of investments made by the Company 
under Section 186 of the Act forms part of this 
Integrated Annual Report and are given in the Notes to 
the Standalone Financial Statements for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2024.
13.	 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
	
i.	
Board of Directors
	
	
There was no change in the composition of the Board of Directors during the year under review.
Sr.  
No.
Name of the Director
Designation
1.
Mr. Arvind Uppal
Chairman, Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
2.
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota
Managing Director & CEO
3.
Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
4.
Mr. Vinod Rao
Independent Director
5.
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
Independent Director
6.
Mr. Homi Adi Katgara
Independent Director
7.
Mr. Shashank Shankar Samant
Independent Director
	
	
None of the Directors are disqualified from being appointed as the Director of the Company in terms of Section 
164 of the Act. During the year under review, the Non-Executive Directors of the Company had no pecuniary 
relationship or transactions with the Company, other than sitting fees, commission, perquisites and reimbursement 
of expenses incurred by them for the purpose of attending meetings of the Board/Committees of the Company. 
	
	
In accordance with the provisions of Section 152 of the Act and the Company’s Articles of Association, Mr. Sahil 
Dilip Dalal (DIN:07350808) is liable to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) and being 
eligible offers himself for re-appointment. The Board recommends re-appointment of Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal for the 
consideration of the Members of the Company at the forthcoming AGM. The relevant details including profile of 
Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal is included separately in the Notice of AGM and Report on Corporate Governance, forming 
part of this Integrated Annual Report.
	
ii.	
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
	
	
Following were the Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) as on March 31, 2024 and as on date pursuant to Sections 2(51) 
and 203 of the Act read with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014:
Sr.  
No.
Name of the KMP
Designation
1.
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota
Managing Director & CEO
2.
Mr. Gaurav Pradip Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
3.
Ms. Pragya Kaul 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
14.	 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
	
a.	
Declaration by Independent Director 
	
	
The Board confirms that based on the written 
affirmations from each Independent Director, 
all Independent Directors fulfil the conditions 
specified for independence as stipulated in 
Regulation 16 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
as amended, read with Section 149(6) of the 
Act along with rules framed thereunder and are 
independent of the Management. Further, the 
Independent Directors have also registered their 
names in the Databank maintained by the Indian 
Institute of Corporate Affairs (“IICA”), Manesar, 
Gurgaon as mandated in the Companies 
(Appointment and Qualification of Directors), 
72
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
e.	
Familiarisation Programme for Independent 
Directors
	
	
Pursuant to Regulation 25(7) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations, your Company has put in 
place a system to familiarise its Independent 
Directors with their roles, responsibilities in the 
Company, nature of the industry, business model, 
processes, policies and the technology and the 
risk management systems of the Company, the 
operational and financial performance of the 
Company and significant developments so as to 
enable them to take well informed decisions in 
timely manner. 
	
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, familiarisation 
programmes were conducted and the 
Independent Directors were updated from time to 
time on continuous basis on Company’s business 
model, risks & opportunities, significant changes 
in the regulations and duties and responsibilities 
of Independent Directors under the Act and SEBI 
Listing Regulations and other matters. 
	
	
The policy on Company’s familiarisation program 
for Independent Directors is hosted on the 
Company’s website at www.eurekaforbes.
com/media/investor-relations/Familiarisation-
Programme-for_Independent-Directors.pdf. 
	
f.	
Opinion of the Board with regard to integrity, 
expertise and experience (including the 
proficiency) of the Independent Directors 
appointed during the year
	
	
The Board after taking the Independent Directors’ 
respective declarations/disclosures on record 
and acknowledging the veracity of the same, is 
of the opinion that the Independent Directors of 
the Company possess requisite qualification(s), 
experience, expertise, hold highest standards of 
integrity and are independent of the management 
of the Company.
15.	 COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD 
	
The Committees constituted by the Board focus on 
specific areas and take informed decisions within 
the framework of delegated authority, and make 
specific recommendations to the Board on matters 
within their areas or purview. The decisions and 
recommendations of the Committees and minutes of 
meetings of Committees are placed before the Board 
for information and/or for approval, as required. During 
the year under review, all recommendations received 
from its Committees were accepted by the Board. 
	
The details of the Board and its Committees along with 
their composition, meetings held during the year are 
given under Corporate Governance Report forming 
part of this Integrated Annual Report.
Rules, 2014. None of the Independent Directors 
have any other material pecuniary relationship or 
transaction with the Company, its Promoters, or 
Directors, or Senior Management which, in their 
judgement, would affect their independence. 
In terms of Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, they have confirmed that they are 
not aware of any circumstance or situation which 
exists or may be reasonably anticipated that could 
impair or impact their ability to discharge their 
duties with an objective independent judgement 
and without any external influence. Further, none 
of the Directors are related to each other.
	
b.	
Number of Meetings of Board
	
	
During the year under review, 06 (Six) Meetings of 
the Board of Directors were held. The details of 
such meetings held and attended by the Directors 
during the Financial Year 2023-24 are given in the 
Corporate Governance Report which forms part 
of this Integrated Annual Report.
	
	
The maximum interval between any two meetings 
did not exceed 120 days, as prescribed by the 
Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
c.	
Annual Evaluation of the Board 
	
	
Evaluation of the Board, Directors, Committees 
etc. are done on an annual basis. The process 
is led by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee with specific focus on the performance 
vis-à-vis the plans, meeting challenging 
situations, performing leadership role within, 
effective functioning of the Board, time spent by 
each of the Directors, accomplishment of specific 
responsibilities and expertise, conflict of interest, 
integrity of Director, active participation and 
contribution during discussions.
	
	
The details of the Annual Board Evaluation 
process for Directors form a part of the 
Corporate Governance Report of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
	
d.	
Policy on Directors’ Appointment and 
Remuneration and Other Details
	
	
Your Company has a Nomination and 
Remuneration Policy for Directors and Senior 
Managerial Personnel in compliance with 
the provisions of Section 178 of the Act and 
Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing Regulations as 
approved by the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee and the Board. 
	
	
The policy is available on the website of 
the Company at www.eurekaforbes.com/
media/investor-relations/Nomination-and-
Remuneration-Policy-new.pdf. 
73
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
16.	 DEPOSITS
	
Your Company has not accepted any public deposit 
and as such no amount on account of principal or 
interest on public deposit under Section 73 and 74 of 
the Act, read together with the Companies (Acceptance 
of Deposits) Rules, 2014 was outstanding as on the 
date of the Balance Sheet.
17.	 RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY 
	
Your Company has implemented a comprehensive 
risk management system that covers all essential 
operations, and functional areas. The Company 
has put in place a comprehensive risk management 
framework to identify, analyse, and mitigate business 
risks with the objective of safeguarding the interests 
of its stakeholders. The Company’s risk management 
framework is designed to ensure that risks are 
recognised and dealt with from the top down to 
the bottom up in a timely and appropriate manner. 
It is also kept flexible to accommodate shifting 
business requirements.
	
Broadly, key risks identified by the Management covers 
risk related to Regulatory/Compliance Risk, Market 
Risk, Consumer/Reputation Risk, Supply Chain Risk, 
Information/Cyber Security Risk and People Risk.
18.	 INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL
	
Your Company has a defined system of internal controls 
for financial reporting of transactions and compliance 
with relevant laws and regulations commensurate with 
its size and nature of business. The Company also 
has a well-defined process for ongoing management 
reporting and periodic review of businesses.
	
There is an active internal audit function carried out 
entirely by M/s. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) an 
external Chartered Accountant firm. As part of the 
efforts to evaluate the effectiveness of internal control 
systems, the internal audit department reviews the 
control measures periodically and recommends 
improvements, wherever appropriate.
	
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the audit 
findings as well as the adequacy and effectiveness 
of the internal control measures. Based on their 
recommendations, the Company has implemented 
a number of control measures both in operational 
and accounting related areas, apart from security 
related measures.
19.	 CORPORATE 
SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY 
(“CSR”)
	
Your Company is dedicated to add value to every 
individual in the country through its business by 
integrating societal, economic, environmental and 
sustainable commitments. Business practices of the 
Company shall contribute to make the world a better 
place. The main CSR objective of the Company is 
to promote healthcare, sanitation, hygiene including 
preventive healthcare and making available safe 
drinking water.
	
Disclosures as required under Rule 9 of the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 
are annexed to this Report as Annexure – 2. The CSR 
Policy is hosted on the website of the Company at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/cms/assets/prod/Charter_of_
CSR_Committee_and_Policy_.pdf.
20.	 AUDITORS AND AUDITORS’ REPORT
	
a.	
Statutory Auditors:
	
	
In terms of provisions of Section 139 of the 
Act and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014, M/s. Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP, 
Chartered Accountants, (Firm Registration 
No. 117366W/W-100018) were appointed as 
the Statutory Auditors of the Company at the 
13th Annual General Meeting held on December 
22, 2022 to hold office for a term of five 
consecutive Financial Years from the conclusion 
of the 13th Annual General Meeting until the 
conclusion of the 18th Annual General Meeting 
of the Company.
	
	
The Report given by the Statutory Auditors on 
the Financial Statements of the Company is part 
of this Integrated Annual Report. There has been 
no qualification, reservation, adverse remark or 
disclaimer given by the Statutory Auditors in 
their Report. During the year under review, the 
Statutory Auditors have not reported any fraud 
under Section 143(12) of the Act. 
	
b.	
Secretarial Auditors:
	
	
The Board at its meeting held on May 29, 2023, 
appointed M/s. Mihen Halani & Associates, 
Practicing Company Secretaries (COP No. 
12015) as Secretarial Auditors of the Company 
to conduct the Secretarial Audit for Financial 
Year 2023-24. 
	
	
The Secretarial Audit Report is annexed herewith 
as Annexure - 3 to this Report. 
	
	
The said report does not contain any observation 
or qualification requiring explanation or comments 
from the Board under Section 134(3) of the Act.
	
	
Further, the subsidiaries of the Company are not 
material subsidiaries. Therefore, the provisions 
regarding the Secretarial Audit as mentioned in 
Regulation 24A of the SEBI Listing Regulations 
as amended, do not apply to such subsidiaries.
74
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
c.	
Cost Auditors:
	
	
In terms of provisions of Section 148(1) of the 
Act read with the Companies (Cost Records and 
Audit) Rules, 2014, your Company is required to 
maintain cost accounting records and is required 
to get its cost accounts audited.
	
	
M/s. J. Chandra & Associates, Cost Accountants, 
have carried out the Cost audit of the Company 
for the Financial Year 2023-24.
	
	
During the year under review, the Cost Auditor 
has not reported any fraud under Section 143(12) 
of the Act.
21.	 SHARE CAPITAL
	
During the year under review, there was no change in 
the Capital Structure of the Company.
	
a.	
Buy Back of Securities: The Company has not 
bought back any of its securities during the year 
under review. 
	
b.	
Sweat Equity: The Company has not issued any 
Sweat Equity Shares during the year under review. 
	
c.	
Bonus Shares: No Bonus Shares were issued 
during the year under review. 
	
d.	
Shares with differential rights: The Company 
has not issued any equity shares with differential 
rights during the year under review. 
	
e.	
During the year under review, the Company has 
not made any provision of money for the purchase 
of, or subscription for, shares in your Company 
or its holding Company, to be held by or for the 
benefit of the employees of the Company and 
hence the disclosure as required under Rule 16(4) 
of Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) 
Rules, 2014 is not required.
22.	 DISCLOSURES UNDER SEXUAL HARASSMENT 
OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, 
PROHIBITION & REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013
	
Your Company has zero tolerance for sexual 
harassment at workplace and has formulated a 
comprehensive policy on Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal against Sexual Harassment of Women 
at Workplace, which is also in accordance with the 
provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013 (“POSH”). The said policy has been made 
available on the internal portal of the Company. 
	
Your Company has constituted an Internal Complaints 
Committee (“ICC”) under the POSH and has complied 
with the provisions relating to the same. All employees 
(permanent, contractual, temporary, trainees) are 
covered under this Policy. The constitution of ICC is 
as per the POSH Act and includes an external member 
who is an independent POSH consultant with relevant 
experience. The Company has an e-learning tool on 
POSH for all regular employees and also for induction 
of new employees. 
	
During Financial Year 2023-24, 1 complaint was 
received pertaining to sexual harassment and post an 
elaborate investigation, the accused employee was 
terminated from service.
23.	 COMPLIANCE WITH SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
	
Your Company has complied with all the applicable 
provisions of Secretarial Standards on Meetings of 
Board of Directors (SS-1) and Secretarial Standards 
on General Meetings (SS-2) issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India. 
24.	 CREDIT RATING
	
During the year under review, the Company’s credit 
rating was revised from CARE A/Stable for long term 
bank facilities to CARE A+/Stable. The details of Credit 
Rating are available on the website of the Company 
at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/
shareholders-information/credit-rating.
25.	 CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY 
ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS & OUTGO
	
The information in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 134(3)(m) of the Act regarding conservation 
of energy, technology absorption, and foreign 
exchange earnings and outgo is attached herewith 
as Annexure – 4 and forms part of this Integrated 
Annual Report.
26.	 PARTICULARS 
OF 
CONTRACTS 
OR 
ARRANGEMENTS WITH RELATED PARTIES
	
In accordance with the requirements of the Act and 
SEBI Listing Regulations, the Policy on Materiality of 
Related Party Transactions and dealing with Related 
Party Transactions as approved by the Board is 
uploaded on the Company’s website at the web link 
www.eurekaforbes.com/media/investor-relations/
Policy-on-Materiality-of-Related-Party-Transactions-
and-on-dealing-with-Related-Party-Transactions.pdf.
	
This policy deals with the review and approval of 
Related Party Transactions. The Board of Directors 
of the Company have approved the criteria to grant 
omnibus approval by the Audit Committee within 
the overall framework of the policy on related party 
transactions. Prior omnibus approval is obtained for 
related party transactions which are of repetitive nature 
and entered in the ordinary course of business and at 
arm’s length.
75
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
All Related Party Transactions during the Financial Year 
2023-24, were reviewed and approved by the Audit 
Committee and were on arm’s length basis and in the 
ordinary course of business. There were no material 
transactions with Related Parties during the year as 
per the last Audited Financial Statements. Accordingly, 
the disclosure of transactions entered into with Related 
Parties pursuant to the provisions of Section 188(1) of 
the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts), 
Rules 2014 in Form AOC-2 is not applicable.
	
Related Party Transactions entered during the 
year under review are disclosed in the notes to the 
Financial Statements. 
27.	 DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
	
Pursuant to Section 134 of the Act, the Board of 
Directors, to the best of their knowledge and belief 
and according to the information and explanations 
obtained by them confirm that:
	
a)	
in the preparation of the annual accounts, the 
applicable accounting standards have been 
followed along with proper explanation relating 
to material departures;
	
b)	
they have selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgments 
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so 
as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Company at the end of the Financial Year 
and of the profit of the Company for that period;
	
c)	
they have taken proper and sufficient care for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records 
in accordance with the provisions of the Act 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and for preventing and detecting fraud and 
other irregularities;
	
d)	
they have prepared the annual accounts on a 
going concern basis;
	
e)	
they have laid down internal financial controls to 
be followed by the Company and such internal 
financial controls are adequate and operating 
effectively; and
	
f)	
they have devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable 
laws and that such systems are adequate and 
operating effectively.
28.	 HUMAN 
RESOURCE 
DEVELOPMENT 
& 
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
	
The Human Resources (HR) Function has closely 
partnered with business to accelerate business growth. 
The HR team has worked on creating understanding 
and alignment to the company goals, created a 
platform for employees to share their feedback on 
company culture and started embedding the new 
Eureka Forbes behaviours through various Reward and 
Recognition programmes. In a transformation, the HR 
function is responsible to hire the right talent, develop 
employees in terms of skills and raise organisation 
performance through the right set of long terms and 
short term incentive programmes.
29.	 ANNUAL RETURN
	
Pursuant to Section 92 of the Act and Rule 12 of the 
Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 
2014, the Annual Return is available on the website of 
the Company under www.eurekaforbes.com/media/
investor-relations/Eureka-Forbes-Limited-Annual-
Return-FY-2023-24.pdf.
30.	 PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES AND 
REMUNERATION
	
Disclosures concerning the remuneration of Directors, 
KMPs and employees as per Section 197(12) of the Act 
read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 is 
given in Annexure – 5 to this Report. Your Directors 
affirm that the remuneration paid to Directors, KMPs 
and employees is as per the remuneration policy of 
the Company. 
	
Details of employee remuneration as required under 
Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) 
of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, is provided 
in a separate annexure forming part of this report. 
Further, the report and the accounts are being sent 
to the Members excluding the aforesaid annexure. In 
terms of Section 136 of the Act, the said annexure 
is open for inspection and any Member interested 
in obtaining a copy of the same may write to the 
Company Secretary.
31.	 WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY
	
In compliance with Section 177(9) of the Act and 
Regulation 22 of SEBI Listing Regulations, your 
Company has adopted a Whistle Blower Policy. 
The Audit Committee oversees the functioning of 
this policy. 
	
The Company’s Whistle Blower Policy aims to 
provide the appropriate platform and protection 
for Whistle Blowers to report instances of fraud 
and mismanagement, if any, to promote reporting 
of any unethical or improper practice or violation 
of the Company’s Code of Conduct or complaints 
regarding accounting, auditing, internal controls or 
suspected incidents of violation of applicable laws 
and regulations including the Company’s Code of 
Conduct or Code for Prevention of Insider Trading 
and Policy of Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Public 
Sensitive Information.
76
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
The Whistle Blower Policy provides a mechanism for 
Employees of the Company to approach the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee of the Company for redressal. 
Details of the Whistle Blower policy are covered in the 
Corporate Governance Report, which forms part of 
this Integrated Annual Report and are made available 
on the Company’s website at: www.eurekaforbes.com/
media/pdf/whistle-blower-policy.pdf. 
32. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
	
Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a separate section 
on Corporate Governance practices followed by the 
Company, together with a Certificate from Practicing 
Company Secretary confirming compliance conditions, 
as required under Regulation 27 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations forms an integral part of this Report and 
is annexed herewith as Annexure - 6.
33.	 BUSINESS 
RESPONSIBILITY 
AND 
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (BRSR)
	
Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, top 1000 listed entities based on market 
capitalisation are required to include Business 
Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) with 
their Annual Report, in the format as specified by SEBI. 
	
The BRSR of your Company for Financial Year 2023-24 
is aligned with the Nine (9) principles of the National 
Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct notified 
by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of 
India and forms part of this Integrated Annual Report 
as Annexure - 7.
34.	 DETAILS OF APPLICATIONS, APPROVED 
OR PENDING UNDER INSOLVENCY AND 
BANKRUPTCY CODE, 2016 
	
Your Company, in the capacity of Creditor, has not filed 
any applications with National Company Law Tribunal 
under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 
during the Financial Year 2023-24 for recovery of any 
outstanding loans against any customer. Further, no 
application has been filed with National Company Law 
Tribunal under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 
2016 against your Company for recovery of any debt 
during the year under review.
35.	 DIFFERENCE IN VALUATION DONE FOR 
ONE-TIME SETTLEMENT AND VALUATION 
DONE WHILE TAKING A LOAN FROM BANKS 
OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
	
During the year under review, your Company has not 
entered into one-time settlement with any Bank or 
financial institution.
36.	 INTEGRATED REPORTING
	
We are pleased to inform that the Company has 
voluntarily published its first Integrated Annual Report 
for Financial Year 2024, which includes both financial 
and non-financial information and is based on the 
International Integrated Reporting Council (“IIRC”). 
This report covers aspects such as organisation’s 
strategy, governance framework, performance, 
risk management and prospects of value creation 
based on the six forms of capitals viz., Financial 
Capital, Intellectual Capital, Manufactured Capital, 
Human Capital, Natural Capital, and Social and 
Relationship Capital.
37.	 APPRECIATION & ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
	
Your Directors take this opportunity to thank sincerely 
and acknowledge with gratitude, the contribution, 
co-operation and assistance received from customers, 
vendors, dealers, suppliers, investors, business 
associates, bankers, Government authorities and other 
stakeholders for their continued support during the year.
	
Further, the Board places on record its deep 
appreciation for the enthusiasm, co-operation, hard 
work, dedication and commitment of the employees 
at all levels. The enthusiasm and unstinting efforts of 
the employees have enabled the Company to remain 
an industry leader.
 On behalf of the Board of Directors of
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
Arvind Uppal
Place: Gurugram	
Chairman
Date: August 08, 2024 	
(DIN: 00104992)
77
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annexure – 1
FORM AOC -1
Statement pursuant to Section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Subsidiaries/  
Associate Companies and Joint Ventures
PART “A”: SUBSIDIARIES
1
Sr. No.
1
2
3
4
2
Name of Subsidiary
Forbes 
Aquatech 
Limited
Infinite Water 
Solutions Private 
Limited
Euro Forbes Limited,  
Dubai
Forbes Lux FZE, 
Dubai****
` Lakhs
` Lakhs
US$- 
Lakhs
` Lakhs
US$- 
Lakhs
` Lakhs
3
Date since when subsidiary was 
acquired
01-02-2022
01-02-2022
01-02-2022
01-02-2022
4
Reporting Period of Subsidiary 
concerned, if different from the 
Holding Company’s reporting period*
31-03-2024
31-03-2024
31-03-2024
31-03-2024
5
Reporting currency and Exchange 
rate as on the last date of the relevant 
Financial Year in the case of foreign 
subsidiaries
-
-
1 USD = 83.3739 INR 
1 USD = 83.3739 INR
6
Share Capital
56.51
700.00
513.07
34,732.26
444.60
30,173.42
7
Reserves & Surplus**
985.68
2,814.99
(513.03)
(34,728.93)
(453.62)
(30,923.72)
8
Total Assets***
1,099.28
3,967.30
0.06
5.14
2.14
178.87
9
Total Liability
57.09
452.31
0.02
1.82
11.16
929.17
10
Investments
-
-
-
-
-
-
11
Turnover
547.58
5,683.67
-
-
-
-
12
Profit Before Taxation
13.10
754.78
0.01
0.39
(1.48)
(123.23)
13
Provision for Taxation
3.41
195.47
-
-
-
-
14
Profit After Taxation
9.69
559.31
0.01
0.39
(1.48)
(123.23)
15
Other Comprehensive Income
(0.11)
(0.97)
-
-
-
-
16
Proposed Dividend
-
-
-
-
-
-
17
% of Shareholding
88.49%
100%
100%
100%
The above numbers are taken from the respective audited financial statements.
* Euro Forbes Limited and Forbes Lux FZE, both under liquidation, follow a January-December reporting period. As no audit was required 
for the year ending December 31, 2024, a special audit was conducted for the period ending March 31, 2024, for India consolidation, with 
the figures in AOC-1 reflecting this audited period.
** Net of Debit balance of Statement of Profit & Loss and Foreign Exchange Transaction Reserve, where applicable.
*** Includes Investment.
****Forbes Lux FZE, Dubai is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Euro Forbes Limited, Dubai (Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Eureka Forbes Limited).
PART “B”: ASSOCIATE COMPANIES/JOINT VENTURES
Not Applicable as there are no Associate Companies and Joint Ventures
	
On behalf of the Board of Directors of
	
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
Arvind Uppal	
Pratik R. Pota
	
Chairman	
Managing Director & CEO
	
(DIN: 00104992)	
(DIN: 00751178)
	
Place: Gurugram	
Place: Mumbai
	
Pragya Kaul	
Gaurav Khandelwal
	
Company Secretary	
Chief Financial Officer
	
Membership No.: 17167	
Place: Mumbai
Date: August 08, 2024	
Place: Mumbai
78
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Annexure – 2
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (“CSR”) ACTIVITIES  
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2023-24
[Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Companies  
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, as amended.]
1.	
BRIEF OUTLINE ON CSR POLICY OF THE COMPANY
	
The Company is dedicated to add value to every individual in the country through its business by integrating societal, 
economic, environmental and sustainable commitments. The main CSR objective of the Company is to provide every 
Indian access to healthy water, pure air and clean earth, both at home and outside.
	
In accordance with the Companies Act, 2013, the Company has committed 2% (Profit before Tax) annually towards 
CSR initiatives. The CSR Policy of the Company outlines the approach and direction given by the Board, taking into 
account the recommendations of its CSR Committee, and includes guiding principles for selection, implementation 
and monitoring of CSR activities as well as formulation of the annual CSR action plan.
2.	
COMPOSITION OF CSR COMMITTEE AS ON MARCH 31, 2024
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Designation/ 
Nature of Directorship
Number of Meetings 
of CSR Committee 
held during the year
Number of Meetings 
of CSR Committee 
attended during  
the year
1
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
Chairperson, Non-Executive,  
Independent Director
3
3
2
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota
Member, MD&CEO
3
3
3
Mr. Homi Katgara
Member, Non-Executive,  
Independent Director
3
2
4
Mr. Vinod Rao
Member, Non-Executive,  
Independent Director
3
3
3.	
WEB-LINK 
WHERE 
COMPOSITION 
OF 
CSR COMMITTEE, CSR POLICY AND CSR 
PROJECTS APPROVED BY THE BOARD 
ARE DISCLOSED ON THE WEBSITE OF THE 
COMPANY
	
i.	
Composition of CSR Committee: www.
eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/corporate-
social-responsibility/.
	
ii.	
CSR Policy: www.eurekaforbes.com/cms/assets/
prod/Charter_of_CSR_Committee_and_Policy_.
pdf.
	
iii.	
CSR Projects approved by the Board are 
disclosed on the website of the Company: 
www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/
corporate-social-responsibility/.
4.	
PROVIDE THE EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ALONG 
WITH WEB-LINK(S) OF IMPACT ASSESSMENT 
OF CSR PROJECTS CARRIED OUT IN 
PURSUANCE OF SUB-RULE (3) OF RULE 8, 
IF APPLICABLE: Not Applicable
5.	
CSR DETAILS
	
a.	
Average net profit of the Company as per section 
135(5): ` 16,12,00,532/-
	
b.	
Two percent of average net profit of the Company 
as per section 135(5): ` 32,24,011/-
	
c.	
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or 
programmes or activities of the previous Financial 
Years: NIL
	
d.	
Amount required to be set off for the Financial 
Year, if any: NIL
	
e.	
Total CSR obligation for the Financial Year [(b)+(c)-
(d)]: ` 32,24,011/- 
6.	
(a)	
Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing 
Project and other than Ongoing Project): 
` 32,51,471/-
	
(b)	
Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: 
` 48,529/-
	
(c)	
Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if 
applicable: Not applicable
	
(d)	
Total amount spent for the Financial Year 
[(a)+(b)+(c)]: ` 33,00,000/-
79
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
(e)	
CSR Amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year:
Total 
Amount 
spent for 
the Financial 
Year (`)
Amount Unspent
Total Amount transferred to 
unspent CSR Account as per 
Section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified 
under Schedule VII as per second proviso  
to Section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of Transfer
33,00,000
NIL
NIL
	
(f)	 Excess Amount for set off, if any: Nil
Sr.  
No.
Particulars
Amount (`)
(i) 
Two percent of average Net Profit of the Company as per Section 135(5)
32,24,011
(ii)
Total Amount spent for the Finance Year
33,00,000
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]
75,989
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous 
Financial Year, if any
NIL
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
75,989
7.	
DETAILS OF UNSPENT CSR AMOUNT FOR THE PRECEDING THREE FINANCIAL YEARS: NIL
8.	
WHETHER ANY CAPITAL ASSETS HAVE BEEN CREATED OR ACQUIRED THROUGH CORPORATE 
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AMOUNT SPENT IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR: NIL
9.	
SPECIFY THE REASON(S), IF THE COMPANY HAS FAILED TO SPEND TWO PERCENT OF THE 
AVERAGE NET PROFIT AS PER SECTION 135(5): Not Applicable
Gurveen Singh	
Pratik Pota
(Chairperson, CSR Committee)	
(Managing Director & CEO)
DIN: 09507365	
DIN: 00751178	
Place: Dubai, UAE	
Place: Mumbai	
	
On behalf of the Board of Directors of
	
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
Arvind Uppal
	
Chairman
	
(DIN: 00104992)
Date: August 08, 2024	
Place: Gurugram
80
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Annexure – 3
FORM MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 9 of the 
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova,
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, 
Mumbai – 400 013, Maharashtra, India
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by Eureka Forbes Limited (“the 
Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner 
that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate conducts / statutory compliances and expressing 
our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorised 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during 
the audit period covering the Financial Year ended on March 
31, 2024, (the “Audit Period”) complied with the statutory 
provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company 
has proper Board processes and compliance mechanism 
in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to the 
reporting made hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, 
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by 
the Company for the Financial Year ended on March 31, 
2024 according to the provisions of:
i.	
The Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the rules 
made thereunder;
ii.	
The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 
(“SCRA”) and the Rules made thereunder;
iii.	
The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and 
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
iv.	
Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the 
rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of 
Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment 
and External Commercial Borrowings;
v.	
The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (“SEBI Act”);
	
a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011 as amended from time to time;
	
b)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 as amended from time to time;
	
c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
as amended from time to time;
	
d)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2018 as amended from time to time 
- Not applicable to the Company during the 
Audit period;
	
e)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021 as amended from time to time;
	
f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021 - Not applicable to the 
Company during the Audit period;
	
g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act 
and dealing with client;
	
h)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 
- Not Applicable to the Company during the 
Audit Period, and
	
i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 - 
Not Applicable to the Company during the 
Audit Period;
	
j)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Depositories and Participants) Regulations, 2018
81
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
vi.	
We have relied on the representations made by the 
Company and its officers for systems and mechanism 
formed by the Company for compliances under other 
various applicable Acts, Laws, Rules and Regulations 
to the Company.
	
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following:
	
(i)	
Secretarial Standards (SS-1 and SS-2) issued by 
The Institute of Company Secretaries of India;
	
(ii)	
The Listing Agreement entered into by the 
Company with BSE Limited read with SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015.
	
To the best of our knowledge and belief, during the 
period under review, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, 
Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned above.
We further report that:
a)	
During the year under review, the Board of Directors 
of the Company was duly constituted with proper 
balance of Executive Director, Non-Executive Directors 
and Independent Directors. 
	
The Committees of the Board are duly constituted. No 
changes in the composition of the Board of Directors 
took place during the Audit Period. 
b)	
Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule 
the meetings of Board and Committee of the Board. 
Agenda and notes on agenda were sent at least seven 
days in advance except where the consents received 
for shorter notice from the Directors, and adequate 
system exists for seeking and obtaining further 
information and clarifications on the agenda items 
before the Meeting and for meaningful participation at 
the meeting.
c)	
All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee 
Meetings were carried out unanimously as recorded in 
the Minutes of the Meetings of the Board of Directors 
or Committee of the Board, as the case may be.
We further report that there are adequate systems and 
processes in the Company commensurate with the size 
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure 
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations 
and guidelines.
We further report that during the audit period, the following 
event/action has taken place having a major bearing on 
the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred 
laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards, etc. referred 
to above:
•	
At the Extra Ordinary General Meeting of the Company 
held on April 19, 2023, Members of the Company vide 
Special Resolution have approved proposed grant of 
Stock Options equal to or exceeding 1% (One Percent) 
of issued capital of the Company under Eureka Forbes 
– Employee Stock Option Plan 2022 at the time of 
grant to the identified employee(s) namely Mr. Pratik 
Rashmikant Pota (DIN: 00751178), Managing Director 
& Chief Executive Officer of the Company;
•	
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held 
on September 22, 2023 (“14th AGM”), Members of the 
Company vide Special Resolution have considered 
and approved waiver of recovery of the excess 
remuneration paid/payable to Mr. Marzin R. Shroff 
(DIN: 00642613), former Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer for the Financial Year 2022-23;
•	
At the 14th AGM, Members of the Company vide Special 
Resolution have considered and approved waiver of 
recovery of the excess remuneration paid/payable to 
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota (DIN: 00751178), Managing 
Director & Chief Executive Officer for the Financial 
Year 2022-23;
•	
At the 14th AGM, Members of the Company vide Special 
Resolution have considered and approved payment 
of Commission to the Non-Executive Directors of the 
Company with effect from the Financial Year 2022-23;
•	
At the 14th AGM, Members of the Company vide Special 
Resolution had approved the overall managerial 
remuneration of the Directors for the Financial 
Year 2022-23.
We further report that during the audit period, the Company 
has co-operated with us and have produced before us all 
the required forms, information, clarifications, returns and 
other documents as required for the purpose of our audit.
For MIHEN HALANI & ASSOCIATES
 Practicing Company Secretaries
Mihen Halani
Place: Mumbai	
(Proprietor)
Date: May 28, 2024	
CP No: 12015
ICSI UDIN: F009926F000464831	
FCS No: 9926
Note: This report is to be read with our letter of even date 
which is annexed as “Annexure A” herewith and forms as 
integral part of this report.
82
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Annexure – A to Annexure – 3
To,
The Members,
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova,
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, 
Mumbai – 400 013, Maharashtra, India
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
1.	
Maintenance of Secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY
2.	
We have followed the audit practices and process as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the Secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct 
facts are reflected in Secretarial records. We believe that the process and practices, we followed provides a reasonable 
basis for our opinion.
3.	
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4.	
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the Compliance of laws, rules and 
regulations and happening of events etc.
DISCLAIMER
5.	
The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the 
responsibility of the management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For MIHEN HALANI & ASSOCIATES
 Practicing Company Secretaries
Mihen Halani
Place: Mumbai	
(Proprietor)
Date: May 28, 2024	
CP No: 12015
ICSI UDIN: F009926F000464831	
FCS No: 9926
83
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Annexure – 4
Information under Section 134(3) (m) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 8(3) of the Company (Accounts) Rules, 2014 
made thereunder forming part of the Board’s Report for the year ended March 31, 2024
(A)	 CONSERVATION OF ENERGY
(i)	
Steps taken or impact on conservation of 
energy and Capital investment on energy 
equipments:
	
Green Features of Dehradun Plant: 
	
The Dehradun factory is a landmark which incorporates 
a list of eco-friendly features, which are as follows:
	
•	
Pre-fabricated Steel Structure: The pre-
fabricated steel structure is a unique feature of 
this building. The building was developed with 
minimum site disturbance and the materials 
were effectively used by adopting the design 
specification based on the internal load 
requirements thereby optimising the use of 
natural resources. 
	
•	
Fly Ash based Bricks & Hollow blocks: The 
construction was made with fly ash based bricks, 
cement and concrete blocks. This reduces the 
burden of earth and increases the life of spend 
materials. In addition, the fly ash material acts 
as a better thermal insulation and increases 
the physical comfort of the people and is 
environment‑friendly.
	
•	
Natural Light Harvesting: The building is 
designed with a daylight view and adequate 
daylight harvesting. This saves energy for 
power requirements.
	
•	
Thermal Comfort at Factory Premises: The 
building is insulated with fly ash based bricks, 
cement and hollow blocks thus resisting the 
external temperature influences. In addition, the 
roof is insulated with specialised media, and 
Turbo ventilators are strategically installed to 
maintain air circulation.
	
•	
Turbo Ventilators: Unlike the traditional ventilation 
methods, Turbo vent works up the hot air from 
inside the building by natural convection. This 
roof-top wind driven ventilator is cost-effective 
and runs without electricity.
	
•	
Water Efficiency: The building is fitted with 
water-efficient gadgets that can save up to 70% 
on usage. The tap fittings are designed with pre-
set flow and timer. Once you press, the water 
flows for 6 seconds and stops automatically. The 
Water taps are automated and use contactless 
sensor-based technology which helps in 
further conservation of water and contactless 
hand-wash.
	
•	
Rain Water Harvesting: The rooftop water 
is harvested for collection in a tank for ‘Use 
When Available’ and excess is used for borewell 
recharge. The rooftop water from south-western 
side (distant from bore well) is recharged into the 
ground through recharge pits. In this way most 
of the roof water is trapped either in the tank 
or underground.
	
•	
Introduction of Green Packaging: Your Company 
is in the process of reducing the use of thermocol 
buffer and promoting the use of recyclable 
pulp buffer and Expanded Polystyrene (“EPS”). 
Pulp packaging offers a wide range of benefits 
compared to traditional plastics and EPS such 
as Zero Manufacturing Waste, 100% recyclable 
packaging, etc.
	
•	
Energy Efficient Compressor: Variable 
Frequency Drive (“VFD”) (new energy-efficient) 
air compressor installed at the Dehradun 
Factory which resulted into reducing the 
energy consumption.
(ii)	 Steps 
taken 
towards 
conservation 
of 
Environment:
	
Your Company has been constantly innovating ways to 
reduce usage of plastics and other material that could 
pollute environment and follows the Environmental, 
Health & Safety (“EHS”) norms. Following activities 
have been taken and followed under this initiative:
	
1.	
At Bengaluru factory, installed Retrofitting 
Emission Control Device (RECD) to mitigate 
emissions [Particular Matter (“PM”), Hydrocarbon 
(“HC”), Carbon Monoxide (“CM”)].
	
2.	
Sewage treatment plants (STP) and Effluent 
treatment plants (“ETP”) installed at the Dehradun 
and Bengaluru factories to treat the waste water 
and achieve zero wastage of water.
	
3.	
Disposal of bio medical waste, e-waste and used 
oil as per the protocols through Government 
approved handlers.
	
4.	
Electromagnetic flow meters are installed at both 
the factories to measure the daily water treated 
record at our ETP & STP.
84
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
5.	
Selective replacement of streetlights with Solar/ 
Light Emitting Diode (“LED”) lights. 
	
6.	
Energy-efficient Air Conditioners (“AC”) with 
environmentally friendly refrigerants installed as 
replacements for the old AC units.
	
7.	
User manuals converted to Digital mode, using QR 
code technology to reduce paper usage further. 
	
8.	
Conversion of colour carton to Brown carton in 
Direct division products – thereby saving printing 
INK which is not environment-friendly and 
elimination of laminated plastic layer sheet. 
	
9.	
With a new innovative technology of using “Q 
fit connectors”, your Company could eliminate 
bigger plastic connectors at pipe junction points, 
thereby reducing plastic consumption.
	
10.	 Use of recyclable plastic cartons which can be 
used multiple times by vendors for shipping 
raw material. This would mean less usage of 
corrugated cartons. 
	
11.	 Registered under Government’s EPR (“Extended 
Producers’ Responsibility”) scheme, to 
ensure proper waste management of plastic 
packaging material.
	
12.	 Piezometer installed at Dehradun plant to 
measure and monitor groundwater level.
	
13.	 IoT-based Borewell water flow meter installed to 
measure daily water extraction. 
	
14.	 Elimination of Polythene cover used over the 
packing cartons & over Finished Goods (“FGs”) 
packaging to reduce usage of plastic.
	
15.	 The Dehradun and Bengaluru manufacturing 
facilities are BIS certified for Reverse Osmosis 
based water purifiers for higher recovery products. 
(B)	 TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION
	
Your Company does not just make products, but 
focusses on the entire life cycle of how these products 
are perceived and used by our consumers. 
	
Your Company believes in providing innovative 
solutions for real life consumer issues by leveraging 
internal research and development, coupled with 
external ideas, competences, and resources. 
	
Your Company believes in creating value for society, 
the consumer, and your Company through a spirit 
of Open Innovation. To catalyse this, it collaborates 
with technology partners across the value chain, 
universities, innovators and leading research institutes. 
Through these partnerships, and the spirit of Open 
Innovation, your Company continuously strives to 
deliver new/improved technologies and creates 
business and market opportunities.
	
The R&D team of your Company has developed new 
technologies and introduced new innovative features 
in its products. Your Company introduced following 
innovations and technologies, designed to address the 
specific needs in the market:
	
•	
Intellimix technology: Innovated fully automatic 
Intellimix technology in water softeners to 
optimise the regeneration process and it has 
resulted in reducing the regeneration cycles, salt 
usage, and increased water savings. 
	
•	
SlimTech: Designed and innovated slimmest 
water purifier with premium toughened glass.
	
•	
UV LED technology: Introduced cutting-edge 5th 
Gen mercury free UV LED technology in domestic 
water purifier.
	
•	
Water quality Indicator: We have introduced a 
TDS sensor that will display both input TDS and 
output TDS. 
	
•	
Iron Absorption: We have developed high capacity 
iron absorption technology for the whole house 
filtration systems (POE) to address the high iron 
content problems in specific geographical areas. 
This technology requires no dosing or aeration. 
	
•	
Instant Hot Technology: Introduced new instant 
hot water purifier with child safe feature that 
dispenses hot water without waiting time.
	
•	
Cordless Upright vacuum cleaner: Introduced 
innovative upright vacuum cleaner with 
unique Zerobend, Multi Cyclone and Auto-
detangle features.
	
•	
Pet grooming kit: Launched innovative pet 
grooming kit that addresses all season blower 
requirement with three heating settings as first in 
the market.
	
•	
Surround 360 degree air technology: 
Introduced Air purifier with Surround 360 degree 
air intake technology. 
	
Expenditure on Research and Development:
	
a.	
Capital: ` 334.49 lakhs
	
b.	
Recurring: ` 1,600.82 lakhs
	
c.	
Total: ` 1,935.31 lakhs
85
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
(C)	 FOREIGN 
EXCHANGE 
EARNINGS 
AND 
OUTGO
(i)	
Activities relating to exports; initiatives taken 
to increase exports; development of new 
export markets for products and services 
and export plans
	
Your Company has initiated the process of developing 
new international markets to increase its export 
business which at present is less than 1% of 
its turnover. 
(ii)	 Total Foreign Exchange used and earned
	
Earnings in foreign exchange during the year under 
review were ` 140.01 lakhs and the outgo was 
` 21,180.83 lakhs.
On behalf of the Board of Directors of
Eureka Forbes Limited
Arvind Uppal
Place: Gurugram	
Chairman
Date: August 08, 2024	
(DIN: 00104992)
86
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Annexure – 5
Details pertaining to remuneration as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013  
read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014  
for the year ended March 31, 2024.
1.	
THE RATIO OF THE REMUNERATION OF EACH DIRECTOR TO THE MEDIAN REMUNERATION OF 
THE EMPLOYEES OF THE COMPANY FOR THE YEAR
	
The median remuneration of employees of the Company for the Year and ratio of the remuneration of each Director 
to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the Financial Year is provided in the table below:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
Designation
Ratio of the remuneration 
of each Director to Median 
Remuneration of the 
Employees for 2023-24
1
Mr. Arvind Uppal
Chairman, Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
6.80
2
Mr. Pratik Pota
Managing Director & CEO
152.76
3
Mr. Sahil Dalal
Non-Executive, Non-Independent Director
NA
4
Mr. Vinod Rao
Independent Director
6.88
5
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
Independent Director
6.78
6
Mr. Homi Katgara
Independent Director
6.80
7
Mr. Shashank Samant
Independent Director
3.65
	
Notes:
	
1.	
Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal has waived his right to sitting fee and commission.
2.	
THE PERCENTAGE INCREASE IN THE REMUNERATION OF EACH DIRECTOR, CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, COMPANY SECRETARY OR MANAGER, IF ANY, IN THE 
FINANCIAL YEAR
	
a.	
The percentage increase in the remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, 
Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in the Financial Year:
	
	
The percentage increase/decrease in the remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 
Officer, Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in 2023-24 is provided in the table below:
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director/KMP
Designation
% Increase in 
Remuneration in 2023-24
1
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota
Managing Director & CEO
12%
2
Mr. Gaurav Pradip Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
12%
3
Ms. Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
7%
	
b.	
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the Financial Year: 7.1%
	
c.	
The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company:
	
	
There were 2,633 permanent employees on the rolls of the Company as on March 31, 2024.
	
d.	
Average percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial 
personnel in the last Financial Year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the 
managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional 
circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration: 9%
	
e.	
Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company:
	
	
It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid is as per the Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company.
On behalf of the Board of Directors of
Eureka Forbes Limited
Arvind Uppal
Place: Gurugram	
Chairman
Date: August 08, 2024	
(DIN: 00104992)
87
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ANNEXURE – 6
Your Company’s Report on Corporate Governance for 
the period ended March 31, 2024 pursuant to Regulation 
34(3) and Clause (C) of Schedule V of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 is presented as follows:
1.	
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
	
Your Company’s philosophy on corporate governance is 
backed by its value systems that promote transparency, 
fairness, and accountability, thus ensuring sustainable 
success and a substantial contribution towards 
corporate responsibility. The vision of your Company 
and its leaders, imbibing a sense of purpose beyond 
profit, adopt a holistic approach that embraces the 
perspective of all stakeholders.
	
In line with this philosophy, your Company has taken 
efforts to put in place a comprehensive framework that 
ensures timely disclosures and accurate dissemination 
of information. Your Company’s philosophy is 
supplemented by various codes of conduct and 
charters that govern the functioning of the Board 
of Directors, Board Committees, and senior-level 
management and, when read in conjunction with 
the constitutional documents of your Company, are 
in compliance with various applicable laws, rules, 
regulations, and guidelines.
	
The Corporate Governance philosophy of your 
Company is driven by the interests of stakeholders 
and the business needs of the organisation. Corporate 
Governance is essential for the growth, profitability, 
and stability of any business. Aligning itself with this 
philosophy, your Company has placed Corporate 
Governance as a high priority.
	
The highlights of your Company’s Corporate 
Governance policy are:
•	
Your Company believes that an active, well-informed 
and independent Board is necessary to ensure high 
standards of Corporate Governance. Your Company 
has appropriate mix of Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors including a Woman Director. 
•	
Constitution of various Committees for focussed 
attention and proactive flow of information enables 
the Company to ensure expedient resolution of 
diversified matters. 
•	
Emphasis on ethical business conduct by the Board, 
management and employees. 
•	
Established Code of Conduct for Directors and 
employees along with the Code of Conduct for 
Prevention of Insider Trading. 
•	
Detailed Policy for Disclosure of Material Events 
and Information.
•	
Established Whistle Blower Mechanism which 
acts as a neutral and unbiased forum for Directors, 
Employees and Business Partners of the Company 
and its subsidiaries. 
•	
Endeavour to continuously contribute to social 
and environmental spheres through various CSR 
programmes creating shared values. 
•	
Robust and effective framework for reporting of 
statutory compliances and review on a periodic basis. 
•	
Timely, transparent and regular disclosures.
2.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
(a)	 Board Composition 
	
Your Company has a professional Board with the 
right mix of knowledge, skills, and expertise in diverse 
areas and an optimum combination of Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors, including Independent 
Directors and a Woman Director. Besides having 
financial literacy, vast experience, leadership qualities, 
and the ability to think strategically, the Directors 
are committed to ensuring the highest standards of 
Corporate Governance.
	
The Board meets at least 4 (Four) times a year and more 
often if the Company needs additional oversight and 
guidance. During the Financial Year 2023-24, the time 
gap between any two Board Meetings did not exceed 
120 days. The Board of Directors periodically review 
compliance reports pertaining to all laws applicable 
to the Company. All statutory and other matters of 
significance, including information as mentioned in Part 
A of Schedule II to the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) are 
informed to the Board to enable it to discharge its 
responsibility of strategic supervision of the Company.
	
As on March 31, 2024, the Board consists of 07 (Seven) 
Directors including 01 (One) Independent Woman 
Director. Out of 07 (Seven) Directors, 01 (One) is 
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer, 04 (Four) 
are Non-Executive & Independent Directors and 02 (Two) 
are Non-Executive & Non-Independent Directors. Your 
Company has a Non-Executive & Non-Independent 
Chairman. The composition of the Board is in conformity 
with Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations read 
with Section 149 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
	
The Board has constituted five Statutory Committees: 
Audit Committee, Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee, Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, 
Risk Management Committee and Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee.
88
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
The composition of the Board and the Directorship and Committee positions held by the Directors as on March 31, 2024 
is as follows:
Sr. 
No.
Name and DIN
Category
No. of 
Directorships 
in Companies1
Directorship held in 
Listed Companies
Committee Positions 
(including EFL)2
Member
Chairperson
1
Mr. Arvind Uppal 
(DIN: 00104992)
Non-Executive, Non-
Independent Director 
(Chairman)
4
1.	 Whirlpool of 
India Limited – 
Non-Executive, 
Independent Director 
(Chairman)
2.	 Gulf Oil Lubricants 
India Limited - 
Non-Executive, 
Independent Director
3.	 Amber Enterprises 
India Limited - 
Non-Executive, 
Independent Director
4.	 Eureka Forbes Limited 
6
4
2
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota 
(DIN: 00751178)
Managing Director 
& CEO
1
Eureka Forbes Limited 
1
0
3
Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal 
(DIN: 07350808)
Non-Executive, 
Non-Independent 
Director
2
1.	 DFM Foods Limited
	
(delisted w.e.f. April 06, 
2023) - Non-Executive,  
Non-Independent 
Director 
2.	 Eureka Forbes Limited 
3
0
4
Mr. Vinod Rao 
(DIN: 01788921)
Non-Executive, 
Independent 
Director
2
1.	 Suven 
Pharmaceuticals 
Limited
2.	 Eureka Forbes Limited 
3
2
5
Mrs. Gurveen Singh 
(DIN: 09507365)3
Non-Executive, 
Independent 
Director
2
Eureka Forbes Limited 
2
0
6
Mr. Homi Adi Katgara 
(DIN: 00210338)
Non-Executive, 
Independent 
Director
1
Eureka Forbes Limited 
0
0
7
Mr. Shashank Shankar 
Samant 
(DIN: 09733485)
Non-Executive, 
Independent Director
1
Eureka Forbes Limited 
14
0
Notes:
1.	
Includes Directorships in Public Companies and Eureka Forbes Limited and excludes private companies, foreign companies, 
companies incorporated under Section 8 of the Act and alternate Directorships.
2.	
Committee Membership and Chairmanship as on March 31, 2024 includes only Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship 
Committee of Public Limited Companies (including Eureka Forbes Limited).
3.	
Mrs. Gurveen Singh (DIN: 09507365) has been appointed as Additional Director in Manjushree Technopack Limited w.e.f. 
June 04, 2024.
4.	
Appointed as Member in the Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee with effect from May 29, 2023.
5.	
None of the Directors are related to each other.
BOARD COMPOSITION
Non-Executive, Non Independent Directors
MD & CEO
Independent Directors
14.3%
28.6%
57.1%
89
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
As per Regulation 17A of the SEBI Listing Regulations, 
all Directors meet the criteria for the maximum number of 
Directorships. Further, the Managing Director & CEO of the 
Company does not serve as Independent Director of any 
other listed entity.
None of the Directors is a member of more than ten 
Committees or the Chairman / Chairperson of more 
than five Committees across all the public companies 
in which he or she is a Director. The limits of the Board 
Committees, Chairpersonship and Membership of the Audit 
Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
have been considered as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of the 
Listing Regulations.
(b)	 Board Meetings and attendance records 
	
Your Company has in place a pre-scheduled and 
tentative annual calendar of the Board and Committee 
Meetings that is circulated to the Directors well 
in advance to facilitate their planning and ensure 
meaningful participation in the meetings. However, 
in cases of urgent business and exigencies, the 
requisite approvals are taken through the process of 
circular resolution as permitted by law. Subsequently, 
the resolutions passed through circulation are noted 
and confirmed in the immediate following Board/
Committee Meeting. 
	
Further, bearing in mind various relaxations that have 
been provided by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the Board 
and Committee meetings were generally conducted 
through Video Conferencing/other audio-visual means 
(“VC/OAVM”).
	
The Notice convening the Board and Committee 
Meeting, along with the detailed agenda, setting out 
the business to be transacted at such Meetings and 
relevant documents in order to facilitate understanding 
are circulated at least seven (07) days before the date 
of the Board and Committee Meeting except for the 
meetings called at a shorter notice. 
	
Attendance Record of the Directors for the year 2023-24
Name of Director
April 
19, 2023
May 
29, 2023
August 
08, 2023
November 
10, 2023
February 
14, 2024
March 
21, 2024
Last AGM 
September 22, 2023
Mr. Arvind Uppal
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Pratik Pota
√
√
√
√
Ab
√
√
Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal
√
Ab
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Vinod Rao
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
√
√
√
Ab
√
√
√
Mr. Homi Adi Katgara
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Shashank 
Shankar Samant
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
	
With a view to leveraging technology, reducing paper 
consumption, and addressing the environmental 
aspect of the triple bottom line, your Company 
dispatches notices, agenda papers, presentations, 
minutes, and other relevant correspondences 
electronically. A soft copy of the said agenda(s) is 
uploaded on the Board Portal at least 7 (seven) days 
before the meeting. Draft minutes are circulated to the 
Directors for their comments, which are then noted in 
subsequent meetings.
	
The Board of Directors (“Board”) is responsible 
for the strategic supervision and overseeing the 
management performance and governance of your 
Company on behalf of the Members and other 
stakeholders. Your Company is professionally 
managed under the overall supervision of the Board. 
The Board has ultimate responsibility of reviewing and 
guiding corporate strategy, major plans of action, risk 
policy, annual budgets and business plans, setting 
performance objectives, monitoring implementation, 
and corporate performance, and overseeing major 
capital expenditures, acquisitions, mergers, general 
affairs, direction, performance and long-term success 
of the business as a whole. The Board sets out the 
overall corporate objectives and provides direction and 
independence to the management to achieve these 
objectives for value creation through sustained growth. 
The Board seeks accountability of the management in 
creating long-term sustainable growth to ensure that 
the aspirations of stakeholders are fulfilled. It also sets 
out standards of corporate behaviour and ensures 
compliance with laws and regulations impacting the 
Company’s business.
	
There were Six (6) Board Meetings held during Financial 
Year 2023-24.
(c)	 Shareholding of Directors as on March 31, 2024
Name of Director
No. of Shares held
Mr. Homi Katgara
10,000
	
No other Director holds any shares in the Company.
90
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
(d)	 Succession Planning 
	
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee works 
with the Board on the leadership succession plan 
to ensure orderly succession in appointments to 
the Board and to senior management positions. The 
Company strives to maintain an appropriate balance 
of skills and experience within the organisation and the 
Board in an endeavour to introduce new perspectives 
while maintaining experience and continuity. 
	
All new Non-Executive Directors inducted into the 
Board are introduced to the Company culture through 
orientation sessions. The Executive Director and senior 
management provide an overview of operations, and 
familiarise the new Non-Executive Directors on matters 
related to our values and commitments. They are also 
introduced to the organisation structure, services, 
Group structure and subsidiaries, constitution, Board 
procedures, matters reserved for the Board, major 
risks and risk management strategy. The details of 
the training programme attended by the Directors 
during the Financial Year 2023-24 are as follows and 
the same is available on the Company’s website at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/media/investor-relations/
Familiarisation-Programme-for_Independent-
Directors.pdf.
Sr. 
No.
Name of the Director
No. of training hours attended during  
the Financial Year 2023-24
1
Mr. Vinod Rao 
23.00
2
Mrs. Gurveen Singh 
23.00
3
Mr. Homi Adi Katgara 
22.50
4
Mr. Shashank Shankar Samant 
23.00
(e)	 Matrix Setting out Core Competencies of the Board of Directors 
	
The Company ensures the composition of the Board is a thoughtful combination of various skills, competencies, and 
experiences that in turn facilitates Board Diversity. 
	
The following set of skills/expertise/competencies are identified by the Board as a parameter to nominate a candidate 
on the Board:
	
•	
Industry knowledge and experience
	
•	
Financial and risk management skills
	
•	
Leadership and management skills
	
•	
Corporate governance
	
•	
Technical aspects
	
Tabled below are the key skills, expertise and competence of the Board of Directors in the context of the Company’s 
business for effective functioning, as available with the Board.
Name of Director
Industry 
knowledge and 
experience
Financial and 
risk Management 
skills
Leadership and 
Management 
skills
Corporate
Governance
Technical  
aspects
Mr. Arvind Uppal
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Vinod Rao
√
√
√
√
√
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Homi Adi Katgara
√
√
√
√
√
Mr. Shashank Shankar Samant
√
√
√
√
√
(f)	 Confirmation 
as 
regards 
Independence 
of Independent Director and Meeting of 
Independent Directors 
	
The Board confirms that based on the written 
affirmations received from each Independent Director, 
all Independent Directors fulfil the conditions specified 
for independence as stipulated in Regulation 16(1)(b) 
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended, read with 
Section 149(6) of the Act, along with the rules framed 
thereunder, and are independent of the Management. 
Further, the Independent Directors have also registered 
their names in the database maintained by the Indian 
Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA) as mandated in 
the Companies (Appointment and Qualification of 
Directors), Rules, 2014, as amended.
	
None of the Independent Directors have any other 
material pecuniary relationships or transactions with 
the Company, its Promoters, Directors, or Senior 
management that, in their judgement, would affect 
their independence. In terms of Regulation 25(8) of 
the SEBI Listing Regulations they have confirmed that 
they are not aware of any circumstance or situation 
that exists or may be reasonably anticipated that could 
impair or impact their ability to discharge their duties.
	
During the year under review, a meeting of the 
Independent Directors was held on March 21, 
2024. All Independent Directors were present at the 
meeting to discuss risks, the performance of the 
Company, strategy, leadership, and the performance 
of the Non-Independent Directors, the Board, and the 
Chairman, and to assess the flow of information from 
management to the Board that is necessary for the 
Board to effectively and reasonably perform its duties. 
91
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
Familiarisation Programme
	
Pursuant to Regulation 25(7) of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the Company conducted various 
familiarisation programmes for its Directors, including 
an overview of the industry in which the Company 
operates, the Company’s operations and strategy, 
the annual budget of the Company, internal control 
systems, CSR strategy framework, updates on 
various policies, updates on LODR amendments, 
investor grievances, risk management, internal audit 
plans and findings, regulatory updates at Board and 
Audit Committee Meetings, updates on prevention of 
Insider Trading Regulations, compliance with various 
applicable laws, review of industry outlook at Board 
Meetings, and regulatory framework for related 
party transactions.
	
Pursuant to Regulation 46 of the SEBI Listing 
Regulations, the details required are available 
on the website of your Company at the web link: 
www.eurekaforbes.com/media/investor-relations/
Familiarisation-Programme-for_Independent-
Directors.pdf.
	
Senior Management Personnel
	
The Company identified following under category of 
SMPs, pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 16(1)
(d) and Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations. 
Details of SMPs as on March 31, 2024 are as follows:
 
 
Mr. Gaurav Khandelwal
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Ajit Dheer
Chief Operating Officer
 
Ms. Mahnaz Shaikh
Chief Human Resources Officer
 
Mr. Suresh Redhu
Chief Technical Officer
Mr. Satish Satyarthi
Chief Innovation and  
R & D Officer
 
 
Mr. Anurag Kumar
Chief Growth Officer
Mr. Anirudha Karnataki
Chief Supply Chain & 
Procurement Officer
Senior Management  
Personnel
Mr. Nithyanand Shankar
Chief Digital Business Officer
Ms. Pragya Kaul
Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer
Mr. Vivek Kumar Sharma
Head of Corporate Quality
Mr. Vikas Jayna
Chief Technology Officer
92
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
The changes in Senior Management Personnel during the year under review are as follows:
Sr. No. Name
Designation
Date of change
1
Ms. Mahnaz Shaikh
Chief Human Resources Officer
April 12, 20231
2
Mr. Ajit Dheer
Chief Operating Officer
May 02, 20231
3
Mr. Anurag Kumar
Chief Growth Officer
May 22, 20231
4
Mr. Anirudha Karnataki
Chief Supply Chain & Procurement Officer
June 08, 20231
5
Mr. Vivek Kumar Sharma
Head of Corporate Quality
September 11, 20231
6
Mr. Vikas Jayna
Chief Technology Officer
February 05, 20241
7
Mr. Vikram Surendran
President
April 06, 20232
8
Ms. Binaifer Khanna
Chief People Officer
May 31, 20232
9
Mr. Shubham Srivastava
Chief Product & Technology Officer
March 31, 20242
	
1. Date of appointment
	
2. Date of cessation
3.	
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD 
I.	
Audit Committee 
	
Introduction 
	
The Audit Committee acts as a link between the Statutory 
and Internal Auditors and the Board of Directors where 
they are primarily responsible for accurate financial 
reporting and strong internal controls. The Audit 
Committee plays a major role in assisting the Board 
in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities of monitoring 
financial reporting processes, reviewing the Company’s 
established systems and processes for internal financial 
controls, governance and reviewing the Company’s 
statutory and internal audit activities. 
	
The Audit Committee Committee is governed by the 
terms of reference as per the regulatory requirements 
mandated by the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations. 
The composition, quorum, powers, role and scope 
are in accordance with Section 177 of the Act 
and the provisions of Regulation 18 of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations. 
	
The members of the Audit Committee are financially 
literate, and the Chairman of the Audit Committee has 
accounting and financial management expertise. The 
Audit Committee also meets with the Auditors without 
the presence of management.
	
The Audit Committee also receives the report on 
compliance under the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider 
Trading) Regulations, 2015. Further Compliance 
Reports under the Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Whistle Blower Policy 
are also placed before the Committee. None of the 
recommendations made by the Audit Committee were 
rejected by the Board. 
	
Terms of Reference 
	
The Audit Committee ensures that it has reviewed each 
area that it is required to review under its terms of 
reference and under applicable legislations or by way 
of good practice. This periodic review ensures that all 
areas within the scope of the Committee are reviewed.
	
Key terms of Reference of the Committee are:
	
A.	
Financial Reporting and Financial Reporting 
Processes
	
i.	
Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting 
process and the disclosure of financial 
statements/ results and information submitted to 
the stock exchanges, regulatory authorities or the 
Members to ensure that the financial statement 
reflect a true and fair view correct and the same 
time sufficient and credible.
	
ii.	
Review with management the annual financial 
statements and auditor’s report thereon before 
submission to the Board for approval, with 
particular reference to: 
	
	
a)	
Matters required to be included in the 
Director’s Responsibility Statement to be 
included in the Board’s Report in terms of 
Clause (c) of sub-section 3 of Section 134 
of the Act.
	
	
b)	
Changes, if any, in the accounting policies 
and reasons for the same.
	
	
c)	
Major accounting entries involving estimates 
based on the exercise of judgment by 
the management.
	
	
d)	
Significant adjustments, if any, made in 
the financial statements arising out of 
audit findings.
	
	
e)	
Compliance with listing and other 
legal 
requirements 
concerning 
Financial Statements.
	
	
f)	
Disclosure of related party transactions.
	
	
g)	
Qualification/ modified opinion, if any, in 
draft audit report.
	
iii.	
Review accounting adjustments, if any, that are 
noted or proposed by the statutory auditors but 
were ‘passed’ (as immaterial or otherwise).
	
iv.	
Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments, 
if any.
93
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
v.	
Valuation of undertakings or assets of the 
Company, wherever it is necessary.
	
vi.	
Monitoring the end use of funds raised through 
public offers/ private placements/ debt issues 
and related matters.
	
vii.	 Review with the management the quarterly 
financial statements before submission to the 
Board for approval.
	
viii.	 Review of the Management Discussion & Analysis 
of financial condition and result of operations.
	
ix.	
Consider and discuss with the statutory 
auditors its judgments about the quality and 
appropriateness of the Company’s accounting 
principles as applied in its financial reporting 
with reference to Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles in India.
	
x.	
Review details of significant transactions/ 
investments by the subsidiaries.
	
B.	
Risk Management, Internal Control and 
Governance Processes
	
i.	
Review and discuss with Management the 
adequacy of the Company’s system of business 
risk assessment including the risk of fraud. 
Discuss the Company’s major financial risk 
exposures and the steps management has taken 
to monitor and control such exposures.
	
ii.	
Review and discuss with the statutory auditors, 
the internal auditors and management the 
adequacy and effectiveness of the Company’s 
system of internal controls.
	
iii.	
Review any material defalcations or acts of 
fraud/misconduct as reported by the Risk 
Management Committee.
	
C.	
Statutory Audit
	
i.	
Recommend to the Board the appointment, re-
appointment, terms of reference and, if required 
the replacement or removal of the Statutory 
Auditors, Cost Auditors and Secretarial Auditors 
considering their independence and effectiveness 
and also recommend the audit fees.
	
ii.	
Approve all auditing and permissible non auditing 
services (services other than those services which 
cannot be rendered by the Statutory Auditors 
as per Section 144 of the Act) to be rendered 
by the Statutory Auditors and determining the 
remuneration for all such services.
	
iii.	
Annual review and discuss with the Statutory 
Auditors all significant relationships that they have 
with the Company or any of its related parties to 
determine the auditors’ independence.
	
iv.	
Review the performance of the Statutory Auditors.
	
v.	
Review and discuss the nature and scope of the 
Statutory Auditors’ before audit commences, 
annual audit as well as post-audit discussion with 
the Auditors to ascertain any area of concern.
	
vi.	
Mandatory review of Management Letters/letters 
and any significant findings and recommendations 
issued by the Statutory Auditors together with 
Management’s response thereto.
	
vii.	 Following completion of the annual audit, 
review and discuss with the Statutory Auditors 
any significant difficulties encountered 
during the course of the audit, including any 
restrictions on the scope of work or access to 
required information.
	
viii.	 Meet separately with the external auditors 
to discuss any matters that the Committee 
or the external auditors believe should be 
discussed separately.
	
ix.	
Review the annual Cost Audit report submitted by 
the Cost Auditors.
	
D.	
Internal Audit
	
i.	
Review the Internal Audit scope and recommend 
changes, if any.
	
ii.	
To approve appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Internal Auditors.
	
iii.	
Review with the Management the performance 
of the internal auditors and adequacy of the 
internal controls.
	
iv.	
Consider and approve, in consultation with the 
Statutory Auditors and the Internal Auditors the 
annual scope and plan of the Company’s Internal 
Audit and any significant changes thereto.
	
v.	
Review the adequacy of the Internal Audit function, 
if any, including the structure of the internal audit 
department, staffing and seniority of the official 
heading the department, reporting structure 
coverage and frequency of internal audit.
	
vi.	
Review with the Internal Auditors and the Statutory 
Auditors, the co-ordination of audit efforts to assure 
adequacy of coverage, reduction of redundant 
efforts and the effective use of audit resources.
	
vii.	 Review internal audit reports relating to internal 
control weaknesses.
	
viii.	 Review 
any 
significant 
findings 
and 
recommendations of Internal Audit, together with 
Management’s responses thereto.
	
ix.	
Review the findings of any internal investigations 
by the Internal Auditors into matters where there 
is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of an 
internal control system of a material nature and 
reporting the matters to the Board. Review with 
94
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
the Internal Auditors any significant difficulties 
encountered during the course of the audit, 
including any restrictions on the scope of work 
or access to required information.
	
x.	
Meet separately with the Internal Auditors 
to discuss any matters that the Committee 
believes should be discussed separately.
	
E.	
Other Responsibilities
	
i.	
(a)	
Approval of Related Party Transactions 
(RPTs) or subsequent modifications 
thereto. Such approval can be in the form 
of omnibus approval of RPTs subject to 
conditions specified in Regulation 23 of 
SEBI Listing Regulations.
	
	
(b)	
Review of Related Party Transactions on a 
quarterly basis.
	
ii.	
Review of internal control systems, policies and 
procedures under SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015 as amended from time to time. 
	
iii.	
Perform other activities as required by law or 
determined by the Board.
	
iv.	
Approval of appointment of Chief Financial 
Officer (“CFO”) after assessing his qualification, 
experience & background etc.
	
v.	
Reviewing, with the management, the statement 
of uses/ application of funds raised through an 
issue (public issue, rights issue, preferential issue, 
etc.), the statement of funds utilised for purposes 
other than those stated in the offer document/ 
prospectus/ notice and the report submitted by 
the monitoring agency monitoring the utilisation 
of proceeds of a public or rights issue and making 
appropriate recommendations to the Board to 
take up steps in this matter.
	
vi.	
To look into the reasons for substantial defaults 
in the payment to the depositors, debenture 
holders, shareholders (in case of non-payment 
of declared dividends) and creditors.
	
vii.	 Institute and oversee special investigations 
as needed.
	
viii.	 Periodically report to the Board or Committee 
of the Board inter alia all significant matters that 
have come to the knowledge of the Committee, 
covering internal controls, financial statements, 
policies and statutory/ regulatory compliances.
	
ix.	
Consider and comment on rational, cost benefits 
and impact of schemes involving merger, 
demerger, amalgamation etc., in the listed entity 
and its shareholders.
	
x.	
Confirm annually that all responsibilities outlined in 
this Charter have been carried out by the Committee.
	
xi.	
Self-evaluation of the Committee’s performance 
once every year.
	
F.	
General
	
i.	
Develop, with the appropriate assistance from 
the statutory auditors, the internal auditors and 
management, an annual audit plan, internal audit 
plan and other plans/ matters to be reviewed as 
part of the responsibilities of the Committee. 
	
ii.	
Perform such other role as mandated to the 
Committee by the Board of Directors and under 
the applicable rules/ regulations/ laws.
	
G.	
Whistle Blower
	
	
To oversee and review the Whistle Blower 
function established by the Company to report 
the genuine concerns against the suspected 
or confirmed fraudulent activities, allegations 
of corruption, violation of the Company’s Code 
of Conduct. Your Company provides adequate 
safeguards against victimisation of persons 
who use this mechanism. Such persons shall 
have direct access to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee when appropriate.
	
	
The meetings of Audit Committee are also 
attended by the Chief Financial Officer, Statutory 
Auditors and Internal Auditor as special invitees. 
The minutes of each Audit Committee meeting 
are placed in the next meeting of the Board. 
The Audit Committee also meets the Internal 
and Statutory Auditors separately, without the 
presence of Management representatives. 
	
	
The Audit Committee met 4 (Four) times during the 
Financial Year 2023-24 on May 29, 2023, August 
08, 2023, November 09, 2023, and February 14, 
2024 and the attendance record of the Members 
is as follows:
Name of the 
Member
Category
Attendance
Mr. Vinod Rao 
(Chairman) 
Non-Executive, 
Independent
4/4
Mrs. Gurveen 
Singh
Non-Executive, 
Independent
4/4
Mr. Sahil Dilip 
Dalal
Non-Executive, 
Non-
Independent
3/4
	
	
Further, Ms. Pragya Kaul, Company Secretary 
& Compliance Officer acts as Secretary to 
the Committee.
II.	
Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
	
Introduction 
	
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for formulating evaluation policies 
and reviewing all major aspects of the Company’s 
HR processes relating to hiring, training, talent 
management, succession planning and the 
95
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
compensation structure of the Directors, KMP, and 
Senior Management. The Committee also anchored 
the performance evaluation of the Individual Directors. 
None of the recommendations made by the Committee 
were rejected by the Board. 
	
Key terms of Reference of the Committee are:
	
1.	
Formulation of the criteria for determining 
qualifications, 
positive 
attributes 
and 
independence of a Director and recommend to 
the Board of Directors a policy relating to, the 
remuneration of the Directors, key managerial 
personnel and other employees; 
	
2.	
Formulation of criteria for evaluation of 
performance of Independent Directors and the 
Board of Directors; 
	
3.	
Devising a policy on diversity of Board of Directors;
	
4.	
Identifying persons who are qualified to become 
Directors and who may be appointed in senior 
management in accordance with the criteria laid 
down, and recommend to the Board of Directors 
their appointment and removal;
	
5.	
Whether to extend or continue the term of 
appointment of the Independent Director, on the 
basis of the report of performance evaluation of 
Independent Directors;
	
6.	
Recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in 
whatever form, payable to senior management.
	
The Committee also plays the role of Compensation 
Committee and is responsible for administering Eureka 
Forbes – Employee Stock Option Plan 2022 (“Stock 
Option Schemes”) as applicable to the employees of 
the Company. 
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee met 
3 (three) times during the Financial Year 2023-24 on May 
29, 2023, August 08, 2023, and November 09, 2023.
Name of 
the Member
Category
Attendance
Mrs. Gurveen 
Singh 
(Chairperson)
Non-Executive,  
Independent
3/3
Mr. Vinod Rao
Non-Executive,  
Independent
3/3
Mr. Homi 
Adi Katgara
Non-Executive,  
Independent
3/3
Mr. Sahil 
Dilip Dalal
Non-Executive, 
Non-Independent
2/3
	
Further, Ms. Pragya Kaul, Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer acts as Secretary to the Committee.
	
Remuneration Policy 
	
Your Company’s Nomination & Remuneration Policy 
for Directors and Senior Managerial Personnel has 
been approved by the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee and the Board. It is driven by the success 
and performance of individual employees and the 
Company. Through its compensation programme, the 
Company endeavours to attract, retain, develop, and 
motivate a high-performance workforce. 
	
The purpose of the Remuneration Policy is to establish 
and govern the procedures applicable. 
	
•	
To evaluate the performance of the members of 
the Board. 
	
•	
To ensure remuneration payable to Directors, 
KMP’s & other Senior Management strike an 
appropriate balance and are commensurate 
among others with the functioning of the 
Company and its long-term objectives. 
	
•	
To retain, motivate, and promote talent within 
the Company, and to ensure the long term 
sustainability of the managerial persons and create 
competitive advantage. 
	
The policy inter alia covers the Directors’ appointment 
and remuneration, Key Managerial Personnel, and other 
senior management’s appointment and remuneration.
	
The Remuneration Policy as required under Section 
178 of the Companies Act, 2013, is available on the 
website of the Company and can be accessed at web 
link: www.eurekaforbes.com/media/investor-relations/
Nomination-and-Remuneration-Policy-new.pdf.
	
Performance Evaluation of the Board and its 
Criteria 
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, SEBI Listing 
Regulations and Nomination & Remuneration Policy, 
the Board has carried out annual evaluation of its 
performance, its Committee(s) and of each Director. 
The process of performance Evaluation was anchored 
by the Chairman of the Board and Chairperson of the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee.
	
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee 
engaged with Egon Zehnder, external consultants, 
to jointly work on Board evaluation for the year. The 
evaluation of all the Directors, Committees, Chairman 
of the Board, and the Board as a whole, was conducted 
based on the criteria and framework adopted by the 
Board. The Board evaluation process was completed 
during Financial Year 2023-24. 
	
A structured questionnaire was prepared and 
circulated to the Directors for each of the evaluation 
who submitted their response to the Chairperson of 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee. 
96
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
The performance of the Board as a whole was evaluated 
by each Director on parameters such as its roles and 
responsibilities, contribution to the development of 
strategy and effective risk management, understanding 
of business operations, availability of quality information 
in a timely manner, etc. and submitted. 
	
Board Committees were evaluated by the respective 
Committee members on parameters such as its role 
and responsibilities, effectiveness of the Committee 
vis-a-vis assigned role, appropriateness of Committee 
composition, timely receipt of information by the 
Committee, upgrading knowledge by the Committee 
members, effectiveness of communication by the 
Committee with the Board, Senior Management and 
Key Managerial Personnel etc. 
	
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by 
the Independent Directors on the parameters such 
as demonstration of effective leadership, contribution 
to the Board’s work, communication with the Board, 
use of time and overall efficiency of Board Meetings, 
quality of discussions at the Board Meetings etc. 
	
The Directors were evaluated individually by all other 
Directors (except the Director himself/herself); Non-
executive Directors evaluated Independent Directors 
and vice versa on various parameters. Independent 
Directors were additionally evaluated for their 
performance and fulfilment of criteria of independence 
and their independence from the Management. 
	
The Meeting of Independent Directors was held on 
March 21, 2024. The Independent Directors, inter alia, 
evaluated performance of Non-Independent Directors, 
the Chairman of the Company and the Board as 
a whole. They also assessed the quality, content 
and timeliness of flow of information between the 
Management and the Board that is necessary for the 
Board to effectively and reasonably perform its duties. 
	
The Board Evaluation discussion was focussed on 
how to make the Board more effective as a collective 
body in the context of the business and the external 
environment in which the Company functions. From 
time to time during the year, the Board was apprised 
of relevant business issues and related opportunities 
and risks. The Board discussed various aspects of 
its functioning and that of its Committees such as 
structure, composition, meetings, functions and 
interaction with management and what needs to 
be done to further augment the effectiveness of the 
Board’s functioning. 
	
The overall assessment of the Board was that it 
was functioning as a cohesive body including the 
Committees of the Board. During Financial Year 2023-
24, the Company actioned the feedback from the Board 
evaluation process conducted in Financial Year 2022-23.
	
The Board noted the key improvement areas emerging 
from this exercise in Financial Year 2022-23 and action 
plans to address the same are in progress. These 
include Business Strategy, Business Continuity Plan 
and other matters. 
III.	 Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee (SRC) 
	
Introduction 
	
The SRC oversees the various aspects of interests of 
security holders of the Company. The Committee also 
monitors the performance of the Registrar & Share 
Transfer Agent and recommends measures for overall 
improvement of the quality of investor services as 
and when the need arises. None of recommendations 
made by the Committee were rejected by the Board. 
	
Key Terms of Reference of the Committee are:
	
1.	
Resolving the grievances of the security holders 
of the listed entity including complaints related 
to transfer/transmission of shares, non-receipt 
of Annual Report, non-receipt of declared 
dividends, issue of new/duplicate certificates, 
general meetings etc. 
	
2.	
Review of measures taken for effective exercise 
of voting rights by shareholders. 
	
3.	
Review of adherence to the service standards 
adopted by the listed entity in respect of various 
services being rendered by the Registrar & Share 
Transfer Agent. 
	
4.	
Review of the various measures and initiatives 
taken by the listed entity for reducing the 
quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring 
timely receipt of dividend warrants/Annual 
Reports/statutory notices by the shareholders of 
the Company.
	
	
The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 
met once during the Financial Year 2023-24 on 
January 30, 2024. 
Name of 
the Member
Category
Attendance
Mr. Arvind Uppal 
(Chairman)
Non‑Executive, 
Non-Independent
1/1
Mr. Vinod Rao
Non-Executive,  
Independent
1/1
Mr. Pratik 
Rashmikant Pota
Managing Director 
& CEO
1/1
Mrs. 
Gurveen Singh
Non-Executive,  
Independent
1/1
Mr. Shashank 
Shankar Samant1
Non-Executive,  
Independent
1/1
	
	
Notes:
	
	
1. Appointed as a Member of the Committee with effect 
from May 29, 2023.
97
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Further, Ms. Pragya Kaul, Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The status of investor grievance redressal mechanism as 
required under the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 is filed 
with the Stock Exchange within twenty-one days from 
the end of each quarter a statement giving the number of 
investor complaints pending at the beginning of the quarter, 
those received during the quarter, disposed of during the 
quarter and those remaining unresolved at the end of the 
quarter and the statement is placed before the Committee 
and the Board periodically. There were no instances 
where the grievance was not solved to the satisfaction of 
the shareholders.
Details of the complaints received from shareholders 
during Financial Year 2023-24 are as follows:
6
Number of complaints  
Received
0
Number of pending  
Complaints
6
Number of complaints  
Resolved
IV.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 
(CSR)
	
Introduction 
	
The CSR Committee’s responsibilities include 
developing the CSR Policy and the activities that the 
Company will engage in. The CSR Committee also 
recommends to the Board the amount of spending 
to be made on CSR activities of the Company, and 
evaluates the Company’s performance in these areas. 
None of the recommendations made by the Committee 
were rejected by the Board.
	
Key Terms of Reference of the Committee are:
	
1.	
Formulate and recommend to the Board the CSR 
Policy and activities to be undertaken 
	
2.	
Recommend the amount of expenditure to be 
incurred on CSR activities 
	
3.	
Formulate and review the Annual Action Plan in 
pursuance of the CSR Policy 
	
4.	
Oversee the manner of execution of projects or 
programmes; the modalities of utilisation of funds 
and implementation 
	
5.	
Schedules for the projects/programmes 
	
6.	
Monitoring and reporting mechanism for the 
projects/programmes
	
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee met 
03 (Three) times during the Financial Year 2023-24 on 
May 29, 2023, August 08, 2023 and January 30, 2024.
Name of 
the Member
Category
Attendance
Mrs. 
Gurveen Singh  
(Chairperson)
Non-Executive,  
Independent
3/3
Mr. Vinod Rao
Non-Executive,  
Independent
3/3
Mr. Pratik  
Rashmikant  
Pota
Managing Director  
& CEO
3/3
Mr. Homi 
Adi Katgara
Non-Executive,  
Independent
2/3
	
Further, Ms. Pragya Kaul, Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer acts as Secretary to the Committee.
V.	
Risk Management Committee (RMC)
	
Introduction 
	
The Risk Management Committee (‘RMC’) inter alia 
formulates the Enterprise Risk Management Policy and 
reviews the same periodically; monitors and oversees 
implementation of the Policy, including evaluating 
the adequacy of risk management systems; ensures 
appropriate methodology, processes, and systems are in 
place to monitor and evaluate business risks, informs the 
Board about its discussions, recommendations, and actions 
to be taken; and appoints the Chief Risk Officer, including 
terms of remuneration. None of the recommendations 
made by the Committee were rejected by the Board.
	
The Risk Management Committee also safeguards 
the shareholders’ interests and the Company’s assets, 
reviews reports from the Company’s internal audit 
function relating to risk management, and all other 
matters specified under the Act, Listing Regulations 
or any other role as may be prescribed by law or by 
the Board of Directors from time to time. 
	
Key Terms of Reference of the Committee are: 
	
1.	
To formulate a detailed risk management policy 
which shall include:
	
	
a)	
A framework for identification of internal and 
external risks specifically faced by the listed 
entity, in particular including risk related to 
Regulatory / Compliance, Market Risk, 
Consumer / Reputation, Supply Chain Risk, 
Information / Cyber Security, People Risk 
or any other risk as may be determined by 
the Committee. 
	
	
b)	
Measures for risk mitigation including 
systems and processes for internal control 
of identified risks. 
	
	
c)	
Business continuity plan.
	
2.	
To ensure that appropriate methodology, 
processes and systems are in place to monitor 
and evaluate risks associated with the business 
of the Company; 
98
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
3.	
To monitor and oversee implementation of the 
risk management policy, including evaluating the 
adequacy of risk management systems; 
	
4.	
To periodically review the risk management 
policy, at least once in two years, including by 
considering the changing industry dynamics and 
evolving complexity; 
	
5.	
To keep the Board of Directors informed about 
the nature and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions to be taken; 
	
6.	
The appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer 
shall be subject to review by the Risk 
Management Committee.
	
The Risk Management Committee met 02 (Twice) 
during the Financial Year 2023-24 on August 08, 2023 
and January 30, 2024.
Name of 
the Member
Category
Attendance
Mr. Vinod Rao 
(Chairman) 
Non-Executive,  
Independent
2/2
Mr. Arvind Uppal
Non-Executive,  
Non-Independent
2/2
Mr. Sahil 
Dilip Dalal 
Non-Executive,  
Non-Independent
2/2
Mrs. 
Gurveen Singh 
Non-Executive,  
Independent
2/2
Mr. Shashank 
Shankar Samant1
Non-Executive,  
Independent
2/2
	
Note:
	
1. Appointed as a Member of the Committee with effect from 
May 29, 2023.
	
Further, Ms. Pragya Kaul, Company Secretary & 
Compliance Officer acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
4.	
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION 
	
Remuneration paid to Managing Director 
& CEO: 
	
Mr. Pratik Pota was appointed as the Managing 
Director & CEO of the Company with effect from 
August 16, 2022. The annual remuneration package of 
Mr. Pota constitutes a fixed salary component including 
allowances/reimbursements; a variable pay component 
as approved by the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee and the Board of Directors, from time to 
time. The Commission is performance-linked and such 
other parameters as may be fixed by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee and Board from time to 
time. All other components are fixed.
	
The details of the remuneration paid to the Managing 
Director & CEO in the Financial Year 2023-24 is 
reproduced below:
Particulars
Amount (` In Lakhs)
Salary & Perquisites
552.86
Contribution to retiral benefits
22.92
Total
575.78
	
Notes:
	
1. During the Financial Year 2023-24, 83,19,608 stock 
options were granted to Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota 
(DIN:00751178), Managing Director and CEO, at a grant 
price of ` 210/-. These options granted shall vest not 
earlier than the minimum period of 1 (One) year and not 
later than the maximum period of 7 (Seven) years from the 
date of Grant based on KPIs achieved and the Company’s 
performance. The vested options will be exercised over a 
period of 4 (Four) years from the date of vesting.
	
    Of the above mentioned options, 5,80,438 options are time 
based and have vested in May, 2024. There are no further 
time based options.
	
2. The variable pay of Managing Director and CEO is paid 
annually which is determined by NRC after factoring in 
KPIs achieved and the Company’s performance.
	
3. The appointment of the Managing Director & CEO is 
contractual in nature. He may resign by giving 06 (Six) 
months written notice without assigning any reason 
whatsoever. The Company can terminate the appointment 
by giving 06 (Six) months written notice without assigning 
any reason whatsoever.
	
Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors: 
	
Non-Executive Directors are remunerated by way of 
sitting fees for attending the meetings and an annual 
commission. The criteria for making payment to The 
Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors 
are available on website of the Company at www.
eurekaforbes.com/media/Code_of_Conduct_for_
Non_Executive_Director.pdf.
	
Details of the Sitting Fees and Commission paid to Non-Executive Directors in the Financial Year 2023-24 is 
mentioned below:
(in `)
Sr. No. Name of the Director
Sitting Fees
Commission
Total
1.
Mr. Arvind Uppal
2,15,000
27,00,000
29,15,000
2.
Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal
NA
NA
NA
3.
Mr. Vinod Rao
2,50,000
27,00,000
29,50,000
4.
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
2,10,000
27,00,000
29,10,000
5.
Mr. Homi Adi Katgara
2,15,000
27,00,000
29,15,000
6.
Mr. Shashank Shankar Samant
2,15,000
13,50,000
15,65,000
	
The Commission payable to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company for the Financial Year 2023-24 is ` 27,00,000 
per Director. Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal has waived his right to sitting fees and commission.
	
Other Terms 
	
During the year under review, there were no other pecuniary transactions or relationships of Non-Executive Directors 
with the Company. The Company has not granted any stock options of the Company to any of its Non-Executive 
Directors during the year under review.
99
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
5.	
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS 
	
Details in respect of the General Meetings  of the Company held during the last three years are as follows:
Date of the 
Meeting (Years)
Venue
Time
Special Resolution passed
September 
22, 2023 
(14th Annual 
General Meeting)
The meeting was conducted 
through Video Conferencing and 
Other Audio Visual Means. The 
deemed venue of the meeting 
was the registered office of 
the Company
10:00 
AM IST
•	
To consider and approve waiver of excess Managerial 
Remuneration to former Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer
•	
To consider and approve waiver of excess Managerial 
Remuneration to Managing Director & Chief Executive 
Officer (Managing Director & CEO)
•	
Approval of Payment of Commission to the 
Non‑Executive Directors of the Company
•	
To consider and approve the overall managerial 
remuneration of the Directors of the Company
April 19, 2023 
(Extra Ordinary 
General Meeting)
The meeting was conducted 
through Video Conferencing and 
Other Audio Visual Means. The 
deemed venue of the meeting was 
the registered office of the Company
10:00 
AM IST
•	
Approval of proposed grant of Stock Options equal to 
or exceeding 1% (One Percent) of issued capital of the 
Company under Eureka Forbes - Employee Stock Option 
Plan 2022 at the time of grant to identified employee(s)
December 
22, 2022 
(13th Annual 
General Meeting)
The meeting was conducted 
through Video Conferencing and 
Other Audio Visual Means. The 
deemed venue of the meeting 
was the registered office of 
the Company 
04:00 
PM IST
•	
Appointment of Mr. Shashank Shankar Samant (DIN: 
09733485) as Non-Executive and Independent Director
•	
Payment of Commission to Non-Executive Directors
•	
Consideration and approval of payment of Managerial 
Remuneration and waiver of excess Managerial 
Remuneration payable to Managing Director & Chief 
Executive Officer (Managing Director & CEO)
September 
13, 2021 
(12th Annual 
General Meeting)
B1/B2, 701, Marathon Innova, 
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower 
Parel, Mumbai 400013
10:00 
AM IST
-
6.	
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
	
Website, News & Events 
	
A separate dedicated section under ‘lnvestors’ at 
www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations gives 
information on applicable policies including policy on 
dealing with related-party transactions which is at www.
eurekaforbes.com along with news and events held 
during the year of the Company. 
	
A separate dedicated section under ‘Investors’ section 
on the Company’s website at www.eurekaforbes.com 
gives information on policy for determining material 
subsidiary at www.eurekaforbes.com. 
	
The quarterly, half-yearly and yearly financial results 
prepared in accordance with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (Ind-AS Rules) in 
the format prescribed under Regulation 33 of the Listing 
Regulations are sent to the Stock Exchange where the 
shares of the Company are listed i.e. BSE Limited. The 
results are normally published in “Financial Express” 
(English Daily) and “Mumbai Lakshadeep” (Marathi 
Daily) within 48 hours of the conclusion of the Meeting 
of the Board in which they are approved. 
	
The results are displayed on the Company’s website 
www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/financial-
information/eurekaforbes-ltd/. 
	
The proceedings of the General Meetings are 
also available on the Company’s website at www.
eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/shareholders-
information/annual-general-meeting/fy22-23.
	
Other information, such as Press Release and 
Presentations made to investors and analysts etc. is 
regularly updated on the Company’s website.
	
The required disclosures were made to the Stock 
Exchange and were uploaded on the website of the 
Company at www.eurekaforbes.com. 
	
Common Online Dispute Resolution Mechanism
	
SEBI, vide Circular Nos. SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-
1/P/CIR/2023/131, SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-1/P/
CIR/2023/135 and SEBI/HO/OIAE/OIAE_IAD-3/P/
CIR/2023/191 dated July 31, 2023, August 04, 
2023 and December 20, 2023 respectively, has 
introduced a Common ODR mechanism to facilitate 
online resolution of all kinds of grievances/disputes/ 
complaints arising in the Indian Securities Market. 
Additionally, SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/OIAE/
IGRD/CIR/P/2023/156 dated September 20, 2023 
has been issued for redressal of investor grievances 
through SEBI SCORES Platform and linking it to ODR 
Platform. The said ODR Portal permits the Members(s) 
an additional mechanism to resolve the grievances/ 
complaints/disputes as mentioned below:
	
Level 1: Approach RTA or the Company
	
At the initial stage, all grievances/disputes/
complaints are required to be directly lodged 
with the RTA/the Company. The Member(s) may 
send an email to rnt.helpdesk@linkintime.co.in or 
compliance@eurekaforbes.com or send the physical 
correspondence addressed to M/s. Link Intime India 
Private Limited (Unit: Eureka Forbes Limited), C 101, 
247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West), Mumbai - 
400 083
100
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
Level 2: Escalate to SEBI SCORES Platform
	
In case the grievances/disputes/complaints are not 
redressed to the satisfaction of the Member(s) at 
Level 1, then the Member(s) may escalate the same 
on the SEBI Complaints Redress System (“SCORES”) 
Platform at https://www.scores.gov.in in accordance 
with the process laid out therein.
	
Level 3: Initiate Dispute Resolution Process 
on ODR Platform
	
In case the grievances/disputes/complaints of the 
Member(s) are not resolved at Level 1/Level 2, then 
the ODR Process may be initiated through the ODR 
Portal within the applicable timeframe under law.
7.	
SHAREHOLDERS’ INFORMATION
	
15th (Fifteenth) Annual General Meeting (through Video 
Conference/Other Audio Visual Means) 
	
Day & Date: Friday, September 20, 2024
	
Time: 12:00 noon IST
The performance of your Company’s shares relative to the BSE Sensex is given in the chart below:
	
Venue: The 15th Annual General Meeting of the 
Company (‘AGM’) is being conducted through VC/
OAVM facility and the deemed venue for the AGM shall 
be the Registered Office of the Company.
	
Book Closure date: Not Applicable
	
Dividend Payment date: Not Applicable 
	
Financial year: The Financial Year of the Company is 
from April 01 to March 31. 
	
Name of the Stock Exchange: BSE Limited 
	
Address of the Stock Exchange: Phiroze Jeejeebhoy 
Towers, Dalal Street, Fort, Mumbai 400 001 
	
BSE Scrip ID: 543482 
	
BSE Scrip Code: EUREKAFORBE 
	
ISIN: INE0KCE01017 
	
Your Company has paid the Listing fees to the 
Stock Exchange for the Financial Year 2023-24 for 
Equity Shares. 
	
Market Price Data and Comparison:
	
Monthly high and low price of the equity shares of the Company from April 2023 to March 2024 is given as below and 
performance in comparison to BSE Sensex is given in Chart:
Month
BSE Limited
High (`)
Low (`)
April
451.60
370.55
May
516.95
355.00
June
598.75
469.00
July
569.00
480.55
August
564.00
491.05
September
538.40
471.30
October
544.75
481.25
November
536.95
490.00
December
588.00
508.00
January
525.00
445.25
February
544.00
423.00
March
468.95
421.50
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
70,000
80,000
–
Apr-23
May-23
Jun-23
Jul-23
Aug-23
Sep-23
Oct-23
Nov-23
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
BSE Sensex
Eureka’s share price at BSE
Financial Year 2023-24
BSE Sensex
Eureka’s share price at BSE
101
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
Registrar & Transfer Agents 
	
Link Intime India Private Limited 
	
C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West),  
Mumbai - 400 083 
	
Phone: +91 22 4918 6000 
	
E-mail: info@linkintime.co.in 
	
Contact Person: Mr. Ishwar Suvarna 
	
Share Transfer System 
	
All share transfer and other communications regarding 
share certificates, change of address, dividends, etc. 
should be addressed to the Registrar and Transfer 
Agent (RTA). 
	
In terms of the SEBI Listing Regulations, effective from 
April 1, 2019, securities of listed companies can only 
be transferred in dematerialised form except where 
the claim is lodged for transmission or transposition of 
Distribution of Shareholding as on March 31, 2024
Category (Shares)
No. 
of Shareholders
% to 
total shareholders
No. of Shares
% to total no. 
of shareholders
Upto 500
20487
74.49
24,24,005
1.25
501 to 1000
3168
11.52
23,52,473
1.22
1001 to 2000
1982
7.21
26,50,036
1.37
2001 to 3000
641
2.33
16,51,072
0.85
3001 to 4000
205
0.74
7,25,619
0.38
4001 to 5000
224
0.81
10,28,829
0.53
5001 to 10000
420
1.53
30,50,072
1.58
10001 and above
377
1.37
17,95,97,134
92.82
Total
27504
100.00
19,34,79,240
100.00
shares or where the transfer deed(s) was lodged prior 
to April 1, 2019 and returned due to deficiency in the 
documents. SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/
RTAMB/CIR/P/2020/166 dated September 7, 2020 has 
instructed companies to not accept transfer requests in 
physical form with effect from March 31, 2021. Hence, 
the Company has not accepted any document for 
transfer of shares in physical form post March 31, 2021.
	
Shareholders are advised to dematerialise their shares 
held by them in physical form at the earliest. Requests 
for dematerialisation of shares are processed by RTA 
and confirmation thereof is given to the respective 
depositories i.e. National Securities Depository Limited 
(“NSDL”) and Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited (“CDSL”) within the statutory time limit from 
the date of receipt of share certificates, provided the 
documents are complete in all respects.
25 to 91 (3.6x)
Institutional shareholders
13.5k to 28.1k (2.1x)
Non Institutional shareholders
Shareholding base expanded significantly since listing
102
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
Shareholding Pattern as on March 31, 2024
Sr. No.
Category
No. of Shares
% of Shareholding
A
Promoter Holding
1
Promoter & Promoter Group
12,10,41,730
62.56
Sub-Total (A)
12,10,41,730
62.56
B
Non-Promoter Holding
1
Institutional Investor
1.1
Mutual Fund
63,43,419
3.28
1.2
Alternate Investment Funds
18,12,301
0.94
1.3
Foreign Portfolio Investor
3,09,84,681
16.01
1.4
Financial Institutions / Banks
27,55,369
1.41
1.5
Foreign Bank
1,950
0.00
2
Central / State Government(s)
16,55,145
0.86
Sub-Total (B)
4,35,52,865
22.50
Non-Institutions
1
Bodies Corporate/LLP
91,82,760
4.75
2
Non-Resident Indians
7,24,627
0.37
3
Individuals/HUF/Trust/Others
1,89,77,258
9.82
Sub-Total (C)
2,88,84,645
14.94
Grand Total (A+B+C)
19,34,79,240
100.00
Shareholding Pattern
NSDL
CDSL
Physical
95.89%
2.35%
1.76%
Mutual Fund
Promoter Holding
Alternate Investment Funds
Foreign Portfolio Investor	
Financial Institutions / Banks	
Foreign Bank
Central / State Government(s)
Non-Institutions
62.56%
3.28%
0.94%
16.01%
1.41%
0.00%
0.86%
14.94%
	
Dematerialisation & Liquidity of Shares 
	
As on March 31, 2024, 98.28% of the total issued share capital was held in dematerialised form with NSDL and CDSL, 
and the break-up is as follows:
103
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
Plant Locations:
	
Dehradun 
	
Khasra Number 3946, 3961 & 3962, Lal Tappar Industrial 
Area, Majri Grant, Dehradun-Haridwar Highway, Tehsil 
– Rishikesh, Dist. – Dehradun, Uttarakhand - 248140
	
Bengaluru 
	
Plot No. 143, C-4, Bommasandra Industrial Area, 
Hosur Road, Bengaluru - 560099
	
Address for Correspondence 
	
Ms. Pragya Kaul is the Company Secretary 
& Compliance Officer of the Company. The 
correspondence address of the Company is: 
	
Registered Office – B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon 
Innova, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai, 
Maharashtra – 400013, India. 
	
Phone: +91 22 4882 1700 
	
Fax: +91 22 4882 1701 
	
Website: www.eurekaforbes.com
	
E-mail: compliance@eurekaforbes.com 
	
The Company welcomes all the members to 
communicate with the Company as per the above 
details or through the Company’s Registrar and Share 
Transfer Agent (RTA): Link Intime India Private Limited.
	
Link Intime India Private Limited
	
C 101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West),
	
Mumbai - 400 083
	
Phone: +91 22 4918 6000
	
E-mail: info@linkintime.co.in
	
Outstanding ADRs/GDRs/Warrants or any 
convertible instruments, conversion date and 
likely impact on equity
	
The Company does not have any outstanding Global 
Depository Receipts or American Depository Receipts 
or warrants or any convertible instruments. 
	
Credit Ratings
	
During the year under review, the Company’s credit 
rating was revised from CARE A/Stable for long-term 
bank facilities to CARE A+/Stable. The details of Credit 
Rating are available on the website of the Company 
at www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/
shareholders-information/credit-rating.
8.	
OTHER DISCLOSURES
	
(a)	 Disclosures on materially related party 
transactions that may have potential conflict 
with the interests of listed entity at large 
	
	
During the Financial Year 2023-24, there was no 
materially related party transaction that may have 
potential conflict with the interests of the Company 
at large. For reference, the details of related party 
transactions in accordance with IND AS–24 are 
given in Note No. 34 of Notes to Accounts of the 
Annual Report. The Policy on Materiality of RPTs 
and dealing with RPTs as approved by the Board 
is uploaded on the Company’s website at the 
web link www.eurekaforbes.com/media/investor-
relations/Policy-on-Materiality-of-Related-Party-
Transactions-and-on-dealing-with-Related-Party-
Transactions.pdf.
	
(b)	 Details of non-compliance by the listed 
entity, penalties, strictures imposed on 
the listed entity by stock exchange(s) or 
the Board or any statutory authority, on 
any matter related to capital markets, 
during the last three years 
	
	
The Company has not been penalised, nor have the 
stock exchanges, SEBI or any statutory authority 
imposed any strictures, during the last three years, 
on any matter relating to capital markets. 
	
(c)	 Details 
of 
establishment 
of 
vigil 
mechanism / whistle blower policy, and 
affirmation that no personnel has been 
denied access to the audit Committee 
	
	
The Company has adopted a Whistle Blower 
Policy which means alert/vigilant empowering 
any person associated with the organisation to 
file a grievance if he/she notices any irregularity. 
The Policy is available on the website of the 
Company at www.eurekaforbes.com/media/
pdf/whistle-blower-policy.pdf. No person has 
been denied access to the Audit Committee for 
any grievance. 
	
(d)	 Web link where policy for determining 
‘material’ subsidiaries is disclosed 
	
	
The policy for determining ‘material’ subsidiaries 
is available on the website of the Company under 
“Codes & Policies” in the Corporate Governance 
section and can be accessed at www.eurekaforbes.
com/media/pdf/PolicyonMaterialSubsidiary.pdf. 
	
(e)	 Disclosure of commodity price risks and 
commodity hedging activities 
	
	
The Company is exposed to the risks associated 
with volatility in foreign exchange rates mainly 
on account of import of finished goods and 
components. A robust planning and strategy 
ensures that the Company’s interest is protected 
despite volatility in foreign exchange rates and 
commodity prices. The Company does not enter 
into any derivative instruments for trading or 
speculative purposes. The Company has not 
entered into any commodity hedging activities. 
The details of unhedged foreign currency 
exposure as on March 31, 2024 are disclosed 
in the Note No. 40 (c)(i) to the Standalone 
Financial Statements. 
104
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
(f)	 Details of utilisation of funds raised 
through preferential allotment or qualified 
institutions placement as specified under 
Regulation 32(7A) 
	
	
The Company did not raise any funds through 
preferential allotment or qualified institutions 
placement during the year. 
	
(g)	 Certificate from a Company Secretary in 
practice that none of the Directors on the 
Board of the Company have been debarred 
or disqualified from being appointed or 
continuing as Directors of Companies by 
the Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or 
any such statutory authority. 
	
	
On the basis of written representations/declaration 
received from the Directors, as on March 31, 
2024, M/s Mihen Halani & Associates, Company 
Secretaries (Membership No. FCS9926, CP No. 
12015), have issued a certificate, confirming that 
none of the Directors on Board of the Company 
has been debarred or disqualified from being 
appointed or continuing as Director of companies 
by SEBI/MCA or any such authority and the same 
also forms part of this Report. 
	
(h)	 Where the Board had not accepted any 
recommendation of any Committee of 
the Board which is mandatorily required, 
in the relevant financial year, the same to 
be disclosed along with reasons thereof 
	
	
The Board accepted the recommendations of 
its Committees, wherever made, during the 
financial year. 
	
(i)	
Total fees for all services paid by the listed 
entity and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated 
basis, to the statutory auditor and all entities 
in the network firm/network entity of which 
the statutory auditor is a part
 	
	
The details of remuneration paid to the Statutory 
Auditor is given in Note No. 30 forming part of the 
Standalone Financial Statements. The statutory 
auditors and their network firm/network entity are 
not providing any services to the Subsidiaries of 
the Company.
	
(j)	
Disclosure of the extent to which the 
Discretionary Requirements as specified 
in Part E of schedule II have been adopted 
	
	
a.	
The Board: The Company’s Chairman is 
a Non-Executive Director and is entitled 
to maintain the Chairman’s office at the 
Company’s expense and is also allowed 
reimbursement of expenses incurred in 
performance of his duties. 
	
	
b.	
Shareholder Rights: Quarterly Financial 
Statements are published in leading 
newspapers and uploaded on Company’s 
website www.eurekaforbes.com. 
	
	
c.	
Modified opinion(s) in audit report: Auditors 
have raised no qualification on the 
Financial Statements. 
	
	
d.	
Separate posts of Chairman and the MD 
or CEO: Presently, Mr. Arvind Uppal is the 
Non-Executive Chairman and Mr. Pratik 
Rashmikant Pota is the Managing Director 
& CEO of the Company. 
	
	
e.	
Reporting of M/s. PricewaterhouseCoopers 
Internal Auditor: The Company has 
appointed an Internal Auditor who has direct 
access to the Chairman, Audit Committee. 
	
(k)	 Disclosures 
of 
the 
compliance 
with 
Corporate 
Governance 
requirements 
specified in Regulations 17 to 27 and clauses 
(b) to (i) of sub regulation (2) of Regulation 46 
	
	
The Company has complied with all the 
mandatory requirements specified in Regulations 
17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation 
(2) of Regulation 46 of the SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. 
	
	
Further, the certificate by Practicing Company 
Secretary with respect to compliance with 
Regulation 17 to 27 of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
relating to Corporate Governance, has been 
annexed to this Report. 
	
(l)	
Policy 
for 
Prevention 
of 
Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace 
	
	
The Company values the dignity of individuals 
and is committed to providing an environment, 
which is free of discrimination, intimidation and 
abuse. As per the requirement of the Prevention 
of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013 
(‘POSH Act’) and Rules made thereunder, your 
Company has constituted Internal Complaint 
Committee (ICC) and has a well-defined 
policy. The Company has in place an effective 
mechanism for dealing with complaints relating 
to sexual harassment at workplace. During 
the year, the Company has not received any 
complaint under the Policy. 
	
	
a.	
Number of complaints filed during the Financial 
Year – 1
	
	
b.	
Number of complaints disposed of during the 
Financial Year – 1 
	
	
c.	
Number of complaints pending as on end of 
the Financial Year – NIL
105
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
(m)	 Dividend Policy 
	
	
The Company has adopted a Dividend Policy which has been displayed on the Company’s website and can be 
accessed at www.eurekaforbes.com/media/investor-relations/Dividend-Distribution-Policy.pdf. 
	
(n)	 Legal Compliance Reporting 
	
	
The Board of Directors reviews, on a quarterly basis, the report of compliance with respect to all applicable laws 
and regulations. 
	
(o)	 Demat Suspense Account 
	
	
The Company has a Suspense Escrow Demat Account pursuant to SEBI/HO/MIRSD/PoD-1/OW/P/2022/64923 
dated December 30, 2022. 
Aggregate number of 
shareholders and the 
outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying at 
the beginning of the year 
Number of shareholders 
who approached listed 
entity for transfer of 
shares from suspense 
account during the year 
Number of shareholders 
to whom shares were 
transferred from 
suspense account 
during the year
Aggregate number of 
shareholders and the 
outstanding shares in the 
suspense account lying 
at the end of the year 
2 shareholders holding 
4,905 shares
0
0
2 shareholders holding 
4,905 shares
	
	
Parameters of Statutory compliances evidencing 
the standards expected from a listed entity 
have been duly observed and a Report on 
Corporate Governance as well as the Certificate 
from Practicing Company Secretary confirming 
compliance with the requirements of SEBI Listing 
Regulations forms part of the Annual Report. 
	
(p)	 Code of Conduct 
	
	
The Company has formulated and adopted 
Code of Conduct for members of the Board of 
Directors and senior management personnel 
(which incorporates the duties of Independent 
Directors) as laid down in Schedule IV of the 
Act (‘Code for Independent Directors’) in 
accordance with Regulation 17(5) of the SEBI 
Listing Regulations which is available on the 
website www.eurekaforbes.com/media/Code_
of_Conduct_for_Board_of_Directors_Senior_
Management_Personnel.pdf. The Company 
has received confirmation from all members of 
the Board of Directors and Senior Management 
Personnel regarding compliance of the Code for 
the year under review. The declaration signed by 
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota, Managing Director 
& CEO stating that the members of Board of 
Directors and senior management personnel have 
affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct 
of Board of Directors and Senior Management 
Personnel is forming part of this report.
	
(q)	 Disclosure by listed entity and its subsidiaries of 
‘Loans and advances in the nature of loans to 
firms/companies in which Directors are interested 
by name and amount’: Not Applicable
	
(r)	
Details of material subsidiaries of the listed entity; 
including the date and place of incorporation and 
the name and date of appointment of the statutory 
auditors of such subsidiaries: Not applicable
	
(s)	 Disclosure of agreements entered under Clause 
5A of Paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III which are 
binding on Listed entities: Not applicable
On behalf of the Board of Directors of
Eureka Forbes Limited
Arvind Uppal
Place: Gurugram	
Chairman 
Date: August 08, 2024	
(DIN: 00104992)
106
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
I, Pratik Rashmikant Pota, Managing Director & CEO of Eureka Forbes Limited, hereby declare that all the members of the 
Board of Directors and the Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct of Board 
of Directors and Senior Management Personnel, applicable to them as laid down by the Board of Directors in terms of 
Regulation 26(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024. 
On behalf of the Board of Directors of
 Eureka Forbes Limited 
Sd/- 
Pratik Rashmikant Pota 
Place: Mumbai	
Managing Director & CEO
Date: August 08, 2024	
DIN 00751178
DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF CONDUCT OF THE COMPANY BY 
THE BOARD MEMBERS AND SENIOR MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations]
107
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
To,
The Members
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Eureka Forbes Limited (“the Company”), 
for the financial year ended on March 31, 2024, as stipulated in Regulation 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation 
(2) of regulation 46 and para-C, D and E of Schedule V of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. Our examination was 
limited to the procedure and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions 
of the Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations as given to us, we certify that the 
Company, to the extent applicable, has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Regulations 
17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and Para C, D and E of Schedule V of Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
We state that in respect of investor’s grievance received during the financial year ended March 31, 2024, the Registrar and 
Transfer Agent of the Company have certified that as at March 31, 2024, there were no investors’ grievances remaining 
unattended / pending to the satisfaction of the investor.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency 
or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For MIHEN HALANI & ASSOCIATES
Practicing Company Secretaries
Mihen Halani
Place: Mumbai
(Proprietor) 
Date: May 28, 2024
CP No: 12015
ICSI UDIN: F009926F000464921
FCS No: 9926
CERTIFICATE OF PRACTICING COMPANY SECRETARY ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
108
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
(pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and clause (10)(i) of Para C of Schedule V to the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
To,
The Members,
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova,
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, 
Mumbai – 400 013, Maharashtra, India
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Eureka 
Forbes Limited bearing CIN - L27310MH2008PLC188478 and having registered office at B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon 
Innova, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400 013, Maharashtra, India (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Company”), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 
34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C clause 10(i) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number 
(DIN) status at the portal of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs at “www.mca.gov.in”) as considered necessary and explanations 
furnished to us by the Company and its officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company 
as stated below for the Financial Year ending on March 31, 2024 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed 
or continuing as Director of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any 
such other Statutory Authority.
Sr.  
No.
Name of Directors
DIN
Designation
Date of Appointment 
In Company
1
Mr. Arvind Uppal
00104992
Non-Executive – Non-Independent 
Director, Chairperson
26/04/2022
2
Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota
00751178
Executive Director, CEO-MD
16/08/2022
3
Mr. Homi Adi Katgara
00210338
Non-Executive - Independent Director
31/01/2022
4
Mr. Vinod Rao
01788921
Non-Executive - Independent Director
26/04/2022
5
Mr. Sahil Dilip Dalal
07350808
Non-Executive - Non-Independent Director
26/04/2022
6
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
09507365
Non-Executive - Independent Director
26/04/2022
7
Mr. Shashank Shankar Samant
09733485
Non-Executive - Independent Director
10/10/2022
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management 
of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an 
assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has 
conducted the affairs of the Company.
For MIHEN HALANI & ASSOCIATES
Practicing Company Secretaries
Mihen Halani
Place: Mumbai
(Proprietor) 
Date: May 28, 2024
CP No: 12015
ICSI UDIN: F009926F000464886
FCS No: 9926
109
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
ANNEXURE – 7
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
DETAILS OF THE LISTED ENTITY
1.
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the 
Listed Entity: 
L27310MH2008PLC188478
2.
Name of the Listed Entity: 
Eureka Forbes Limited (formerly Forbes Enviro Solutions 
Limited)
3.
Year of incorporation: 
November 26, 2008
4.
Registered office address: 
B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova, Ganpatrao 
Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013
5.
Corporate address: 
B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova, Ganpatrao 
Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400013
6.
E-mail: 
compliance@eurekaforbes.com
7.
Telephone: 
+91 2248821700
8.
Website: 
www.eurekaforbes.com
9.
Financial year for which reporting is being 
done: 
FY 2023-24
10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where 
shares are listed: 
BSE Limited
11. Paid-up Capital: 
` 1,93,47,92,400
12. Name and contact details (telephone, 
email address) of the person who may be 
contacted in case of any queries on the 
BRSR report:
Name: Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota
Designation: Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Email id: compliance@eurekaforbes.com
Telephone: +91 2248821700
13. Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures 
under this report made on a standalone 
basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on a 
consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and 
all the entities which form a part of its 
consolidated financial statements, taken 
together): 
Standalone basis
14. Name of assurance provider: 
NIL
15. Type of assurance obtained: 
Not Applicable
II.	
PRODUCT/SERVICES
	
16.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
Sr. 
No.
Description of 
Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover 
of the entity
1
Manufacturing
Electrical equipment, General Purpose and Special purpose 
Machinery & equipment, Transport equipment
54.69%
2
Manufacturing
Repair & installation of machinery & equipment, motor 
vehicles
28.19%
3
Trading
Retail Trading
17.12%
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY &  
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (BRSR)
[under Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
110
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
17.	 Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
Sr. 
No.
Product/Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover 
contributed
1
Manufacture of domestic electric appliances
27501
13.66%
2
Manufacture of filtering and purifying machinery or 
apparatus for liquids and gases
28195
49.63%
3
Repair and servicing of household appliances
95221
35.83%
III.	 OPERATIONS
	
18.	 Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of Plants
Number of Offices
Total
National
2
141
143
International
0
0
0
	
19.	 Markets served by the entity
	
	
a.	
Number of locations
Location
Number
National (No. of States)
34 (28 States + 6 Union Territories)
International (No. of Countries)
6
	
	
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
	
	
0.06%
	
	
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
	
	
The Company demonstrates a commitment to serving a diverse customer across numerous sectors 
which includes B2C, schools, retail stores, households, B2B, banks, IT firms, hospitals, SMEs, and hotels. 
The Company’s reach extends to government institutions including railways, armed forces, and various 
departments through platforms like Government e-markets (GEM). The Company leverages its own website 
and various e-commerce channels alongside modern retail outlets, and general trade outlets to ensure 
comprehensive market coverage.
IV.	 EMPLOYEES
	
20.	 Details as at the end of the financial year:
	
	
a.	
Employees and workers (including differently abled):
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No.(B)
%(B/A)
No.(C)
%(C/A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
2633
2504
95
129
5
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
9
7
78
2
22
3.
Total Employees (D+E)
2642
2511
95
131
5
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
41
40
98
1
2
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
0
0
0
0
0
6.
Total Workers (F+G)
41
40
98
1
2
111
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
b.	
Differently abled Employees and Workers:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Total
(A)
Male
Female
No.(B)
%(B/A)
No.(C)
%(C/A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
Nil
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
3.
Total Employees (D+E)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
Nil
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
6.
Total Workers (F+G)
	
21.	  Participation/Inclusion/Representation of Women:
Total
(A)
Number and percentage 
of Females
No.(B)
%(B/A)
Board of Directors
7
1
14.28%
Key Management Personnel
3
1
33.33%
	
22.	  Turnover rate for permanent Employees and Workers:
	
	
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent 
Employees
44%
2%
42%
61%
55%
61%
42%
47%
42%
Permanent Workers
4.5%
0%
4.5%
5%
0%
5%
10%
0%
10%
V.	
HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (INCLUDING JOINT VENTURES)
	
23.	 a.	
Names of holding/subsidiary/associate companies/joint ventures
S. 
No.
Name of the holding/
subsidiary/associate 
companies/joint 
ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
holding/subsidiary/
associate/joint venture
% of shares 
held by listed 
entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate 
in the Business 
Responsibility initiatives of 
the listed entity? (Yes/No)
1.
Lunolux Limited
Holding
62.56%
No
2.
Forbes Aquatech Limited
Subsidiary
88.49%
The Company takes all 
active measures to include 
its Subsidiaries in its BR 
initiatives
3.
Infinite Water Solutions 
Private Limited
Wholly-owned Subsidiary
100%
4.
Euro Forbes Limited, 
Dubai
Wholly-owned Subsidiary
100%
5.
Forbes Lux FZE, Dubai
Step-down Subsidiary
100%
VI.	 CSR DETAILS
	
24.	 (i)	
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No)
	
	
	
Yes
	
	
(ii) 	 Turnover (in `): ` 2,18,922.63 Lakhs
	
	
(iii) 	 Net worth (in `): ` 4,16,371.22 Lakhs
112
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
VII.	 TRANSPARENCY AND DISCLOSURES COMPLIANCES
	
25.	  Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines 
on Responsible Business Conduct:
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism in 
Place (Yes/No)
(If Yes, then 
provide 
web-link for 
grievance 
redressal 
policy)
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes, Link to 
grievance 
redressal 
mechanism 
is www.
eurekaforbes.
com/connect-
with-us
0
0
-
0
0
-
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Not Applicable as the Company doesn’t have any investors other than Equity Shareholders
Shareholders
Yes, Link to 
grievance 
redressal 
mechanism 
is www.
eurekaforbes.
com/connect-
with-us
6
0
-
3
0
-
Employees 
and Workers
Yes, Link to 
grievance 
redressal 
mechanism 
is www.
eurekaforbes.
com/connect-
with-us
2
0
-
0
0
-
Customers*
Call Centre, 
WhatsApp, 
Email, IVR, 
Website, 
Customer App
www.
eurekaforbes.
com/connect-
with-us
97
82
Customer 
concerns are 
addressed 
promptly and 
effectively, 
ensuring a 
high level of 
satisfaction 
with 
complaint 
resolution.
91
77
-
Value Chain 
Partners
Through 
interactions, 
the Company 
actively 
collects and 
resolves value 
chain partner 
grievances
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other (please 
specify)
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
	
	
*The Customer complaints pertains to Product, Services and Advertising related matters.
113
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
26.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues. Please indicate material 
responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the 
same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along with its financial implications, as per the 
following format:
S. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk/
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
1.
Regulatory/
Compliance
Risk
Covers the risk of 
noncompliance due 
to nonadherence 
to product related 
guidelines or 
other regulatory 
pronouncements.
1. Controls are built in the 
Product development 
process to address regulatory 
requirements
2. An in-house team, backed by 
access to external experts, 
enables easy identification of 
the changes and quick roll-
out of capabilities to ensure 
compliances.
Negative
2.
Market Risk
Risk
Defined as the risk 
of inability to drive 
category growth and 
market share.
1. Significant investments 
have been made in R&D and 
Marketing capabilities.
2. Our offerings encompass 
multiple price points – from 
entry level to premium. The 
diverse price points are 
available for both products and 
services.
3. We have an innovation roadmap 
to ensure a steady pipeline of 
unique innovations.
4. Our omni channel presence 
including strong Go To Market 
presence and access to 
consumer homes.
Negative
3.
Consumer/
Risk 
Reputation
Risk
Encompasses 
the risk of poor 
customer experience 
and associated 
reputation risks 
due to failure to 
honour service 
commitments or/and 
redress customer 
grievances.
1. Our extensive service 
network is being fortified with 
infrastructure upgrade and 
expansion.
2. Significant digital capability 
has been and continued to be 
put in place to give control to 
customers.
3. Organisational interventions 
like “Customer Day” and 
extensive engagement with 
business partners to further 
drive mindset of customer 
experience.
Negative
4.
Supply Chain 
Risks
Risk
Identified as supply 
risks caused 
by unexpected 
disruptions or 
geopolitical or other 
external factor.
1. Supply network is de-risked 
through a detailed vendor 
development roadmap.
2. Robust strategic partnerships 
are in place and are being 
progressively enhanced.
Negative
114
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
S. 
No.
Material 
issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether 
risk or 
opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk/
opportunity
In case of risk, approach to 
adapt or mitigate
Financial 
implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity 
(Indicate positive 
or negative 
implications)
5.
Information/
Cyber 
Security
Risk
Covers security 
related vulnerabilities 
attributable to 
external factors 
such as cyberattack, 
ransomware, 
data leaks etc, or 
business continuity 
risk due to 
inadequate disaster 
recovery controls.
1. Detailed Disaster recovery 
process is in place.
2. Several data security measures 
in areas like customer data, call 
masking etc put in place.
3. Cybersecurity awareness 
trainings have been initiated 
across the organisation.
4. In house capability and access 
to external experts in place.
Negative
6.
People Risk
Risk
Described as 
the risks to 
transformation 
initiatives due to 
cultural and other 
change resistance 
issues.
1. Strategy alignment session 
and cascades done with all 
employees of the company.
2. First ever ESOP programme 
covering all managers rolled 
out.
3. Sustained employee 
engagement and recognition 
programmes across 
levels in place to drive the 
transformation agenda.
4. New people capabilities have 
been built and scaled up in 
areas like R&D, Technology, 
D2C and Sales organisation.
Negative
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards 
adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policy and management processes
1.	 a.	 Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each 
principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs.  
(Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
b.	 Has the policy been approved by the Board? 
(Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
	
c.	 Weblink of the policies, if available
www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/
corporategovernance/policies
2.	 Whether the entity has translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes/No)
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
3.	 Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain 
partners?
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
115
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
4.	 Name of the national and international codes/
certifications/labels/standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship 
Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards 
(e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity 
and mapped to each principle.
1.	 GC Mark Certificate (Bengaluru & Dehradun)
2.	 IGBC Membership Certificate (Dehradun)
3.	 ISO 14001: 2015 (Environment Management System) 
(Bengaluru & Dehradun)
4.	 ISO 9001:2015 (Quality Management System) 
(Bengaluru & Dehradun)
5.	 BIS Certification as per IS 14724:1999 (Dehradun)
6.	 IS 16240 Certifications (Bengaluru & Dehradun)
5.	 Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity 
with defined timelines, if any.
The Company is committed to delivering long-term 
sustainable value to its stakeholders. While the 
comprehensive work on setting long-term targets is still 
in progress, the Company has already initiated early-
stage steps to promote sustainable water conservation. 
For FY 2024-25, the Dehradun plant aims to achieve an 
additional 10% reduction in groundwater withdrawal.
6.	 Performance of the entity against the specific 
commitments, goals and targets along with reasons in 
case the same are not met.
Groundwater Withdrawal: In FY 2023-24, the Dehradun 
plant achieved a 16% reduction in groundwater 
withdrawal compared to the previous financial year. This 
was accomplished through initiatives such as reusing RO 
reject water for toilet flushing and implementing digital 
water flow monitoring systems to track consumption.
Use of Recycled Water: In FY 2023-24, the Bengaluru 
plant installed an Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP), enabling 
the recycling and reuse of water.
Governance, leadership and oversight
7.	
Statement by Director, responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG-related challenges, targets, 
and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
	
The Company has long championed sustainable business practices, firmly believing that sustainability and business 
growth can go hand in hand. The Company’s consumer-centric approach has earned it a leading position in the home 
appliances market. By swiftly adapting to changes in market demand and consumer behaviour, the Company has 
remained the first choice for customers. Over the past four decades, its commitment to being a true ‘Friends for life’ 
has not only been a promise but a reality, as evidenced by its dedication to customer service and consistently high 
product standards.
	
As the Company aligns its sustainable practices with global goals, it is accelerating the introduction of environmentally 
conscious and socially responsible initiatives. These include optimising energy usage across product lifecycles, adopting 
sustainable packaging, and prioritising local suppliers. Sustainability has become a core principle, integrated into every 
aspect of the Company’s operations. The Company has implemented measures to conserve resources, reduce waste, 
and enhance energy efficiency, while also promoting responsible sourcing throughout its supply chain. Through these 
efforts, the Company aims to minimise its environmental footprint and contribute to a more sustainable future.
116
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
8.	
Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility 
policy (ies).
	
Name: Mr. Pratik Rashmikant Pota
	
DIN: 00751178
	
Designation: Managing Director & CEO
9.	
Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/Director responsible for decision-making on sustainability-
related issues? (Yes/No). If yes, provide details.
	
Yes. 	The Managing Director & CEO and senior management of the Company oversee various aspects of the Company’s 
social, environmental, governance, and economic responsibilities on a continuous basis
10.	 Details of review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for review
Indicate whether review was 
undertaken by Director/Committee of 
the Board/Any other Committee
Frequency (Annually/Half yearly/
Quarterly/Any other-please specify
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against 
above policies and 
follow-up action
The Board conducts regular policy reviews, making necessary adjustments to policies 
and processes periodically to meet evolving industry standards.
Compliance with 
statutory requirements 
of relevance to the 
principles, and, 
rectification of any non-
compliances
To maintain the highest standards, the Company adheres to all legal requirements for 
each principle and conducts all statutorily mandated audits.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
11.
Has the entity carried out independent assessment/evaluation 
of the working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/No) If 
yes, provide name of the agency.
The Board conducts internal audits and reviews 
quarterly for the Board-approved policies. To 
ensure alignment with best practices and mitigate 
potential risks, the Company has onboarded 
external agency to conduct Internal Audits of 
policies, processes, operations and compliance 
undergo evaluation.
12.	 If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the principles material to its 
business (Yes/No)
Not Applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate 
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical 
resources available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
Any other reason (please specify)
117
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
SECTION C: PRINCIPAL-WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Business should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is 
Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial 
year.
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics/principles covered under the training 
and its impact
%age of persons 
in a respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
Board of Directors
16
Programmes carried out by the Company includes 
the following topics and areas:
1.	 Overall industry in which the Company 
operates, Company’s operations and Strategy 
and Annual Budget of the Company;
2.	 Internal Control Systems; 
3.	 CSR strategy framework;
4.	 Update on various policies;
5.	 Update on LODR Amendments;
6.	 Investor Grievances;
7.	 Risk Management;
8.	 Internal Audit Plans and findings;
9.	 Regulatory updates at Board and Audit 
Committee Meetings;
10.	 Updates on Prevention of Insider Trading 
Regulations;
11.	 Compliances with various applicable laws.
100%
Key Managerial 
Personnel
16
100%
Employees other 
than BoD and 
KMPs
2712
1. 	 Field Visits /OJTs
2. 	 Soft Skills
3. 	 Induction
4. 	 Products including new innovations for all  
3 categories of Water, Vacuum and Air
5. 	 Water Testing Kit
6. 	 New AMC propositions
7. 	 Frontline Sales Training
60.39%
Workers
16
1.	 ISO-Quality Management System
2.	 ISO-Environmental Management System
3.	 Behaviour Based Safety
4.	 Basic Electronics
5.	 5’S
118
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics/principles covered under the training 
and its impact
%age of persons 
in a respective 
category covered 
by the awareness 
programmes
6.	 Industrial Safety
7.	 Measuring Instrument and their uses
8.	 Rework Analysis
9.	 Maintenance Management
10.	 Inventory Management
11.	 Kaizen and POKE-YOKE
12.	 Product Ratification
13.	 Fire Fighting & First Aid
14.	 First Time Right
15.	 Customer Handling
16.	 Team Building
100%
2.	
Details of fines/penalties/punishment/award/compounding fees/settlement amount paid in proceedings 
(by the entity or by directors/KMPs) with regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, in the 
financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as 
specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and 
as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/
enforcement agencies/
judicial institutions
Amount  
(In `)
Brief 
of the 
Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No)
Penalty/Fine
Refer to the Company’s website for all disclosures made under Regulation 30 of SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 at www.eurekaforbes.
com/investor-relations/corporate-announcements
Settlement
Compounding fee
Non-Monetary
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/
enforcement agencies/
judicial institutions
Brief of the 
Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Yes/No)
Imprisonment
NIL
NIL
NA
NA
Punishment
NIL
NIL
NA
NA
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/Revision preferred in case where 
monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of the regulatory/enforcement agencies/judicial institutions
Refer to the Company’s website for all disclosures made under Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 at www.eurekaforbes.com/investor-relations/corporate-
announcements
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, 
provide a web-link to the policy.
	
The Company ensures that all its policies/practices conform to the National Voluntary Guidelines (NVGs) and the 
implementation of these are overseen by various Board Committees and Functional Heads. To ensure that there is 
regular awareness and ease of reference, all the HR policies are hosted on the employee portal of the Company, 
which ensures seamless communication and transparency. Other statutory policies are hosted on the website of the 
Company at www.eurekaforbes.com.
	
The Company has a formalised Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics, along with a well-defined Whistle Blower policy 
for internal and external stakeholders. This includes a comprehensive structured new e-learning course along with 
119
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
facilitated sessions, available for all employees on both these policies. All new joinees of the organisation are required 
to complete this course as a part of their induction. This course has to be undertaken atleast once annually, by all 
employee to promote ethics, transparency and accountability. For workers, quarterly refresher sessions are conducted 
by HR teams.
5.	
Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law 
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/corruption:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directors
NIL
NIL
KMPs
NIL
NIL
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NIL
NIL
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues 
of Conflict of Interest of the Directors
NIL
NA
NIL
NA
Number of complaints received in relation to issues 
of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
NIL
NA
NIL
NA
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action 
taken by regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts 
of interest.
	
Not Applicable
8.	
Number of days of accounts payables [(Accounts payable *365)/Cost of goods/services procured] in the 
following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Number of days of accounts payable
90.70
101.97
9.	
Openness of business
	
Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along with 
loans and advances & investments, with related parties, in the following format:
Parameter
Metrics
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Concentration 
of Purchases
a.	 Purchases from trading houses as % of total 
purchases
The Company does not engage in any 
business with Trading Houses
b.	 Number of trading houses where purchases are 
made from
c.	 Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of 
total purchases from trading houses
Concentration 
of Sales
a.	 Sales to dealers/distributors as % of total sales
49.43%
47.54%
b.	 Number of dealers/distributors to whom sales are 
made
76,102
46,166
c.	 Sales to top 10 dealers/distributors as % of total 
sales to dealers/distributors
15.55%
12.85%
Share of RPTs in a.	 Purchases (Purchases with related parties/Total 
Purchases)
6.32%
7.02%
b.	 Sales (Sales to related parties/Total Sales)
0.12%
0.16%
c.	 Loans & advances (Loans & advances given to 
related parties/Total loans & advances)
0%
0%
d.	 Investments (Investments in related parties/Total 
Investments made)
31.47%
24.98%
120
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
PRINCIPLE 2: Business should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental 
and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Details of improvements in environmental and social 
impacts
R&D
NIL
2%
-
Capex
NIL
5%
-
2.	
a.	
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)
	
	
Yes. Procedures are in place to ensure suppliers adhere to social, and ethical standards throughout the supply 
chain. The Company seeks Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) compliance for Printed Circuit Board, 
where test certificates and self-declarations are taken from suppliers to ascertain RoHS Compliance.
	
	
The Company also prioritises the procurement of sustainable material which includes reusable PP boxes for the 
supply of plastic components as replacement to corrugated boxes which are not reusable, whereas PP boxes can 
be reused approximately 30 times. Additionally, in one of the new products, the design incorporates a Honeycomb 
buffer instead of thermocol/EPE Foam Buffer.
	
b.	
If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
	
~ 20%
	
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing 
at the end of life, for
	
	
(a)	
Plastics (including packaging)
	
	
(b)	
E-waste
	
	
(c)	
Hazardous waste and
	
	
(d)	
other waste.
	
	
(a)	 Plastic: The Company has partnered with India’s top waste management firms to responsibly manage 
plastic waste with a goal to foster a circular economy and enabling the use of recycled plastics in packaging. 
Through this collaboration and obtaining EPR registration for Plastic Waste management, the Company 
showcases its commitment to environmental stewardship and a greener future.
	
	
(b)	 E-waste: The Company has partnered with electronic asset management firms for E-waste recycling. This 
ensures environmentally responsible handling of electronics. Additionally, the Company has secured EPR 
registration for E-Waste management.
	
	
(c)	 Hazardous waste: Effluent Treatment Plants and Sewage Treatment Plants have been installed at both 
factories in Dehradun and Bengaluru, to remove contaminants from wastewater or sewage. The treated 
water is collected in storage tanks and reused for gardening. The Company has also identified reliable 
and renowned partners, who are India’s leading waste management and disposal companies, to efficiently 
manage the hazardous waste generated.
	
	
(d)	 Other waste: The Company has executed an agreement with the government-authorised vendor for the 
collection and recycling of biomedical waste at both factory locations.
121
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/No). If yes, 
whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted 
to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
Yes. EPR is applicable to the Company. The EPR plan is accessible through the following link: www.eurekaforbes.
com/media/EXTENDED_PRODUCER_RESPONSIBILITY_PLAN_BY_EUREKA.pdf.
PRINCIPLE 3: Business should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those 
in their value chains
Essential Indicators
1.	
a. 	 Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
Category
% of employees covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
Benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
%  
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
%  
(D/A)
Number 
(E)
%  
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
%  
(F/A)
Permanent employees
Male
2504
2504
100
2504
100
0
0
2504
100
0
0
Female
129
129
100
129
100
129
100
0
0
0
0
Total
2633
2633
100
2633
100
129
4.9
2504
95.1
0
0
Other than Permanent employees
Male
7
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total
9
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
	
b.	
Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
Category
% of workers covered by
Total 
(A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
benefits
Day Care 
facilities
Number 
(B)
%  
(B/A)
Number 
(C)
% 
(C/A)
Number 
(D)
%  
(D/A
Number 
(E)
%  
(E/A)
Number 
(F)
%  
(F/A)
Permanent workers
Male
40
40
100
40
100
0
0
40
100
0
0
Female
1
1
100
1
100
1
100
0
0
0
0
Total
41
41
100
41
100
1
2.44
40
97.56
0
0
Other than Permanent workers
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
	
c.	
Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other 
than permanent) in the following format-
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the 
Company 
0.31%
0.36%
	
Please note, the Company has only considered Staff welfare expenses and health insurance premium for the above.
122
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year
Benefits
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of 
workers 
covered as 
a % of total 
workers
Deducted 
and 
deposited 
with the 
authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100
100
Yes
100
100
Yes
Gratuity
100
100
Yes
100
100
Yes
ESI
100
100
Yes
100
100
Yes
Others – please specify
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently-abled employees and workers, as per the 
requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken 
by the entity in this regard.
	
The Company recognises the importance of meeting the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 
2016 and are taking necessary steps to support the needs of individuals with disabilities. The Company does not 
have any permanent employees with disabilities. The Company believes that accessibility is an essential aspect of 
social responsibility and are persistent in our efforts to create an inclusive environment for everyone. The Company 
is implementing appropriate measures to provide its employees with a better, more accessible work environment.
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If 
so, provide a web link to the policy.
	
The Company maintains a fair and discrimination-free environment for all its employees, job applicants, and workers. 
Regardless of race, gender, religion or beliefs, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, 
and other factors, every individual is treated with equality and provided with equal opportunities. Discrimination in any 
form is strictly prohibited under the employee code of conduct. The Company’s Code of Ethics and Conduct Policy 
explicitly incorporates the principle of equal opportunity.
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
22
81%
0
0%
Female
4
67%
0
0%
Total *
26
74%
0
0%
	
* Total Average Retention rate (Male & Female)
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees 
and workers? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
The Company is an equal employment opportunity and is committed to creating a healthy 
working environment. The policies of the organisation strictly prohibit discrimination against 
any employee or applicant for employment on the grounds of the individual’s race, colour, 
religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, age, disability or any other characteristic 
protected by law. The Company ensures that all employment decisions, involving 
recruitment, hiring, promotion, training, compensation, benefits, transfer, discipline, and 
discharge, are all free of unlawful discrimination.
Other than Permanent 
Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent 
Employees
123
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
To reinforce its commitment to create a healthy work environment that enables employees 
to work without fear of prejudice, bias or harassment, the Company has put in place a 
well-defined grievance redressal mechanism. Committees are setup at regional levels 
and manufacturing units, Employee Assistance Registers (EAR) are maintained in Units, 
and regular awareness sessions are held to ensure that any complaints or concerns of 
employees are heard and amicably resolved. These mechanisms are designed to receive 
and facilitate the resolution of concerns raised by employees and to address complaints, 
disputes, or grievances brought forward by external stakeholders. It serves as an important 
channel for individuals to seek redress and ensures that their concerns are handled in a 
fair and timely manner. By involving various functions and establishing robust mechanisms, 
the Company strives to create a work environment that respects and safeguards human 
rights. The Company is committed to addressing any human rights issues that may arise 
and continuously improving practices to uphold the well-being and dignity of all individuals 
impacted by the Company’s operations.
7.	
Membership of employees and workers in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) or 
Union (B)
%  
(B/A)
Total 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of 
employees/
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union (D)
%  
(D/C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
2633
0
0
2884
0
0
Male
2504
0
0
2750
0
0
Female
129
0
0
134
0
0
Total Permanent 
Workers
41
0
0
18
0
0
Male
40
0
0
18
0
0
Female
1
0
0
0
0
0
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health and 
safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No.  
(B)
%  
(B/A)
No. 
(C)
%  
(C/A)
No.  
(E)
%  
(E/D)
No.  
(F)
%  
(F/D)
Employees
Male
2504
252
10
1165
46
2750
0
0
47
2
Female
129
9
7
92
71
134
0
0
2
2
Total
2633
261
10
1257
47
2884
0
0
49
2
Workers
Male
40
3
7.5
11
27.5
18
6
33.33
13
72.22
Female
1
1
100
1
100
0
0
0
0
0
Total
41
4
9.76
12
29.27
18
6
33.33
13
72.22
	
The Company is committed to ensuring that all its existing employees, and workers get the necessary inputs on health 
and safety measures, as well as skill upgradation. 
124
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/C)
Employees
Male
2504
1484
59
2750
1740
63
Female
129
119
92
134
80
60
Total
2633
1603
61
2884
1820
63
Workers
Male
40
40
100
18
0
0
Female
1
1
100
0
0
0
Total
41
41
100
18
0
0
10.	 Health and safety management system:
	
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? 
(Yes/No). If yes, the coverage of such a system?
	
	
The Company is currently in the process of obtaining the ISO 45001:2018 certification and is in the process of 
implementing the same.
	
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-
routine basis by the entity?
	
	
The Company conducts monthly assessments for routine job tasks, including:
	
	
1.	
Gemba Walk evaluations.
	
	
2.	
Reviews from internal and external audits.
	
	
3.	
Near Miss Reporting for both employees and visitors.
	
	
4.	
Quarterly monitoring of work zones for illumination and noise levels.
	
	
For non-routine tasks, the Company employs a Work Permit System (WPS) to guarantee appropriate authorisation 
and safety protocols are followed.
	
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. (Y/N)
	
	
Yes. The Company has established a robust set of procedures aimed at effectively addressing work-related 
hazards. These procedures enable workers to report any potential risks or unsafe conditions they may encounter 
while performing their tasks.
	
d.	
Do the employees/workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare 
services? (Yes/No)
	
	
Yes. The Company ensures that its employees have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services, 
and all employees are covered under healthcare insurance. The Company has also established Occupational 
Health Centres (OHC) and has signed agreements with hospitals at both locations to provide on-demand 
ambulance services and doctor visits.
11.	  Details of safety-related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one 
million-person hours worked)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
Total recordable work-related injuries
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
No. of fatalities
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health 
(excluding fatalities)
Employees
0
0
Workers
0
0
125
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	
The Company prioritises the safety and well-being of its employees and workers, by implementing proactive measures 
to maintain a secure workplace. This includes an in-house trained Emergency Response Team and safety induction 
for all new joiners. The Company periodically provides health & safety training to ensure employees are well-prepared 
to handle potential hazards effectively.
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at the 
end of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
0
0
-
0
0
-
Health & Safety
0
0
-
0
0
-
14.	  Assessment for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities 
or third parties)
Health and Safety 
Practices
100%. Annual audits are conducted at the factory locations through external audit partners 
for overall plant operations which covers safety and security aspects too. For offices, half 
yearly audits on the basic working conditions (fire and safety etc.) are done along with the 
other parameters, and necessary action planning is managed by the local F&A, HR and 
admin teams. These Audit are conducted by external auditors.
Working Conditions
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and 
on significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
During the reporting year, identified observations and unsafe conditions have been addressed and resolved by the 
factory management team. No significant risks/concerns were identified during the assessment. In furtherance, the 
audit observations are converted into risk mitigation plans, and specific action is taken to address the potential hazards.
PRINCIPLE 4: Business should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
The Company prioritises strong relationships with its internal and external stakeholders, recognising their influence 
on organisational decisions and activities. The Company builds trust through strong relationships entrusted in 
brand reputation. A comprehensive stakeholder mapping exercise approach has been conducted to strengthen the 
Company’s strategic decision-making, ensuring its business propositions to create long-term value for all stakeholders. 
As outlined in Principle 4, Question 2, the Company has established effective communication channels to foster open 
dialogue with each stakeholder group. List of identified key stakeholders such as:
	
a.	
Employees
	
b.	
Local Community
	
c.	
Supplier/Vendor
	
d.	
Shareholders/Investors
	
e.	
Customers
	
f.	
Regulatory Bodies
	
g.	
Trade Partners
	
This exercise allows the Company to understand and prioritise the needs, interests, and concerns of each stakeholder 
group, enabling effective engagement and fostering mutually beneficial relationships.
126
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each 
stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalised 
Group (Yes/
No)*
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/Half 
yearly/Quarterly/
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including 
key topics and concerns 
raised during such 
engagement
Employees
No
1.	 SMARTs (national and 
regional)
2.	 Monthly regional 
townhalls; Quarterly 
central townhall (led by 
ExCom)
3.	 Regular communication 
from Corp Com and HR on 
key updates
4. 	 Engagement activities 
(sports, celebrations, 
etc.) – annual engagement 
calendar published
Regularly
To enhance the employee 
growth, well-being and 
safety
Local 
Communities/
NGOs
Yes
1. 	 Setting up of water 
purifiers in 10 municipal 
schools of Satara
2. 	 Conducting water tests 
every 6 months to check 
on water quality in the 
schools
3. 	 Conduct WASH sessions 
to create awareness about 
safe drinking water and 
overall hygiene
Regularly
Local communities are 
important for building & 
sustaining Company’s 
reputation; NGOs play 
a role in influencing 
policy makers, such as 
local governments and 
planners & can also act as 
intermediaries in various 
stakeholder groups
Suppliers/
Vendors
No
In-person meetings, vendor 
visits or visits to vendor’s 
facility/office, engagement at 
leadership level
Continuous
EFL deals with large 
number of vendors for 
supply of its components 
and finish goods. 
Engagement with vendors 
is important to ensure 
continuity in supply and 
collaboration on future 
needs.
Shareholders/
Investors
No
Quarterly earnings Calls, 
Investors Meet, Annual 
General Meeting, Company 
Website, Press Releases and 
Other Statutory Disclosures.
Quarterly, Annually
Shareholders contribute 
to the Company’s 
robust financial position 
enhancing its stability 
and strength. The 
engagement and support 
of shareholders are vital, 
as they contribute to the 
Company’s reputation and 
market credibility.
Customers
No
Employee Visits, CRM 
activities, NPS surveys, 
Website
Continuous
Sustainability and 
Predictability of the 
Company’s revenues and 
growth chart
127
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalised 
Group (Yes/
No)*
Channels of communication 
(Email, SMS, Newspaper, 
Pamphlets, Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/Half 
yearly/Quarterly/
others – please 
specify)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including 
key topics and concerns 
raised during such 
engagement
Regulatory 
bodies
No
Transparent communication 
through statutory disclosures
Continuous
Through their enforcement 
actions, regulatory bodies 
promote transparency 
and accountability, which 
are essential for the 
Company’s long-term 
success and stakeholder 
trust.
Trade Partners 
– FBPs 
(Franchise 
Business 
Partners), 
FDOs 
(Franchise 
Direct 
Operations) 
and SSDs 
(Sales & 
Service 
Distributors)
No
ERP & DMS – Primary & 
Secondary Sales Order 
Processing & Data Archiving 
JOS (Joy of selling) Proprietary 
App – Lead management 
system; Manpower active 
count, demo trends & sales 
productivity management.
Partner Circle Head – 
Company SPOC responsible 
for individual Partner 
Performance Management.
Daily/Weekly
Strategic partnerships to 
drive market penetration 
& expansion in areas 
where, either there is no 
CRC (company owned 
& operated “Customer 
Response Centres”) or key 
cities/markets
	
* While we have marked “No” above as these stakeholders are not vulnerable and marginalised in entirety, however, we are consciously 
involved in uplifting the vulnerable and marginalised segments for the above stakeholders. For example, we have incorporated 
India’s first call centre manned and operated by people with special needs, operating from NASEOH (National Society for Equal 
Opportunities for the Handicapped) at Chembur, a Mumbai suburb.
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, 
in the following format:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total (A)
No. of employees/
workers covered (B)
%  
(B/A)
Total (C)
No. of employees/
workers covered (D)
%  
(D/C)
Employees
Permanent
2633
158
6
2884
1232
42.7
Other than permanent
9
0
0
26
0
0
Total Employees
2642
158
6
2910
1232
42.33
Workers
Permanent
41
41
100
18
18
100
Other than permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Workers
41
41
100
18
18
100
128
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No.  
(B)
%  
(B/A)
No. (C)
%  
(C/A)
No.  
(E)
%  
(E/D)
No.  
(F)
%  
(F/D)
Employees
Permanent
2633
214
8
2419
92
2884
557
19
2327
81
Male
2504
204
8
2300
92
2750
521
19
2229
81
Female
129
10
8
119
92
134
36
27
98
73
Other than 
Permanent
9
0
0
9
100
26
0
0
26
100
Male
7
0
0
7
100
23
0
0
23
100
Female
2
0
0
2
100
3
0
0
3
100
Workers
Permanent
41
39
95
2
5
18
18
100
0
0
Male
41
38
95
2
5
18
18
100
0
0
Female
1
1
100
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Other than 
Permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
3.	
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
	
a.	
Median remuneration/wage
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/
salary/wages of 
respective category
Number
Median remuneration/
salary/wages of 
respective category
Board of Directors (BoD)
6
29,15,000 
1
29,10,000
Key Managerial Personnel
2
5,77,64,658
1
95,00,016
Employees other than BoD and 
KMP
2502
4,29,000
128
5,97,000
Workers
40
2,66,748
1
2,66,748
	
b.	
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages
7.42%
5.40%
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues 
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
	
The Company has a code of conduct and the HR department is responsible for addressing any human rights impacts 
or issues caused or contributed to by the business and the Company also has a whistleblower mechanism in place 
for Employee (past or present), Director, Business Partner, Distributor, Customer or Vendor.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
To maintain a safe and productive workplace, the Company has adopted a POSH policy and a whistle-blower policy. 
Detailed response on the same is shared in P5-Q8.
	
The Company has zero tolerance for human rights violations. Human rights is one of the Company’s key focus areas. 
Any human rights violation, wherever reported, shall be investigated by the Management following the code of conduct 
policy of the Company.
129
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Filed 
during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
1
NIL
Following 
a thorough 
investigation, 
the accused 
employee was 
terminated 
from their 
position.
Nil
Nil
Nil
Discrimination at 
workplace
1
NIL
-
Nil
Nil
Nil
Child Labour
NIL
NIL
-
Nil
Nil
Nil
Forced Labour/
Involuntary Labour
NIL
NIL
-
Nil
Nil
Nil
Wages
NIL
NIL
-
Nil
Nil
Nil
Other human rights 
related issues
NIL
NIL
-
Nil
Nil
Nil
7.	
Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and 
Redressal) Act, 2013, in the following format:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at 
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
1
NIL
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees/workers
0.77%
Complaints on POSH upheld
1
8.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complaint in discrimination and harassment cases.
	
The Company has a strict adherence to policy on discrimination & harassment and investigations are strictly confidential 
to prevent any disadvantage to the complainant or the witnesses. In line with POSH policy implemented across the 
organisation, all necessary steps are taken to safeguard individuals who raise complaints against victimisation or 
retaliation. The Company recognises the importance of providing a safe environment for employees to come forward 
and address their concerns without fear of negative consequences. The POSH programme (available on the LMS) is a 
mandatory compliance course for all employees to undertake at least once a year. To effectively address both sexual 
and non-sexual harassment, The Company has established Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) both at the regional 
and corporate locations. The Committee comprises a diverse group of internal and external members with relevant 
backgrounds, with well-defined criteria for handling sexual harassment cases. To ensure awareness and sensitivity 
towards these issues, sensitisation and training programmes to all employees are provided on regular basis. These 
initiatives are coordinated by the Human Resources department and other relevant functions to ensure comprehensive 
coverage across the Company.
9.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
	
No. However, the Company strongly believes that suppliers and vendors are an integral part of its business and 
contribute to its growth and viability. Thus regular engagement activities are organised with suppliers and vendors.
130
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
10.	 Assessment for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed 
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
None
Forced/involuntary labour
Sexual harassment
Discrimination at workplace
Wages
Others-please specify
11.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerning arising 
from the assessments at Question 10 above.
	
Not Applicable. However, the Company maintains full compliance with applicable labour laws, including those 
concerning wages, the Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH), and the prohibition of forced or involuntary labour. 
During the year, the Company did not receive any complaints related to forced or involuntary labour, discrimination, 
or child labour.
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A)
GJ
 0
 0
Total fuel consumption (B)
GJ
 0
 0
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
 0
 0
Total energy consumed from renewable sources 
(A+B+C)
GJ
 0
 0
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
GJ
2508.44
2775.597
Total fuel consumption (E)
GJ
70.318
 124.757
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
GJ
0
0
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources 
(D+E+F)
GJ
2578.758
2900.355
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F)
GJ
2578.758
2900.355
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy 
consumption/turnover in million rupees)
GJ/million 
rupees
0.12
0.14
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for 
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total energy consumed/
Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
GJ/INR 
adjusted 
to PPP
2.38
2.82
Energy intensity in terms of physical output
-
NA
NA
Energy intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be 
selected by the entity
-
NA
NA
	
The above details pertain to manufacturing plants located at Dehradun and Bengaluru.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency: No
2.	
Does the entity have any sites/facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, 
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under 
the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action 
taken, if any.
131
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
The Company does not currently have any sites or facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the 
Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India.
3.	
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i)	
Surface Water
 0
 0
(ii)	 Ground Water
 11175
13314
(iii)	 Third Party Water
 9833
 7541
(iv) 	Seawater/Desalinated Water
 0
 0
(v) 	 Others
 0
0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
 21008
 20855
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
 20827
20855
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Total Water consumption/
Revenue from operations)
 0.95
 1.00
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP) (Total water consumption/Revenue from 
operations adjusted for PPP)
19.24
20.27
Water intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected 
by the entity
NA
NA
 	
The above details pertain to manufacturing plants located at Dehradun and Bengaluru.
	
There is a small gap between Total water consumption and Total water withdrawal because of water evaporation loss 
during treatment. The Company still remains Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD).
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external external agency: No
4.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in 
kilolitres)
Nil
i)	
To surface water
	
-	
No treatment
	
-	
With treatment-please specify level of treatment
ii)	
To Groundwater
	
-	
No treatment
	
-	
With treatment-please specify level of treatment
iii)	 To Seawater
	
-	
No treatment
	
-	
With treatment-please specify level of treatment
iv)	 Sent to third-parties
	
-	
No treatment
	
-	
With treatment-please specify level of treatment
v)	
Others
	
-	
No treatment
	
-	
With treatment-please specify level of treatment – (Tertiary or 
Advanced Treatment with the help of ETP & STP at both the 
plants)
Total water discharge (in kilolitres)
132
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
The above details pertain to manufacturing plants located at Dehradun and Bengaluru.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency: No
5.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage 
and implementation.
	
Yes, the Company has a Zero Liquid Discharge mechanism in place at both factory locations. The Company has 
installed Sewage and Effluent Treatment plants, and the treated water is recycled/reused within the complex for 
gardening, flushing, etc. The Company adheres to all the necessary applicable guidelines and directions for maintaining 
the standards of STP and ETP as required by CPCB and SPCBs.
6.	
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Please specify unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
NOx
Kgs
15.8
20.14
SOx
Kgs
7.6
9.45
Particulate matter (PM)
Kgs
15.8
35.58
Persistent organic compounds (POP)
-
0
0
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
0
0
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
0
0
	
The above details pertain to manufacturing plants located at Dehradun and Bengaluru.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency: No
7.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the 
following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG 
into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if 
available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
Emission data for 
FY 2023-24 will be 
provided in next 
reporting cycle.
109
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG 
into CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if 
available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
832
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
per rupee of turnover (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
GHG emissions/Revenue from operations)
NA
0.05
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP) (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 
GHG emissions/Revenue from operations adjusted 
for PPP)
NA
0.91
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in 
terms of physical output
NA
NA
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity 
(optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by 
the entity
NA
NA
	
The above details pertain to manufacturing plants located at Dehradun and Bengaluru.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency: No
8.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
	
The Company has replaced the refrigerant in air conditioners, moving from R-22 to the R-32 refrigerant. This switch 
has resulted in a decrease in ODP and CO2 emissions.
133
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
9.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
32.01
45.58
E-waste (B)
0
0
Bio-medical waste (C)
0.02
Construction and demolition waste (D)
0
0
Battery waste (E)
0
0
Radioactive waste (F)
0
0
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
252.85
47.00
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. 
(Break-up by composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
613.97
494.02
Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H)
898.85
586.60
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste generated/
Revenue from operations) (tonnes/Million `)
0.04
0.03
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing 
Power Parity (PPP) (Total waste generated/Revenue from operations 
adjusted for PPP)
0.83
0.57
Waste intensity in terms of physical output
NA
NA
Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the 
entity
NA
NA
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered 
through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in 
metric tonnes)
Category of waste
i)	
Recycled
898.85
586.60
ii)	
Re-used
0
0
iii)	 Other recovery operations
0
0
Total
898.85
586.60
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by 
nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
i)	
Inceration
0
0
ii)	
Landfilling
0
0
iii)	 Other disposal operations
0
0
Total
0
0
	
The above details pertain to manufacturing plants located at Dehradun and Bengaluru.
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name 
of the external agency.
10.	 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy 
adopted by your Company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes 
and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
	
The Company has well-defined waste management systems in place to manage operational waste efficiently and 
ensure responsible waste management practices. The Company enhances the circular economy for plastic packaging 
by fulfilling its Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) guidelines. This is achieved through the annual collection 
and recycling of an equivalent amount of plastic used in packaging, in collaboration with authorised recyclers and 
adhering to India’s Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016. While hazardous waste generation is minimal compared to 
non-hazardous waste, the Company has reliable systems in place for its safe collection, transportation, and disposal 
through authorised government vendors. Additionally, the Company ensures the responsible management of e-waste in 
compliance with the E-Waste (Management) Rules, 2016. This underscores the Company’s commitment to responsible 
waste management and environmentally conscious practices.
134
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
11.	  If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife 
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) 
where environmental approvals/clearances are required, please specify details in the following format:
Sr.
no.
Location of operations/offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental 
approval/clearance are being complied 
with? (Y/N)
If no, the reasons thereof and corrective 
action taken, if any.
1
Eureka Forbes Limited, Lal Tappar 
Industrial Area, Majri Grant, 
Dehradun Haridwar Highway - 
Dehradun, Uttarakhand - 248140
Assembling Unit of Water
Filter cum Purifier & 
Water
Cooler Cum Purifier
Yes, the Company has obtained 
Environmental Clearance from the Ministry 
of Environment, Forest, and Climate 
Change.
12.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year:
Name and 
brief details of 
project
EIA Notification 
No.
Date
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated 
in public domain  
(Yes/No)
Relevant 
Web link
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
NA
13.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/regulations/guidelines in India; such as the 
Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment 
Protection Act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the 
following format:
	
The Company is complying with emission norms, filing timely returns, and submitting periodic reports to CPCB and 
SPCB as per statutory requirements. Additionally, the Company has identified potential environmental risks and 
compiled an impact and risk assessment list, available at the manufacturing plants in Dehradun and Bengaluru.
S. No.
Specify the law/
regulation/guidelines 
which was not complied 
with
Provide details 
of the non- 
compliance
Any fines/penalties/action  
taken by regulatory agencies 
such as pollution control boards 
or by courts
Corrective 
action taken, 
if any
Not Applicable
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a 
manner that is responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
1.	
a.	
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations.
	
	
The Company is affiliated with 9 trade and industry associations/chambers.
	
b.	
List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/associations (determined based on the total members of 
such body) the entity is a member of/affiliated to.
Sr No. Name of the trade and industry chambers/
associations
Reach of trade and industry chambers/
associations (State/National)
1
International Market Assessment India Private Ltd. (IMA)
National
2
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
National
3
Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of 
India (ASSOCHAM)
National
4
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and 
Industry (FICCI)
National
5
Bombay Chambers of Commerce and Industry
National
6
Water Quality India Association (WQAI)
National
7
IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry
National
8
The Advertising Standards Council of India
National
9
Retailers Association of India (RAI)
National
135
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct 
by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
NIL
NIL
NIL
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, 
in the current financial year
Name and 
brief details of 
project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of 
notification
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated 
in public domain  
(Yes/No)
Relevant 
Web link
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being 
undertaken by your entity, in the following format:
S. No. Name of Project 
for which R&R 
is ongoing
State
District
No. of Project 
Affected Families 
(PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid to 
PAFs in FY  
(In `)
Not Applicable
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
The Company actively participates in community programmes designed to build strong relationships. By maintaining 
regular interactions and attentively listening, the Company strives to understand and address community concerns. 
Prompt and effective actions are prioritised, underscoring the Company’s dedication to fostering community well-
being.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Directly sourced from MSMEs/small producers*
62%
56%
Directly from within India**
62%
56%
	
*Sourcing from Factory
	
**Sourcing from within 250 Km of Factory
5.	
Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers 
employed on a permanent or non-permanent/on contract basis) in the following locations, as % of total 
wage cost
Location
FY 2023-24
FY 2022-23
Rural
1.39%
-
Semi-urban
4.59%
-
Urban
4.28%
-
Metropolitan
89.74%
-
136
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible 
manner
Essential indicator
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
The Company has a robust system to manage customer complaints and feedback efficiently. Customers can reach 
out through multiple communication channels, including the Call Centre, WhatsApp, Email, IVR, and the official 
website. Additional contact details are accessible on the Company’s website at www.eurekaforbes.com/contactus. 
The Company has an Escalation Management Team (EMT) at both the head office and strategic locations, which is 
fully operational. Concerning escalation reporting hierarchy, dedicated Service Heads at every region with a team of 
strong on-ground service leaders ensure prompt and satisfactory issue resolution.
2.	
Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/services that carry 
information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
100%
Safe and responsible usage
100%
Recycling and/or safe disposal
30%
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2023-24
Remarks
FY 2022-23
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at end of 
year
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at end of 
year
Data privacy
0
0
0
0
Advertising
2
0
Consumer 
complaints 
received via 
the Advertising 
Standards 
Council of India 
have been 
successfully 
resolved.
0
0
-
Cyber-security
0
0
-
0
0
-
Delivery of 
essential services
0
0
-
0
0
-
Restrictive Trade 
Practices
0
0
-
0
0
-
Unfair Trade 
Practices
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other*
95
82
-
91
77
-
	
* The Complaints pertain to product and service related matter.
137
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
0
NA
Forced recalls
0
NA
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If 
available, provide a web link of the policy.
	
The Company adheres to the standards and requirements mandated for cybersecurity and data privacy issues. The 
Company has an Information Security Policy that applies to EFL Group employees, external/third-party personnel (i.e., 
vendors, third-party resources, consultants, interns, contractors) employed with EFL Group companies, and clients/
customers visiting EFL Group Companies’ offices who engage in work and have access to EFL Group Companies’ 
information or information processing facilities. The policy is reviewed annually. The Company also has a privacy policy 
in place to address the issues of data privacy of customers. The link for the Company’s Privacy Policy is available on 
the website at www.eurekaforbes.com/privacy-policy.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery 
of essential services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product 
recalls; penalty/action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/services.
	
Not Applicable
7.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
	
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches: None
	
b.	
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: None
	
c.	
Impact, if any, of the data breaches: Not Applicable
138
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Annexure – 8
To,
The Board of Directors
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
Sub.	:  Compliance Certificate for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024 – Regulation 17(8) read with Part B of 
Schedule II of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI LODR”)
In compliance with Regulation 17(8) read with Part B of Schedule II of SEBI LORD, it is certified that:
A.	
We have reviewed Financial Statements and the Cash Flow Statement for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2024 
and that to the best of our knowledge and belief:
	
a.	
these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements 
that might be misleading;
	
b.	
these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
B.	
There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which 
are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s code of conduct.
C.	
We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that they have 
evaluated the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and we have 
disclosed to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, 
if any, of which we are aware and the steps we have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies.
D.	
We have indicated to the Auditors and the Audit Committee:
	
a.	
significant changes in internal control over financial reporting during the year;
	
b.	
there are no significant changes in accounting policies during the year; and
	
c.	
there were no instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if 
any, of the management or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over 
financial reporting.
Thanking you
For Eureka Forbes Limited
Pratik Pota 	
Gaurav Khandelwal
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer	
Chief Financial Officer
DIN: 00751178
Place: Mumbai
Date: May 28, 2024
139
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To The Members of
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE STANDALONE 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial 
statements of EUREKA FORBES LIMITED (“the Company”), 
which comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024, 
and the Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Income), the Statement of Cash Flows and 
the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended on 
that date, and notes to the financial statements, including 
a summary of material accounting policies and other 
explanatory information. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the 
Act, (“Ind AS”) and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company 
as at March 31, 2024, and its profit, total comprehensive 
income, its cash flows and the changes in equity for the 
year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial 
statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing 
(SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our 
responsibilities under those Standards are further described 
in the Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements section of our report. We are 
independent of the Company in accordance with the Code 
of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (ICAI) together with the ethical requirements 
that are relevant to our audit of the standalone financial 
statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules 
made thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit 
evidence obtained by us is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone 
financial statements.
Key Audit Matters 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
standalone financial statements of the current period. These 
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the 
standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming 
our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion 
on these matters. We have determined the matters described 
below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in 
our report.
Key Audit Matter 
Auditor’s Response 
Impairment of Intangible assets (Brand Name / Trademarks) 
with indefinite life and Goodwill impairment
The standalone balance sheet of the Company as on March 
31, 2024 comprises of Rs. 291,119.26 lakhs of intangible 
assets with indefinite life and Rs. 205,581.67 lakhs of 
goodwill, pertaining to acquisition of a business in the earlier 
years, which in aggregate represents 82% of the total assets 
of the Company.
The recoverable value of the intangible assets with indefinite 
life and goodwill which is based on the value in use model, 
has been derived using the discounted cash flow (DCF) 
method. This method requires the Company to make 
significant assumptions such as discount rate, near and 
long-term revenue growth rate and projected margins which 
involves inherent uncertainty since they are based on future 
business prospects and economic outlook.
Principal audit procedures:
•	
We obtained understanding of the process followed 
by the Company in respect of the assessment of 
impairment of Intangible assets (Brand Name / 
Trademarks) with indefinite life and Goodwill.
•	
Evaluated Company’s accounting policy in respect of 
impairment assessment of Intangibles with indefinite 
life and goodwill. 
•	
Evaluated the design and implementation and testing 
the operating effectiveness of key internal controls 
related to the Company’s process relating to the 
impairment analysis, key assumptions and review of 
the valuation methodology.
•	
Assessed the professional competence, objectivity 
and expertise of those involved in performing the 
valuation exercise for the Company.
140
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Key Audit Matter 
Auditor’s Response 
Due to the materiality of above assets in the context of the 
standalone financial statements and judgements applied 
in determining the recoverable value, we have considered 
assessment of impairment of Intangible assets (Brand 
Name / Trademarks) with indefinite life and Goodwill to be 
a key audit matter.
Refer Note 5 and 33S to the Ind AS financial statements.
•	
Obtained understanding of the cash flow projections 
and assumptions used in the DCF model. 
•	
Tested the appropriateness of the input data 
considered for the purposes of valuation by reconciling 
the projected cash flows with the underlying business 
plan and related details.
•	
Involved the internal valuation professionals with 
specialized skills and knowledge to assist in 
evaluating the impairment model used, evaluating the 
mathematical accuracy and assumptions (including 
discount rate and growth rate applied by the Company) 
and applying additional sensitivities to assess the 
reasonableness of the above key assumptions. 
•	
Performed a sensitivity analysis to evaluate the 
impact of change in key assumptions individually or 
collectively to the recoverable value.
•	
Evaluated the adequacy of the Company’s disclosures 
in the standalone financial statements in respect of its 
impairment testing.  
Information Other than the Financial Statements 
and Auditor’s Report Thereon 
•	
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Management Discussion 
and Analysis and Board’s report including annexures to 
Board’s report, but does not include the consolidated 
financial statements, standalone financial statements 
and our auditor’s report thereon. The aforesaid other 
information is expected to be made available to us 
after the date of this auditor’s report.
•	
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we do 
not and will not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
•	
In connection with our audit of the standalone 
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information identified above when it becomes 
available and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the 
standalone financial statements or our knowledge 
obtained during the course of our audit or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated. 
•	
When we read the other information, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we are 
required to communicate the matter to those charged 
with governance as required under SA 720 ‘The 
Auditor’s responsibilities Relating to Other Information’. 
Responsibilities of Management and Those 
Charged with Governance for the Standalone 
Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the 
preparation of these standalone financial statements that 
give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial 
performance including other comprehensive income, cash 
flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in 
India, including Ind AS. This responsibility also includes 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to 
the preparation and presentation of the financial statements 
that give a true and fair view and are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 
In preparing the standalone financial statements, 
management and Board of Directors is responsible for 
assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting 
unless the Board of Directors either intend to liquidate 
the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic 
alternative but to do so. 
The Company’s Board of Directors are also responsible for 
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. 
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the standalone financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
141
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone 
financial statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls 
relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under 
section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible 
for expressing our opinion on whether the Company 
has adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements in place and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by the management.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report 
to the related disclosures in the standalone financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the 
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause 
the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the 
standalone financial statements that, individually or in 
aggregate, makes it probable that the economic decisions 
of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the standalone 
financial statements may be influenced. We consider 
quantitative materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning 
the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results 
of our work; and (ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified 
misstatements in the standalone financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal financial controls that 
we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the standalone financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our 
audit we report that:
	
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for the 
purposes of our audit. 
	
b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law have been kept by the Company 
so far as it appears from our examination of 
those books, except for not complying with the 
requirement of audit trail as stated in paragraph 
(i)(vi) below. 
	
c)	
The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and 
Loss including Other Comprehensive Income, 
the Statement of Cash Flows and Statement of 
Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in 
agreement with the relevant books of account. 
	
d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Ind AS specified 
under Section 133 of the Act.  
	
e)	
On the basis of the written representations 
received from the directors as on March 31, 
142
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
2024 taken on record by the Board of Directors, 
none of the directors is disqualified as on 
March 31, 2024 from being appointed as a 
director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
	
f)	
The modification relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith, 
is as stated in paragraph (b) above.
	
g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements of the Company and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer 
to our separate Report in “Annexure A”. Our 
report expresses an unmodified opinion on 
the adequacy and operating effectiveness of 
the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements.
	
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the 
requirements of section 197(16) of the Act, as 
amended, in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations 
given to us, the remuneration paid/ provided by 
the Company to its directors during the year is in 
accordance with the provisions of section 197 of 
the Act. 
	
i)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations 
given to us: 
	
	
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of 
pending litigations on its financial position 
in its standalone financial statements. 
Refer Note 33A(a) to the standalone 
financial statements;
	
	
ii.	
The Company did not have any long-
term contracts including derivative 
contracts for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses.
	
	
iii.	
There were no amounts which were required 
to be transferred to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund by the Company.
	
	
iv.	
(a)	
The Management has represented 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in the note 33E to 
the financial statements, no funds have 
been advanced or loaned or invested 
(either from borrowed funds or share 
premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) by the Company to or in any 
other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall, directly or indirectly 
lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Company 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(b)	
The Management has represented, 
that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in the note 33F to 
the financial statements, no funds have 
been received by the Company from 
any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company 
shall, directly or indirectly, lend or 
invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. 
	
	
	
(c)	
Based on the audit procedures 
performed that have been considered 
reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances, nothing has come 
to our notice that has caused us to 
believe that the representations under 
sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), 
as provided under (a) and (b) above, 
contain any material misstatement.
	
	
v.	
The company has not declared or paid 
any dividend during the year and has not 
proposed final dividend for the year.
	
	
vi.	
Based on our examination, which included 
test checks, the Company has used 
accounting software for maintaining its 
books of account for the financial year 
ended March 31, 2024 which has a feature 
of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and 
the same has operated throughout the 
year for all relevant transactions recorded 
in the software except that audit trail was 
not enabled at the database level to log any 
direct data changes.
	
	
	
As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable from 
April 1, 2023, reporting under Rule 11 (g) of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 on preservation of audit trail as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention is 
not applicable for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2024.
143
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
2.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government in terms 
of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in “Annexure B” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of 
the Order. 
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No.117366W/W-100018)
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Place: Mumbai	
Membership No. 049660
Date: May 28, 2024	
(UDIN: 24049660BKFRRB3964)
144
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
ANNEXURE “A” TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 1(g) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
REPORT ON THE INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS WITH REFERENCE TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS UNDER CLAUSE (I) OF SUB-SECTION 3 OF SECTION 143 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 
(“THE ACT”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements of Eureka Forbes Limited 
(“the Company”) as at March 31, 2024 in conjunction with 
our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial statements of 
the Company for the year ended on that date. 
MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR 
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS
The Company’s management is responsible for establishing 
and maintaining internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements based on the internal 
control with reference to standalone financial statements 
criteria established by the Company considering the 
essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India. These responsibilities include the 
design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to the company’s policies, the 
safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of 
frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Companies 
Act, 2013.
AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls with reference to standalone 
financial statements of the Company based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of India and the Standards on 
Auditing prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies 
Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone financial 
statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan 
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether adequate internal financial controls with reference 
to standalone financial statements was established and 
maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all 
material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls 
with reference to standalone financial statements and their 
operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements 
included obtaining an understanding of internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing 
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of 
internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures 
selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the 
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with 
reference to standalone financial statements.
MEANING OF INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS 
WITH REFERENCE TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
A company’s internal financial control with reference to 
standalone financial statements is a process designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial control 
with reference to standalone financial statements includes 
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
of the company are being made only in accordance with 
authorisations of management and directors of the company; 
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a 
material effect on the financial statements.
INHERENT LIMITATIONS OF INTERNAL 
FINANCIAL CONTROLS WITH REFERENCE TO 
STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements, 
including the possibility of collusion or improper 
management override of controls, material misstatements 
due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial 
controls with reference to standalone financial statements 
to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal 
financial control with reference to standalone financial 
statements may become inadequate because of changes 
in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
145
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
OPINION
In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the Company has, in all 
material respects, an adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements and such internal 
financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements were operating effectively as at March 31, 2024, based 
on the criteria for internal financial control with reference to standalone financial statements established by the  Company 
considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No.117366W/W-100018)
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Place: Mumbai	
Membership No. 049660
Date: May 28, 2024	
(UDIN: 24049660BKFRRB3964)
146
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
ANNEXURE “B” TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 2 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report to the members 
of Eureka Forbes Limited of even date)
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the Company and the books of account and records 
examined by us in the normal course of audit and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that,
(i)	
(a)	
(A)	 The Company has maintained proper 
records showing full particulars, including 
quantitative details and situation of Property, 
Plant and Equipment.
	
	
(B)	 The Company has maintained proper records 
showing full particulars of intangible assets. 
	
(b)	
The Company has a program of verification of 
property, plant and equipment, so to cover all the 
items once every three years, which in our opinion, 
is reasonable having regard to the size of the 
Company and the nature of its assets. Pursuant 
to the program, certain Property, Plant and 
Equipment were due for verification during the year 
and were physically verified by the Management 
during the year. According to the information and 
explanations given to us, no material discrepancies 
were noticed on such verification. 
	
(c)	
With respect to immovable properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease 
agreements are duly executed in favour of the Company) disclosed in the financial statements included in property, 
plant and equipment, according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the examination 
of the registered sale deed / transfer deed / conveyance deed provided to us, we report that, the title deeds of 
such immovable properties are held in the name of the Company as at the balance sheet date and Immovable 
properties of land and buildings whose title deeds have been pledged as security for loans are held in the name 
of the Company based on the confirmations directly received by us from lenders, except for the following:
Sr. 
No.
Description of the property
As at 
Balance sheet date
Held in 
the 
name of
Whether 
promoter, 
Director, 
or their 
relative or 
employee
Period 
held 
since
(Refer 
Note 
below)
Gross 
carrying 
value
(Rs. in lakhs)
Net 
Carrying 
value
(Rs. in lakhs)
1
B1/B2 701 Marathon Innova, 
Marathon NextGen, Off. 
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower 
Parel, Mumbai 400 013
5,141.20
4,920.11
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
2
Flat No. 701, 7th Floor, Sterling 
Sea Face, “A” Wing, Dr. Annie 
Besant Road, Worli, Mumbai – 
400 018.
918.05
873.11
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
3
Flat No.1103, 11th Floor, 
Sterling Sea Face, “B” Wing, 
Dr. Annie Besant Road, Worli, 
Mumbai – 400 018.
918.05
874.31
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
4
Sarkar Castle Co-op. Hsg. Soc. 
Ltd., Flat No. 501, 5th Floor, 43 
Chimbai Road, Bandra (west)
Mumbai – 400 050.
255.87
239.38
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
147
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Sr. 
No.
Description of the property
As at 
Balance sheet date
Held in 
the 
name of
Whether 
promoter, 
Director, 
or their 
relative or 
employee
Period 
held 
since
(Refer 
Note 
below)
Gross 
carrying 
value
(Rs. in lakhs)
Net 
Carrying 
value
(Rs. in lakhs)
5
Eden Wood “Cedar House” 
Co-op, Hsg. Society Ltd., Flat 
No.8C, Eden Woods, Village 
Chitalsar, Manpada, Smt. 
Glady’s Alvares Marg, Thane 
(West) – 400 061.
300.03
281.86
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
6
Eden Wood “Cedar House” 
Co-op, Hsg. Society Ltd., Flat 
No.8D, Eden Woods, Village 
Chitalsar, Manpada, Smt. 
Glady’s Alvares Marg, Thane 
(West) – 400 061.
7
Eden Wood “Cedar House” 
Co-op, Hsg. Society Ltd., Flat 
No. 9C, Eden Woods, Village 
Chitalsar, Manpada, Smt. 
Glady’s Alvares Marg, Thane 
(West) – 400 061.
8
D-28/3, TTC Indl. Area Behind, 
Turbhe Telephone Exchange, 
Turbhe, Navi Mumbai - 400 705.
41.06
38.38
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
9
201 B, 2nd Floor, The Orion 5, 
Koregaon Road, Pune – 411 
001.
708.18
673.23
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
10
Shop No.201, 2nd Floor, South 
End Cnclave, R. B. Connector, 
EKADP, Kolkata - 700 078.
389.66
371.21
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
11
Vedic Village Unit No. L – F8, 
Shikharpur, P. S. Rajarhet North 
24 Parganas, Kolkata 700 135
122.40
116.93
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
12
3rd floor, Nikhilesh Palace, Opp.
Jawahar Nagar, 164/ 17-4, 
Ashpk Marg, Lucknow – 226 
001
264.46
252.04
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
13
Shop No. 203 & 204, 2nd Floor, 
The Guman _ II, “A” Block, 
Opp. Tagore Public School, 
Vaishali Nagar, Jaipur – 302 021
359.00
341.46
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
14
Unit No. 402-408, 4th Floor, 
Sapphire heights, Plot No.12, 
Agra - Bombay Road, Indore – 
452 010.
118.00
112.40
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
15
2nd & 3rd Floor, CLOUD-9, 
81/1, The Swastik Co. Op. 
Hsg. Soc. Ltd., Navrangpura, 
Ahmedabad- 380 009.
320.00
304.34
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
148
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Sr. 
No.
Description of the property
As at 
Balance sheet date
Held in 
the 
name of
Whether 
promoter, 
Director, 
or their 
relative or 
employee
Period 
held 
since
(Refer 
Note 
below)
Gross 
carrying 
value
(Rs. in lakhs)
Net 
Carrying 
value
(Rs. in lakhs)
16
Shop No. 2, 2nd Floor, Shiv 
Pooja Shopping Centre, City 
Light Main Road, Surat – 395.
323.31
307.95
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
17
Office NO. 102, 1st Floor, Ivory 
Terrace, R. C. Dutta Road, 
Alkapuri, Baroda –390 005.
206.58
196.79
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
18
Ground Floor, Bharati Tower, 
A- Block, Forest Park, 
Bhubaneswar – 751 009.
308.70
294.27
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
19
Shop No. B4 on 2nd Floor, B5, 
C5 &D5 on 3rd Floor, “Anmol 
Palani”, No.88, G.N. Chetty 
Road. T. Nagar, Chennai – 600 
017
522.18
496.27
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
 
20
Shop No. B5 on 3rd Floor, 
“Anmol, Palani”, No.88, G. N. 
Chetty Road.T. Nagar, Chennai 
– 600 017
21
Shop No. C5 & D5 on 3rd Floor, 
“Anmol Palani”, No.88, G. N. 
ChettyRoad. T. Nagar, Chennai 
– 600017
22
Unit No. 506,5th Floor, Pavani 
Prestige, Commercial Building 
Complex,6-3-789, Ammerpet, 
Hyderabad – 500 016.
85.94
81.71
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
23
Unit No. 506,507 & 508, 
5th Floor, Pavani Prestige, 
Commercial Building Complex, 
6-3-789, Ammerpet, Hyderabad 
– 500 016.
328.58
312.30
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
24
4th Floor, Tutus Tower, NH –47, 
Bye-Pass Road, Padivattom, 
Cochin -682 024. 
286.00
272.53
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
25
Khasra No.3946,3961-62, Lal 
Tappar Industrial Area, Majri 
Grant, Dehradun-248140
3,416.17
3,234.24
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
26
No. 143, C-4, Bommasandra 
Industrial Area, Off Hosur Road, 
Bangalore -560099
5,983.92
5,764.20
Erstwhile 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited
No
February 
01, 2022
	
	
Note : Reason for all the above properties not being held in the name of the Company: 
	
	
	
The title deeds of the immovable properties are in the name of erstwhile Eureka Forbes Limited (“the EFL”). 
Due to the scheme of arrangement in the earlier years, EFL was amalgamated into Forbes & Company Limited 
149
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
and the said properties forming part of the 
Undertaking as defined in the scheme was 
demerged from Forbes & Company Limited 
in to Forbes Enviro Solutions Limited, which 
has been renamed as Eureka Forbes Limited. 
The Company is in the process of getting the 
title transferred in its name pursuant to the 
aforesaid scheme of arrangement.
	
(d)	
The Company has not revalued any of its property, 
plant and equipment (including Right of Use 
assets) and intangible assets during the year. 
	
(e)	
No proceedings have been initiated during the 
year or are pending against the Company as at 
March 31, 2024 for holding any benami property 
under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) 
Act, 1988 (as amended in 2016) and rules 
made thereunder.
(ii)	
(a)	
The inventories except for (goods-in-transit and 
stocks held with third parties), were physically 
verified during the year by the Management at 
reasonable intervals. In our opinion and based 
on information and explanations given to us, the 
coverage and procedure of such verification by 
the Management is appropriate having regard 
to the size of the Company and the nature of its 
operations. For stocks held with third parties at 
the year-end, written confirmations have been 
obtained and in respect of goods in- transit, the 
goods have been received subsequent to the year-
end or confirmations have been obtained from 
the parties. No discrepancies of 10% or more in 
the aggregate for each class of inventories were 
noticed on such physical verification of inventories/
alternate procedures performed as applicable, 
when compared with the books of account. 
	
(b)	
According to the information and explanations 
given to us, the Company has been sanctioned 
working capital limits in excess of Rs. 5 crores, 
in aggregate, at points of time during the year, 
from banks on the basis of security of current 
assets. In our opinion and according to the 
information and explanations given to us, the 
revised quarterly statements comprising (stock 
statements, statements on ageing analysis of the 
debtors receivables, and other stipulated financial 
information) filed by the Company with such 
banks are in agreement with the unaudited books 
of account of the Company of the respective 
quarters and no material discrepancies have 
been observed. 
(iii)	 The Company has made investments in units of mutual 
funds during the year. The Company has not provided 
any guarantee or security and granted any loans or 
advances in the nature of loans, secured or unsecured, 
to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or 
any other parties during the year.
	
(a)	
The Company has not provided any loans 
or advances in the nature of loans or stood 
guarantee or provided security to any other entity 
during the year, and hence reporting under clause 
(iii)(a) of the Order is not applicable.
	
(b)	
The investments made, during the year are, in 
our opinion, prima facie, not prejudicial to the 
Company’s interest.
	
(c)	
The Company has not provided  any loans or 
advances in the nature of loans to Companies or 
any other entity and hence reporting under clause 
(iii) (c), (d), (e) and (f) are not applicable.
(iv)	 According to information and explanation given to 
us, the Company has not granted any loans, made 
investments or provided guarantees or securities, 
during the year that are covered under the provisions 
of sections 185 or 186 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
and hence reporting under clause (iv) of the Order is 
not applicable.
(v)	
The Company has not accepted any deposit or 
amounts which are deemed to be deposits. Hence, 
reporting under clause (v) of the Order is not applicable.
(vi)	 The maintenance of cost records has been specified 
by the Central Government under section 148(1) of 
the Companies Act, 2013. We have broadly reviewed 
the books of account maintained by the Company 
pursuant to the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) 
Rules, 2014, as amended, prescribed by the Central 
Government for maintenance of cost records under 
Section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, and are 
of the opinion that, prima facie, the prescribed cost 
records have been made and maintained by the 
Company. We have, however, not made a detailed 
examination of the cost records with a view to 
determine whether they are accurate or complete.
(vii)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us, in respect of statutory dues:
	
(a)	
Undisputed statutory dues, including Goods 
and Service Tax, Provident Fund, Employees’ 
State Insurance, Income-tax, Sales tax, duty of 
Custom, cess and other material statutory dues 
applicable to the Company have generally been 
regularly deposited by it with the appropriate 
authorities though there has been a delay in few 
cases in respect of remittance of Employees’ 
State Insurance. We have been informed that the 
provisions of the duty of Excise and Value added 
tax are not applicable to the Company.
	
	
There were no undisputed amounts payable in 
respect of Goods and Service tax, Provident 
Fund, Income-tax, Sales Tax, Service Tax, duty 
of Custom, Duty of Excise, Value Added Tax, cess 
and other material statutory dues in arrears as at 
March 31, 2024 for a period of more than six 
months from the date they became payable. 
150
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
(b)	
Details of statutory dues referred to in sub-clause (a) above which have not been deposited as on March 31, 2024 
on account of disputes are given below:
Name of the 
Statute
Nature of 
Dues
Forum where 
dispute is pending
Period to which 
the amount 
relates
Amount 
Involved 
(Rs. in lakhs)
Amount 
Unpaid^
(Rs. in lakhs)
Central Excise 
Act, 1944
Excise 
Duty
Appellate Tribunal
AY 2001-03
56.51
56.51
Principal Commissioner 
of Central Excise
AY 2001-02 to 
AY 2006-07 and
AY 2015-16
493.26
485.36
CESAT, Bangalore
AY 2015-16 to 
AY 2018-19
893.04
822.65
Income Tax Act, 
1961
Income 
Tax
Tribunal
AY 2008-09
84.68
84.68
CIT (A)
AY 2016-17, 
AY 2017-18, 
AY 2018 19, 
AY 2019-20, 
AY 2020-21
1,539.05
1,539.05
Sales Tax Act
Sales Tax
Deputy Commissioner 
Of Commercial Taxes
AY 2003-04, AY 
2004-05, AY 
2007-08 to AY 
2014-15, AY 
2013-14, AY 
2016-17, AY 
2017-18c
255.29
191.44
Joint Commissioner Of 
Commercial Taxes
AY 2014-15
0.89
0.71
Assistant 
Commissioner Of Sales 
Tax - Appeals
AY 2016-17, AY 
2017-18
3.96
3.32
Assistant 
Commissioner 
(assessment) Special 
Circle-II
AY 1999-00 to 
AY 2005-06, AY 
2013-14
1,988.05
1,454.42
Assessing Authority
AY 2017-18
0.75
0.37
AY 2001-02 and 
AY 2004-05
351.28
221.71
The Appellate Tribunal
AY 2017-18
42.88
42.77
Joint Commissioner 
(appeals) Trade Tax
AY 2004-05
6.48
4.21
Assistant 
Commissioner (ST)
AY 2018-19
0.02
0.02
Joint Commissioner Of 
Sales Tax
AY 2007-08 to 
AY 2011-12
673.11
651.87
Deputy Commissioner 
Of State Tax (Appeals)
AY 2003-04 and  
AY 2005-06
0.96
0.86
Deputy Commissioner 
Of NMMC Cess 
(Appeals)
AY 2010-11 to 
AY 2013-14
56.37
44.63
Chapter V, 
Finance Act, 
1994
Service 
Tax
Custom, Central 
Excise and Service Tax 
Appellate Tribunal
AY 2012-13 to 
AY 2018-19
858.03
797.57
151
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Name of the 
Statute
Nature of 
Dues
Forum where 
dispute is pending
Period to which 
the amount 
relates
Amount 
Involved 
(Rs. in lakhs)
Amount 
Unpaid^
(Rs. in lakhs)
Central Goods & 
Service Tax Act, 
2017
Goods & 
Service 
Tax 
High Court of 
Karnataka
AY 2018-19 and 
AY 2019-20
42.68
42.68
Joint Commissioner 
Appeals
AY 2018-19
9.67
9.67
Appeal pending to 
be filed due to non-
constitution of GST 
tribunal- (West Bengal)
AY 2019-20
7.08
7.08
First appellate 
authority- Uttar 
Pradesh State Tax
AY 2019-20
5.94
5.35
First appellate 
authority- Himachal 
Pradesh State Tax
AY 2018-19 and 
AY 2019-20
1.59
1.59
High Court of 
Karnataka
AY 2018-19
1,259.56
1,259.56
First appellate 
authority- Uttarakhand 
State Tax
AY 2018-19 and 
AY 2019-20
5.64
5.64
First appellate authority 
- Maharashtra State Tax
AY 2019-20
85.69
81.57
First Appellate 
authority, Telangana 
Central tax
AY 2018-19 to 
AY 2020-21
56.85
52.58
First Appellate 
authority, State tax, 
West Bengal
AY 2018-19
24.60
 23.48 
First Appellate 
authority, State tax, 
Punjab
AY 2018-19
24.69
 23.42 
First Appellate 
authority, State tax, 
Gujarat
AY 2018-19
2.15
 2.15 
First Appellate 
authority, State tax, 
Jammu & Kashmir
AY 2018-19
37.09
 35.41 
First Appellate 
authority, Himachal 
Pradesh State tax
AY 2020-21
1.03
 1.03 
First Appellate 
authority, Himachal 
Pradesh State tax
AY 2019-20
0.98
0.98
We are in the course of 
filing a Writ petition with 
the Uttarakhand High 
Court
AY 2019-20
14.64
14.64
We are in the course 
of filing an appeal with 
the First Appellate 
authority, Haryana 
Central tax
AY 2018-19, 
AY 2019-20
21.14
21.14
Rajasthan Stamp 
Act, 1988
Stamp 
Duty
Rajasthan Tax Board
FY 2022-23
960.08
960.08
	
	
^ Amount unpaid is net of the amounts paid under protest.
152
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
(viii)	 There were no transactions relating to previously 
unrecorded income that were surrendered or disclosed 
as income in the tax assessments under the Income 
Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) during the year.
(ix)	 (a)	
In our opinion, the Company has not defaulted 
in the repayment of loans or other borrowings or 
in the payment of interest thereon to any lender 
during the year. 
	
(b)	
The Company has not been declared wilful 
defaulter by any bank or financial institution or 
government or any government authority. 
	
(c)	
The Company has not taken any term loan during 
the year and there are no unutilised term loans at 
the beginning of the year and hence, reporting 
under clause (ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable. 
	
(d)	
On an overall examination of the financial 
statements of the Company, funds raised on short-
term basis have, prima facie, not been used during 
the year for long-term purposes by the Company. 
	
(e)	
On an overall examination of the financial 
statements of the Company, the Company has 
not taken any funds from any entity or person 
on account of or to meet the obligations of its 
subsidiaries. The Company did not have any joint 
ventures or associate companies during the year. 
	
(f)	
The Company has not raised loans during 
the year on the pledge of securities held in its 
subsidiaries companies.
(x)	
(a)	
The Company has not raised moneys by way of 
initial public offer or further public offer (including 
debt instruments) during the year and hence 
reporting under clause (x)(a) of the Order is 
not applicable. 
	
(b)	
During the year the Company has not made any 
preferential allotment or private placement of 
shares or convertible debentures (fully or partly 
or optionally) and hence reporting under clause (x)
(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xi)	 (a)	
To the best of our knowledge, no fraud by the 
Company and no material fraud on the Company 
has been noticed or reported during the year. 
	
(b)	
To the best of our knowledge, no report under 
sub-section (12) of section 143 of the Companies 
Act has been filed in Form ADT-4 as prescribed 
under rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014 with the Central Government, during 
the year and upto the date of this report. 
	
(c)	
We have taken into consideration the whistle 
blower complaints received by the Company 
during the year and upto the date of this report 
and provided to us, when performing our audit.
(xii)	 The Company is not a Nidhi Company and hence 
reporting under clause (xii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xiii)	 In our opinion, the Company is in compliance with 
Section 177 and 188 of the Companies Act, where 
applicable, for all transactions with the related parties 
and the details of related party transactions have been 
disclosed in the financial statements as required by the 
applicable accounting standards.
(xiv)	 (a)	
In our opinion the Company has an adequate 
internal audit system commensurate with the size 
and the nature of its business. 
	
(b)	
We have considered, the internal audit reports 
issued to the Company during the year and 
covering the period upto December 2023 and the 
final internal audit reports where issued after the 
balance sheet date covering the period January 
2024 to March 2024 for the period under audit.
(xv)	 In our opinion during the year the Company has not 
entered into any non-cash transactions with any 
of its directors or directors of it’s holding company, 
subsidiary company or persons connected with 
such directors and hence provisions of section 192 
of the Companies Act, 2013 are not applicable to 
the Company. 
(xvi)	 (a)	
The Company is not required to be registered 
under section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India 
Act, 1934. Hence, reporting under clause (xvi)(a), 
(b) and (c) of the Order is not applicable. 
	
(b)	
The Group does not have any CIC as part of the 
group and accordingly reporting under clause 
(xvi)(d) of the Order is not applicable. 
(xvii)	The Company has not incurred cash losses during the 
financial year covered by our audit and the immediately 
preceding financial year.
(xviii)	 There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors 
of the Company during the year. 
(xix)	 On the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and 
expected dates of realization of financial assets and 
payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying the financial statements and our 
knowledge of the Board of Directors and Management 
plans and based on our examination of the evidence 
supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our 
attention, which causes us to believe that any material 
uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report 
indicating that Company is not capable of meeting its 
liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and 
when they fall due within a period of one year from 
the balance sheet date. We, however, state that this 
is not an assurance as to the future viability of the 
Company. We further state that our reporting is based 
on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we 
neither give any guarantee nor any assurance that all 
liabilities falling due within a period of one year from 
the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the 
Company as and when they fall due. 
153
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
(xx)	 The Company has fully spent the required amount towards Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and there are no 
unspent CSR amount for the year requiring a transfer to a Fund specified in Schedule VII to the Companies Act or 
special account in compliance with the provision of sub-section (6) of section 135 of the said Act. Accordingly, reporting 
under clause (xx) of the Order is not applicable for the year.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No.117366W/W-100018)
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Place: Mumbai	
Membership No. 49660
Date: May 28, 2024	
(UDIN: 24049660BKFRRB3964)
154
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET
as at March 31, 2024
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023
ASSETS
Non-current Assets
(a) 
Property, plant and equipment
 3
 27,066.37 
 27,024.98
(b) 
Right of use assets
 4
 1,591.60 
 2,079.03
(c) 
Goodwill
 2,05,581.67 
 2,05,581.67
(d) 
Other intangible assets
 5
 3,11,455.07 
 3,12,787.90
(e) 
Intangible assets under development
 6
 122.19 
 245.93
(f)
Financial assets
(i)	
Investments
 7
 2,524.86 
 2,524.86
(ii)	
Other financial assets
10
 1,220.37 
 1,153.79
(g)
Income tax asset (net)
11
 2,183.60 
 2,400.52
(h)
Other non-current assets 
12
 1,265.85 
 1,279.57
Total Non-current Assets
 5,53,011.58 
 5,55,078.25
Current Assets
(a) 
Inventories
13
 24,368.54 
 21,124.86
(b)
Financial assets
(i)	
Investments
 7
 5,494.84 
 7,579.95
(ii)	
Trade receivables
 8
 13,718.38 
 12,259.64
(iii)	
Cash and cash equivalents
14
 5,551.79 
 1,236.00
(iv)	
Bank balances other than (iii) above
14
 3,622.00 
 121.90
(v)	
Loans
 9
 6.38 
 6.52
(vi)	
Other financial assets
10
 90.70 
 93.82
(c) 
Other current assets
12
 6,155.54 
 5,395.03
Total Current Assets
 59,008.17 
 47,817.72
Total Assets
 6,12,019.75 
 6,02,895.97
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
(a)
Equity share capital 
15
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92
(b)
Other equity 
16
 4,00,954.79 
 3,88,585.06
Total Equity
 4,20,302.71 
 4,07,932.98
Liabilities
Non-current Liabilities
(a)
Financial liabilities
(i)	
Borrowings 
17
–
 2,466.48
(ii)	
Lease liabilities 
20
 409.66 
 853.52
(b)
Provisions
21
 357.17 
 227.02
(c)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
23
 81,093.02 
 81,897.43
(d)
Other non-current liabilities
22
 13,150.68 
 12,197.94
Total Non-current Liabilities
 95,010.53 
 97,642.39
Current liabilities
(a) 
Financial liabilities
(i)	
Borrowings 
17
 2,491.97 
 9,613.78
(ii)	
Lease liabilities
20
 969.18 
 993.99
(iii)	
Trade and other payables
	
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
18
 6,865.46 
 6,664.73
	
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
18
 15,060.55 
 16,183.01
(iv)	
Other financial liabilities
19
 18,343.55 
 15,074.76
(b) 
Provisions
21
 2,318.11 
 2,386.56
(c)
Income tax liabilities (net)
11
 5,570.38 
 1,881.48
(d)
Other current liabilities
22
 45,087.31 
 44,522.29
Total Current Liabilities
96,706.51
97,320.60
Total Liabilities
1,91,717.04
1,94,962.99
Total Equity and Liabilities
6,12,019.75
6,02,895.97
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Arvind Uppal 
Pratik R. Pota
 Gaurav Khandelwal 
Pragya Kaul
Partner
Chairman
Managing Director & CEO
 Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary
(DIN-00104992)
(DIN-00751178)
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
 Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
 Dated : May 28, 2024 
Dated : May 28, 2024
155
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
for the year ended March 31, 2024
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Notes
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
I
Income 
Revenue from operations
 24
 2,18,922.63 
 2,08,041.88
Other income and other gains / (losses)–net
 25
 852.94 
 1,041.96
Total Income
 
 2,19,775.57
 2,09,083.84
II
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
 26
 83,359.00 
 64,367.17
Purchases of stock-in-trade
 26
 10,292.52 
 15,124.62
Changes in inventories of finished goods, spares, stock-in-trade 
and work-in-progress 
 26
 (3,560.87)
 5,045.46
Employee benefits expense
 27
 32,783.39 
 30,054.71
Finance costs
 28
 971.77 
 1,985.75
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 29
 5,312.49 
 5,528.43
Other expenses
 30
 76,862.03 
 80,281.91
Total expenses
 
 2,06,020.33
 2,02,388.05
III
Profit before exceptional items and tax
 13,755.24 
 6,695.79
Less : Exceptional items 
 26
 (1,514.90)
 (4,001.80)
IV
Profit/ (Loss) before tax and after exceptional items 
 12,240.34 
 2,693.99
Less: Tax expense
Current tax
 31
 3,887.91 
 1,829.01
Deferred tax charge
 31
 (804.42)
 (843.04)
 
 3,083.49
 985.97
V
Profit/(Loss) for the year
 9,156.85 
 1,708.02
VI
Other Comprehensive Income
(A)	
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
	
(i)	
Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans gain/
(loss)
 (315.04)
 (631.79)
	
(ii)	
Income tax relating to items that will not be 
reclassified to profit/(loss)
 
 79.16
 159.01
 (235.88)
 (472.78)
VII
Total comprehensive Income for the year 
 8,920.97 
 1,235.24
Earnings per equity share:
(1)	
Basic (in `)
32
 4.73 
 0.88
(2)	
Diluted (in `)
32
 4.72 
 0.88
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Arvind Uppal 
Pratik R. Pota
 Gaurav Khandelwal 
Pragya Kaul
Partner
Chairman
Managing Director & CEO
 Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary
(DIN-00104992)
(DIN-00751178)
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
 Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
 Dated : May 28, 2024 
Dated : May 28, 2024
156
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW
for the year ended March 31, 2024
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit/ (Loss) before tax and after exceptional items 
 12,240.34 
 2,693.99
Adjustments for: 
Finance costs recognised in profit and loss
 783.02 
 1,808.64
Interest on lease liabilities
 188.75 
 177.12
(Gain)/loss on modification/disposal of right of use assets 
 (9.58)
 (26.23)
(Gain)/ loss on disposal of investment recognised in profit and loss
 (47.68)
 (133.31)
Interest Income
 (190.61)
 (35.89)
(Gain)/ Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 (74.05)
 (515.48)
Provision/write-off of doubtful debts, advances and other current assets
 123.85 
 1,231.62
Depreciation and amortisation expenses on property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets
 4,097.42 
 4,437.16
Depreciation and amortisation expenses on right of use assets
 1,215.07 
 1,091.26
Exceptional Items
 1,514.90 
 4,001.80
Fair value of investment at FVTPL
 (367.21)
 (80.33)
Employee stock option scheme reserve
 3,448.76 
 -
Net foreign exchange (gain)/loss–unrealised
 6.37 
 (50.33)
Operating profit before working capital changes 
 22,929.35 
 14,600.02
Movements in working capital:
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables
 (1,582.59)
 2,231.75
(Increase)/decrease in inventories
 (4,758.58)
 4,681.89
(Increase)/decrease in loans and advances
 0.14 
 1.39
(Increase)/decrease in other assets
 (746.43)
 (1,400.08)
(Increase)/decrease in other financial assets
 (24.57)
 516.37
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables
 (928.10)
 (1,551.50)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions
 (253.34)
 (292.89)
Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities
 4,786.55 
 (1,311.04)
Cash generated from operations
 19,422.43 
 17,475.91
Less : Income taxes (paid) / refund received 
 97.07 
 (371.28)
Net cash generated from operating activities
 19,519.50 
 17,104.63
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received
 190.61 
 35.89
Proceeds from sale of mutual funds
 2,500.00 
 7,803.64
Payments for property, plant and equipment, intangible assets under 
development, capital work in progress and other intangible assets
 (2,945.32)
 (1,866.78)
Payments for investment in mutual funds
–
 (9,000.00)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment
 336.78 
 799.68
Movement in bank balance other than cash & cash equivalents
 (3,538.99)
 (22.65)
Net cash used in investing activities
 (3,456.92)
 (2,250.22)
157
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of borrowings
 (2,500.00)
 (2,500.00)
Net increase / (decrease) in working capital borrowings
 (7,113.78)
 (9,407.19)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (1,375.48)
 (1,225.01)
Interest paid
 (757.53)
 (1,777.72)
Amount paid for increase in authorised share capital 
–
 (50.28)
Net cash used in financing activities
 (11,746.79)
 (14,960.20)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 4,315.79 
 (105.79)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 1,236.00 
1341.79
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 
 5,551.79 
 1,236.00
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents as disclosed above 
 4,315.79 
 (105.79)
Note:
1.	
The above cash flow statement has been prepared under the "Indirect Method" as set out in the Indian Accounting 
Standard (IndAS–7) statement of cash flows.
2.	
Changes in carrying amount of financial liabilities included under financing activities under statement of cash flow:
` in Lakhs
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities:
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
 13,927.77 
 25,268.23
Changes due to cash flow
 (10,989.26)
 (13,132.20)
Non cash change (gain)/loss
 932.30 
 1,791.74
Closing balance
 3,870.81 
 13,927.77
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Arvind Uppal 
Pratik R. Pota
 Gaurav Khandelwal 
Pragya Kaul
Partner
Chairman
Managing Director & CEO
 Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary
(DIN-00104992)
(DIN-00751178)
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
 Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
 Dated : May 28, 2024 
Dated : May 28, 2024
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW
for the year ended March 31, 2024
158
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended March 31, 2024
A.	 EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
` in Lakhs
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance at the beginning of the year
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92
Movement during the year
–
 -
Closing Balance at the end of the year
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92
B.	 OTHER EQUITY
	
As at March 31, 2024
` in Lakhs
Particulars 
Reserves and Surplus 
Total 
Other 
Equity
Retained 
earnings
Securities 
Premium 
Capital 
Reserve 
Employee stock 
option scheme 
reserve
As at April 1, 2023
 1,038.90  3,87,063.43 
 482.73 
–
 3,88,585.06
Add: 
Add: Addition during the year
 9,156.85 
–
–
 3,448.76 
 12,605.61
Other comprehensive Income 
for the year, net of income tax 
 (235.88)
–
–
–
 (235.88)
Total comprehensive income 
for the year
 8,920.97 
–
–
 3,448.76 
 12,369.73
Balance at March 31, 2024 
 9,959.87  3,87,063.43 
 482.73 
 3,448.76  4,00,954.79
	
As at March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
Particulars 
Reserves and surplus 
Total 
other 
equity
Retained 
earnings
Securities 
premium 
Capital 
reserve 
Employee stock 
option scheme 
reserve
As at April 1, 2022
 (196.34)
 3,87,063.43 
 482.73 
–
 3,87,349.82
Add: 
Add: Addition during the year 
 1,708.02 
–
–
–
 1,708.02
Other comprehensive income 
for the year, net of income tax 
 (472.78)
–
–
–
 (472.78)
Total comprehensive income 
for the year 
 1,235.24 
–
–
–
 1,235.24
Balance at March 31, 2023 
 1,038.90  3,87,063.43 
 482.73 
–
 3,88,585.06
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Arvind Uppal 
Pratik R. Pota
 Gaurav Khandelwal 
Pragya Kaul
Partner
Chairman
Managing Director & CEO
 Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary
(DIN-00104992)
(DIN-00751178)
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
 Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
 Dated : May 28, 2024 
Dated : May 28, 2024
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
159
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
Note 2(g) and 3 – Useful lives of Property, plant 
and equipment
	
Note 2(h) and 5 – Useful and indefinite lives of 
Intangible assets
	
Note 2(i) and 36 – Employee Benefit Expense
	
Note 2(o) and 33A – Provisions and Contingent liabilities
	
Note 33I (B) – Estimation for provision of Warranty Claims
	
Note 40 (a) – Impairment of Trade Receivables
	
Note 11, Note 31, Note 43 and Note 2(m) – Income taxes
	
Note 23, Note 31, Note 42 and Note 2(m)– Recognition 
of Deferred taxes
	
Note 2(l)– Refund Liabilities
	
Note 33S–Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible 
assets with indefinite useful life
	
Note 27 and Note 37–Employee share option 
scheme expenses.
Share-based payments
Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions 
requires determination of the most appropriate valuation 
model, which depends on the terms and conditions of 
the grant. This estimate also requires determination of the 
most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including 
the expected life of the share option or appreciation right, 
volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions about 
them. For the measurement of the fair value of equity-settled 
transactions with employees at the grant date, the Company 
uses a Black Scholes model and Monte-Carlo simulation 
model basis the type of option granted. The assumptions 
and models used for estimating fair value for share-based 
payment transactions are disclosed in Note 37.
Assumptions and estimation uncertainties
Information about assumptions and estimation uncertainties 
that have a significant risk of resulting in a material 
adjustment in the next year is included in the note below.
(i)	
Note 33A and Note 33 (I) – Recognition and 
measurement of provisions and contingencies: key 
assumptions about the likelihood and magnitude of 
an outflow of resources.
(ii)	
Note 33S–Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible 
assets with indefinite useful life
	
Assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis 
and whenever there is an indication that the recoverable 
amount is less than its carrying amount based on a 
number of factors including operating results, business 
plans, future cash flows and economic conditions. The 
recoverable amount is determined based on higher of 
value-in-use and fair value less cost to sell.
	
Market related information and estimates are used to 
determine the recoverable amount. Key assumptions 
BACKGROUND
Eureka Forbes Limited is a limited company incorporated 
and domiciled in India with its registered office situated at 
B1/B2, 701, Marathon Innova, Off Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, 
Lower Parel, (West), Mumbai – 400 013.
The Company is engaged in Manufacturing, selling, renting 
and servicing of Vacuum cleaners, Water Filter cum purifiers, 
trading in electronic air cleaning system etc.
NOTE 1: BASIS OF PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
This note provides a list of material accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these financial statements. 
These policies have been consistently applied to all the 
years presented unless otherwise stated.
(a)	 Compliance 
with 
Indian 
Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS)
	
These standalone financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS) notified under section 133 of the 
Companies Act 2013 (the Act) [ Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015] and other relevant 
provisions of the Act.
(b)	 Historical Cost convention
	
The financial statements have been prepared on a 
historical cost basis, on accrual basis of accounting 
except for certain financial assets and liabilities 
(including derivative instruments) that are measured 
at fair value.
(c)	 Functional and presentation currency
	
These financial statements are presented in 
Indian Rupees (`), which is also the Company’s 
functional currency.
(d)	 Use of estimates and judgements
	
In preparing these financial statements, management 
has made judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the application of accounting policies 
and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
	
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on 
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates 
are recognised prospectively.
Judgements
	
Information about judgements made in applying 
accounting policies that have the most significant 
effects on the amounts recognised in the financial 
statements is included in the following notes:
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
160
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
on which management has based its determination of 
recoverable amount include estimated long term growth 
rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimated 
operating margins. Cash flow projections take into 
account past experience and represent management’s 
best estimate about future developments.
(iii)	 Note 37–Employee share option scheme expenses.
(e)	 Measurement of fair values
	
A number of the Company’s accounting policies and 
disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for 
both financial assets and liabilities.
	
Fair Value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The Fair value measurement is 
based on the presumption that the transaction to sell 
the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
	
•	
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
	
•	
In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the assets or liability
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured 
or disclosed in the financial statements are categorized 
within the fair value hierarchy that categorizes into 
three levels, described as follows, the inputs to 
valuation techniques used to measure value. the fair 
value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted 
prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
(Level 1 inputs) and lowest priority to unobservable 
inputs (Level 3 inputs).
	
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets 
for identical assets or liabilities.
	
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in 
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 
either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived 
from prices).
	
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not 
based on observable market data (unobservable 
inputs).
	
The Company recognises transfers between levels 
of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting 
period during which the change has occurred.
	
Further information about the assumptions made 
in measuring fair values is included in Note 39 – 
Financial instruments.
NOTE 2: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
(a)	 Foreign currency transactions
	
Transactions in currencies other than company’s 
functional currency i.e. Indian Rupee are recognised 
at the exchange rate prevailing at the dates of 
the transactions.
	
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated into the functional currency 
at the exchange rate prevailing at the reporting date. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured 
at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into 
the functional currency at the exchange rate when the 
fair value was determined. Non-monetary assets and 
liabilities that are measured based on historical cost 
in a foreign currency are not translated. Exchange 
differences are recognised in profit or loss not 
retranslated, except exchange differences arising 
from the translation of the equity investments which 
are recognised at fair value through OCI (FVOCI) are 
recognised in other comprehensive income.
(b)	 Financial Instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized 
when the Company becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instruments. Financial assets and 
financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. 
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial 
liabilities (other than financial assets and financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added 
to or deducted from the fair value of the financial 
assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial 
recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to 
the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities 
at fair value through profit or loss are recognised 
immediately in profit or loss.
	
(i)	
Financial Assets
	
	
All recognised financial assets are subsequently 
measured in their entirety at either amortised cost 
or fair value, depending on the classification of 
the financial assets.
	
	
Classification of financial assets
	
	
Debt instruments that meet the following 
conditions are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost (except for debt instruments that 
are designated as at fair value through profit or 
loss on initial recognition):
	
	
•	
The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets in order to 
collect contractual cash flows; and
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
161
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
•	
the contractual terms of the instrument give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on 
the principal amount outstanding.
	
	
Investment in equity instruments of subsidiary, 
associates and joint ventures are measured at 
cost less impairment. All other financial assets 
are subsequently measured at fair value.
	
Effective interest method
	
The effective interest method is a method of calculating 
the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of 
allocating interest income over the relevant period. The 
effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts 
estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and 
points paid or received that form an integral part of 
the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other 
premiums or discounts) through the expected life of 
the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter 
period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
	
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis 
for debt instruments other than those financial assets 
classified as at FVTPL. Interest income is recognised 
in profit or loss and is included in the “Other income” 
line item.
	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or 
loss (FVTPL)
	
Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value 
at the end of each reporting period, with any gains or 
losses arising on re-measurement recognised in profit 
or loss. The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss 
incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the 
financial asset and is included in the ‘Other income’ 
line item.
	
Investments in equity instruments at fair 
value through other comprehensive income 
(FVTOCI)
	
On initial recognition, the Company can make an 
irrevocable election (on an instrument-by-instrument 
basis) to present the subsequent changes in fair value 
in other comprehensive income. This election is not 
permitted if the equity investment is held for trading. 
These elected investments are initially measured at 
fair value plus transaction costs. Subsequently, they 
are measured at fair value with gains and losses 
arising from changes in fair value recognised in 
other comprehensive income and accumulated in 
the reserve for ‘equity instruments through other 
comprehensive income.
(ii)	
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
	
Classification as debt or equity
	
Debt and equity instruments issued by a Company 
are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity 
in accordance with the substance of the contractual 
arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability 
and an equity instrument.
	
Equity instruments
	
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences 
a residual interest in the assets of an entity after 
deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued 
by the Company are recognised at the proceeds 
received, net of direct issue costs.
	
Financial liabilities
	
All financial liabilities are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method or 
at FVTPL.
	
Financial liabilities that are not held-for-trading and 
are not designated as at FVTPL are measured at 
amortised cost at the end of subsequent accounting 
periods. The carrying amounts of financial liabilities 
that are subsequently measured at amortised cost are 
determined based on the effective interest method. 
Interest expense that is not capitalised as part of costs 
of an asset is included in the ‘Finance costs’ line item.
(c)	 Derecognition
	
Financial Assets
	
The Company derecognises a financial asset when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial 
asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the 
contractual cash flows in a transaction in which 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership 
of the financial asset are transferred or in which the 
Company neither transfers nor retains substantially all 
of the risks and rewards of ownership and does not 
retain control of the financial asset.
	
If the Company enters into transactions whereby it 
transfers assets recognised on its balance sheet, but 
retains either all or substantially all of the risks and 
rewards of the transferred assets, the transferred 
assets are not derecognised.
	
Financial Liabilities
	
The Company derecognises a financial liability when 
its contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled, 
or expire.
	
The Company also derecognises a financial liability 
when its terms are modified and the cash flows under 
the modified terms are substantially different. In this 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
162
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
case, a new financial liability based on the modified 
terms is recognised at fair value. The difference 
between the carrying amount of the financial liability 
extinguished and the new financial liability with 
modified terms is recognised in profit or loss.
	
Offsetting
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and 
the net amount presented in the balance sheet when, 
and only when, the Company currently has a legally 
enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends 
either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
(d)	 Impairment
	
(i)	
Impairment of financial instruments
	
	
The Company recognises loss allowances 
for expected credit loss on financial assets 
measured at amortised cost, trade receivables, 
other contractual rights to receive cash or other 
financial assets and financial guarantee not 
designated as FVTPL.
	
	
The Company measures loss allowances at an 
amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses, 
except for the following, which are measured as 
12 month expected credit losses:
	
	
-	
bank balances for which credit risk (i.e. the 
risk of default occurring over the expected life 
of the financial instrument) has not increased 
significantly since initial recognition.
	
	
-	
Loss allowances for trade receivables are 
always measured at an amount equal to 
lifetime expected credit losses. Lifetime 
expected credit losses are the expected credit 
losses that result from all possible default 
events over the expected life of a financial 
instrument. The Company follows ‘simplified 
approach’ for recognition of impairment 
loss allowance for trade receivables. The 
application of simplified approach does not 
require the Company to track changes in 
credit risk. Rather, it recognizes impairment 
loss allowance based on lifetime expected 
credit loss at each reporting date, right from 
its initial recognition.
	
	
12-month expected credit losses are the portion 
of expected credit losses that result from default 
events that are possible within 12 months after the 
reporting date (or a shorter period if the expected 
life of the instrument is less than 12 months).
	
	
In all cases, the maximum period considered 
when estimating expected credit losses is the 
maximum contractual period over which the 
Company is exposed to credit risk.
	
	
When determining whether the credit risk of a 
financial asset has increased significantly since 
initial recognition and when estimating expected 
credit losses, the Company considers reasonable 
and supportable information that is relevant and 
available without undue cost or effort. This includes 
both quantitative and qualitative information and 
analysis, based on the Company’s historical 
experience and informed credit assessment and 
including forward‑ looking information.
	
(ii)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
The Company’s non-financial assets, other than 
inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed 
at each reporting date to determine whether 
there is any indication of impairment. If any such 
indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated.
	
	
For impairment testing, assets that do not 
generate independent cash inflows are grouped 
together into cash-generating units (CGUs). Each 
CGU represents the smallest group of assets 
that generates cash inflows that are largely 
independent of the cash inflows of other assets 
or CGUs.
	
	
The recoverable amount of a CGU (or an individual 
asset) is the higher of its value in use and its fair 
value less costs to sell. Value in use is based on 
the estimated future cash flows, discounted to 
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the 
CGU (or the asset).
	
	
The Company’s corporate assets do not 
generate independent cash inflows. To determine 
impairment of a corporate asset, recoverable 
amount is determined for the CGUs to which the 
corporate asset belongs.
	
	
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying 
amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its estimated 
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
Impairment loss recognised in respect of a CGU 
is allocated the CGU, and then to reduce the 
carrying amounts of the other assets of the CGU 
(or group of CGUs) on a pro rata basis.
	
	
An impairment loss in respect of assets other 
than goodwill for which impairment loss has 
been recognised in prior periods, the Company 
reviews at each reporting date whether there is 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
163
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
any indication that the loss has decreased or no 
longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if 
there has been a change in the estimates used 
to determine the recoverable amount. Such a 
reversal is made only to the extent that the asset’s 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined, net 
of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment 
loss had been recognised.
(e)	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of 
cash flow, cash and cash equivalents including cash 
on hand, deposits held at call with financial institutions, 
other short term, highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash and which are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current 
liabilities in the balance sheet and are not considered 
as integral part of Company’s cash management.
(f)	 Inventories
	
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net 
realisable value. The cost of inventories is based on the 
weighted average method, and includes expenditure 
incurred in acquiring the inventories and other costs 
incurred in bringing them to their present location 
and condition.
	
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs 
of completion and selling expenses.
	
The Net realisable value of work-in-progress is 
determined with reference to the selling prices of 
related finished products.
	
Raw Materials and other supplies held for use in the 
production of finished products are not written down 
below cost except in cases where material prices have 
declined and it is estimated that the cost of the finished 
products will exceed their net realisable value.
(g)	 Property plant and equipment
	
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. All other 
items of property, plant and equipment are stated 
at historical cost less depreciation. Historical cost 
includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the items.
	
Property, plant and equipment acquired in a business 
combination are recognised at fair value at the 
acquisition date.
	
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it is 
probable that the future economic benefits associated 
with the expenditure will flow to the Company.
	
Property, plant and equipment derecognised when it is
	
-	
no longer expected to generate future economic 
benefit or
	
-	
when it is disposed of
Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives and 
residual value
Depreciation has been provided on the straight-line method 
as per the useful life prescribed in Schedule II to the 
Companies Act, 2013 except in respect of the following 
categories of property, plant and equipment where the 
useful life is considered differently based on technical 
evaluation. Management believe that such estimated useful 
lives are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the period 
over which the assets are likely to be used.
The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment 
for the current and comparative periods are as follows:
Type of Assets
Period
Plant & Machinery for cleaning services 
5 years
Plant & Machinery on rent
6 years
Motor Cycles
3 years
Motor Cars
5 years
Office Equipment’s
3 to 5 years
(h)	 Goodwill and other Intangible assets
	
Intangible assets are initially measured at cost. Such 
intangible assets are subsequently measured at cost 
less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated 
impairment losses.
	
An intangible asset arising from development (or 
from the development phase of an internal project) 
is recognised if, and only if, all of the following have 
been demonstrated:
	
(i)	
the technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for use;
	
(ii)	
the intention to complete the intangible asset 
and use;
	
(iii)	 the ability to use the intangible asset;
	
(iv)	 how the intangible asset will generate probable 
future economic benefits;
	
(v)	
the availability of adequate technical, financial 
and other resources to complete the development 
and to use the intangible asset; and
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
164
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
(vi)	 the ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during 
its development.
	
The amount initially recognised for intangible assets 
is the sum of the expenditure incurred from the date 
when the intangible asset first meets the recognition 
criteria listed above. Where no intangible asset can be 
recognised, development expenditure is recognised in 
profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.
	
Amortisation
	
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Subsequently, intangible assets are carried at cost 
less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any.
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed 
as finite or indefinite. Finite-life intangible asset are 
amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of 
their estimated useful lives. Estimated useful lives by 
major class of finite life Intangible assets are as follow:
Type of Assets
Period
Technical Knowhow 
5 years
Computer Software
5 years
Distributor network-Service 
10 years
Distributor network-Product
10 years
	
Amortisation method, useful lives and residual values 
are reviewed at the end of each financial year and 
adjusted if appropriate.
	
Indefinite–life intangible assets comprise of brandname/
trademarks for which there is no foreseeable Limit to 
the period over which they are expected to generate 
net cash inflows. These are considered to have an 
indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the 
brands and the level of marketing support.
	
For Indefinite life intangible assets, the assessment 
of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine 
whether it continues, if not, it is impaired or changed 
prospectively basis revised estimates.
	
Goodwill is initially recognised based on the accounting 
policy for Business combination and is tested for 
impairment annually.
(i)	
Employee Benefits
	
(i)	
Short Term employee benefits
	
	
Short-term employee benefit obligations are 
measured on an undiscounted basis and are 
expensed as the related service is provided. A 
liability is recognised for the amount expected 
to be paid e.g., under short-term cash bonus, if 
the Company has a present legal or constructive 
obligation to pay this amount as a result of past 
service provided by the employee, and the 
amount of obligation can be estimated reliably.
	
(ii)	
Defined Contribution Plans
	
	
Defined contribution plans are employee state 
insurance scheme and Government administered 
pension / provident fund scheme for all applicable 
employees and superannuation scheme for 
eligible employees. The Company’s contribution 
to defined contribution plans are recognised in 
the Statement of Profit and Loss in the financial 
year to which they relate.
	
	
The Company makes specified monthly 
contributions towards Employee Provident Fund 
scheme to a separate trust administered by the 
Company. The minimum interest payable by 
the trust to the beneficiaries is being notified by 
the Government every year. The Company has 
an obligation to make good the shortfall, if any, 
between the return on investments of the trust 
and the notified interest rate.
	
(iii)	 Defined Benefit Plans
	
	
Gratuity Scheme
	
	
The Company operates a defined benefit gratuity 
plan for employees. The Company contributes to 
a separate trust administered by the Company 
towards meeting the Gratuity obligation. The 
Company’s liability is determined on the basis of 
an actuarial valuation. Remeasurements of the 
net defined benefit liability as per the actuarial 
valuation report, which comprise actuarial gains 
and losses are recognised in OCI.
	
	
Other long term employee benefits
	
	
Entitlements to annual leave are recognised 
when they accrue to employees. The Company 
determines the liability for such accumulated 
leaves using the Projected Accrued Benefit 
method with actuarial valuations being carried 
out at each Balance Sheet date.
	
(iv)	 Employee stock option scheme policy
	
	
Employees of the Company receive remuneration 
in the form of share-based payments, whereby 
employees render services in exchange for equity 
instruments (equity-settled transactions).
	
	
Equity-settled transactions
	
	
The cost of equity-settled transactions is 
determined by the fair value at the date when the 
grant is made using an appropriate valuation model.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
165
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
That cost is recognised in employee benefits 
expense, together with a corresponding 
increase in equity, over the period in which the 
service and, where applicable, the performance 
conditions are fulfilled (the vesting period). The 
cumulative expense recognised for equity-
settled transactions at each reporting date until 
the vesting date reflects the extent to which 
the vesting period has expired and are the 
Company’s best estimate of the number of equity 
instruments that will ultimately vest. The expense 
or credit in the statement of profit or loss for a 
period represents the movement in cumulative 
expense recognised as at the beginning and end 
of that period.
	
	
Service and non-market performance conditions 
are not taken into account when determining the 
grant date fair value of awards, but the likelihood 
of the conditions being met is assessed as part 
of the Company’s best estimate of the number of 
equity instruments that will ultimately vest. Market 
performance conditions are reflected within 
the grant date fair value. Any other conditions 
attached to an award, but without an associated 
service requirement, are considered to be non-
vesting conditions. Non-vesting conditions are 
reflected in the fair value of an award and lead 
to an immediate expensing of an award unless 
there are also service and/or performance 
conditions. No expense is recognised for awards 
that do not ultimately vest because non-market 
performance and/or service conditions have not 
been met. Where awards include a market or non-
vesting condition, the transactions are treated 
as vested irrespective of whether the market or 
non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that 
all other performance and/or service conditions 
are satisfied.
	
	
When the terms of an equity-settled award are 
modified, the minimum expense recognised is 
the grant date fair value of the unmodified award, 
provided the original vesting terms of the award 
are met. An additional expense, measured as at 
the date of modification, is recognised for any 
modification that increases the total fair value of the 
share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise 
beneficial to the employee. Where an award is 
cancelled by the entity or by the counterparty, any 
remaining element of the fair value of the award is 
expensed immediately through profit or loss. The 
dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected 
as additional share dilution in the computation of 
diluted earnings per share (refer Note 32).
(j)	
Research and Development
	
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an 
expense in the period in which it is incurred.
	
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from 
development (or from the development phase of an 
internal project) is recognised if, and only if, all of the 
following conditions have been demonstrated:
	
•	
the technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for use 
or sale;
	
•	
the intention to complete the intangible asset and 
use or sell it;
	
•	
the ability to use or sell the intangible asset;
	
•	
how the intangible asset will generate probable 
future economic benefits;
	
•	
the availability of adequate technical, financial 
and other resources to complete the development 
and to use or sell the intangible asset; and
	
•	
the ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during 
its development.
	
The amount initially recognised for internally-generated 
intangible assets is the sum of the expenditure incurred 
from the date when the intangible asset first meets the 
recognition criteria listed above. Where no internally-
generated intangible asset can be recognised, 
development expenditure is recognised in profit or loss 
in the period in which it is incurred.
	
Subsequent to initial recognition, internally-generated 
intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, 
on the same basis as intangible assets that are 
acquired separately.
(k)	 Lease Accounting
	
Ind AS 116 sets out principles for the recognition, 
measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. 
Ind AS 116 introduces a single lessee accounting 
model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and 
liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 
months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. 
For all leases except as noted above, a lessee is 
required to recognise a right-of-use asset (ROU Asset) 
representing its right to use the underlying leased 
asset and a lease liability representing its obligation 
to make lease payments in the balance sheet. Lessee 
will recognise depreciation of right-of-use assets and 
interest on lease liabilities in the statement of profit 
and loss.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
166
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
The Company as a lessee
	
The Company’s lease asset classes primarily consist of 
leases for Premises. The Company assesses whether a 
contract contains a lease, at inception of a contract. A 
contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys 
the right to control the use of an identified asset for a 
period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess 
whether a contract conveys the right to control the use 
of an identified asset, the Company assesses whether:
	
(i)	
the contract involves the use of an identified asset
	
(ii)	
the Company has substantially all of the economic 
benefits from use of the asset through the period 
of the lease and
	
(iii)	 the Company has the right to direct the use of 
the asset.
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Company recognizes a right-of-use asset (“ROU”) and 
a corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements 
in which it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of 
twelve months or less (short-term leases) and low value 
leases. For these short-term and low value leases, 
the Company recognizes the lease payments as an 
operating expense on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the lease. The lease payments are discounted 
using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if not 
readily determinable, using the incremental borrowing 
rates in the country of domicile of these leases.
	
The lease payments that are not paid at the 
commencement date are discounted using the interest 
rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be readily 
determined, which is generally the case for leases in 
the Company, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate 
is used, being the rate that the individual lessee would 
have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain 
an asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in 
a similar economic environment with similar terms, 
security and conditions.
	
Lease payments included in the measurement of the 
lease liability comprise:
	
-	
Fixed lease payments (including in-substance 
fixed payments) payable during the lease term 
and under reasonably certain extension options, 
less any lease incentives;
	
-	
Variable lease payments that depend on an index 
or rate, initially measured using the index or rate 
at the commencement date;
	
-	
The amount expected to be payable by the lessee 
under residual value guarantees;
	
-	
The exercise price of purchase options, if the 
lessee is reasonably certain to exercise the 
options; and
	
-	
Payments of penalties for terminating the lease, 
if the lease term reflects the exercise of an option 
to terminate the lease.
	
As a practical expedient, Ind AS 116 permits a 
lessee not to separate non-lease components when 
bifurcation of the payments is not available between 
the two components, and instead account for any 
lease and associated non-lease components as a 
single arrangement. The Company has used this 
practical expedient. Contingent and variable rentals 
are recognized as expense in the periods in which they 
are incurred.
	
The lease liability is subsequently measured by 
increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the 
lease liability (using the effective interest method) and 
by reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease 
payments made.
	
The Company remeasures the lease liability (and 
makes a corresponding adjustment to the related 
right-of-use asset) whenever:
	
•	
The lease term has changed or there is a change in 
the assessment of exercise of a purchase option, 
in which case the lease liability is remeasured by 
discounting the revised lease payments using a 
revised discount rate.
	
•	
A lease contract is modified and the lease 
modification is not accounted for as a separate 
lease, in which case the lease liability is 
remeasured by discounting the revised lease 
payments using a revised discount rate.
	
The right-of-use assets are initially recognized at cost, 
which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or prior to the 
commencement date of the lease plus any initial direct 
costs less any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
impairment losses. Whenever the Company incurs 
an obligation for costs to dismantle and remove a 
leased asset, restore the site on which it is located or 
restore the underlying asset to the condition required 
by the terms and conditions of the lease, a provision is 
recognised and measured under Ind AS 37. The costs 
are included in the related right-of-use asset, unless 
those costs are incurred to produce inventories.
	
Right-of-use assets are depreciated from the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis over 
the shorter of the lease term and useful life of the 
underlying asset. Right of use assets are evaluated 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
167
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
for recoverability whenever events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts 
may not be recoverable. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, the recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the 
fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is 
determined on an individual asset basis unless the 
asset does not generate cash flows that are largely 
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, 
the recoverable amount is determined for the Cash 
Generating Unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
	
The Company has entered into lease arrangements 
as a lessee for premises for operating customer 
relationship center, guest houses, head office 
and regional offices, residential premises for their 
employees so as to help the employees to get settled 
to new location and warehouse for receiving, storing 
and dispatch of goods. The average term of leases 
entered into is 3 years. Incase of warehouses, on the 
basis of past practice the entire period of the contract 
has been considered for lease term depending on 
the reasonable certainty to continue with the same 
service provider. Generally, these lease contracts do 
not include extension or early termination options.
	
Extension and termination options are included in 
many of the leases. In determining the lease term, the 
management considers all facts and circumstances 
that create an economic incentive to exercise an 
extension option, or not exercise a termination option.
	
Lease liability and ROU asset have been separately 
presented in the Balance Sheet and lease payments 
have been classified as financing cash flows.
	
The aggregate depreciation expense on ROU assets is 
included under depreciation and amortization expense 
in the statement of Profit and Loss.
The Company as a lessor
Leases for which the Company is a lessor is classified as a 
finance or operating lease. Whenever the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the lessee, the contract is classified as a finance lease. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases. Ind AS 
116 does not change substantially how a lessor accounts 
for leases. Under Ind AS 116, a lessor continues to classify 
leases as either finance leases or operating leases and 
account for those two types of leases differently. However, 
Ind AS 116 has changed and expanded the disclosures 
required, in particular with regard to how a lessor manages 
the risks arising from its residual interest in leased assets.
When the Company is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for 
its interests in the head lease and the sublease separately. 
The sublease is classified as a finance or operating lease 
by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the 
head lease.
For operating leases, rental income is recognized on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
(l)	
Revenue Recognition
	
The Company derives Revenue from sale of products 
primarily water purifiers and vacuum cleaners and 
providing related maintenance services. Revenue 
from sale of goods is recognised when control of the 
products being sold has transferred to the customer 
upon delivery. Revenue is measured net of taxes, 
returns, discounts, incentives and rebates earned 
by customers on the sales. Revenue from services is 
recognised over the period of time.
	
A refund liability (included in other current liabilities) is 
recognised for expected volume discounts payable to 
customers in relation to sales made until the end of the 
reporting period.
	
In relation to certain contracts where installation 
services are provided by the company, same is 
accounted as a separate performance obligation. 
Payment of the transaction price is due immediately 
when the customer purchases the goods/services 
except in certain cases where a credit term is agreed 
between company and customer.
	
Revenue is only recognised to the extent that it is 
highly probable a significant reversal will not occur. 
An estimate is made for goods that will be returned 
and a liability has been recognised for this amount 
as refund liability (included in other current liabilities). 
An asset has also been recorded (included in other 
current assets) for the corresponding inventory that 
is estimated to return to the company using a best 
estimate based on accumulated experience.
	
Company’s obligation to repair or replace faulty 
products under the standard warranty terms is 
recognised as provision.
	
Dividend income is recognised when the right to 
receive payment is established and known.
	
Interest income from financial asset is recognised 
when it is probable that the economic benefit will flow 
to the company and the amount of income can be 
measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on time 
basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at 
the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate 
that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts 
through the expected life of the financial asset to that 
asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.
(m)	 Taxation
	
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. It is 
recognised in profit & loss except to the extent that 
it relates to a business combination or to an item 
recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
168
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
income, in which the current and the deferred tax 
is also recognised directly in equity or in other 
comprehensive income.
	
Current Tax
	
Current tax is measured on the basis of estimated 
income and tax credits computed in accordance with 
the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
	
Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It 
establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis 
of amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities.
	
The entity shall recognise the income tax consequences 
of dividends in profit or loss, other comprehensive 
income or equity according to where the entity originally 
recognised those past transactions or events.
	
Current tax assets and current tax liabilities are 
offset only if there is a legally enforceable right to 
set off the recognised amounts, and it is intended to 
realise the asset and settle the liability on a net basis 
or simultaneously.
	
Deferred Tax
	
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
corresponding amounts used for taxation purposes. 
Deferred tax liability is generally recognised for all 
taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax asset 
(including in respect of carried forward tax losses and 
tax credits) are recognised to the extent it is probable 
that the taxable profit will be available against which 
deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
	
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply to the period when the asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on the laws 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the reporting date.
	
Uncertain Tax position
	
Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in the tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation 
and establishes provisions where appropriate. The 
provision is estimated based on one of two methods, 
the expected value method (the sum of the probability 
weighted amounts in a range of possible outcomes) or 
the single most likely amount method, depending on 
which is expected to better predict the resolution of 
the uncertainty.
(n)	 Earnings Per Share
	
The Company presents basic and diluted earnings per 
share (EPS) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is 
calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to 
ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during 
the year. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the 
profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 
and the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding after adjusting for the effects of all 
potential dilutive ordinary shares.
(o)	 Provisions, 
Contingent 
Liabilities 
and 
Contingent Assets
	
A provision is recognized if, as a result of a past event, 
the Company has a present legal or constructive 
obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is 
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation.
	
The amount recognised as provision is the best estimate 
of the consideration required to settle the present 
obligation at the end of the reporting period taking 
into account the risk and uncertainties surrounding the 
obligation. When a provision is measured using the 
cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation 
it carrying amount is the present value of those cash 
flows (where the effect of the time value of money is 
material).
	
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that 
arise from past events and whose existence will only 
be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of one or more future events not wholly within the 
control of the Company. Contingent Liabilities are 
not recognised in the financial statements but are 
disclosed in the notes.
	
Contingent assets are disclosed where inflow of 
economic benefit is probable.
(p)	 Investment in Subsidiaries
	
The Company has elected to recognize its investments 
in subsidiaries at cost in accordance with the option 
available in IND AS 27, ‘ Separate Financial Statement’. 
The details of such investments are given in Note 5. 
Impairment policy applicable on such investments is 
explained in note 2 (d) above.
(q)	 Borrowing Cost
	
Borrowing Cost includes interest, amortization 
of ancillary cost incurred in connection with the 
arrangement of borrowings and exchange difference 
arising from foreign currency borrowings to the extent 
they are regarded as an adjustment to the interest cost.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
169
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
Borrowing cost, if any, directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of an asset 
that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to 
get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised, 
if any. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the 
period in which they occur.
(r)	 Segment Reporting
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker.
	
The board of directors of the Company assesses the 
financial performance and position of the Company 
and makes strategic decisions. The board of directors, 
which has been identified as being the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker, consists of the key managerial 
personnel and the directors who are in charge of 
the corporate planning. Refer Note 33C for segment 
information presented.
(s)	 Recent Pronouncements
	
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new 
standards or amendments to the existing standards 
under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 
as issued from time to time. For the year ended March 
31, 2024, MCA has not notified any new standards or 
amendments to the existing standards applicable to 
the Company. 
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
170
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 3 : PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
` in Lakhs
Gross Block 
(refer note (a))
Freehold 
Land 
(refer note 
(d))
Buildings 
(refer note 
(d))
Plant and 
Machinery 
(refer note 
(b))
Assets-
on lease 
(refer note 
(c))
Electrical 
Installation 
& 
Equipment
Laboratory 
Equipment
Office 
Equipment
Furniture 
and 
Fixtures
Vehicles
Computers
Total
As at 01 April 2022
 6,405.00 
 14,710.53 
 4,265.49 
–
 217.91 
 113.30 
 77.36 
 220.52 
 904.07 
 727.30 
 27,641.48
Additions
–
 102.72 
 916.44 
 7.19 
 61.57 
 16.31 
 18.08 
 43.31 
 592.99 
 103.02 
 1,861.63
Deletions
–
–
 (235.54)
–
 (15.07)
 (3.54)
 (8.32)
 (21.35)
 (352.80)
 (19.75)
 (656.37)
As at March 31, 2023
 6,405.00 
 14,813.25 
 4,946.39 
 7.19 
 264.41 
 126.07 
 87.12 
 242.48 
 1,144.26 
 810.57 
 28,846.74
Additions
–
 99.10 
 1,360.27 
–
 27.25 
 13.29 
 34.63 
 59.74 
 24.59 
 255.72 
 1,874.59
Deletions
–
–
 (112.55)
–
 (18.95)
 (26.78)
 (11.93)
 (24.01)
 (163.53)
 (77.63)
 (435.38)
As at March 31, 2024
 6,405.00 
 14,912.35 
 6,194.11 
 7.19 
 272.71 
 112.58 
 109.82 
 278.21 
 1,005.32 
 988.66 
 30,285.95
Depreciation
As at 01 April 2022
–
 71.32 
 75.46 
–
 5.79 
 3.52 
 12.45 
 18.90 
 61.83 
 52.49 
 301.76
Charge for the year
–
 442.13 
 706.98 
 0.90 
 36.24 
 23.55 
 21.67 
 34.31 
 356.81 
 269.58 
 1,892.17
Deletions
–
–
 (227.44)
–
 (1.83)
 (0.79)
 (1.90)
 (2.06)
 (134.72)
 (3.43)
 (372.17)
As at March 31, 2023
–
 513.45 
 555.00 
 0.90 
 40.20 
 26.28 
 32.22 
 51.15 
 283.92 
 318.64 
 1,821.76
Charge for the year
–
 444.88 
 492.02 
 1.14 
 34.72 
 21.72 
 19.55 
 35.74 
 252.92 
 267.76 
 1,570.45
Deletions
–
–
 (36.06)
–
 (4.32)
 (9.32)
 (7.85)
 (13.82)
 (79.21)
 (22.05)
 (172.63)
As at March 31, 2024
–
 958.33 
 1,010.96 
 2.04 
 70.60 
 38.68 
 43.92 
 73.07 
 457.63 
 564.35 
 3,219.58
Net Block
As at March 31, 2023
 6,405.00 
 14,299.80 
 4,391.39 
 6.29 
 224.21 
 99.79 
 54.90 
 191.33 
 860.34 
 491.93 
 27,024.98
As at March 31, 2024
 6,405.00 
 13,954.02 
 5,183.15 
 5.15 
 202.11 
 73.90 
 65.90 
 205.14 
 547.69 
 424.31 
 27,066.37
Notes:
a.	
Refer Note 41 for assets pledged as security.
b.	
Includes moulds given on Lease has a useful life of 15 years and depreciated accordingly.
c.	
Assets given on Lease have a useful life of 6 years and depreciated accordingly.
d.	
The title deeds in respect of freehold land and buildings which has been accquired in business combination, are held in the name of erstwhile Eureka Forbes 
Limited. The company is in the process of transferring the above freehold land and Buildings in its own name.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
171
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Description of the property
As at March 31, 2024
Held in the name of
Whether promoter, 
Director, or their 
relative or employee
Period held since
Gross 
carrying value
Net Carrying 
value 
B1/B2 701 Marathon Innova, Marathon NextGen, 
Off. Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400 013
 5,141.20 
 4,920.11 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Flat No. 701, 7th Floor, Sterling Sea Face, “A” Wing, 
Dr. Annie Besant Road, Worli, Mumbai – 400 018
 918.05 
 873.11 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Flat No.1103, 11th Floor, Sterling Sea Face, “B” Wing, 
Dr. Annie Besant Road, Worli, Mumbai – 400 018.
 918.05 
 874.31 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Sarkar Castle Co-op. Hsg. Soc. Ltd., Flat No. 501, 
5th Floor, 43 Chimbai Road, Bandra (west), 
Mumbai – 400 050.
 255.87 
 239.38 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Flat No.8C, Eden Wood “Cedar House” Co-op, Hsg. 
Society Ltd., Eden Woods, Village Chitalsar, Manpada, 
Smt. Glady’s Alvares Marg, Thane (West) – 400 061.
 300.03 
 281.86 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Flat No.8D, Eden Wood “Cedar House” Co-op, Hsg. 
Society Ltd., Eden Woods, Village Chitalsar, Manpada, 
Smt. Glady’s Alvares Marg, Thane (West) – 400 061.
Flat No. 9C, Eden Wood “Cedar House” Co-op, Hsg. 
Society Ltd., Eden Woods, Village Chitalsar, Manpada, 
Smt. Glady’s Alvares Marg, Thane (West) – 400 061.
D-28/3, TTC Indl. Area Behind, Turbhe Telephone 
Exchange, Turbhe, Navi Mumbai–400 705.
 41.06 
 38.38 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
201 B, 2nd Floor, The Orion 5, Koregaon Road,  
Pune – 411 001.
 708.18 
 673.23 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Shop No.201, 2nd Floor, South End Cnclave, 
R. B. Connector, EKADP, Kolkata–700 078.
 389.66 
 371.21 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Vedic Village Unit No. L – F8, Shikharpur, P. S. Rajarhet 
North 24 Parganas, Kolkata 700 135
 122.40 
 116.93 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
3rd floor, Nikhilesh Palace, Opp. Jawahar Nagar, 
164/ 17-4, Ashpk Marg, Lucknow – 226 001
 264.46 
 252.04 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Shop No. 203 & 204, 2nd Floor, The Guman _ II, “A” Block, 
Opp. Tagore Public School, Vaishali Nagar, Jaipur – 302 021
 359.00 
 341.46 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Unit No. 402-408, 4th Floor, Sapphire heights, Plot No.12, 
Agra–Bombay Road, Indore – 452 010.
 118.00 
 112.40 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
2nd & 3rd Floor, CLOUD-9, 81/1, The Swastik Co. Op. Hsg. 
Soc. Ltd., Navrangpura, Ahmedabad- 380 009.
 320.00 
 304.34 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
172
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Description of the property
As at March 31, 2024
Held in the name of
Whether promoter, 
Director, or their 
relative or employee
Period held since
Gross 
carrying value
Net Carrying 
value 
Shop No. 2, 2nd Floor, Shiv Pooja Shopping Centre, City 
Light Main Road, Surat – 395.
 323.31 
 307.95 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Office NO. 102, 1st Floor, Ivory Terrace, R. C. Dutta Road, 
Alkapuri, Baroda –390 005.
 206.58 
 196.79 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Ground Floor, Bharati Tower, A- Block, Forest Park, 
Bhubaneswar – 751 009.
 308.70 
 294.27 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Shop No. B4 on 2nd Floor, B5, C5 &D5 on 3rd Floor, 
“Anmol Palani”, No.88, G.N. Chetty Road. T. Nagar, 
Chennai – 600 017
 522.18 
 496.27 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Shop No. B5 on 3rd Floor, “Anmol, Palani”, No.88, G. N. 
Chetty Road.T. Nagar, Chennai – 600 017
Shop No. C5 & D5 on 3rd Floor, “Anmol Palani”, No.88, 
G. N. ChettyRoad. T. Nagar, Chennai – 600017
Unit No. 506,5th Floor, Pavani Prestige, 
Commercial Building Complex,6-3-789, Ammerpet, 
Hyderabad – 500 016.
 85.94 
 81.71 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Unit No. 506,507 & 508, 5th Floor, Pavani Prestige, 
Commercial Building Complex, 6-3-789, Ammerpet, 
Hyderabad – 500 016.
 328.58 
 312.30 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
4th Floor, Tutus Tower, NH –47, Bye-Pass Road, 
Padivattom, Cochin -682 024. 
 286.00 
 272.53 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Khasra No.3946,3961-62, Lal Tappar Industrial Area, 
Majri Grant, Dehradun-248140
 3,416.17 
 3,234.24 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
No. 143, C-4, Bommasandra Industrial Area, 
Off Hosur Road, Bangalore -560099
 5,983.92 
 5,764.20 
Erstwhile Eureka 
Forbes Limited
No
February 01, 2022
Reason for all the above properties not being held in the name of the Company:
The title deeds of the immovable properties are in the name of erstwhile Eureka Forbes Limited (“the EFL”). Due to the scheme of arrangement in the earlier years, 
EFL was amalgamated into Forbes & Company Limited and the said properties forming part of the Undertaking as defined in the scheme was demerged from Forbes 
& Company Limited in to Forbes Enviro Solutions Limited, which has been renamed as Eureka Forbes Limited. The Company is in the process of getting the title 
transferred in its name pursuant to the aforesaid scheme of arrangement.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
173
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 4 : RIGHT OF USE ASSETS
` in Lakhs
Gross Block
 Leasehold land# 
 ROU Assets–
Buildings 
 Total
As at 01 April 2022
 345.01 
 1,399.10 
 1,744.11
Additions
–
 1,947.82 
 1,947.82
Deletions
–
 (513.27)
 (513.27)
As at March 31, 2023
 345.01 
 2,833.65 
 3,178.66
Additions
–
 549.50 
 549.50
Deletions
–
 (246.76)
 (246.76)
As at March 31, 2024
 345.01 
 3,136.39 
 3,481.40
Depreciation
As at 01 April 2022
 0.86 
 182.89 
 183.75
Charge for the year
 5.30 
 1,085.96 
 1,091.26
Deletions
–
 (175.38)
 (175.38)
As at March 31, 2023
 6.16 
 1,093.47 
 1,099.63
Charge for the year
 5.30 
 1,209.77 
 1,215.07
Deletions
–
 (159.01)
 (159.01)
Adjustments
–
 (265.89)
 (265.89)
As at March 31, 2024
 11.46 
 1,878.34 
 1,889.80
Net Block
As at March 31, 2023
 338.85 
 1,740.18 
 2,079.03
As at March 31, 2024
 333.55 
 1,258.05 
 1,591.60
#Refer Note 41 for assets pledged as security.
NOTE 5 : OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
` in Lakhs
Gross Block
Computer 
Software 
Distributor 
network-
Service 
Distributor 
network-
Product 
Technical 
Knowhow 
Brand Name 
/ Trademarks 
Total
As at 01 April 2022
 126.73 
 20,557.83 
 3,966.24 
 19.79 
 2,91,119.26  3,15,789.85
Additions
–
–
–
–
–
 -
Deletions
–
–
–
–
–
 -
As at March 31, 2023
 126.73 
 20,557.83 
 3,966.24 
 19.79 
 2,91,119.26  3,15,789.85
Additions
 1,194.14 
–
–
–
–
 1,194.14
Deletions
–
–
–
–
–
 -
As at March 31, 2024
 1,320.87 
 20,557.83 
 3,966.24 
 19.79 
 2,91,119.26  3,16,983.99
Depreciation
As at 01 April 2022
 28.44 
 342.63 
 66.10 
 19.79 
–
 456.96
Charge for the year
 92.59 
 2,055.78 
 396.62 
–
–
 2,544.99
Deletions
–
–
–
–
–
 -
As at March 31, 2023
 121.03 
 2,398.41 
 462.72 
 19.79 
–
 3,001.95
Charge for the year
 74.57 
 2,055.78 
 396.62 
–
–
 2,526.97
Deletions
–
–
–
–
–
 -
As at March 31, 2024
 195.60 
 4,454.19 
 859.34 
 19.79 
–
 5,528.92
Net Block
As at March 31, 2023
 5.70 
 18,159.42 
 3,503.52 
–
 2,91,119.26  3,12,787.90
As at March 31, 2024
 1,125.27 
 16,103.64 
 3,106.90 
–
 2,91,119.26  3,11,455.07
Notes:
a. Refer Note 33S for Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
174
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 6 : INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT (IAUD)
(i)	
Intangible asset under development movement	
` in Lakhs
Movement of intangible assets under development
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
 As at 
March 31, 2023 
Opening balance
 245.93 
–
Add: Additions during the year
 598.71 
 245.93 
Less: Capitalized during the year
 (722.45)
–
Closing balance
122.19 
245.93
(ii)	 Intangible Asset Under Development Schedule
` in Lakhs
Amount of intangible assets under 
development for a period of
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Projects in 
progress
Projects temporarily 
suspended
Projects in 
progress
Projects temporarily 
suspended
Less than 1 year
122.19 
–
245.93 
 -
1-2 years
–
–
–
 -
2-3 years
–
–
–
 -
More than 3 years
–
–
–
 -
Total 
122.19 
–
245.93 
 -
NOTE 7 : INVESTMENTS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Non-current Investments
Unquoted Investments (all fully paid up)
Investments in Equity Instruments
5,00,000 (March 31, 2023: 5,00,000) equity shares of ` 10 fully paid up in 
Forbes Aquatech Limited
50.00 
 50.00
70,00,000 (March 31, 2023: 70,00,000) equity shares of ` 10 fully paid up in 
Infinite Water Solutions Private Limited
 2,474.15 
 2,474.15
3,57,765 (March 31, 2023: 3,57,765) equity shares of AED 1000 fully paid up in 
Euro Forbes Limited (Includes 3,16,150 shares issued at discount)
 35,148.04 
 35,148.04
Less: Impairment in value of investments in Euro Forbes Limited (Refer Note (a))
 (35,148.04)
 (35,148.04)
Total Unquoted Investments in subsidiaries at cost
 2,524.15 
 2,524.15
Investments in Equity Instruments–Other Company 
7,143 (March 31, 2023: 7,143) equity shares of ` 10 fully paid up in Water 
Quality Association (Refer Note (b))
 0.71 
 0.71
Total Unquoted Investments at cost
 0.71 
 0.71
Total Non-current Investment 
 2,524.86 
 2,524.86
Aggregate value of unquoted investments and market value thereof
 2,524.86 
 2,524.86
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments
 35,148.04 
 35,148.04
Notes:
a.	
The cost of investment in Euro Forbes Limited in the books of demerged undertaking that got merged into the company 
w.e.f February 01, 2022 amounted to ` 35,148.04 lakhs. This investment was fully impaired in the books of demerged 
undertaking (including ` 415.78 lakhs pertaining to Equity Component in Fair Value of financial guarantees). 
b.	
The Company has invested in 7,143 shares of face value ` 10 each in a non profit making organisation hence the fair 
value has been considered same as the carrying value.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
175
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current Investments
Unquoted Investments in Mutual Funds
Nippon India Liquid Fund–Growth Plan Growth Option: 55,815.86 units 
(March 31, 2023: 55,815.86 units)
 3,261.68 
 3,043.76
Tata Liquid Fund–Regular Plan–Growth: 59,228.91 units (March 31, 2023: 
1,28,929.77 units)
 2,233.16 
 4,536.19
Total Current Investment 
 5,494.84 
 7,579.95
Aggregate value of unquoted investments and market value thereof
 5,494.84 
 7,579.95
NOTE 8 : TRADE RECEIVABLES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Non-current Trade Receivables
Unsecured, considered good
–
 -
Unsecured, credit impaired
 361.75 
 361.75
Less: Allowance for doubtful debts
 (361.75)
 (361.75)
Total Non-current Trade Receivables
–
 -
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current Trade Receivables
Unsecured, considered good
 13,718.38 
 12,259.64
Unsecured, credit impaired
 878.72 
 749.29
Unsecured, credit impaired from related parties (refer note 34(ii))
 829.29 
 834.87
Less: Allowance for doubtful debts
 (1,708.01)
 (1,584.16)
Total Current Trade Receivables
 13,718.38 
 12,259.64
Ageing for trade receivables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 
2024:
` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables–
Considered good
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables–
Credit impaired
Disputed Trade 
Receivables–
Considered good
Disputed Trade 
Receivables–
Credit impaired
Not due
 9,190.35 
–
–
 -
Less than 6 months
 3,841.15 
–
–
 -
6 months–1 year
 504.36 
 53.34 
–
 -
1-2 years
 182.52 
 1,018.77 
–
 -
2-3 years
 0.00* 
 214.04 
–
 -
More than 3 years
 0.00* 
 783.61 
–
 -
Total (A)
 13,718.38 
 2,069.76 
–
 -
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss (B)
–
 (2,069.76)
Total [(A)–(B)]
 13,718.38 
–
–
 -
* Amount less than ` 0.01 lakhs.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
176
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Ageing for trade receivables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 
2023:
` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables–
Considered good
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables–
Credit impaired
Disputed Trade 
Receivables–
Considered good
Disputed Trade 
Receivables–
Credit impaired
Not due
 5,899.49 
–
–
 -
Less than 6 months
 5,607.19 
 101.75 
–
 -
6 months–1 year
 688.41 
 790.07 
–
 -
1-2 years
 64.55 
 211.62 
–
 -
2-3 years
–
 114.60 
–
 -
More than 3 years
–
 727.87 
–
 -
Total (A)
 12,259.64 
 1,945.91 
–
 -
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss (B)
–
 (1,945.91)
–
Total [(A)–(B)]
 12,259.64 
–
–
 -
Notes:
a.	
The Company's exposure to credit risk and loss allowances related to trade receivables are disclosed in Note 40(a).
b.	
The Company uses simplified approach for trade receivable for calculating expected credit loss. Accordingly the 
company does not track changes in credit risk of individual trade receivable.
c.	
Refer Note 41 for receivables pledged as security against borrowings.
NOTE 9 : LOANS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current Loans
Loans to Employees
-	
Unsecured, considered good
 6.38 
 6.52
Total Current Loans
 6.38 
 6.52
NOTE 10 : OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Other Non-current Financial Assets
Bank deposits with more than 12 months maturity 
 45.71 
 4.35
Deposit with Banks held as Margin Money
 801.63 
 804.10
Security deposits–unsecured considered good
 373.03 
 345.34
Total Other Non-current Financial Assets
 1,220.37 
 1,153.79
Other Current Financial Assets
Security deposits–unsecured considered good
 90.70 
 93.82
Total Other Current Financial Assets
 90.70 
 93.82
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
177
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 11 : INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Income tax assets (Net)
Advance income-tax (net of Provision for Taxation)
 2,183.60 
 2,400.52
Total Non-current Income tax assets
 2,183.60 
 2,400.52
Income tax Liabilities (Net)
Provision for Taxation (net of Advance Tax)
 5,570.38 
 1,881.48
Total Current Income tax liabilities
 5,570.38 
 1,881.48
NOTE 12 : OTHER ASSETS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Other Non-current Assets
Unsecured considered good, unless stated otherwise
Capital Advances
 146.32 
 145.96
Prepaid Expenses
 66.14 
 107.13
Balance with government authorities
 1,053.39 
 1,026.48
Total Other Non-current Assets
 1,265.85 
 1,279.57
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Other Current Assets
Unsecured considered good, unless stated otherwise
Prepaid Expenses
 1,121.13 
 1,222.44
Right to Recover Returned Goods (Refer Note (1) below)
 94.95 
 96.75
Balance with government authorities
 2,859.31 
 3,524.11
Advances recoverable in cash or kind
 2,080.15 
 551.73
Advances recoverable in cash or kind–considered doubtful
 3,610.01 
 3,610.01
9,765.55 
 9,005.04
Less: Provision for doubtful advances
 (3,610.01)
 (3,610.01)
Total Other Current Assets
 6,155.54 
 5,395.03
Note (1): A return right gives the company a contractual right to recover the goods from a customer (return assets) if the 
customer exercises his right to return the goods and the right to recover returned goods is accounted for the products that 
are expected to be returned.
NOTE 13 : INVENTORIES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Inventories (lower of cost or net realisable value)
Raw Materials, Components and Packing Material 
(includes in transit ` 1,554.29 lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 941.80 lakhs))
 5,270.71 
 4,318.97
Finished Goods (includes in transit: ` 513.99 (March 31, 2023: ` 355.62 Lakhs))
 5,110.44 
 5,052.47
Stock in Trade (includes in transit ` 1,286.86 lakhs 
(March 31, 2023: ` 216.31 Lakhs))
 6,441.68 
 5,807.13
Spares & Accessories (includes in transit: ` 25.89 lakhs 
(March 31, 2023: ` 157.99 Lakhs))
 7,545.71 
 5,946.29
24,368.54 
 21,124.86
Refer Note 41 for inventories pledged as security against borrowing.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
178
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 14 : CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND OTHER BANK BALANCES
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and in banks. Cash and 
cash equivalents at the end of the reporting period as shown in the cash flows statement can be reconciled to the related 
items in the balance sheet as follows:
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balances with Banks in current accounts
 5,390.06 
 1,182.02
Cheques, drafts on hand
 62.15 
 23.02
Cash on hand
 95.63 
 24.59
Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 Months *
 3.95 
 6.37
Total Cash & cash equivalents
 5,551.79 
 1,236.00
Bank Balances other than cash & cash equivalents
Deposits with original maturity of more than 12 months *
 6.97 
 62.20
Deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months but less than 12 months *
 3,615.03 
 59.70
Total Bank Balances other than cash & cash equivalents
 3,622.00 
 121.90
Cash and cash equivalents as per cash flow statement
 5,551.79 
 1,236.00
* ` 84.09 lakhs of deposits lodged as a security with government authorities.
NOTE 15 : EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
Particulars
Number of 
shares
Share capital 
` in Lakhs
Authorised Share capital:
As at April 01, 2022
 20,00,00,000 
 20,000.00
Increase during the year 
 5,00,00,000 
 5,000.00
As at March 31, 2023
 25,00,00,000 
 25,000.00
Increase during the year 
–
 -
As at March 31, 2024
 25,00,00,000 
 25,000.00
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Issued and subscribed capital comprises:
19,34,79,240 (Previous year: 19,34,79,240) fully paid equity shares of ` 10 each
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92
Movement in equity share capital:
Number of 
shares
Share capital 
` in Lakhs
As at April 01, 2022
 19,34,79,240 
 19,347.92
Increase during the year 
–
 -
As at March 31, 2023
 19,34,79,240 
 19,347.92
Increase during the year 
–
 -
As at March 31, 2024
 19,34,79,240 
 19,347.92
a.	
Fully paid equity shares have a par value of ` 10 each. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share 
with a right to receive per share dividend declared by the Company. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders 
are entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company (after distribution of all preferential amounts) in the proportion 
of paid up equity shares held by the shareholders.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
179
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
b.	
Details of shares held by the holding company, the ultimate holding company, their subsidiaries 
and associates:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Lunolux Limited, Cyprus (Holding Company)
 12,10,41,730 
 14,03,89,654
Total as at the end of the year
 12,10,41,730 
 14,03,89,654
c.	
Details of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Lunolux Limited, Cyprus
 12,10,41,730 
62.56%
 14,03,89,654 
72.56%
India Discovery Fund Limited
 1,30,33,916 
6.74%
 1,60,62,569 
8.30%
Total
 13,40,75,646 
69.30%
 15,64,52,223 
80.86%
d.	
Details of shareholdings by the Promoters of the Company:
Promoter Name
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
% Change 
during the year
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Fully paid equity shares
Lunolux Limited, Cyprus 
(Holding Company)
 12,10,41,730 
62.56%
 14,03,89,654 
72.56%
 (10.00%)
e.	
For the period of five years immediately preceding the date as at which the Balance Sheet is 
prepared:
	
i.	
Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up pursuant to contract(s) without payment 
being received in cash: 
	
	
19,34,79,240 Equity shares of ` 10 each allotted as fully paid-up pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement approved 
by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal on January 25, 2022. 
	
ii.	
Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares: Nil
	
iii.	
Aggregate number and class of shares bought back: Nil
NOTE 16 : OTHER EQUITY
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Retained earnings
Balance at beginning of year
 1,038.90 
 (196.34)
Add/ (less): Profit/ (Loss) for the year
 9,156.85 
 1,708.02
Other comprehensive income arising from re-measurement of defined benefit 
obligation, net of tax
 (235.88)
 (472.78)
Balance at end of the year
 9,959.87 
 1,038.90
Securities Premium
Balance at beginning of the year
 3,87,063.43 
 3,87,063.43
Add: Addition during the year
–
 -
Balance at end of the year
 3,87,063.43 
 3,87,063.43
Capital reserve
Balance at beginning of the year
 482.73 
 482.73
Add: Addition during the year
–
 -
Balance at end of the year
 482.73 
 482.73
Employee stock option scheme reserve
Balance at beginning of the year
–
 -
Add: Addition during the year
 3,448.76 
 -
Balance at end of the year
 3,448.76 
 -
Total Other Equity
 4,00,954.79 
 3,88,585.06
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
180
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Description of nature and purpose of reserves:
Retained Earnings
This reserve represents the cumulative profits of the company and the effects of remeasurement of defined benefit 
obligations. The reserve can be utilised in accordance with the provision of the Companies Act, 2013.
Securities premium
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Capital Reserve
The Capital reserve has been created on cancellation of shares held by then existing shareholders of the company as per 
the composite scheme of arrangement approved by the national company Law tribunal on January 25, 2022.
Employee stock option scheme reserves
The share-based payments reserve is used to recognise the value of equity settled share-based payments provided to 
employees, including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer to Note 37 for further details of 
these plans.
NOTE 17 : BORROWINGS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Non-current Borrowings
Secured – at amortised cost
Term loans
Banks–Rupee Term loan (Refer Note (a) below)
–
 2,466.48
Total Non-current Borrowings
–
 2,466.48
Current Borrowings
Secured – at amortised cost
Term loans
Banks–Rupee Term loan (Refer Note (a) below)
 2,491.97 
 2,500.00
Loans repayable on demand 
Banks–Cash credit/Buyers credit (Refer Note (b) below)
–
 7,113.78
Total Current Borrowings
 2,491.97 
 9,613.78
a.	
Rupee Term loan (RTL) from ICICI Bank amounting to ` 10,000.00 lakhs (Outstanding as on March 31, 2024 ` 
2,500.00 lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 5,000.00 lakhs)) carries interest rate of 1 year MCLR and secured against pari pasu 
charge on tangible assets (Excluding vehicles and two wheelers purchased under Employee Benefit Scheme). The 
outstanding amount is payable in 4 equal quarterly instalment starting from June 19, 2024.
b.	
Secured Short term borrowing from banks is secured by pari-passu charge on hypothecation of stock-in-trade and 
book debts and carries interest @ 7.50% p.a to 10.60% p.a. during FY 2023-24.
c.	
No amount are pending to be utilised from the borrowings outstanding as on March 31, 2024.
d.	
The Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
181
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 18 : TRADE PAYABLES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 6,865.46 
 6,664.73
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises (Refer note below for dues to micro and small enterprises)
 12,127.30 
 13,734.57
Trade payables to related parties (refer note 34(ii))
 2,933.25 
 2,448.44
Total Trade Payables
 21,926.01 
 22,847.74
Ageing for trade payables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2024:
` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
Undisputed 
dues- MSME
Undisputed 
dues–Others
Disputed 
dues- MSME
 Disputed 
dues–Others
Not due
 6,864.83 
10,330.64
–
 -
Less than 1 year
 0.63 
4,520.05
–
 -
1-2 years
–
164.47
–
 -
2-3 years
–
22.08
–
 -
More than 3 years
–
23.31
–
 -
Total 
 6,865.46 
 15,060.55 
–
 -
Ageing for trade payables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2023:
` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following periods from due 
date of payment
Undisputed 
dues- MSME
Undisputed 
dues–Others
Disputed 
dues- MSME
 Disputed 
dues–Others
Not due
 6,661.99 
 10,786.40 
–
 -
Less than 1 year
 2.74 
 5,124.96 
–
 -
1-2 years
–
 233.87 
–
 -
2-3 years
–
 2.01 
–
 -
More than 3 years
–
 35.77 
–
 -
Total 
 6,664.73 
 16,183.01 
–
 -
Disclosures required under Section 22 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 
2006 under the Chapter on delayed payments to Micro and Small Enterprises:
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(i)	
Principal amount remaining unpaid to MSME suppliers as on year end
 6,865.46 
 6,664.68
(ii)	
Interest due on unpaid principal amount to MSME suppliers as on year 
end
–
 0.05
(iii)	 The amount of interest paid along with the amounts of the payment made 
to the MSME suppliers beyond the appointed day
–
 -
(iv)	 The amount of interest due and payable for the year 
(without adding the interest under MSME Development Act)
–
 -
(v)	
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid as on year end
–
 0.05
(vi)	 The amount of interest due and payable to be disallowed under 
Income Tax Act, 1961
–
 0.05
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
182
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 19 : OTHER CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Interest free trade deposits
 5,141.23 
 4,580.01
Others:
Dues to employees
 6,871.95 
 5,331.29
Dues on account of customer rebate schemes and other contractual liabilities
 6,330.37 
 5,163.46
Total Other Current Financial Liabilities
 18,343.55 
 15,074.76
NOTE 20 : LEASE LIABILITIES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Non-current Lease liabilities
 409.66 
 853.52
Current Lease liabilities
 969.18 
 993.99
NOTE 21 : PROVISIONS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Non-current Provisions
Employee benefits–compensated absences
 357.17 
 227.02
Gratuity payable
–
 -
Total Non-current Provisions
 357.17 
 227.02
Current Provisions
Employee benefits–compensated absences
 77.94 
 28.11
Gratuity payable
 336.83 
 519.92
Other provisions
	
Warranties (Refer Note 33I(B))
 1,852.09 
 1,787.28
	
Others (Refer Note 33I(A))
 51.25 
 51.25
Total Current Provisions
 2,318.11 
 2,386.56
NOTE 22 : OTHER LIABILITIES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Other Non-current Liabilities
Contract Liabilities–Income received in advance (Refer Note 33J)
 12,879.35 
 11,728.79
Deductions from employees for company's assets
 271.33 
 469.15
Total Other Non-current Liabilities
 13,150.68 
 12,197.94
Other Current Liabilities
Contract liabilities–Income received in advance (Refer Note 33J)
 37,707.35 
 39,099.28
Deductions from employees for company's assets
 846.43 
 836.64
Advance from customers
 1,900.96 
 1,297.04
Contract liabilities–Others
(Refer Note (a) below)
 305.42 
 29.63
Refund liabilities (Refer Note (b) below)
 2,567.28 
 2,092.84
Statutory liabilities (Contributions to PF, pension, ESIC, withholding taxes, VAT, 
GST, etc.)
 1,759.87 
 1,166.86
Total Other Current Liabilities
 45,087.31 
 44,522.29
Notes:
a.	
Contract liability pertains to deferred revenue arising as a separate performance obligation.
b.	
The company recognises a refund liability for the amount of consideration received when a customer has a right to 
return products within a given period. Refund liabilities also include amount recognised for various discounts and 
incentives payable to customers.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
183
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 23 : DEFERRED TAX BALANCES (NET)
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
The following is the analysis of deferred tax (assets)/liabilities presented in the 
balance sheet: 
Deferred tax assets 
 (1,830.50)
 (1,528.09)
Deferred tax liabilities
 82,923.52 
 83,425.52
Total Deferred tax balances (net)
 81,093.02 
 81,897.43
Refer Note 42 for detailed components of Deferred taxes balances.
NOTE 24 : REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Sale of products
 1,56,813.97 
 1,44,724.55
Sale of services
 61,558.96 
 62,835.47
Other operating revenues
Scrap sales
 297.90 
 271.21
Other
 251.80 
 210.65
Total Revenue from operations
 2,18,922.63 
 2,08,041.88
NOTE 25 : OTHER INCOME AND OTHER GAINS/ (LOSSES)
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Other Income
Interest earned on financial assets that are not designated as at fair value 
through profit or loss:
Bank deposits (at amortised cost)
 182.43 
 33.13
Interest Others 
 8.18 
 2.41
Interest income on financial assets at amortised cost
–
 0.34
Rental Income from Operating Lease
 39.68 
 39.68
Others
 124.13 
 203.05
Total (A)
 354.42 
 278.61
Other gains/(losses)–net
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 74.05 
 515.48
Gain on disposal of Investments at FVTPL
 47.68 
 133.31
Net foreign exchange gains
–
 8.00
Net gain arising on financial assets measured at FVTPL
 367.21 
 80.33
Gain on modification/disposal of Right of use assets
 9.58 
 26.23
Total (B)
 498.52 
 763.35
Total Other Income and other gains/ (losses) (A+B)
 852.94 
 1,041.96
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
184
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 26 : COST OF GOODS SOLD
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Raw Materials, Components and Packing Materials
Inventory at the beginning of the year
 4,318.97 
 4,752.20
Less: Disclosed under exceptional item
–
 (796.79)
Add: Purchases
 84,310.74 
 64,730.73
88,629.71 
 68,686.14
Less: Inventory at the end of the year
 (5,270.71)
 (4,318.97)
Cost of Raw Materials, Components and Packing Materials consumed 
 83,359.00 
 64,367.17
Purchases of stock-in-trade
 10,292.52 
 15,124.62
Changes in inventories of finished goods, spares, stock-in-trade and work-in-
progress 
 (2,291.94)
 6,750.47
Less: Disclosed under exceptional item (Refer note 33T)
 (1,268.93)
 (1,705.01)
Total Changes in inventories of finished goods, spares, stock-in-trade and 
work-in-progress 
 (3,560.87)
 5,045.46
NOTE 27 : EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Salaries and Wages
 27,665.24 
 28,240.84
Contribution to provident and other funds
 1,356.33 
 1,419.63
Staff Welfare Expenses 
 313.06 
 394.24
Employee stock option scheme
 3,448.76 
 -
Total Employee benefits expense
 32,783.39 
 30,054.71
NOTE 28 : FINANCE COSTS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans
 756.34 
 1,776.32
Interest on Lease Liabilities
 188.75 
 177.12
Other borrowing costs
 26.68 
 32.31
Total Finance costs
 971.77 
 1,985.75
NOTE 29 : DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EXPENSE
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 1,570.45 
 1,892.17
Depreciation of right of use assets
 1,215.07 
 1,091.26
Amortisation of intangible assets
 2,526.97 
 2,545.00
Total Depreciation and amortisation expense
 5,312.49 
 5,528.43
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
185
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 30 : OTHER EXPENSES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Electricity Power and fuel 
 255.21 
 255.09
Rent 
 509.54 
 717.92
Repairs and Maintenance:
	
Building
 59.18 
 59.34
	
Machinery
 27.58 
 37.53
	
Others
 502.15 
 540.76
Insurance 
 535.13 
 571.68
Advertisement
 8,658.52 
 7,602.72
Selling and Sales Promotion
 12,018.99 
 11,397.17
Freight, Forwarding and Delivery
 6,374.24 
 5,563.82
Wages to contractual workers 
 1,440.26 
 1,043.37
Payment to Auditors (Refer details below)
 95.89 
 99.70
Printing and Stationery
 101.89 
 111.67
Communication cost
 750.59 
 1,183.81
Travelling and Conveyance
 1,681.41 
 1,468.72
Legal and Professional Fees
 1,387.57 
 4,721.05
Vehicle Running Expenses
 345.99 
 853.01
Rates and taxes, excluding taxes on income 
 203.69 
 358.55
Conference Expenses
 914.70 
 1,934.52
Service Charges
 30,159.15 
 29,755.24
Information Technology Expenses
 5,405.70 
 5,306.31
Logistics Expenses 
 1,974.53 
 1,886.40
Other Establishment Expenses
 2,866.23 
 3,266.11
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses (Refer Note 33K)
 33.00 
 4.00
Directors' Sitting Fees
 13.05 
 20.30
Bad Debts/Advances Written-Off
 8.56 
 13.79
Provision for Doubtful Debts / Advances
 123.85 
 1,217.83
Commission to Directors 
 385.00 
 291.50
Net foreign exchange losses
 30.43 
 -
Total Other expenses
 76,862.03 
 80,281.91
Payment to Auditors 
As Statutory auditor 
	
For Audit fee (includes Limited Review fees)
 86.83 
 82.50
	
For other services
 0.50 
 9.69
	
For reimbursement of expenses 
 1.56 
 1.76
As Cost auditor 
 7.00 
 5.75
95.89 
 99.70
NOTE 31 : INCOME TAX RECOGNISED IN STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Current tax
In respect of the current year
 3,887.91 
 1,829.01
3,887.91 
 1,829.01
Deferred tax
In respect of the current year
 (804.42)
 (843.04)
(804.42)
 (843.04)
Total income tax expense recognised in the current year
 3,083.49 
 985.97
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
186
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 32 : EARNINGS PER SHARE
The calculations of profit attributable to equity shareholders and weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
for purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share calculation are as follows:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Profit/(Loss) for the year attributable to equity share holders
 9,156.85 
 1,708.02
Face value per equity shares
 10 
 10
Weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of basic 
earnings per share (Nos.)
 19,34,79,240 
 19,34,79,240
Weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of diluted 
earnings per share (Nos.)
 19,40,49,754 
 19,34,79,240
Basic earnings per share (`)
 4.73 
 0.88
Diluted earnings per share (`)
 4.72 
 0.88
The earnings and weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per 
share are as follows:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 
 9,156.85 
 1,708.02
Weighted average number of equity shares for the purposes of basic earnings 
per share (quantity in numbers) 
 19,34,79,240 
 19,34,79,240
Add: Share deemed to be issued in respect of employee stock option scheme
 5,70,514 
 -
Weighted average number of equity shares for the purposes of diluted earnings 
per share (quantity in numbers) 
 19,40,49,754 
 19,34,79,240
NOTE 33 : ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
33A		
Contingent liabilities and commitments (to the extent not provided for)
	
	
(a)	 Contingent liabilities:
	
	
(i)	
Disputed Income Tax demands*–` 1,623.73 lakhs (previous year ` 1,706.29 lakhs)
	
	
(ii)	
Disputed Central Excise demands–` 1,442.81 lakhs(previous year ` 1,442.81 lakhs)
	
	
(iii)	 Disputed Sales Tax demands–` 3,389.89 lakhs (previous year ` 3,374.56 lakhs)
	
	
(iv)	 Disputed Service Tax demands–` 858.03 lakhs (previous year ` 1,945.68 lakhs)
	
	
(v)	
Disputed civil suit–` 90.84 lakhs (previous year–` 33.73 lakhs)
	
	
(vi)	 Disputed claims against the company not acknowledged as debt ` 42.85 lakhs (Previous Year ` 42.85 lakhs)
	
	
(vii)	 Disputed Goods and Services Tax demand–` 1,601.02 lakhs (previous year ` 877.39 lakhs)
	
	
(viii)	 Disputed claims against the Company for certain Labour Law & related matters estimated at ` 42.50 lakhs 
(previous year ` 42.50 lakhs)
	
	
	
* In calculating the tax expense for the current year, the Company has considered taxability of certain income 
and allowability of certain expenditure for tax purpose based on the orders/judgments passed in further 
appeals in its own assessment of earlier year. Based on the same, no additional provision is envisaged 
necessary as on March 31, 2024 in respect of earlier years and current year.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
187
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
(b)	 Commitments:
	
	
(i)	
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for–` 491.73 
lakhs (previous year ` 172.81 lakhs).
	
	
(ii)	
Towards product performance guarantee ` 269.55 lakhs (previous year ` 272.69 lakhs)
	
	
(iii)	 Towards service performance guarantee ` 65.28 lakhs (previous year ` 145.09 lakhs)
	
	
In respect of all items mentioned in (a) above, till the matter are finally decided, the timing of outflow of economic 
benefit cannot be ascertained.
33B	a.)	 The company has given certain office / factory premises and moulds on operating lease basis. 
Details of which are as follows -
Particulars 
Building
Plant and Machinery (Moulds)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
 ` in Lakhs
 ` in Lakhs
 ` in Lakhs
 ` in Lakhs
Gross Amount
 481.49 
 481.49 
 35.66 
 35.66 
Accumulated Depreciation
 179.20 
 159.56 
 31.50 
 29.80 
Depreciation
 19.64 
 19.64 
 1.70 
 1.70 
	
b.)	 The company has given commercial premises under cancellable operating lease. Lease rental income included 
in the statement of profit and loss for the year is ` 39.68/- Lakhs (Previous Year ` 39.68/- Lakhs) for Premises. 
33C		
The Company is primarily engaged in the business of Health, Hygiene products and its services. Information 
reported to and evaluated regularly by chief operating decision maker for the purpose of resource allocation and 
assessing performance focuses on the business as a whole. Accordingly there is no other separate segment 
as per Indian Accounting Standard 108 dealing with "Operating Segment". The geographical segmentation is 
insignificant as the export turnover is less than 10% of the total turnover and also company's Non Current assets 
(other than Financial Instrument, deferred tax, post employment benefits and rights arising under insurance 
contracts) are located in India.
	
	
Revenue from transactions with a single external customer did not amount to 10% or more of the Company's 
revenue from external customers for current and previous year.
	
	
The Company's main revenue is from sale of water purifiers, spares and servicing.
Revenue from External Customers:
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
India
 2,18,787.79 
 2,07,492.77 
Outside India
 134.84 
 549.11 
Total Revenue
 2,18,922.63 
 2,08,041.88
33D		
The Company did not have any material transactions with companies struck off under section 248 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 or section 560 of Companies Act, 1956 during the current year and previous year.
33E		
The Company has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (intermediaries) with the understanding that the intermediary shall:
	
	
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entites identfied in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Company (Ultmate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultmate Beneficiaries.
33F		
The Company has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (funding 
party) with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Company shall:
	
	
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entites identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the funding party (ultimate beneficiaries) or
	
	
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
188
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
33G		
`1,600.82 Lakhs (Previous year `955.34 lakhs) revenue expenses incurred during the year on Research and 
Development has been charged to the respective heads of accounts.
33H		
There are no scheme of arrangements which have been approved by the Competent Authority in terms of 
sections 230 to 237 of the Companies Act, 2013 during the current year.
33I	 	
Disclosures required by Indian Accounting Standard 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent 
Assets”.
	
	
A)
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Excise Duty
Sales Tax
Excise Duty
Sales Tax 
At the beginning of the year 
 49.96 
 1.29
 49.96 
 1.29 
Add: Movement during the year
–
–
–
–
At the end of the year 
 49.96 
 1.29 
 49.96 
 1.29
	
	
B) 	 Warranty provision
	
	
	
The  company gives  warranty on certain products, towards satisfactory performance of products during the 
warranty period. Warranty provisions are made for expected future outflows where no reimbursements are 
expected and  estimated based on  using historical information on the nature frequency and average cost 
of warranty claims. The table given below gives information about movement in warranty provisions:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
At the beginning of the year 
 1,787.28 
 1,786.61
Add: Additions during the year*
 1,852.09 
 1,787.28
Less: Utilization during the year 
 (1,787.28)
 (1,786.61)
At the end of the year 
 1,852.09 
 1,787.28
	
	
	
*Included in Service Charges under Other Expenses.
33J		
Remaining performance obligation towards rendering of maintenance contracts as at the year end is recognized 
as “Income received in advance” and presented in “Other liabilities”. This obligation pertains to maintenance 
services that would be carried out over the contract period for which company has received the advance. The 
service period ranges from 1 year to 4 year Management believes that 75% pertaining to remaining obligation 
as of the year ended 31 March 2024 will be recognised as revenue during the next financial year, 20% will be 
recognized as revenue in FY 25-26 and 5% will be recognised in FY 26-27.
	
	
Reconciliation of Revenue Recognised with contract price:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Contract Price *
 2,19,198.20 
 2,05,842.08
Adjustment for 
Less:
Refund Liabilities–Sales Return estimate
 211.52 
 215.00
Performance Liabilities 
 305.42 
 29.63
Unperformed performance obligation at the end the year
 50,586.70 
 50,828.07
Unperformed performance obligation at the beginning of the year
 (50,828.07)
 (53,272.50)
Revenue from continuing operations 
 2,18,922.63 
 2,08,041.88
	
	
* Net of Taxes
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
189
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
33K		
Corporate social responsibility expenditure:-
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
 ` in Lakhs
a)	
Gross amount required to be spent 
by the company
33.00 
 4.00 
b)	
Amount spent during the year 
on:
Paid in 
cash 
Yet to be 
paid
Total
Paid in 
cash 
Yet to be 
paid
Total
	
(i)	
Construction/acquisition of 
any asset
–
–
-
–
–
 -
	
(ii)	
Purposes other than (i) above
 33.00 
–
 33.00 
 4.00 
–
 4.00
33L		
The Company has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year or 
previous financial year.
33M	
The Company does not have any benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against 
the Company for holding any benami property.
33N		
The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the Companies 
Act read with Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
33O		
The Company does not have any investment property during any reporting period, the disclosure related to fair 
value of investment property is not applicable.
33P		
The Company is not covered under Section 8 of the Companies Act, thus related disclosure is not applicable.
33Q	
The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and post-
employment benefits received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the 
Gazette of India. However, the date on which the Code will come in to effect has not been notified. The Company 
will assess the impact of the Code when it comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period 
when the Code becomes effective.
33R		
The Company does not have any transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been 
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 
(such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
33S		
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life:
	
	
The Group has identified its business of Health, Hygiene products and its Services as a single Cash Generating 
Unit (CGU).
	
	
The recoverable amount of the CGU has been calculated based on its value in use, estimated as the present 
value of projected future cash flows. 
	
	
The values assigned to the key assumptions represent management’s assessment of future trends in the relevant 
industries and have been based on historical data from both external and internal sources. Market related 
information and estimates are used to determine the recoverable amount. 
	
	
Key assumptions on which management has based its determination of recoverable amount include estimated 
long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimated operating margins. Cash flow projections 
take into account past experience and represent management’s best estimate about future developments.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
190
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
	
The key assumptions used in the estimation of the recoverable amount are set out below:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
Discount rate
11.57%
Terminal value growth rate
5.50%
	
	
The discount rate was derived basis the weighted-average cost of capital of debt and equity. 
	
	
The cash flow projections included specific estimates for five years and a terminal growth rate thereafter. The 
terminal growth rate was determined based on management’s estimate of the longterm EBITDA growth rate, 
consistent with the assumptions that a market participant would make. Budgeted EBITDA was estimated taking 
into account past experience, adjusted for future expectations.
	
	
The company has performed a sensitivity analysis and has concluded that there are no reasonably possible 
changes to key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of a CGU to exceed its recoverable amount. 
33T		
(a)	
Exceptional items for the year ended March 31, 2024 amounting to ` 1,514.90 lakhs pertains to the following:
	
	
	
An amount of ` 1,514.90 lakhs (including GST) for the quarter and year ended March 31, 2024 which is 
charged to Statement of Profit & Loss, on account of a fire at its Delhi warehouse location, resulting in 
damage to inventory, including raw materials, components, and finished goods. An insurance claim has 
been filed to cover the losses sustained from this incident.
	
	
(b)	
Exceptional items for the year ended March 31, 2023 amounting to ` 4,001.80 lakhs pertains to the following:
	
	
	
An amount of ` 2,501.80 lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2023, which is charged to Statement of Profit 
& Loss, on account of phasing out of certain non-moving models and product including its raw material 
and components, due to change in economic conditions and technological obsolescence. An amount of 
` 1,500.00 lakhs which represents stamp duty paid / payable for transfer of title of immovable property in 
the name of the Company pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement for merger of Aquaignis Technologies 
Private Limited and Euro Forbes Financial Services Limited into erstwhile Eureka Forbes Limited, followed by 
the merger of erstwhile Eureka Forbes Limited into Forbes & Company Limited and demerger of demerged 
undertaking (as defined in the scheme) of Forbes & Company Limited into the Company.
33U		
Share-based payments
	
	
Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires determination of the most appropriate valuation 
model, which depends on the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also requires determination of the 
most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of the share option or appreciation 
right, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions about them. For the measurement of the fair value 
of equity-settled transactions with employees at the grant date, the Company uses a Black Scholes model and 
Monte-Carlo simulation model basis the type of option granted. The assumptions and models used for estimating 
fair value for share-based payment transactions are disclosed in Note 37.
33V		
Figures for the previous year are re-arranged/regrouped, wherever necessary, to correspond with the current 
year disclosure.
33W	
The Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 were approved for issue by Company's Board of 
Directors on May 28, 2024.
34	 Additional information to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
191
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
(I)	
Related Party Disclosures as at and for the year ended 31 March 2024
Particulars 
 Country
A
 
 Holding Company 
1	
Lunolux Limited (Ultimately controlled and 100% owned by funds managed by 
Advent International Corporation ("AIC")) 
 Cyprus
B
Subsidiaries
1	
Forbes Aquatech Limited 
 India
2	
Infinite Water Solutions Limited 
 India
3	
Forbes Lux FZE–Dubai 
 Dubai
4	
Euro Forbes Limited–Dubai 
 Dubai
C
Name of Post employment benefit plans with whom transactions were carried out 
during the year:
1	
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Provident Fund 
 India
2	
Eureka Forbes Limited Managing Staff Superannuation Scheme 
 India
3	
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Gratuity Fund 
 India
D
 Key Managerial Personnel 
1	
Mr. Arvind Uppal–Non executive director
2	
Mr. Pratik R Pota- Managing director & CEO
3	
Mr. Homi Katgara –Non executive Independent director
4	
Mr. Vinod Rao–Non executive Independent director
5	
Mrs. Gurveen Singh–Non executive Independent director
6	
Mr. Shashank Samant–Non executive Independent director
7	
Mr. Sahil Dalal–Non executive director
	
(II)	 Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2024 
` in Lakhs
Nature of Transaction
Forbes 
Aquatech 
Limited
Infinite 
Water 
Solutions 
Private 
Limited 
Forbes 
Lux FZE 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited 
Employees 
Provident 
Fund 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited 
Managing Staff 
Superannuation 
Scheme 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited 
Employees 
Gratuity Fund
Purchases
Goods and Materials 
 409.24 
 5,435.47 
–
–
–
 -
Job work charges 
 131.17 
–
–
–
–
 -
540.41 
 5,435.47 
–
–
–
 -
Sales / 
(Sales Return) 
Goods and Materials 
 42.57 
 210.42 
–
–
–
 -
42.57 
 210.42 
–
–
–
 -
Expenses 
Contributions 
(Employer's) to Post 
Retirement Funds 
–
–
–
 1,564.08 
 187.43 
 714.11
Income 
Rent and other services 
 0.18 
 39.50 
–
–
–
 -
0.18 
 39.50 
–
–
–
 -
Other Receipts 
Other Reimbursements 
–
 46.62 
–
–
–
 -
Outstanding 
Trade Payables 
 206.25 
 2,718.10 
 8.90 
–
–
 -
Trade Receivables 
–
–
 829.29 
–
–
 -
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
192
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
` in Lakhs
Nature of Transaction
Forbes 
Aquatech 
Limited
Infinite 
Water 
Solutions 
Private 
Limited 
Forbes 
Lux FZE 
Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited 
Employees 
Provident 
Fund 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited 
Managing Staff 
Superannuation 
Scheme 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited 
Employees 
Gratuity Fund
Less: Allowance for 
doubtful debts
–
–
(829.29)
–
–
 -
Other payables to the 
Trust 
–
–
–
 98.41 
 13.02 
 347.59
Other Deposits Payable 
 0.10 
 7.48 
–
–
–
 -
	
	
All transaction with these related parties are priced on an arm's length basis.
	
	
Terms and conditions:-
	
	
1) 	
All outstanding balances are unsecured and are repayable as per terms of credit and settlement occurs 
in cash.
	
	
2)	
All related party transactions entered during the year were in ordinary course of business and on arms 
length basis.
	
	
3)	
The company has not recorded any provision for doubtful debts related to amounts owed by related parties 
except as stated above.
	
(III)	 Transaction with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2024
	
	
Parties in D : Key Managerial Personnel Remuneration
	
	
Managing Director & CEO
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Pratik R Pota
Short-term employee benefits
 647.38
Post-employment benefits *
 22.92
Share -based payments #
 -
Total
 670.30
	
	
*The above amounts do not include expenses for gratuity and leave encashment since acturial valuation is carried out at an 
overall level.
	
	
# The company has recognised an expense provision of `2,142.36 Lakhs. (previous year Nil) towards employee stock options granted 
to key managerial personnel. The said amount represent fair value of option granted. The same has not been considered as managerial 
remuneration for the current year as defined under section 2(7B) of the Companies Act,2013 as the options have not been vested.
	
	
Aggregate remuneration paid/payable to managing director & CEO does not exceed the limit prescribed under 
section 197 of companies act, 2013.
	
	
Directors Sitting Fees and Commission
` in Lakhs
Name
Amount
Outstanding 
Amount as at 
March 31, 2024
Mr. Homi Katgara
 29.55 
 27.40
Mr. Arvind Uppal
 29.55 
 27.40
Mr. Vinod Rao
 29.90 
 27.40
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
 29.50 
 27.40
Mr. Shashank Samant
 29.55 
 27.40
Total
 148.05 
 137.00
	
	
Aggregate remuneration paid/payable to non-whole time directors does not exceeds the limit prescribed under 
section 197 of companies act, 2013.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
193
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
Additional information to the financial statements
	
Related Party Disclosures as at and for the year ended 31 March 2023
Particulars 
 Country
A
 Holding Company 
1	
Lunolux Limited (Ultimately controlled and 100% owned by funds managed by Advent 
International Corporation ("AIC")) (w.e.f April 25, 2022) 
 Cyprus
B
 Entities with joint control or significant influence over the entity 
1	
Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Private Ltd (upto April 25, 2022)
 India
2	
Lunolux Limited (upto April 25, 2022) 
 Cyprus
C
Subsidiaries
1	
Forbes Aquatech Limited 
 India
2	
Infinite Water Solutions Limited 
 India
3	
Forbes Lux FZE–Dubai 
 Dubai
4	
Euro Forbes Limited–Dubai 
 Dubai
D
Name of Post employment benefit plans with whom transactions were carried out 
during the year:
1	
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Provident Fund 
 India
2	
Eureka Forbes Limited Managing Staff Superannuation Scheme 
 India
3	
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Gratuity Fund 
 India
E
Key Managerial Personnel 
1	
Mr. Arvind Uppal–Non executive director (w.e.f. April 26, 2022)
2	
Mr. Pratik R Pota- Managing director & CEO (w.e.f August 16, 2022)
3	
Mr. Marzin R. Shroff–Managing director & CEO (upto August 15, 2022)
4	
Mr. Homi Katgara –Non executive Independent director
5	
Mr. Anil Kamath–Non executive Independent director (upto April 26, 2022)
6	
Mr. D. Sivanandhan–Non executive Independent director (upto April 26, 2022)
7	
Dr. Indu Shahani–Non executive Independent director (upto April 26, 2022)
8	
Mr. Jai Mavani–Non executive director (upto April 26, 2022)
9	
Mr. Pallon Shapoor Mistry–Non executive director (upto April 26, 2022)
10	
Mr. Vinod Rao–Non executive Independent director (w.e.f. April 26, 2022)
11	
Ms. Gurveen Singh–Non executive Independent director (w.e.f. April 26, 2022)
12	
Mr. Shashank Samant–Non executive Independent director (w.e.f. October 10, 2022)
13	
Mr. Sahil Dalal–Non executive director (w.e.f. April 26, 2022)
14	
Mr. Shapoorji Mistry–Non executive director (upto April 26, 2022)
15	
Mr. Shankar Subramanian–Non executive director (upto April 26, 2022)
F
Enterprises under Common Control–(where there are transactions) 
Afcons Infrastructure Ltd. (upto April 25, 2022)
 India
Jaykali Developers Pvt. Ltd (upto April 25, 2022)
 India
SD Corporation Private Limited (upto April 25, 2022)
 India
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
194
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
(II)	 Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2023
` in Lakhs
Nature of 
Transaction 
 Forbes 
Aquatech 
Limited 
 Infinite 
Water 
Solutions 
Private 
Limited 
 
Forbes 
Lux 
FZE 
Shapoorji 
Pallonji and 
Company 
Private Ltd 
 Afcons 
Infrastructure 
Ltd. 
 Jaykali 
Developers 
Pvt. Ltd 
 SD 
Corporation 
Private 
Limited 
 Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited 
Employees 
Provident 
Fund 
 Eureka 
Forbes Limited 
Managing Staff 
Superannuation 
Scheme 
 Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited 
Employees 
Gratuity 
Fund
Purchases 
Goods and Materials 
 287.88 
 5,164.18 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
 -
Job work charges 
 155.82 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
 -
443.70 
 5,164.18 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
 -
Sales / 
(Sales Return)
Goods and Materials 
 40.24 
 0.78 
 285.72 
 0.05 
 0.17 
–
–
–
–
 -
Services Rendered 
–
 0.22 
–
–
 0.08 
 0.02 
 0.34 
–
–
 -
40.24 
 1.00 
 285.72 
 0.05 
 0.25 
 0.02 
 0.34 
–
–
 -
Provision for Doubtful 
Debts 
–
–
 834.87 
–
–
–
–
–
–
 -
Expenses 
Contributions 
(Employer's) to Post 
Retirement Funds 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
 1,387.34 
 205.41 
 463.77
Income 
Rent and other 
services 
 0.18 
 39.50 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
 -
0.18 
 39.50 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
 -
Other Receipts 
Other 
Reimbursements 
–
 28.74 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
 -
Outstanding 
Trade Payables 
 105.49 
 2,331.41 
 11.54 
–
–
–
–
–
–
 -
Trade Receivables 
–
–
 834.87 
–
–
–
–
–
–
 -
Other payables to the 
Trust 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
 84.79 
 36.10 
 530.68
Other Deposits 
Payable 
 0.10 
 7.48 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
 -
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
195
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
(III)	 Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2023
	
	
Parties in D : Key Managerial Personnel Remuneration
	
	
Managing Director & CEO
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Marzin R Shroff
Pratik R Pota
Short-term employee benefits
 120.81 
 699.79
Post-employment benefits *
 3.95 
 14.35
Long-term employee benefits
 4.94 
 -
Total
 129.70 
 714.14
	
	
*The above amounts do not include expenses for gratuity and leave encashment since acturial valuation is carried out at an 
overall level.
	
	
Company has paid/provided for managerial remuneration which exceeds the limits / approvals mandated by the 
provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V to the Companies Act, 2013 aggregating ` 600.00 Lakhs as at 
March 31, 2023. The excess remuneration is subject to the approval of shareholders. Pending such approval, 
the remuneration already paid in excess of the limit is being held in the trust.
	
	
Directors Sitting Fees and Commission 	
` in Lakhs
Name 
Amount
Outstanding 
Amount as at 
March 31, 2023
Mr. Anil Kamath
 1.00 
 -
Mr. D. Sivanandhan
 1.00 
 -
Dr. Indu Shahani
 1.50 
 -
Mr. Homi Katgara
 28.90 
 24.75
Mr. Jai Mavani
 0.20 
 -
Mr. Shankar Krishnan
 0.20 
 -
Mr. Pallon Shapoor Mistry
 0.20 
 -
Mr. Arvind Uppal
 28.10 
 24.75
Mr. Vinod Rao
 28.70 
 24.75
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
 28.70 
 24.75
Mr. Shashank Samant
 23.30 
 22.50
Total
 141.80 
 121.50
	
	
Aggregate remuneration payable to non-whole time directors exceeds the limit prescribed under section 197 by 
` 72.73 lakhs and is subject to shareholders approval. The company has charged off the excess remuneration 
payable in the Statement of Profit and loss account for the year ended March 31, 2023.
NOTE 35 : LEASES
The break-up of current and non-current lease liabilities as at March 31, 2024 is:
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current lease liabilities
969.18
993.99
Non-current lease liabilities
409.66
853.52
Total
1,378.84
1,847.51
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
196
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
The following is the movement in lease liabilities during the year ended March 31, 2024:
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,847.51 
 1,311.70 
Additions
 549.50 
 1,947.82
Finance cost accrued during the year
 188.75 
 177.12 
Deletions
 (87.75)
 (337.89)
(Gain)/Loss on Modification/Disposal of Right of use assets 
 (9.58)
 (26.23)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (1,375.48)
 (1,225.01)
Adjustment
 265.89 
–
Balance at the end of the year
 1,378.84 
 1,847.51
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of lease liabilities as at March 31, 
2024 on an undiscounted basis:
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Less than one year
 969.18 
 1,123.37 
One to five years
 603.38 
 898.67 
More than five years
 10.46 
 31.28 
Total
 1,583.02 
 2,053.32
Rental expense recorded for short-term leases was ` 509.54 Lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2024. (Previous Year: 
` 717.92 Lakhs).
Ind AS 116 requires lessees to determine the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease adjusted with any option 
to extend or terminate the lease, if the use of such option is reasonably certain. The Company makes an assessment on 
the expected lease term on a lease-by-lease basis and thereby assesses whether it is reasonably certain that any options 
to extend or terminate the contract will be exercised. In evaluating the lease term, the Company considers factors such 
as any significant leasehold improvements undertaken over the lease term, costs relating to the termination of the lease 
and the importance of the underlying asset to the company's operations taking into account the location of the underlying 
asset and the availability of suitable alternatives. The lease term in future periods is reassessed to ensure that the lease 
term reflects the current economic circumstances. After considering current and future economic conditions, the company 
has concluded that no changes are required to lease period relating to the existing lease contracts.
Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Depreciation expense on right-of-use assets
 1,215.07 
 1,091.26
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 188.75 
 177.12 
Expense relating to short-term leases
 509.54 
 717.92
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
197
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 36 : EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
(a)	 Provident Fund
	
The details of Eureka Forbes Limited Employees' Provident Fund and planned assets position as at March 31, 2024 
is given below:
Particulars
Valuation as at
March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
Present value of benefit obligation at year end 
 15,950.48 
 15,391.19 
Planned Assets at the year end
 18,877.41 
 17,885.23 
Discounting Rate 
7.22%
7.50%
Expected Guaranteed interest rate
8.25%
8.15%
Average Expected Future Service
16 years
14 years
(b)	 Gratuity Fund
	
The principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuations were as follows.
Particulars
Valuation as at
March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
Discount rate(s)
7.22%
7.50%
Expected rate(s) of salary increase
5.00%
4.50%
Mortality rates
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
2012-14 (Urban)
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
2012-14 (Urban)
	
Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss/ other comprehensive income in respect of these defined benefit 
plans are as follows.
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Service cost:
Current service cost
 176.18 
 142.50 
Past service cost and (gain)/loss from settlements
–
–
Expected Returns on plan assets
–
–
Net interest expense
 39.80 
 14.81 
Components of defined benefit costs recognised in profit or loss
 215.98 
 157.31 
Remeasurement on the net defined benefit liability:
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest 
expense)
 (33.58)
 40.55 
Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in demographic 
assumptions
–
–
Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in financial assumptions
 107.56 
 35.64 
Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from experience adjustments
 241.06 
 555.60 
Others 
–
–
Components of defined benefit costs recognised in other 
comprehensive income
 315.04 
 631.79 
Total
 531.02 
 789.10
	
The current service cost and the net interest expense for the year are included in the ‘Employee benefits expense’ line 
item in the statement of profit and loss. 
	
The remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability is included in other comprehensive income.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
198
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the entity's obligation in respect of its defined benefit plans is 
as follows.
Particulars
March 31, 2024
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Present value of funded defined benefit obligation
 (1,993.97)
 (2,144.19)
Fair value of plan assets 
 1,657.14 
 1,624.27 
Funded status
 (336.83)
 (519.92)
Restrictions on asset recognised 
–
–
Others
–
–
Net liability arising from defined benefit obligation
 (336.83)
 (519.92)
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
Particulars
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs
Opening defined benefit obligation
 2,144.19 
 2,058.57 
Current service cost
 176.18 
 142.50 
Interest cost
 160.05 
 148.10 
Remeasurement (gains)/losses:
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions
–
–
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions
 107.56 
 35.64 
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments
 241.06 
 555.60 
Others [describe]
–
Past service cost, including losses/(gains) on curtailments
–
–
Liabilities Transferred In/Acquisition 
–
 0.46 
Liabilities assumed in a business combination
–
Exchange differences on foreign plans 
–
Benefits paid
 (835.07)
 (796.68)
Others [benefits paid directly by employer]
–
–
Closing defined benefit obligation
 1,993.97 
 2,144.19
Movements in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows.
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Opening fair value of plan assets 
 1,624.27 
 1,864.45 
Interest income 
 120.25 
 133.28 
Remeasurement gain (loss):
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense)
 33.58 
 (40.55)
Contributions from the employer
 714.11 
 463.77 
Assets Transferred In/Acquisition 
–
–
Benefits paid
 (835.07)
 (796.68)
Other
–
–
Closing fair value of plan assets
 1,657.14 
 1,624.27
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
199
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
The fair value of the plan assets at the end of the reporting period for each category, are as follows.
Particulars
Fair Value of plan asset as at
March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Government Of Indian Assets 
 296.82 
 561.32 
State Government Securities 
 317.64 
 131.74 
Special Deposit Scheme
 41.03 
 41.03 
Debt Instrument 
 712.35 
 516.58 
Corporate Bond
 104.05 
 297.50 
Cash and cash equivalents
 87.13 
–
Others
 20.97 
 20.96 
Mutual Funds
 77.15 
 55.14 
Total
 1,657.14 
 1,624.27
Maturity Analysis of the Benefits Payments from the Fund 
Particulars 
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Projected Benefits payable in future years from the date of reporting
1st Following Year
 187.39 
 184.63 
2nd Following Year
 141.56 
 151.11 
3rd Following Year
 183.65 
 177.76 
4th Following Year
 256.11 
 236.15 
5th Following Year
 195.44 
 314.41 
Sum of years 6 to 10
 763.88 
 930.01 
Sum of years 11 and above 
 2,121.07 
 2,144.35
Sensitivity Analysis
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
Presented benefit obligation on current assumptions
 1,983.76 
 2,133.99 
Discount rate (1% increase)
 (133.63)
 (138.49)
Discount rate (1% decrease)
 152.92 
 157.52 
Future salary growth (1% increase)
 154.80 
 160.71 
Future salary growth (1% decrease)
 (137.49)
 (143.50)
Attrition movement (1% increase)
 22.23 
 33.84 
Attrition movement (1% decrease)
 (25.24)
 (37.95)
The sensitivity analysis have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation 
as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may 
be correlated. 
Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been 
calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same method as applied 
in calculating the defined benefit obligation as recognised in the balance sheet.
There was no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis from prior year.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
200
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 37 : EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION SCHEME EXPENSES
A	
Employees Stock Option Plan (ESOP 2022)
	
The Company instituted an Employee Stock Option Scheme 2022 (""ESOP"") for certain employees which provides 
for a grant of 1,75,21,597 options (each option convertible into shares) to employees. During the year, company has 
made grant of total 1,56,79,262 options.
	
The first grant was made on May 29, 2023 for 1,35,95,130 shares, second grant was made on June 21, 2023 for 
13,54,685 options, third grant was made on November 09, 2023 for 4,54,994 options and fourth grant was made on 
March 21, 2024 for 2,74,453 options."
	
Scheme Details
	
The Company has granted two categories of ESOP. The detail of options granted under the plan are as under:
	
Terms of Category 1 (Service based) options
	
9,79,972 tenure based options to vest as under:
Vesting period
Type 1
Type 2
On completion of 1 year period
55% on completion of 1 year period 
and 45% on completion on 2nd Year
Grant date
May 29, 2023
May 29, 2023
Exercise price
210
400.93
No. of Options
 9,67,396 
 12,576 
Exercise period 
Maximum period of 4 years from the date of Vesting. 
Method of settlement (cash/equity)
Equity shares
	
The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using Black Scholes Option Pricing (“BSOP”) method, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted.
	
Terms of Category 2 (Performance based) options
	
14,699,290 tenure and performance based options to vest only upon the following conditions being met 
1	
If 6 months Volume weighted average price of the share (VWAP) > 2.5x/ 3x/ 4.5x USD Multiple of Money (MoM) then 
employee will get variable number of ESOP depending on various range of MoM. (Range- minimum 2.5X MoM till 
more than 5X MoM) 
2	
If investor sales the stake and Internal Rate of Return (IRR)/ MoM /VWAP achieved, employee will get variable number 
of ESOP which will vest in proportion to stake sale and range of MoM/ IRR.
Grant date
May 29, 
2023
May 29, 
2023
June 21, 
2023
June 21, 
2023
November 
09, 2023
March 21, 
2024
Exercise price
210
400.93
210
586.09
505.06
446.8
No. of Options
Minimum 
- 4281697; 
Maximum 
- 9927421
Minimum 
-379726; 
Maximum- 
2687737
Minimum - 
779000;
Maximum- 
804719
Minimum- 
469813; 
Maximum- 
549966
Minimum- 
384413 
Maximum- 
454994
Minimum- 
244254 
Maximum- 
274453
Vesting Period
Maximum period of vesting is 7 years from the date of Grant 
Exercise period 
Maximum period of 4 years from the date of Vesting. 
Method of settlement 
(cash/equity)
Equity shares
	
The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using Monte Carlo Simulation Pricing (“MCS”) method 
so as to evaluate whether the performance conditions have been achieved.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
201
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
The details of the activity has been summarised below:
Description
March 31, 2024
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
–
Exercisable at the beginning of the year
–
Granted during the year *
 1,56,79,262 
Forfeited during the year
 -3,82,781 
Exercised during the year
–
Vested during the year
–
Expired during the period
–
Transferred during the period
–
Outstanding at the end of the year
 1,52,96,481 
Exercisable at the end of the year
–
Weighted average remaining contractual life (in years)
 3.36 years
	
*Considering variable number of options, the maximum number of options are considered for the purpose of disclosure.
	
Valuation of ESOP Scheme
	
The Black Scholes valuation model has been used for computing the weighted average fair value for Category 1 stock 
options considering the following inputs:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
Grant date
May 29, 2023
Weighted average share price/ market price per share (` per share)
401.10
Exercise price (` per share)
210-400.9
Dividend yield
1.80%
Expected Life of options granted (vesting and exercise price in years)
1- 2 years
Average risk free interest rate
 6.7%–6.8% 
Expected Volatility
 25.2%–27.6% 
Fair value of option per equity share
 49.1–197.90
	
The Monte Carlo Simulation Pricing (“MCS”) method has been used for computing the fair value for 
Category 2 stock options considering the following inputs:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
Grant date
May 29, 2023
June 21, 2023
November 09,2023
March 21, 2024
Weighted average share price/ market 
price per share (` per share)
401.10
587.40
500.30
449.50
Exercise price (` per share)
210-400.9
 210-586 
505.10
446.80
Dividend yield
1.80%
1.80%
2.00%
2.00%
Expected Life of options granted (in 
years)
 4.9–7 
4.85
4.46
4.10
Average risk free interest rate
6.70%
6.70%
 6.9%–7.3% 
 6.8%–7.1%
Expected Volatility
25.00%
25.00%
25.00%
25.00%
Fair value of option per equity share
 43.07-661.47 
 656.37- 
919.63 
714.13
769.17
B	
Effect of employee stock option plan on the Statement of Profit and Loss and on its financial 
position:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
(` in lakhs)
Total employee compensation cost pertaining to stock option plan
 3,448.76 
Employee Stock option plan (ESOP) reserve
 3,448.76
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
202
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 38 : FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
Capital management
The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to:
-	
safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern, so that they can continue to provide returns for shareholders 
and benefits for other stakeholders, and
-	
Maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or 
sell assets to reduce debt.
Consistent with the industry, the Company, primarily, uses the gearing ratio to monitor and maintain the capital structure 
which is as follows:
Net debt (total borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents) divided by 'total equity’ (as shown in the balance sheet).
The gearing ratios were as follows:
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Borrowings
 2,491.97 
 12,080.26 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
 5,551.79 
 1,236.00 
Net debt
 (3,059.82)
 10,844.26 
Total equity
 4,20,302.71 
 4,07,932.98 
Net debt to equity ratio
-0.73%
2.66%
NOTE 39 : FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – FAIR VALUES
Accounting classification and fair values
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
FVTPL*
FVTOCI**
Amortised Cost
FVTPL*
FVTOCI**
Amortised Cost
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Financial assets 
Cash and Bank Balances
–
–
 9,173.79 
–
–
 1,357.90
Short-term loans and 
advances
–
–
 6.38 
–
–
 6.52
Trade and other 
receivables
–
–
 13,718.38 
–
–
 12,259.64
Current Investments
 5,494.84 
–
–
 7,579.95 
–
 -
Non Current Investments #
–
 0.71 
 2,524.15 
–
 0.71 
 2,524.15
Other Current financial 
Asset 
–
–
 90.70 
–
–
 93.82
Other Non Current 
financial Asset
–
–
 1,220.37 
–
–
 1,153.79
Total Financial Asset 
 5,494.84 
 0.71 
 26,733.77 
 7,579.95 
 0.71 
 17,395.82
Financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables
–
–
 21,926.01 
–
–
 22,847.74
Other Current financial 
liabilities
–
–
 19,312.73 
–
–
 16,068.75
Other Non Current 
financial liabilities
–
–
 409.66 
–
–
 853.52
Current Borrowings 
–
–
 2,491.97 
–
–
 9,613.78
Non Current Borrowings 
–
–
–
–
–
 2,466.48
Total Financial Liabilities
–
–
 44,140.37 
–
–
 51,850.27
*Mandatorily measured at fair value in accordance with Ind AS 109
** Investments in equity instruments designated as such upon initial recognition in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of Ind AS 109.
These investments in equity instruments are not held for trading. Instead, they are held for medium or long term strategic purpose. Upon 
the application of IND AS 109, the company has chosen to designate these investments in equity instruments at FVTOCI as it is believed 
that this provides a more meaningful presentation for medium or long term strategic investment than reflecting changes in fair value 
immediately in profit and loss Account.
# Includes investment in equity instruments of ` 2,524.15/- Lakhs (previous year ` 2,524.15/- lakhs) carried at cost less impairment.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
203
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Fair value Hierarchy 
This section explains the judgement and the estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that 
are recognised and measured at fair value
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value–
recurring fair value measurements at 31 March 2024 
(Refer note Below)
Level 1 
` in Lakhs
Level 2 
` in Lakhs
Level 3 
` in Lakhs
Total 
` in Lakhs
Financial assets 
Financial investment at FVTPL
Unquoted Investments in Mutual funds
 5,494.84 
–
–
 5,494.84 
Financial investment at FVTOCI 
Unquoted Investments
–
–
 0.71 
 0.71 
Total Financial Asset 
 5,494.84 
–
 0.71 
 5,495.55 
Financial Liabilities
Total Financial Liabilities 
–
–
–
–
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value–
recurring fair value measurements At March 2023 (Refer 
note Below)
Level 1 
` in Lakhs
Level 2 
` in Lakhs
Level 3 
` in Lakhs
Total 
` in Lakhs
Financial assets 
Financial investment at FVTPL
Unquoted Investments in Mutual funds
 7,579.95 
–
–
 7,579.95 
Financial investment at FVTOCI 
–
Unquoted Investments 
–
–
 0.71 
 0.71 
Total Financial Asset 
 7,579.95 
–
 0.71 
 7,580.66 
Financial Liabilities
Total Financial Liabilities 
–
–
–
–
Reconciliation of level 3 fair value measurement of financial Instruments
Particulars 
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
Opening Value of Fair Value 
 0.71 
 0.71 
Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in statement of profit or Loss 
–
–
Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in Other Comprehensive income 
–
–
Purchases made during the year 
–
–
Sales made during the year 
–
–
Closing balance of fair value 
 0.71 
 0.71
Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuations for level 3 items
Significant unobservable Inputs 
Relationship of unobservable Inputs to fair value 
Long term revenue growth rates taking into accounts 
managements experience and knowledge of market conditions 
of the specific industries.
A slight increase in the long term revenue growth rates 
used in isolation would result in increase in fair value.
Long term pre tax operating margin taking into account 
managements experience and knowledge if market conditions 
of the specific industries.
A significant increase in the long term pre tax operating 
margin used in isolation would result in increase in fair 
value.
Weighted average cost of capital (WACC), determined using a 
Capital Asset pricing Model.
A slight increase in the WACC used in isolation would 
result in decrease in Fair value.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
204
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
•	
the use of quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments.
•	
All of the resulting fair value estimates are included in level 1 except for unlisted equity securities where the fair values 
have been determined based on present values and the discount rates used were adjusted for counterparty or own 
credit risk.
•	
The carrying amount of Trade receivables, Trade payables, cash and Cash Equivalents are considered to be the same 
as their Fair Values, due to their short term in nature.
•	
The Fair value of financial Instrument that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation technique. 
The company uses its Judgement to select a variety of methods and make assumptions that are mainly based on 
market conditions existing at the end of each reporting period.
NOTE 40 : FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
The Company's activities expose it to market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. In order to minimise any adverse effects 
on the financial performance of the Company, such as foreign exchange forward contracts are entered to hedge certain 
foreign currency risk exposure.
This note explains the sources of risk which the entity is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk in the 
financial statements.
Risk 
Exposure Arising from 
Measurement 
Management
Credit Risk 
Cash and Cash Equivalents, trade receivables, 
financial assets measured at amortised cost 
and fair value through profit and loss.
Aging analysis, 
Credit Rating 
Diversification of bank 
deposits, credit limits and 
letter of credit
Liquidity Risk 
Borrowing and other liabilities
Rolling cash 
flow Forecast 
Availability of committed 
credit lines and borrowing 
facilities
Market Risk- 
Foreign currency
Future commercial Transactions Recognised 
financial assets and liabilities not denominated 
in Indian rupee (`)
Cash flow 
Forecasting 
Sensitivity 
analysis
Forward foreign currency 
Contracts Foreign currency 
option
Market Risk- 
Interest rate
Long-term borrowings at variable rate 
Sensitivity 
analysis
Interest rate Swaps
The Company's risk management is carried out by the Treasury team under policies approved by the Finance committee. 
Treasury team identifies and evaluates financial risks.
(a)	 Credit risk
	
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, investments and deposits with banks, as well as credit exposures 
to customers including outstanding receivables.
	
The carrying amounts of financial assets represent the maximum credit risk exposure. The maximum exposure to 
credit risk at the reporting date was:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Investments
 5,494.84 
 7,579.95
Trade receivables
 13,718.38 
 12,259.64
Cash and cash equivalents
 5,551.79 
 1,236.00
Other bank balances 
 3,622.00 
 121.90
Loans
 6.38 
 6.52
Other financial assets
 1,311.07 
 1,247.61
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
205
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
Trade Receivables
	
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables by geographic region was as follows.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
India
 13,684.80 
 12,214.43
Other regions
 33.58 
 45.21
Total
 13,718.38 
 12,259.64
	
Impairment
	
The ageing of trade and other receivables that were not impaired was as follows.
Ageing
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
0-1 Year 
 13,535.86 
 12,195.09
1-2 Year 
 182.52 
 64.55
2-3 Year 
 0.00* 
 -
More Than 3 Yrs 
 0.00* 
 -
Total
 13,718.38 
 12,259.64
	
* Amount less than ` 0.01 lakhs
	
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade and other receivables during the year was as follows.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Opening Balance
 1,945.91 
 816.67
Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible
–
 -
Impairment loss recognised
 123.85 
 1,129.24
Balance
 2,069.76 
 1,945.91
	
The Company held cash and cash equivalents of ` 5,551.79 lakhs at March 31, 2024 (March 31, 2023: ` 1,236.00 
lakhs). The cash and cash equivalents are held with bank ` 5,390.06 lakhs at March 31, 2024 (March 31, 2023: 
` 1,182.02 lakhs)
(b)	 Liquidity risk
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial 
liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Company’s approach to managing liquidity 
is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they are due, under both 
normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Company’s reputation.
	
Exposure to liquidity risk
	
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The amounts are 
gross and undiscounted:
Non-derivative 
financial liabilities
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities 
Carrying amount
On Demand 
0- 1 year
1-5 years
> 5 years
Total
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2024
Banks–Long term loans
 2,491.97 
–
 2,491.97 
–
–
 2,491.97
Loans from banks
–
–
–
–
–
 -
Trade payables
 21,926.01 
–
 21,926.01 
–
–
 21,926.01
Lease Liabilities 
 1,583.02 
–
 969.18 
 603.38 
 10.46 
 1,583.02
Other Payable
 18,343.55 
–
 18,343.55 
–
–
 18,343.55
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
206
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Non-derivative 
financial liabilities
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities 
Carrying amount
On Demand 
0- 1 year
1-5 years
> 5 years
Total
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
As at March 31, 2023
Banks–Long term loans
 4,966.48 
–
 2,500.00 
 2,466.48 
–
 4,966.48
Loans from banks
 7,113.78 
 7,113.78 
–
–
–
 7,113.78
Trade payables
 22,847.74 
–
 22,847.74 
–
–
 22,847.74
Lease Liabilities 
 2,053.32 
–
 1,123.37 
 898.67 
 31.28 
 2,053.32
Other Payable
 15,074.76 
–
 15,074.76 
–
–
 15,074.76
(c)	 (i)	
Market Risk- Foreign currency
	
	
Exposure to currency risk
	
	
The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023:
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2024
USD in Lakhs
EUR in Lakhs
SGD in Lakhs
Financial assets 
Other Non-current financial assets
 1.30 
–
–
Trade and other receivables
 47.42 
 0.06 
–
 48.72 
 0.06 
–
Financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables
 13.48 
 0.18 
 0.09
 13.48 
 0.18 
 0.09 
Net Exposure
 35.24 
 (0.12)
 (0.09)
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2023
USD in Lakhs
EUR in Lakhs
SGD in Lakhs
Financial assets 
Short-term loans and advances
 10.00 
–
–
Trade and other receivables
 10.81 
–
–
 20.81 
–
–
Financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables
 11.11 
 0.07 
–
 11.11 
 0.07 
–
Net Exposure
 9.70 
 (0.07)
–
	
	
The following significant exchange rates have been applied.
Year-end spot rate
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
USD / `
 83.34 
 82.16 
EUR / `
 89.93 
 89.37 
SGD / `
 61.68 
 61.80 
	
	
Sensitivity analysis
	
	
The Sensitivity of profit or loss to changes in the exchange rates arises mainly from foreign currency denominated 
financial instruments
Effect in `
Profit or (loss)
Strengthening
Weakening
As at March 31, 2024
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
USD 5% movement 
 (146.83)
 146.83 
EUR 5% movement 
 0.54 
 (0.54)
SGD 5% movement 
 0.29 
 (0.29)
(146.00)
 146.00
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
207
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Effect in `
Profit or (loss)
Strengthening
Weakening
As at March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
USD 5% movement 
 (39.85)
 39.85 
EUR 5% movement 
 0.31 
 (0.31)
(39.54)
 39.54
	
	
In management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk because 
the  exposure at the end of the reporting period does not reflect the exposure during the year.
(c)	 (ii)	 Market Risk- Interest rate
	
	
The Exposure of the Company borrowing to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period are as follow
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Variable Rate Borrowing 
 2,491.97 
 4,966.48 
	
	
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative 
instruments at the end of the reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the 
amount of the liability outstanding at the end of the reporting period was outstanding for the whole year. A 50 
basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel 
and represents management's assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
	
	
If interest rates had been 50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the company's:
	
	
i)	
profit for the year ended March 31, 2024 would decrease/increase by ` 13.87 lakhs (2023: decrease/ increase 
by ` 25.43 lakhs). This is mainly attributable to the company’s exposure to interest rates on its variable 
rate borrowings.
	
	
	
The assumed movement in basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently 
observable market environment, showing a significantly higher volatility than in prior year.
NOTE 41 : ASSETS PLEDGED AS SECURITY
The carrying amounts of assets pledged as security for current and non-current borrowings are:
Particulars 
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Current
Financial Assets
Trade Receivable 
 8
 13,718.38 
 12,259.64
Inventories
13
 24,368.54 
 21,124.86
Total Current assets pledged as security
 
 38,086.92
 33,384.50
Non-current
Land–Freehold
 3
 6,405.00 
 6,405.00
Land–Leasehold 
 4
 333.55 
 338.85
Buildings 
 3
 13,954.02 
 14,299.80
Other Property, plant and equipment *
 3
 6,707.35 
 6,320.18
Total Non Current assets pledged as security
 27,399.92 
 27,363.83
Total assets pledged as security
 65,486.84 
 60,748.33
* Property, plant and equipment as per note 3 includes moveable asset for employee benefits, which has not been pledged.
No charges or satisfaction are pending to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
208
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 42 : MOVEMENT IN DEFERRED TAX BALANCES
Particulars
 
As at April 
1, 2023
For the year 2023-24
As at March 31, 2024
Recognised 
in profit or 
loss 
Acquired through 
business combination
Recognised 
in Goodwill
Recognised in 
OCI
Net
Deferred 
tax asset
Deferred 
tax liability
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs
 ` in Lakhs
Deferred tax asset
Property, plant and 
equipment
 4,637.80 
 126.32 
–
–
–
 4,764.12 
–
 4,764.12
Provisions
 (1,378.08)
 55.48 
–
–
–
 (1,322.60)
 (1,322.60)
 -
Lease Liabilities 
 58.28 
 (4.72)
–
–
–
 53.56 
–
 53.56
Merger expenses 
 (27.98)
 (310.05)
–
–
–
 (338.03)
 (338.03)
 -
Amortisation of Processing 
fees
 8.44 
 (6.42)
–
–
–
 2.02 
–
 2.02
Fair Valuation 
 78,721.00 
 (617.19)
–
–
–
 78,103.81 
–
 78,103.81
Expenses allowed on 
Payment
 (122.04)
 (47.84)
–
–
–
 (169.88)
 (169.88)
 -
Deferred Tax (Assets) /
Liabilities
 81,897.42 
 (804.42)
–
–
–
 81,093.00 
 (1,830.50)
 82,923.51
Particulars
 
As at April 
1, 2022
For the year 2023-24
As at March 31, 2023
Recognised 
in profit or 
loss 
Acquired through 
business combination
Recognised 
in Goodwill 
Recognised in 
OCI
Net
Deferred 
tax asset
Deferred 
tax liability
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs
 ` in Lakhs
Deferred tax asset
Property, plant and 
equipment
4,542.13
95.67
-
-
-
4,637.80
-
4,637.80 
Provisions
(1,058.53)
(319.55)
-
-
-
(1,378.08)
(1,378.08)
- 
Lease Liabilities 
62.59
(4.31)
-
-
-
58.28
-
58.28 
Merger expenses 
(41.58)
13.60
-
-
-
(27.98)
(27.98)
- 
Amortisation of Processing 
fees
16.22
(7.78)
-
-
-
8.44
-
8.44 
Fair Valuation 
79,338.22
(617.22)
-
-
-
78,721.00
-
78,721.00 
Expenses allowed on 
Payment
(118.57)
(3.47)
-
-
-
(122.04)
(122.04)
- 
Deferred Tax (Assets) /
Liabilities
82,740.48
(843.06)
-
-
-
81,897.42
(1,528.09)
83,425.52
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
209
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 43 : INCOME TAX EXPENSE
(a)	 Amounts recognised in profit and loss
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Current income tax
 3,887.91 
 1,829.01
Deferred income tax liability / (asset), net
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
 (804.42)
 (843.04)
Tax expense for the year
 3,083.49 
 985.97
(b)	 Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
Particulars 
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
Before tax
Tax (expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Before tax
Tax (expense) 
benefit
 Net of tax
` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs  ` in Lakhs  ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs  ` in Lakhs
Items that will not be 
reclassified to profit or 
loss
Remeasurements of the 
defined benefit plans
 (315.04)
 79.16 
 (235.88)
 (631.79)
 159.01 
 (472.78)
Equity Instruments 
through Other 
Comprehensive Income
–
–
 -
Total
 (315.04)
 79.16 
 (235.88)
 (631.79)
 159.01 
 (472.78)
(c)	 Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Profit before tax
12,240.34
2,693.99
Tax using the Company’s domestic tax rate : 25.168%
 3,080.65 
 678.02
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating 
taxable income
 8.30 
 53.10
Other tax adjustment (including re-assessment of deferred taxes post 
business combination)
 (5.46)
 254.85
Total
 3,083.49 
 985.97
	
The tax rate used for the year 2023-24 and 2022-23 reconciliations above is the corporate tax rate of 25.168% payable 
by corporate entities in India on taxable profits under the Indian tax law.
NOTES TO STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
210
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 44 : KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS:
Sr. 
No.
Particulars
Numerator
Denominator
2023-24
2022-23
% Change
Refer 
Note
1
Current Ratio (times)
Current assets
Current liabilities
 0.61 
 0.49 
 24.17 
2
Debt equity ratio 
(times) 
Total debt
Equity
 0.01 
 0.03 
 (73.03)
a
3
Debt service 
coverage ratio (times)
Earnings 
available for 
debt service
Total debt service
 1.41 
 0.92 
 53.90 
b
4
Return on equity (%)
Net profit after 
tax 
Average 
shareholder equity
2.21%
0.42%
 427.30 
c
5
Inventory turnover 
ratio (times)
Cost of Goods 
sold 
Average inventory
 3.96 
 3.42 
 15.80 
6
Trade receivables 
turnover ratio (times)
Net sales
Average accounts 
receivables
 16.85 
 14.90 
 13.10 
7
Trade payable 
turnover ratio (times)
Total purchases 
Average trade 
payables
 4.23 
 3.38 
 24.98 
d
8
Net capital turnover 
ratio (times)
Sales
Current Assets 
minus Current 
Liabilities.
 (5.81)
 (4.20)
 38.18 
e
9
Net profit ratio (%)
Net profit after 
tax 
Sales
4.18%
0.82%
 409.46 
f
10
Return on capital 
employed (%)
Earnings before 
interest and tax 
divided 
Capital Employed 
(refer note (j))
-125.12%
-59.42%
 110.58 
g
11
Return on investment 
(%)
Return on 
Investment 
Average total 
current investment
6.35%
3.11%
 104.23 
h
	
Notes: Explanation for change in the ratio by more than 25%
(a)	
Repayment of borrowings during current year.
(b)	
Higher earning and repayment of borrowings during current year.
(c)	
Higher net profit after tax during the current year with improved efficiency.
(d)	
Better working capital management and strong cash flow.	
(e)	
Revenue growth along with higher efficiency on working capital improvement has resulted in an improvement in 
the ratio.
(f)	
Higher net profit after tax during the current year with improved efficiency.
(g)	
Increase in earnings and reduction in borrowings on account of repayment.
(h)	
There is a significant change in return on investment ratio due to increase in market rates.
(i)	
The calculation for above ratios is in accordance with formula prescribed by Guidance note on Schedule III issued by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
(j)	
Capital employed = Tangible Net Worth# + Total Debt + Deferred Tax Liability.
	
# In order to derive to the tangible net worth, goodwill and other intangibles assets has been reduced from the total net worth.
211
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To The Members of 
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements of EUREKA FORBES LIMITED (”the Parent”) 
and its subsidiaries, (the Parent and its subsidiaries 
together referred to as “the Group”), which comprise the 
Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2024, and 
the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including 
Other Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated Statement 
of Cash Flows and the Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity for the year ended on that date, and notes to 
the financial statements, including a summary of material 
accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us, and based on the 
consideration of reports of the other auditors on separate 
financial statements of the subsidiaries referred to in the 
Other Matters section below, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with the Indian 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the 
Act, (“Ind AS”) and other accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of 
the Group as at March 31, 2024, and their consolidated 
profit, their consolidated total comprehensive income, their 
consolidated cash flows and their consolidated changes in 
equity for the year ended on that date. 
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing 
(SAs) specified under section 143 (10) of the Act. Our 
responsibilities under those Standards are further 
described in the Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We 
are independent of the Group, in accordance with the Code 
of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India (ICAI) together with the ethical requirements that 
are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules 
made thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements 
and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit 
evidence obtained by us and the audit evidence obtained 
by the other auditors in terms of their reports referred to in 
the sub-paragraph (a) of the Other Matters section below, 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
consolidated financial statements of the current period. 
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit 
of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and 
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. We have determined 
the matters described below to be the key audit matters to 
be communicated in our report.
Key Audit Matter
Auditor's Response
Impairment of Intangible assets (Brand Name 
/ Trademarks) with indefinite life and Goodwill 
impairment
The Consolidated balance sheet of the Group 
as on March 31, 2024 comprises of 
Rs. 291,119.26 lakhs of intangible assets 
with indefinite life and Rs. 205,581.67 lakhs 
of goodwill, pertaining to acquisition of 
a business in the earlier years, which in 
aggregate represents 81% of the total assets 
of the Group.
Principal audit procedures:
•	
We obtained understanding of the process followed by the Group 
in respect of the assessment of impairment of Intangible assets 
(Brand Name / Trademarks) with indefinite life and Goodwill.
•	
Evaluated Group’s accounting policy in respect of impairment 
assessment of Intangibles with indefinite life and goodwill.
•	
Evaluated the design and implementation and testing the operating 
effectiveness of key internal controls related to the Group’s process 
relating to the impairment analysis, key assumptions and review of 
the valuation methodology.
•	
Assessed the professional competence, objectivity and expertise 
of those involved in performing the valuation exercise for the 
Group.
212
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Key Audit Matter
Auditor's Response
The recoverable value of the intangible assets 
with indefinite life and goodwill which is based 
on the value in use model, has been derived 
using the discounted cash flow (DCF) method. 
This method requires the Group to make 
significant assumptions such as discount rate, 
near and long-term revenue growth rate and 
projected margins which involves inherent 
uncertainty since they are based on future 
business prospects and economic outlook. 
Due to the materiality of above assets in the 
context of the consolidated financial statements 
and 
judgements 
applied 
in 
determining 
the recoverable value, we have considered 
assessment of impairment of Intangible assets 
(Brand Name / Trademarks) with indefinite life 
and Goodwill to be a key audit matter.
Refer Note 5a, 6a and 33S to the Ind AS 
financial statements.
•	
Obtained understanding of the cash flow projections and 
assumptions used in the DCF method.
•	
Tested the appropriateness of the input data considered for the 
purposes of valuation by reconciling the projected cash flows with 
the underlying business plan and related details.
•	
Involved the internal valuation professionals with specialized skills 
and knowledge to assist in evaluating the impairment model used, 
evaluating the mathematical accuracy and assumptions (including 
discount rate and growth rate applied by the Group) and applying 
additional sensitivities to assess the reasonableness of the above 
key assumptions.
•	
Performed a sensitivity analysis to evaluate the impact of change 
in key assumptions individually or collectively to the recoverable 
value.
•	
Evaluated the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in the 
consolidated financial statements in respect of its impairment 
testing.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and 
Auditor’s Report Thereon 
•	
The Parent’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
other information. The other information comprises the 
information included in the Management Discussion 
and Analysis and Board’s report including annexures to 
Board’s report, but does not include the consolidated 
financial statements, standalone financial statements 
and our auditor’s report thereon. The aforesaid other 
information is expected to be made available to us 
after the date of this auditor’s report. 
•	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements 
does not cover the other information and we do 
not and will not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
•	
In connection with our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the 
other information identified above when it becomes 
available, compare with the financial statements of 
the subsidiaries audited by the other auditors, to the 
extent it relates to these entities and, in doing so, 
place reliance on the work of the other auditors and 
consider whether the other information is materially 
inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements 
or our knowledge obtained during the course of our 
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
Other information so far as it relates to the subsidiaries, 
is traced from their financial statements audited by the 
other auditors.
•	
When we read the other information, if we conclude 
that there is a material misstatement therein, we are 
required to communicate the matter to those charged 
with governance as required under SA 720 ‘The 
Auditor’s responsibilities Relating to Other Information’.
Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged 
with Governance for the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
The Parent’s Board of Directors is responsible for the 
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to 
the preparation of these consolidated financial statements 
that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial 
position, consolidated financial performance including 
other comprehensive income, consolidated cash flows 
and consolidated changes in equity of the Group in 
accordance with the accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, including Ind AS. The respective Board 
of Directors of the companies included in the Group are 
responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting 
records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for 
safeguarding the assets of the Group and for preventing 
and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and 
application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the 
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation 
of the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of 
the Parent, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the 
respective Management and Board of Directors of the 
companies included in the Group are responsible for 
assessing the ability of the respective entities to continue as 
a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related 
to going concern and using the going concern basis of 
accounting unless the respective Board of Directors either 
213
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
intend to liquidate their respective entities or to cease 
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The respective Board of Directors of the companies 
included in the Group are also responsible for overseeing 
the financial reporting process of the Group. 
Auditor’s Responsibility for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are 
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
•	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.
•	
Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls 
relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under 
section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible 
for expressing our opinion on whether the Parent has 
adequate internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements in place and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls. 
•	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by the management.
•	
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether 
a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the 
ability of the Group to continue as a going concern. 
If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report 
to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the 
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause 
the Group to cease to continue as a going concern.
•	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the consolidated financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
•	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 
the financial information of the entities or business 
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements. We are responsible 
for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
audit of the financial statements of entities or business 
activities included in the consolidated financial 
statements of which we are the independent auditors. 
For the other entities or business activities included 
in the consolidated financial statements, which have 
been audited by the other auditors, such other auditors 
remain responsible for the direction, supervision and 
performance of the audits carried out by them. We 
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the 
consolidated financial statements that, individually or in 
aggregate, makes it probable that the economic decisions 
of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the consolidated 
financial statements may be influenced. We consider 
quantitative materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning 
the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results 
of our work; and (ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified 
misstatements in the consolidated financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
of the Parent and such other entities included in the 
consolidated financial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal 
financial controls that we identify during our audit. 
We also provide those charged with governance with 
a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated 
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public 
interest benefits of such communication.
214
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Other Matters
(a)	
We did not audit the financial statements / financial 
information of 4 subsidiaries, whose financial 
statements / financial information reflect total assets of 
Rs. 5,250.58 lakhs as at March 31, 2024, total revenues 
of Rs. 6,231.25 lakhs and net cash (outflows) amounting 
to Rs. (443.98) lakhs for the year ended on that date, 
as considered in the consolidated financial statements. 
These financial statements / financial information 
have been audited by other auditors whose reports 
have been furnished to us by the Management and 
our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, 
in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures 
included in respect of these subsidiaries and our report 
in terms of subsection (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in 
so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries is based 
solely on the reports of the other auditors. 
	
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements 
above and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory 
Requirements below, is not modified in respect of the 
above matter with respect to our reliance on the work 
done and the reports of other auditors.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our 
audit and on the consideration of the reports of the 
other auditors on the separate financial statements of 
the subsidiaries referred to in the Other Matters section 
above we report, to the extent applicable that:
	
a)	
We have sought and obtained all the information 
and explanations which to the best of our 
knowledge and belief were necessary for 
the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements. 
	
b)	
In our opinion, proper books of account as 
required by law maintained by the Group, 
including relevant records relating to preparation 
of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements 
have been kept so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books and the reports of the 
other auditors, except for not complying with the 
requirements of audit trail, as stated in paragraph 
(i)(vi) below.
	
c)	
The Consolidated Balance Sheet, the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 
including Other Comprehensive Income, the 
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the 
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
dealt with by this Report are in agreement with 
the relevant books of account maintained for 
the purpose of preparation of the consolidated 
financial statements. 
	
d)	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with the Ind AS specified 
under Section 133 of the Act. 
	
e)	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Parent as on March 31, 
2024 taken on record by the Board of Directors of 
the Parent Company and the reports of the statutory 
auditors of its subsidiary companies incorporated in 
India, none of the directors of the Group companies 
incorporated in India is disqualified as on March 31, 
2024 from being appointed as a director in terms 
of Section 164 (2) of the Act.
	
f)	
The modification relating to the maintenance of 
accounts and other matters connected therewith, 
is as stated in paragraph (b) above.
	
g)	
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our 
separate Report in “Annexure A” which is 
based on the auditors’ reports of the Parent and 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India. Our 
report expresses an unmodified opinion on the 
adequacy and operating effectiveness of internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements of those companies.
	
h)	
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the 
requirements of section 197(16) of the Act, as 
amended, in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations 
given to us and based on the auditor’s reports of 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India, the 
remuneration paid/provided by the Parent and 
such subsidiary companies, to their respective 
directors during the year is in accordance with 
the provisions of section 197 of the Act.
	
i)	
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations 
given to us:
	
	
i)	
The consolidated financial statements 
disclose the impact of pending litigations 
on the consolidated financial position of the 
Group. Refer Note 33A(a) to the consolidated 
financial statements;
	
	
ii)	
The Group did not have any material 
foreseeable losses on long-term contracts 
including derivative contracts. 
	
	
iii)	
There were no amounts which were required 
to be transferred, to the Investor Education 
and Protection Fund by the Parent and its 
subsidiary companies incorporated in India.
	
	
iv)	
(a)	
The respective Managements of the 
Parent and its subsidiaries which are 
companies incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited 
under the Act have represented to 
us and to the other auditors of such 
subsidiaries that, to the best of their 
knowledge and belief, as disclosed 
in the note 33E to the consolidated 
financial statements, no funds have 
been advanced or loaned or invested 
(either from borrowed funds or share 
premium or any other sources or 
215
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
kind of funds) by the Parent or any of 
such subsidiaries to or in any other 
person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, 
that the Intermediary shall, directly 
or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Parent or any of such subsidiaries 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(b)	
The respective Managements of the 
Parent and its subsidiaries which are 
companies incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited 
under the Act have represented to us and 
the other auditors of such subsidiaries 
that, to the best of their knowledge and 
belief, as disclosed in the note 33F to 
the consolidated financial statements, 
no funds have been received by the 
Parent or any of such subsidiaries from 
any person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), 
with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, that 
the Parent or any of such subsidiaries 
shall, directly or indirectly, lend or 
invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Funding Party 
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
	
	
	
(c)	
Based on the audit procedures 
performed that have been considered 
reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances performed by us and 
that performed by the auditors of the 
subsidiaries which are companies 
incorporated in India whose financial 
statements have been audited under 
the Act, nothing has come to our or 
other auditor’s notice that has caused 
us or the other auditors to believe that 
the representations under sub-clause 
(i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as provided 
under (a) and (b) above, contain any 
material misstatement.
	
	
v)	
The Parent and its subsidiaries, which are 
companies incorporated in India, whose 
financial statements have been audited 
under the Act, have not declared or paid 
any dividend during the year and have not 
proposed final dividend for the year.
	
	
vi)	
Based on our examination which 
included test checks and based on the 
other auditor’s reports of its subsidiary 
companies incorporated in India whose 
financial statements have been audited 
under the Act, except for the instances 
mentioned below, the Parent Company 
and its subsidiary companies, incorporated 
in India have used accounting software 
for maintaining their respective books of 
account for the financial year ended March 
31, 2024 which has a feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has 
operated throughout the year for all relevant 
transactions recorded in the software: 
	
	
	
(a)	
in respect of Parent Company, for the 
accounting software used, audit trail 
was not enabled at the database level 
to log any direct data changes, and
	
	
	
(b)	
in respect of a subsidiary company, 
as reported by the other auditor the 
accounting software has a feature of 
recording audit trail (edit log) facility for 
all relevant transactions recorded in the 
software, however, such feature was 
installed with effect from July 24, 2023 
and accordingly, the feature of recording 
audit trail (edit log) facility did not operate 
during the year until the said date. 
	
	
	
Further, during the course of audit, the 
respective other auditors, whose reports have 
been furnished to us by the Management of 
the Parent Company, have not come across 
any instance of the audit trail feature being 
tampered with in respect of the accounting 
software for the period for which the audit 
trail feature was enabled and operating.
	
	
	
As proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable from 
April 1, 2023, reporting under Rule 11 (g) of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014 on preservation of audit trail as per the 
statutory requirements for record retention is 
not applicable for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2024.
2.	
With respect to the matters specified in clause (xxi) 
of paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 of the Companies 
(Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“CARO”/ “the Order”) 
issued by the Central Government in terms of Section 
143(11) of the Act, according to the information and 
explanations given to us, and based on the CARO 
reports issued by us and the auditors of respective 
companies included in the consolidated financial 
statements to which reporting under CARO is 
applicable, as provided to us by the Management of 
the Parent, we report that there are no qualifications 
or adverse remarks by the respective auditors in the 
CARO reports of the said companies included in the 
consolidated financial statements. 
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018)
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Place: Mumbai	
Membership No. 049660
Date: May 28, 2024	
UDIN: 24049660BKFRRC5054
216
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
ANNEXURE “A” TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
(Referred to in paragraph 1(g) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements under Clause (i) 
of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 
2013 (“the Act”)
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS 
financial statements of the Company as at and for the 
year ended March 31, 2024, we have audited the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of Eureka Forbes Limited (hereinafter referred 
to as “Parent”) and its subsidiary companies, which are 
companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial 
Controls
The respective Board of Directors of the Parent and its 
subsidiary companies which are companies incorporated 
in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
internal financial controls with reference to consolidated 
financial statements based on the internal control with 
reference to consolidated financial statements criteria 
established by the respective Companies considering 
the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India (ICAI). These responsibilities include 
the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to the respective company’s policies, 
the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection 
of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the 
accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable 
financial information, as required under the Companies 
Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements of the Parent and its subsidiary companies 
which are companies incorporated in India, based on 
our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with 
the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the 
Standards on Auditing, prescribed under Section 143(10) 
of the Companies Act, 2013, to the extent applicable to 
an audit of internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements. Those Standards and 
the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements was established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements included obtaining an understanding of internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating 
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 
risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s 
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to 
fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and 
the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors of the 
subsidiary companies which are companies incorporated in 
India, in terms of their reports referred to in the Other Matters 
paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our audit opinion on the internal financial controls 
with reference to consolidated financial statements of the 
Parent and its subsidiary companies which are companies 
incorporated in India.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with reference 
to consolidated financial statements
A company's internal financial control with reference to 
consolidated financial statements is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements 
for external purposes in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles. A company's internal 
financial control with reference to consolidated financial 
statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) 
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide 
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, 
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are 
being made only in accordance with authorisations of 
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide 
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition 
of the company's assets that could have a material effect 
on the financial statements.
217
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with 
reference to consolidated financial statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements, including the possibility of collusion or improper 
management override of controls, material misstatements 
due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 
Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal 
financial control with reference to consolidated financial 
statements may become inadequate because of changes 
in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion to the best of our information and according to 
the explanations given to us and based on the consideration 
of the reports of the other auditors referred to in the Other 
Matters paragraph below, the Parent and its subsidiary 
companies which are companies incorporated in India, 
have, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial 
controls with reference to consolidated financial statements 
and such internal financial controls with reference to 
consolidated financial statements were operating effectively 
as at March 31, 2024, based on the criteria for internal 
financial control with reference to consolidated financial 
statements established by the respective companies 
considering the essential components of internal control 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India.
Other Matters
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on 
the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal 
financial controls with reference to consolidated financial 
statements insofar as it relates to 2 subsidiary companies 
which are companies incorporated in India, is based solely 
on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such 
companies incorporated in India.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of the above matter.
For DELOITTE HASKINS & SELLS LLP
Chartered Accountants
(Firm’s Registration No. 117366W/W-100018)
Nilesh Shah
Partner
Place: Mumbai	
Membership No. 049660
Date: May 28, 2024	
UDIN: 24049660BKFRRC5054
218
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
as at March 31, 2024
 ` in Lakhs
Particulars
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023
ASSETS
Non-current Assets
(a) 
Property, plant and equipment
 3
27,360.48 
27,296.48 
(b) 
Right of use assets
 4
1,594.79 
2,120.99 
(c) 
Goodwill
 5a
205,581.67 
205,581.67 
(d) 
Goodwill on consolidation
 5b
299.46 
299.46 
(e) 
Other intangible assets
 6a
311,455.07 
312,787.91 
(f)
Intangible assets under development
 6b
122.19 
245.93 
(g)
Financial assets
(i)	
Investments
 7
1.42 
1.43 
(ii)	
Other financial assets
10
1,268.45 
1,171.62 
(h)
Income tax asset (net)
11
3,117.80 
2,429.67 
(i)
Deferred tax assets (net)
23
125.11 
127.48 
(j)
Other non-current assets 
12
1,279.41 
1,304.14 
Total Non-current Assets
552,205.85
553,366.78
Current Assets
(a) 
Inventories
13
25,270.70 
22,003.10 
(b)
Financial assets
(i)	
Investments
 7
5,494.84 
7,579.95 
(ii)	
Trade receivables
 8
13,751.84 
12,366.95 
(iii)	
Cash and cash equivalents
14
6,132.17 
1,854.54 
(iv)	
Bank balances other than (iii) above
14
3,622.50 
254.39 
(v)	
Loans
 9
48.07 
6.52 
(vi)	
Other financial assets
10
90.70 
93.82 
(c) 
Other current assets
12
6,322.95 
5,517.99 
Total Current Assets
60,733.77 
49,677.26 
Total Assets
612,939.62
603,044.04
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
(a)
Equity share capital 
15
19,347.92 
19,347.92 
(b)
Other equity 
16
403,216.45 
390,416.52 
Non-controlling interest
119.97 
118.86 
Total Equity
422,684.34
409,883.30
Liabilities
Non-current Liabilities
(a)
Financial liabilities
(i)	
Borrowings 
17
- 
2,470.94 
(ii)	
Lease liabilities 
20
409.66 
857.15 
(b)
Provisions
21
377.67 
245.48 
(c)
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
23
81,135.58 
81,897.44 
(d)
Other non-current liabilities
22
13,150.68 
12,197.94 
Total Non-current Liabilities
95,073.59
97,668.95
Current liabilities
(a) 
Financial liabilities
(i)	
Borrowings 
17
2,491.97 
9,631.40 
(ii)	
Lease liabilities
20
972.81
1,035.13
(iii)	
Trade and other payables
	
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
18
6,936.87 
6,774.72 
	
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises 
and small enterprises
18
12,427.39
14,090.85 
(iv)	
Other financial liabilities
19
18,416.32 
15,116.30 
(b) 
Provisions
21
2,366.46 
2,428.36 
(c)
Income tax liabilities (net)
11
6,476.65 
1,886.90 
(d)
Other current liabilities
22
45,093.22
44,528.13
Total Current Liabilities
95,181.69 
95,491.79 
Total Liabilities
190,255.28 
193,160.74 
Total Equity and Liabilities
612,939.62
603,044.04 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Arvind Uppal 
Pratik R. Pota
 Gaurav Khandelwal 
Pragya Kaul
Partner
Chairman
Managing Director & CEO
 Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary
(DIN-00104992)
(DIN-00751178)
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
 Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
 Dated : May 28, 2024 
Dated : May 28, 2024
219
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
for the year ended March 31, 2024
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Notes
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
I
Income 
Revenue from operations
 24
218,925.02 
 208,450.51 
Other income and other gains / (losses)–net
 25
877.95 
 1,023.34 
Total Income
219,802.97 
 209,473.85 
II
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
 26
82,128.68 
 63,344.18 
Purchases of stock-in-trade
 26
10,382.56 
 14,948.30 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, spares, stock-in-trade 
and work-in-progress 
 26
(3,655.31)
 5,028.47 
Employee benefits expense
 27
32,980.08 
 30,314.03 
Finance costs
 28
977.45 
 2,025.92 
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 29
5,402.70 
 5,646.06 
Other expenses
 30
77,224.53
 80,313.91 
Total expenses
205,440.70 
 201,620.87 
III
Profit before exceptional items and tax
14,362.27 
 7,852.98 
Less : Exceptional items 
 26
(1,514.90)
 (4,001.80)
IV
Profit/ (Loss) before tax and after exceptional items 
12,847.37 
 3,851.18 
Less: Tax expense
Current tax
 31
4,083.35 
 2,080.69 
Deferred tax charge
 31
(800.95)
 (876.75)
 
 3,282.40 
 1,203.94 
V
Profit/(Loss) for the year
9,564.97
 2,647.24 
VI
Other Comprehensive Income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
	
Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans gain/(loss)
(315.04)
 (634.38)
	
Income tax relating to above
 
77.76 
 159.67 
Items that may be reclassified to statement of profit and loss
Exchange difference on translation of financial statements of 
foreign operations
24.58 
 (23.64)
(212.70)
 (498.35)
VII
Total comprehensive Income for the year 
 9,352.27 
 2,148.89 
Profit/ (Loss) for the year attributable to: 
9,563.86 
 2,655.75 
-	
Owners of the Company
1.11 
 (8.51)
-	
Non-controlling interests
9,564.97
 2,647.24 
Other comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
-	
Owners of the Company
(212.69)
 (498.31)
-	
Non-controlling interests
(0.01)
 (0.04)
(212.70)
 (498.35)
Total comprehensive income / (loss) for the year attributable to:
-	
Owners of the Company
9,351.17 
 2,157.44 
-	
Non-controlling interests
1.10 
 (8.55)
9,352.27
 2,148.89 
Earnings per equity share:
(1)	
Basic (in `)
32
4.94 
 1.37 
(2)	
Diluted (in `)
32
4.93
 1.37 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Arvind Uppal 
Pratik R. Pota
 Gaurav Khandelwal 
Pragya Kaul
Partner
Chairman
Managing Director & CEO
 Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary
(DIN-00104992)
(DIN-00751178)
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
 Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
 Dated : May 28, 2024 
Dated : May 28, 2024
220
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW
for the year ended March 31, 2024
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit/ (Loss) before tax and after exceptional items 
 12,847.37 
 3,851.16 
Adjustments for: 
Finance costs recognised in profit and loss
 786.46 
 1,842.33 
Interest on lease liabilities
 190.99 
 183.60 
(Gain)/loss on modification/disposal of right of use assets 
 (9.58)
 (27.40)
(Gain)/ loss on disposal of investment recognised in profit and loss
 (47.68)
 (133.31)
Fair value of Investment at FVTPL
 (367.21)
 (80.33)
Interest Income
 (206.12)
 (44.36)
(Gain)/ Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 (60.13)
 (516.32)
Net foreign exchange (gain)/loss - unrealised
 24.22 
 (74.02)
Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans
 78.15 
 - 
Provision/write-off of doubtful debts, advances and other current assets
 161.99 
 808.94 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses on property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets
 4,148.85 
 4,500.69 
Depreciation and amortisation expenses on right of use assets
 1,253.85 
 1,145.37 
Exceptional Items
 1,514.90 
 4,001.80 
Employee stock option scheme reserve
 3,448.76 
 - 
Operating profit before working capital changes 
 23,764.82 
 15,458.15 
Movements in working capital:
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables
 (1,546.88)
 2,246.56 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories
 (4,782.50)
 4,526.23 
(Increase)/decrease in loans and advances
 (41.55)
 1.39 
(Increase)/decrease in other assets
 (784.51)
 (1,213.30)
(Increase)/decrease in other financial assets
 (93.71)
 527.13 
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables
 (1,501.31)
 (1,234.47)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions
 (244.75)
 (266.30)
Increase/(decrease) in other liabilities
 4,817.84 
 (1,364.82)
Cash generated from operations
 19,587.45 
 18,680.57 
Less : Income taxes (paid) / refund received 
 (140.27)
 (617.82)
Net cash generated from operating activities
 19,447.18 
 18,062.75 
Cash flows from investing activities
Interest received
 206.12 
 44.36 
Payments for property, plant and equipment, intangible assets under 
development and other intangible assets
 (2,839.53)
 (2,125.49)
Proceeds from sale of mutual funds
 2,500.00 
 7,803.64 
Payments for investment in mutual funds
 - 
 (9,000.00)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment
 338.66 
 801.48 
Movement in bank balance other than cash & cash equivalents
 (3,368.11)
 (154.69)
Net cash used in investing activities
 (3,162.86)
 (2,630.70)
221
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Cash flows from financing activities
Amount paid for increase in authorised share capital 
 - 
 (50.28)
Repayment of borrowings
 (2,496.43)
 (2,504.41)
Net increase / (decrease) in working capital borrowings
 (7,139.43)
 (9,673.25)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (1,418.87)
 (1,282.93)
Interest paid
 (951.96)
 (1,842.43)
Net cash used in financing activities
 (12,006.69)
 (15,353.30)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 4,277.63 
 78.75 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
 1,854.54 
 1,775.79 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 
 6,132.17 
 1,854.54 
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents as disclosed above 
 4,277.63 
 78.75 
Note: The above Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the “Indirect Method” as set out in the Indian Accounting 
Standard (Ind AS-7) Statement of Cash Flow.
Changes in carrying amount of financial liabilities included under financing activities under statements 
of cash flow :
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Opening balance
 13,994.62 
 25,624.13 
Changes due to cash flow
 (11,054.73)
(13,460.59)
Non cash change (gain)/loss
 934.55 
 1,831.08 
Closing balance
 3,874.44 
 13,994.62
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Arvind Uppal 
Pratik R. Pota
 Gaurav Khandelwal 
Pragya Kaul
Partner
Chairman
Managing Director & CEO
 Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary
(DIN-00104992)
(DIN-00751178)
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
 Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
 Dated : May 28, 2024 
Dated : May 28, 2024
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW
for the year ended March 31, 2024
222
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended March 31, 2024
A.	 EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
` in Lakhs
Particulars
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
 As at 
March 31, 2023
Opening Balance at the beginning of the year
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92
Movement during the year
 - 
 -
Closing Balance at the end of the year
 19,347.92 
 19,347.92
B.	 OTHER EQUITY
	
As at March 31, 2024
` in Lakhs
Particulars 
Reserves and Surplus 
Foreign Currency 
Translation 
Reserve
Attributable to 
Owners of the 
Company
Non-
controlling 
interest
Total Other 
Equity
Retained 
earnings
Securities 
Premium 
Capital 
Reserve 
Employee stock 
option scheme 
reserve
As at April 1, 2023
 1,963.88 
 3,87,063.45 
1,413.14 
 - 
 (23.95)
 3,90,416.52 
 118.86 
 3,90,535.38 
Add: 
Profit/(Loss) 
for the year
 9,563.86 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9,563.86 
 1.11 
 9,564.97 
Other comprehensive 
Income for the year, net of 
income tax 
 (237.27)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (237.27)
 (0.01)
 (237.28)
Exchange difference on 
translation of non-intergral 
foreign operations arisen 
during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24.58 
 24.58 
 - 
 24.58 
Total comprehensive 
income for the year
 9,326.59 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 24.58 
 9,351.17 
 1.10 
 9,352.27 
Additions 
during the year
 - 
 - 
 -
 3,448.76 
 -
 3,448.76 
 - 
 3,448.76 
Balance at 
March 31, 2024
 11,290.47 
 387,063.45 
1,413.14 
 3,448.76 
 0.63 
 403,216.45 
 119.97 
 403,336.42 
223
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
As at March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
Particulars 
Reserves and Surplus 
Foreign Currency 
Translation 
Reserve
Attributable to 
Owners of the 
Company
Non-
controlling 
interest
Total Other 
Equity
Retained 
earnings
Securities 
Premium 
Capital 
Reserve 
Employee stock 
option scheme 
reserve
As at April 1, 2022
 (217.20)
 387,063.45 
1,413.14 
 - 
 (0.31)
 388,259.08 
127.41 
 388,386.49 
Add: 
Profit/(Loss) 
for the year
 2,655.75 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,655.75 
 (8.51)
 2,647.24 
Other comprehensive 
Income for the year, net of 
income tax 
 (474.67)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (474.67)
 (0.04)
 (474.71)
Exchange difference on 
translation of non-intergral 
foreign operations arisen 
during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (23.64)
 (23.64)
 - 
 (23.64)
Total comprehensive 
income for the year
 2,181.08 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (23.64)
 2,157.44 
 (8.55)
 2,148.89 
Balance at 
March 31, 2023
 1,963.88 
 387,063.45 
 1,413.14 
 - 
 (23.95)
 390,416.52 
118.86 
 390,535.38
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended March 31, 2024
In terms of our report attached
For Deloitte Haskins & Sells LLP
For and behalf of the Board of Directors of Eureka Forbes Limited 
Chartered Accountants
Nilesh Shah
Arvind Uppal 
Pratik R. Pota
 Gaurav Khandelwal 
Pragya Kaul
Partner
Chairman
Managing Director & CEO
 Chief Financial Officer 
Company Secretary
(DIN-00104992)
(DIN-00751178)
Mumbai, India
Gurugram, India
Mumbai, India
 Mumbai, India 
Mumbai, India
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
Dated : May 28, 2024
 Dated : May 28, 2024 
Dated : May 28, 2024
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
224
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
	
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed 
on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised prospectively.
	
	
Judgements
	
	
Information about judgements made in applying 
accounting policies that have the most significant 
effects on the amounts recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements is included in 
the following notes:
	
	
Note 2(g) and Note 3(a) – Useful lives of Property, 
plant and equipment
	
	
Note 2(h), Note 5(a) and Note 6(a) – Useful and 
indefinite lives of Intangible assets
	
	
Note 2(i) and Note 27 – Employee Benefit Expense
	
	
Note 21, Note 33A and Note 33I – Provisions and 
Contingent liabilities
	
	
Note 21 and Note 33I – Estimation for provision 
of Warranty Claims
	
	
Note 8 – Impairment of Trade Receivables
	
	
Note 2(n), Note 11, Note 31 and Note 44 – 
Income taxes
	
	
Note 2(n), Note 23 and Note 43 – Recognition of 
Deferred taxes
	
	
Note 2(m)– Refund Liabilities
	
	
Note 2(q) and Note 5(b) - Impairment of Goodwill 
on consolidation
	
	
Note 33S - Impairment testing of goodwill and 
intangible assets with indefinite useful life
	
	
Note 27 and Note 37 - Employee stock option 
scheme expense
	
	
Share-based payments
	
	
Estimating fair value for share-based payment 
transactions requires determination of the most 
appropriate valuation model, which depends 
on the terms and conditions of the grant. This 
estimate also requires determination of the 
most appropriate inputs to the valuation model 
including the expected life of the share option or 
appreciation right, volatility and dividend yield 
and making assumptions about them. For the 
measurement of the fair value of equity-settled 
transactions with employees at the grant date, 
the Company uses a Black Scholes model and 
Monte-Carlo simulation model basis the type of 
option granted. The assumptions and models 
used for estimating fair value for share-based 
payment transactions are disclosed in Note 37.
BACKGROUND
The consolidated financial statements comprise financial 
statements of Eureka Forbes Limited (the company) and its 
subsidiaries (collectively, the Group) for the year ended 31 
March 2024. Eureka Forbes Limited is a limited company 
incorporated and domiciled in India with its registered office 
situated at B1/B2, 701, Marathon Innova, Off Ganpatrao 
Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, (West), Mumbai – 400013.
The Group is engaged in Manufacturing, selling, renting and 
servicing of Vacuum cleaners, Water Filter cum purifiers, 
trading in electronic air cleaning system etc.
NOTE 1:
A.	 BASIS OF PREPARATION OF 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
	
This note provides a list of material accounting policies 
adopted in the preparation of these consolidated 
financial statements. These policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented unless 
otherwise stated.
	
(a)	 Compliance 
with 
Indian 
Accounting 
Standards (Ind AS)
	
	
These consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with Indian 
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) notified under 
section 133 of the Companies Act 2013 (the Act) 
[Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 
2015] and other relevant provisions of the Act.
	
(b)	 Historical Cost convention
	
	
The Consolidated financial statements have 
been prepared on a historical cost basis, on 
accrual basis of accounting except for certain 
financial assets and liabilities (including derivative 
instruments) that are measured at fair value and 
the assets and liabilities of 2 subsidiaries whose 
financial statements have been prepared on 
realization basis.
	
(c)	 Functional and presentation currency
	
	
These consolidated financial statements are 
presented in Indian Rupees (`), which is also the 
group’s functional currency.
	
(d)	 Use of estimates and judgements
	
	
In preparing these consolidated financial 
statements, management has made judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the 
application of accounting policies and the 
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income 
and expenses. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
225
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
Assumptions and estimation uncertainties
	
	
Information about assumptions and estimation 
uncertainties that have a significant risk of 
resulting in a material adjustment in the next year 
is included in the note below.
	
	
(i)	
Note 33A and Note 33I – Recognition 
and measurement of provisions and 
contingencies: key assumptions about the 
likelihood and magnitude of an outflow 
of resources.
	
	
(ii)	
Note 33S - Impairment testing of goodwill and 
intangible assets with indefinite useful life
	
	
	
Assets are tested for impairment on an 
annual basis and whenever there is an 
indication that the recoverable amount 
is less than its carrying amount based on 
a number of factors including operating 
results, business plans, future cash flows 
and economic conditions. The recoverable 
amount is determined based on higher of 
value-in-use and fair value less cost to sell. 
Market related information and estimates are 
used to determine the recoverable amount. 
Key assumptions on which management 
has based its determination of recoverable 
amount include estimated long term growth 
rates, weighted average cost of capital 
and estimated operating margins. Cash 
flow projections take into account past 
experience and represent management’s 
best estimate about future developments.
	
	
(iii)	 Note 37 - Employee share option scheme 
– The cost of equity-settled transactions is 
determined by fair value at the grant date 
using an appropriate valuation model and 
recognized as an employee benefits expense 
over the vesting period. This expense 
reflects the best estimate of the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately 
vest. Service and non-market performance 
conditions are assessed separately from 
market conditions, which are included in 
the grant date fair value. Modifications 
to awards are expensed based on the 
increased fair value, and cancellations are 
expensed immediately. The dilutive effect 
of outstanding options is included in diluted 
earnings per share calculations.
	
(e)	 Measurement of fair values
	
	
A number of the group’s accounting policies 
and disclosures require the measurement of fair 
values, for both financial assets and liabilities.
	
	
Fair Value is the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The Fair value measurement 
is based on the presumption that the transaction 
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes 
place either:
	
	
•	
In the principal market for the asset or 
liability, or
	
	
•	
In the absence of a principal market, in the 
most advantageous market for the assets 
or liability.
	
	
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is 
measured or disclosed in the financial statements 
are categorized within the fair value hierarchy 
that categorizes into three levels, described as 
follows, the inputs to valuation techniques used 
to measure value. the fair value hierarchy gives 
the highest priority to quoted prices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 
inputs) and lowest priority to unobservable inputs 
(Level 3 inputs).
	
	
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities.
	
	
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included 
in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or 
liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly 
(i.e. derived from prices).
	
	
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not 
based on observable market data (unobservable 
inputs).
	
	
The group recognises transfers between levels of 
the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting 
period during which the change has occurred.
	
	
Further information about the assumptions made 
in measuring fair values is included in Note 39 – 
Financial instruments.
B.	 PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
	
(a)	 The Consolidated Financial Statements relate to 
Eureka Forbes Limited (the “Company”), and its 
subsidiaries (the Company and its subsidiaries 
constitute the “Group”) which have been prepared 
in accordance with the Indian Accounting 
Standard on Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Ind AS) 110 and Investments in Associates 
and Joint Ventures (Ind AS) 28 specified under 
section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013. Further 
the Consolidated Financial Statements include 
investments in associates accounted for using 
equity method in accordance with the Accounting 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
226
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Standard on Accounting for investments in 
associates in consolidated financial Statements 
(Ind AS) 28 specified under section 133 the 
Companies Act, 2013.
	
(b)	 The financial statements of the Company and 
its subsidiaries have been consolidated on 
line-by-line basis by adding together the book 
values of like items of assets, liabilities, income 
and expenses, after fully eliminating intra-group 
balances, intra-group transactions and resulting 
unrealized profits or losses.
	
(c)	 The excess of cost of investment in the 
subsidiary over the Group’s portion of equity of 
the subsidiary, at the date on which investment 
is made, is recognized in the financial statements 
as Goodwill on Consolidation.
	
(d)	 The excess of Group’s portion of equity of the 
subsidiary over the cost of the investments by the 
Group, at the date on which investments is made, 
is treated as Capital Reserve on Consolidation.
	
(e)	 The Goodwill / Capital Reserve is determined 
separately for each subsidiary company and such 
amounts are not set off between different entities.
	
(f)	
Non-controlling Interests in the net assets of the 
subsidiaries consist of :
	
	
(i)	
The amount of equity attributable to non-
controlling interest at the date on which 
investment is made; and
	
	
(ii)	
The non-controlling interest’s share of 
movements in the equity since the date 
the parent-subsidiary relationship came 
into existence. The losses applicable to the 
non-controlling interest in a consolidated 
subsidiary may exceed the non-controlling 
interest in the equity of subsidiary. The 
excess, and any further losses applicable 
to the non-controlling interest, are adjusted 
against the controlling interest except to the 
extent that the non-controlling interest has 
a binding obligation to, and is able to, make 
good the losses.
	
(g)	 Figures pertaining to the subsidiaries have been 
reclassified wherever necessary to bring them in 
line with the Company’s financial statements.
	
(h)	 Subsidiaries
	
	
The consolidated financial statements comprise 
the financial statements of the Company and 
its subsidiaries. Control is achieved when the 
company has:
	
	
-	
Power over the investee
	
	
-	
Is exposed or has rights to variable returns 
from its involvement with the investee, and
	
	
-	
has the ability to use its Power over the 
investee to affect its returns
	
	
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the point in time at 
which the control is transferred to the Group 
and are no longer included in the consolidated 
financial statements from the point in time at 
which the control ceases.
	
	
The list of subsidiary companies which are included in the consolidation and the Group’s holdings therein are 
as under:
Name of the Subsidiary 
(with effect from 1st February 2022)
Incorporated in
Percentage of Holding and Voting power (%)
As at March 31, 2024
Forbes Aquatech Limited
India
88.49
Infinite Water Solutions Private Limited
India
100
Euro Forbes Limited *
UAE
100
Forbes Lux FZE *
UAE
100
	
	
* The management of these 2 subsidiaries have changed the basis of accounting from going concern basis to liquidation 
basis. This change of basis was adopted considering that management intends to cease operations of these companies and 
liquidate them.
	
(i)	
Jointly 
Controlled 
Entities 
and 
Associates:
	
	
Interests in jointly controlled entities comprise of 
the share of the Group’s interest in a company in 
which the Group has acquired joint control over 
its economic activities by contractual agreement.
	
	
Entities are consolidated as Jointly controlled 
entities or associates when the Group, either 
directly or indirectly, has a long-term holding 
usually corresponding to at least 20% but not 
more than 50% of the voting rights and on the 
basis of which the Group has a joint control or 
significant influence during the year, unless it can 
be clearly proven otherwise.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
227
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
	
Interests in jointly controlled entities and associate 
companies are included in the consolidated 
financial statements of the Group from the point 
in time at which the joint control or significant 
influence is transferred to the Group and are 
no longer included in the consolidated financial 
statements from the point in time at which the 
joint control or significant influence ceases. 
Interests in joint ventures and associate entities 
are aggregated in the consolidated financial 
statements by using Equity Method specified in 
Indian Accounting standard (Ind AS) 28.
	
	
The Group’s holdings in jointly controlled 
entities and associate companies are reported 
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at an amount 
corresponding to the Group’s share of the jointly 
controlled entities and associate companies’ net 
assets including goodwill / capital reserve on 
consolidation and any impairment.
	
	
When the Group’s share of any accumulated 
losses exceed the acquisition value of an 
investment, the book value is set to zero and 
the reporting of future losses ceases, unless the 
Group is committed on the basis of guarantees 
or other obligations to the company in question.
	
	
The portion of unrealised profits and losses 
corresponding to the Group’s participation in the 
jointly controlled entity and associate company 
is eliminated in conjunction with transactions 
between the Group and the jointly entities and 
associate companies; however unrealised 
losses are not eliminated if the cost of the 
transferred asset cannot be recovered. The 
corresponding adjustment is made to the value 
of investments in the jointly controlled entities and 
associate companies.
NOTE 2: MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
(a)	 (i)	
Foreign currency transactions
	
	
Transactions in currencies other than company’s 
functional currency i.e. Indian Rupee are 
recognised at the exchange rate prevailing at the 
dates of the transactions.
	
	
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies are translated into the 
functional currency at the exchange rate 
prevailing at the reporting date. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities that are measured at fair 
value in a foreign currency are translated into the 
functional currency at the exchange rate when 
the fair value was determined. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities that are measured based on 
historical cost in a foreign currency are not re-
translated. Exchange differences are recognised 
in profit or loss not retranslated, except exchange 
differences arising from the translation of the 
equity investments which are recognised at fair 
value through OCI (FVOCI) are recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
	
(ii)	 Foreign Subsidiaries
	
	
The consolidated financial statements includes 
two subsidiaries (previous year: nil) incorporated 
outside India whose financial statements have 
been drawn up in accordance with the generally 
accepted accounting practices (GAAP) as 
applicable in those countries. These financial 
statements have been re-stated in Indian Rupees 
and the resultant exchange gain / loss on 
conversion has been carried forward as Foreign 
Currency Translation Reserve. In the opinion of 
the Management, based on the analysis of the 
significant transactions at subsidiaries, no material 
adjustments are required to be made to comply 
with group accounting policies / Indian GAAP.
(b)	 Financial Instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized 
when the Group becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instruments. Financial assets and 
financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. 
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial 
liabilities (other than financial assets and financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added 
to or deducted from the fair value of the financial 
assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial 
recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to 
the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities 
at fair value through profit or loss are recognised 
immediately in profit or loss.
	
(j)	
Financial Assets
	
	
All recognised financial assets are subsequently 
measured in their entirety at either amortised cost 
or fair value, depending on the classification of 
the financial assets.
	
	
Classification of financial assets
	
	
Debt instruments that meet the following 
conditions are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost (except for debt instruments that 
are designated as at fair value through profit or 
loss on initial recognition):
	
	
•	
The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets in order to 
collect contractual cash flows; and
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
228
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
	
•	
the contractual terms of the instrument give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on 
the principal amount outstanding.
	
	
	
Investment in equity instruments of 
subsidiary, associates and joint ventures are 
measured at cost less impairment. All other 
financial assets are subsequently measured 
at fair value.
	
	
Effective interest method
	
	
The effective interest method is a method of 
calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument 
and of allocating interest income over the relevant 
period. The effective interest rate is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts 
(including all fees and points paid or received 
that form an integral part of the effective interest 
rate, transaction costs and other premiums or 
discounts) through the expected life of the debt 
instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, 
to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
	
	
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis 
for debt instruments other than those financial 
assets classified as at FVTPL. Interest income is 
recognised in profit or loss and is included in the 
“Other income” line item.
	
	
Financial assets at fair value through profit or 
loss (FVTPL)s
	
	
Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair 
value at the end of each reporting period, with 
any gains or losses arising on re-measurement 
recognised in profit or loss. The net gain or loss 
recognised in profit or loss incorporates any 
dividend or interest earned on the financial asset 
and is included in the ‘Other income’ line item.’
	
	
Investments in equity instruments at fair 
value through other comprehensive income 
(FVTOCI)
	
	
On initial recognition, the Group can make 
an irrevocable election (on an instrument-by-
instrument basis) to present the subsequent 
changes in fair value in other comprehensive 
income. This election is not permitted if the 
equity investment is held for trading. These 
elected investments are initially measured at fair 
value plus transaction costs. Subsequently, they 
are measured at fair value with gains and losses 
arising from changes in fair value recognised in 
other comprehensive income and accumulated in 
the reserve for ‘equity instruments through other 
comprehensive income’.
	
	
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
	
	
Classification as debt or equity
	
	
Debt and equity instruments issued by a Company 
are classified as either financial liabilities or as 
equity in accordance with the substance of the 
contractual arrangements and the definitions of 
a financial liability and an equity instrument.
	
	
Equity instruments
	
	
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences 
a residual interest in the assets of an entity after 
deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments 
issued by the Company are recognised at the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
	
	
Financial liabilities
	
	
All financial liabilities are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method or at FVTPL.
	
	
Financial liabilities that are not held-for-trading 
and are not designated as at FVTPL are measured 
at amortised cost at the end of subsequent 
accounting periods. The carrying amounts of 
financial liabilities that are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost are determined based on the 
effective interest method. Interest expense that 
is not capitalised as part of costs of an asset is 
included in the ‘Finance costs’ line item.
(c)	 Derecognition
	
Financial Assets
	
The group derecognises a financial asset when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial 
asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the 
contractual cash flows in a transaction in which 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership 
of the financial asset are transferred or in which the 
group neither transfers nor retains substantially all of 
the risks and rewards of ownership and does not retain 
control of the financial asset.
	
If the group enters into transactions whereby it transfers 
assets recognised on its balance sheet, but retains 
either all or substantially all of the risks and rewards 
of the transferred assets, the transferred assets are 
not derecognised.
	
Financial Liabilities
	
The group derecognises a financial liability when its 
contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled 
or expire.
	
The group also derecognises a financial liability when 
its terms are modified and the cash flows under the 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
229
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
modified terms are substantially different. In this case, 
a new financial liability based on the modified terms 
is recognised at fair value. The difference between the 
carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished 
and the new financial liability with modified terms is 
recognised in profit or loss.
	
Offsetting
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount presented in the balance sheet 
when, and only when, the group currently has a legally 
enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends 
either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
(d)	 Impairment
	
(i)	
Impairment of financial asset
	
	
The Group recognises loss allowances for 
expected credit loss on financial assets 
measured at amortised cost, trade receivables, 
other contractual rights to receive cash or other 
financial assets and financial guarantee not 
designated as FVTPL.
	
	
The Group measures loss allowances at an 
amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses, 
except for the following, which are measured as 
12 month expected credit losses:
	
	
bank balances for which credit risk (i.e. the 
risk of default occurring over the expected life 
of the financial instrument) has not increased 
significantly since initial recognition.
	
	
Loss allowances for trade receivables are always 
measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected 
credit losses. Lifetime expected credit losses are 
the expected credit losses that result from all 
possible default events over the expected life of a 
financial instrument. The Group follows ‘simplified 
approach’ for recognition of impairment loss 
allowance for trade receivables. The application 
of simplified approach does not require the 
Group to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it 
recognizes impairment loss allowance based on 
lifetime expected credit loss at each reporting 
date, right from its initial recognition.
	
	
12-month expected credit losses are the portion 
of expected credit losses that result from default 
events that are possible within 12 months after 
the reporting date (or a shorter period if the 
expected life of the instrument is less than 12 
months).
	
	
In all cases, the maximum period considered 
when estimating expected credit losses is the 
maximum contractual period over which the 
group is exposed to credit risk.
	
	
When determining whether the credit risk of a 
financial asset has increased significantly since 
initial recognition and when estimating expected 
credit losses, the Group considers reasonable 
and supportable information that is relevant and 
available without undue cost or effort. This includes 
both quantitative and qualitative information 
and analysis, based on the Entity’s historical 
experience and informed credit assessment and 
including forward‑ looking information.
	
(ii)	
Impairment of non-financial assets
	
	
The Entity’s non-financial assets, other than 
inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed 
at each reporting date to determine whether 
there is any indication of impairment. If any such 
indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated.
	
	
For impairment testing, assets that do not 
generate independent cash inflows are grouped 
together into cash-generating units (CGUs). Each 
CGU represents the smallest group of assets 
that generates cash inflows that are largely 
independent of the cash inflows of other assets 
or CGUs.
	
	
The recoverable amount of a CGU (or an individual 
asset) is the higher of its value in use and its fair 
value less costs to sell. Value in use is based on 
the estimated future cash flows, discounted to 
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money and the risks specific to the 
CGU (or the asset).
	
	
The Entity’s corporate assets do not generate 
independent cash inflows. To determine 
impairment of a corporate asset, recoverable 
amount is determined for the CGUs to which the 
corporate asset belongs.
	
	
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying 
amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its estimated 
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are 
recognised in the statement of profit and loss. 
Impairment loss recognised in respect of a CGU 
is allocated to the CGU, and then to reduce the 
carrying amounts of the other assets of the CGU 
(or group of CGUs) on a pro rata basis.
	
	
An impairment loss in respect of assets other 
than goodwill for which impairment loss has 
been recognised in prior periods, the Entity 
reviews at each reporting date whether there is 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
230
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
any indication that the loss has decreased or no 
longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if 
there has been a change in the estimates used 
to determine the recoverable amount. Such a 
reversal is made only to the extent that the asset’s 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying 
amount that would have been determined, net 
of depreciation or amortization, if no impairment 
loss had been recognised.
(e)	 Cash and cash equivalents
	
For the purpose of presentation in the statement of 
cash flow, cash and cash equivalents including cash 
on hand, deposits held at call with financial institutions, 
other short term, highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash and which are 
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current 
liabilities in the balance sheet and are not considered 
as integral part of Group’s cash management.
(f)	 Inventories
	
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net 
realisable value. The cost of inventories is based on the 
weighted average method, and includes expenditure 
incurred in acquiring the inventories and other costs 
incurred in bringing them to their present location 
and condition.
	
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the 
ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs 
of completion and selling expenses.
	
The Net realisable value of work-in-progress is 
determined with reference to the selling prices of 
related finished products.
	
Raw Materials and other supplies held for use in the 
production of finished products are not written down 
below cost except in cases where material prices have 
declined and it is estimated that the cost of the finished 
products will exceed their net realisable value.
(g)	 Property plant and equipment
	
Freehold land is carried at historical cost. All other 
items of property, plant and equipment are stated 
at historical cost less depreciation. Historical cost 
includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the items.
	
Property, plant and equipment acquired in a business 
combination are recognised at fair value at the 
acquisition date.
	
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if it is 
probable that the future economic benefits associated 
with the expenditure will flow to the group.
	
Depreciation methods, estimated useful lives and 
residual value
	
Depreciation has been provided on the straight-line 
method as per the useful life prescribed in Schedule II 
to the Companies Act, 2013 except in respect of the 
following categories of assets, in whose case the life 
of the assets has been assessed as under based on 
technical advice, taking into account the nature of the 
asset, the estimated usage of the asset, the operating 
conditions of the asset, past history of replacement, 
anticipated technological changes etc.
	
The estimated useful lives of property, plant and 
equipment for the current and comparative periods 
(as applicable) are as follows –
	
In the case of Indian Entities
Type of Assets
Period
Plant & Machinery for cleaning 
services
5 years
Plant & Machinery on rent
6 years
Motor Cycles
3 years
Motor Cars
5 years
Office Equipments
3 to 5 years
	
In the case of Foreign Entities
Type of Assets
Period
Vehicles
5 years
Furniture and Office Equipments
2 to 5 years
(h)	 Goodwill and other Intangible assets
	
Intangible assets are initially measured at cost. Such 
intangible assets are subsequently measured at cost 
less accumulated amortization and any accumulated 
impairment losses.
	
An intangible asset arising from development (or 
from the development phase of an internal project) 
is recognised if, and only if, all of the following have 
been demonstrated:
	
(i)	
the technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for use;
	
(ii)	
the intention to complete the intangible asset 
and use;
	
(iii)	 the ability to use the intangible asset;
	
(iv)	 how the intangible asset will generate probable 
future economic benefits;
	
(v)	
the availability of adequate technical, financial 
and other resources to complete the development 
and to use the intangible asset; and
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
231
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
(vi)	 the ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during 
its development.
	
The amount initially recognised for intangible assets 
is the sum of the expenditure incurred from the date 
when the intangible asset first meets the recognition 
criteria listed above. Where no intangible asset can be 
recognised, development expenditure is recognised in 
profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.
	
Amortization
	
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 
Subsequently, intangible assets are carried at cost 
less any accumulated amortization and accumulated 
impairment losses, if any.
	
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed 
as finite or indefinite. Finite-life intangible asset are 
amortised on a Straight line basis over the period of 
their estimated useful lives. Estimated useful lives by 
major class of finite life intangible assets are as follow:
Type of Assets
Period
Technical Knowhow
5 years
Computer Software
5 years
Distributor network – Service
10 years
Distributor network - Product
10 years
	
Amortization method, useful lives and residual values 
are reviewed at the end of each financial year and 
adjusted if appropriate.
	
Indefinite - life intangible assets comprises of Brand 
Name / Trademarks for which there is no foreseeable 
Limit to the period over which they are expected to 
generate net cash inflows. These are considered to 
have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability 
of the brands and the level of marketing support.
	
For Indefinite life intangible assets, the assessment 
of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine 
whether it continues, if not, it is impaired or changed 
prospectively basis revised estimates.
	
Goodwill is initially recognised based on the accounting 
policy for Business combination and is tested for 
impairment annually.
(i)	
Employee Benefits
	
Short Term employee benefits
	
Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured 
on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the 
related service is provided. A liability is recognised 
for the amount expected to be paid e.g., under short-
term cash bonus, if the group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result 
of past service provided by the employee, and the 
amount of obligation can be estimated reliably.
	
Defined Contribution Plans
	
Defined contribution plans are employee state 
insurance scheme and Government administered 
pension fund scheme for all applicable employees and 
superannuation scheme for eligible employees. The 
group’s contribution to defined contribution plans are 
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss in the 
consolidated financial year to which they relate.
	
The company makes specified monthly contributions 
towards Employee Provident Fund scheme to a separate 
trust administered by the Company / deposited to 
EPFO. The minimum interest payable by the trust to the 
beneficiaries is being notified by the Government every 
year. The Company has an obligation to make good the 
shortfall, if any, between the return on investments of 
the trust and the notified interest rate.
	
Defined Benefit Plans
	
Gratuity Scheme
	
The Group operates a defined benefit gratuity plan 
for employees. The Group contributes to a separate 
trust administered by the Group towards meeting the 
Gratuity obligation. The Group’s liability is determined 
on the basis of an actuarial valuation. Remeasurements 
of the net defined benefit liability as per the actuarial 
valuation report, which comprise actuarial gains and 
losses are recognised in OCI.
	
In the case of certain Indian Subsidiaries
	
In case of certain Indian Subsidiaries, the gratuity 
liability is unfunded. The group accounts for gratuity 
benefits payable in future based on the calculation 
performed annually by a qualified actuary using the 
projected unit credit method at the end of the year. 
Actuarial Gains and Losses are recognized in OCI.
	
Other long term employee benefits
	
Entitlements to annual leave are recognised when they 
accrue to employees. The Group determines the liability 
for such accumulated leaves using the Projected 
Accrued Benefit method with actuarial valuations 
being carried out at each Balance Sheet date.
	
There are other Group companies that have internal 
or external pension plans. However, these plans are 
not material for the Group and therefore no further 
information is disclosed.
	
Since the above pension plans are operated as per the 
laws of respective countries, no adjustment has been 
carried out for differences if any with Indian GAAP as 
the same is considered to be immaterial.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
232
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
(j)	
Employee stock option scheme policy
	
Employees of the Group receive remuneration in the 
form of share-based payments, whereby employees 
render services in exchange for equity instruments 
(equity-settled transactions).
	
Equity-settled transactions
	
The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined 
by the fair value at the date when the grant is made 
using an appropriate valuation model. That cost is 
recognised in employee benefits expense (Note 27), 
together with a corresponding increase in equity, over 
the period in which the service and, where applicable, 
the performance conditions are fulfilled (the vesting 
period). The cumulative expense recognised for 
equity-settled transactions at each reporting date 
until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the 
vesting period has expired and are the Group’s best 
estimate of the number of equity instruments that will 
ultimately vest. The expense or credit in the statement 
of profit or loss for a period represents the movement 
in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning 
and end of that period.
	
Service and non-market performance conditions are 
not taken into account when determining the grant 
date fair value of awards, but the likelihood of the 
conditions being met is assessed as part of the Group’s 
best estimate of the number of equity instruments that 
will ultimately vest. Market performance conditions are 
reflected within the grant date fair value. Any other 
conditions attached to an award, but without an 
associated service requirement, are considered to be 
non-vesting conditions. Non-vesting conditions are 
reflected in the fair value of an award and lead to an 
immediate expensing of an award unless there are also 
service and/or performance conditions. No expense 
is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest 
because non-market performance and/or service 
conditions have not been met. Where awards include 
a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions 
are treated as vested irrespective of whether the 
market or non vesting condition is satisfied, provided 
that all other performance and/or service conditions 
are satisfied.
	
When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, 
the minimum expense recognised is the grant date fair 
value of the unmodified award, provided the original 
vesting terms of the award are met. An additional 
expense, measured as at the date of modification, is 
recognised for any modification that increases the total 
fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or 
is otherwise beneficial to the employee. Where an 
award is cancelled by the entity or by the counterparty, 
any remaining element of the fair value of the award 
is expensed immediately through profit or loss. The 
dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as 
additional share dilution in the computation of diluted 
earnings per share (refer Note 32).
(k)	 Research and Development
	
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an 
expense in the period in which it is incurred.
	
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from 
development (or from the development phase of an 
internal project) is recognised if, and only if, all of the 
following conditions have been demonstrated:
	
•	
the technical feasibility of completing the 
intangible asset so that it will be available for use 
or sale;
	
•	
the intention to complete the intangible asset and 
use or sell it;
	
•	
the ability to use or sell the intangible asset;
	
•	
how the intangible asset will generate probable 
future economic benefits;
	
•	
the availability of adequate technical, financial 
and other resources to complete the development 
and to use or sell the intangible asset; and
	
•	
the ability to measure reliably the expenditure 
attributable to the intangible asset during 
its development.
	
The amount initially recognised for internally-generated 
intangible assets is the sum of the expenditure incurred 
from the date when the intangible asset first meets the 
recognition criteria listed above. Where no internally-
generated intangible asset can be recognised, 
development expenditure is recognised in profit or loss 
in the period in which it is incurred.
	
Subsequent to initial recognition, internally-generated 
intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, 
on the same basis as intangible assets that are 
acquired separately.
(l)	
Lease Accounting
	
Ind AS 116 sets out principles for the recognition, 
measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. 
Ind AS 116 introduces a single lessee accounting 
model and requires a lessee to recognise assets and 
liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 
months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. 
For all leases except as noted above, a lessee is 
required to recognise a right-of-use asset (ROU Asset) 
representing its right to use the underlying leased 
asset and a lease liability representing its obligation 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
233
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
to make lease payments in the balance sheet. Lessee 
will recognise depreciation of right-of-use assets and 
interest on lease liabilities in the statement of profit 
and loss.
	
(i)	
The Group as a lessee
	
	
The Group’s lease asset classes primarily consist 
of leases for Premises. The group assesses 
whether a contract contains a lease, at inception 
of a contract. A contract is, or contains, a lease 
if the contract conveys the right to control the 
use of an identified asset for a period of time in 
exchange for consideration. To assess whether a 
contract conveys the right to control the use of an 
identified asset, the group assesses whether: (1) 
the contract involves the use of an identified asset 
(2) the group has substantially all of the economic 
benefits from use of the asset through the period 
of the lease and (3) the group has the right to 
direct the use of the asset.
	
	
At the date of commencement of the lease, the 
Group recognizes a right-of-use asset (“ROU”) 
and a corresponding lease liability for all lease 
arrangements in which it is a lessee, except for 
leases with a term of twelve months or less (short-
term leases) and low value leases. For these short-
term and low value leases, the Group recognizes 
the lease payments as an operating expense on 
a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
The lease payments are discounted using the 
interest rate implicit in the lease or, if not readily 
determinable, using the incremental borrowing 
rates in the country of domicile of these leases.
	
	
The lease payments that are not paid at the 
commencement date are discounted using the 
interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate 
cannot be readily determined, which is generally 
the case for leases in the Group, the lessee’s 
incremental borrowing rate is used, being the 
rate that the individual lessee would have to pay 
to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset 
of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a 
similar economic environment with similar terms, 
security and conditions.
	
	
Lease payments included in the measurement of 
the lease liability comprise:
	
	
•	
Fixed lease payments (including in-
substance fixed payments) payable during 
the lease term and under reasonably certain 
extension options, less any lease incentives;
	
	
•	
Variable lease payments that depend on an 
index or rate, initially measured using the 
index or rate at the commencement date;
	
	
•	
The amount expected to be payable by the 
lessee under residual value guarantees;
	
	
•	
The exercise price of purchase options, if the 
lessee is reasonably certain to exercise the 
options; and
	
	
•	
Payments of penalties for terminating the 
lease, if the lease term reflects the exercise 
of an option to terminate the lease.
	
	
As a practical expedient, Ind AS 116 permits a 
lessee not to separate non-lease components 
when bifurcation of the payments is not available 
between the two components, and instead 
account for any lease and associated non-lease 
components as a single arrangement. The Group 
has used this practical expedient. Contingent and 
variable rentals are recognized as expense in the 
periods in which they are incurred.
	
	
The lease liability is subsequently measured by 
increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest 
on the lease liability (using the effective interest 
method) and by reducing the carrying amount to 
reflect the lease payments made.
	
	
The Group remeasures the lease liability (and 
makes a corresponding adjustment to the related 
right-of-use asset) whenever:
	
	
•	
The lease term has changed or there is a 
change in the assessment of exercise of a 
purchase option, in which case the lease 
liability is remeasured by discounting the 
revised lease payments using a revised 
discount rate.
	
	
•	
A lease contract is modified and the lease 
modification is not accounted for as a 
separate lease, in which case the lease 
liability is remeasured by discounting the 
revised lease payments using a revised 
discount rate.
	
	
The right-of-use assets are initially recognized at 
cost, which comprises the initial amount of the 
lease liability adjusted for any lease payments 
made at or prior to the commencement date 
of the lease plus any initial direct costs less 
any lease incentives. They are subsequently 
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses. Whenever the Company 
incurs an obligation for costs to dismantle and 
remove a leased asset, restore the site on which 
it is located or restore the underlying asset to the 
condition required by the terms and conditions of 
the lease, a provision is recognised and measured 
under Ind AS 37. The costs are included in the 
related right-of-use asset, unless those costs are 
incurred to produce inventories.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
234
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
	
Right-of-use assets are depreciated from the 
commencement date on a straight-line basis 
over the shorter of the lease term and useful life 
of the underlying asset. Right of use assets are 
evaluated for recoverability whenever events 
or changes in circumstances indicate that their 
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For the 
purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable 
amount (i.e. the higher of the fair value less cost 
to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an 
individual asset basis unless the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are largely independent 
of those from other assets. In such cases, the 
recoverable amount is determined for the Cash 
Generating Unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
	
	
The Group has entered into lease arrangements 
as a lessee for premises for operating customer 
relationship centre, guest houses, head office 
and regional offices, residential premises for 
their employees so as to help the employees to 
get settled to new location and warehouse for 
receiving, storing and dispatch of goods and 
vehicles. The average term of leases entered into 
is 3 years. Incase of warehouses, on the basis 
of past practice the entire period of the contract 
has been considered for lease term depending 
on the reasonable certainty to continue with the 
same service provider. Generally, these lease 
contracts do not include extension or early 
termination options.
	
	
Extension and termination options are included 
in many of the leases. In determining the lease 
term the management considers all facts and 
circumstances that create an economic incentive 
to exercise an extension option, or not exercise a 
termination option.
	
	
Lease liability and ROU asset have been 
separately presented in the Balance Sheet and 
lease payments have been classified as financing 
cash flows.
	
	
The aggregate depreciation expense on ROU 
assets is included under depreciation and 
amortization expense in the statement of Profit 
and Loss.
	
(ii)	
The Group as a lessor
	
	
Leases for which the Group is a lessor is classified 
as a finance or operating lease. Whenever the 
terms of the lease transfer substantially all the 
risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the 
contract is classified as a finance lease. All other 
leases are classified as operating leases. Ind AS 
116 does not change substantially how a lessor 
accounts for leases. Under Ind AS 116, a lessor 
continues to classify leases as either finance 
leases or operating leases and account for those 
two types of leases differently. However, Ind AS 
116 has changed and expanded the disclosures 
required, in particular with regard to how a lessor 
manages the risks arising from its residual interest 
in leased assets.
	
	
When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it 
accounts for its interests in the head lease and the 
sublease separately. The sublease is classified as 
a finance or operating lease by reference to the 
right-of-use asset arising from the head lease.
	
	
For operating leases, rental income is recognized 
on a straight line basis over the term of the 
relevant lease.
(m)	 Revenue Recognition
	
The Group derives Revenue from sale of products 
primarily water purifiers and vacuum cleaners and 
providing related maintenance services. Revenue 
from sale of goods is recognised when control of the 
products being sold has transferred to the customer 
upon delivery. Revenue is measured net of taxes, 
returns, discounts, incentives and rebates earned by 
customers on the sales. Revenue from services are 
recognised over the period of time.
	
A refund liability (included in other current liabilities) is 
recognised for expected volume discounts payable to 
customers in relation to sales made until the end of the 
reporting period.
	
In relation to certain contracts where installation 
services are provided by the group, same is accounted 
as a separate performance obligation. Payment of 
the transaction price is due immediately when the 
customer purchases the goods/services except in 
certain cases where a credit term is agreed between 
group and customers.
	
Revenue is only recognised to the extent that it is 
highly probable a significant reversal will not occur. 
An estimate is made for goods that will be returned 
and a liability has been recognised for this amount 
as refund liability (included in other current liabilities). 
An asset has also been recorded (included in other 
current assets) for the corresponding inventory that is 
estimated to return to the group using a best estimate 
based on accumulated experience.
	
Group’s obligation to repair or replace faulty products 
under the standard warranty terms is recognised 
as provision.
	
Dividend income is recognised when the right to 
receive payment is established and known.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
235
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
Interest income from financial asset is recognised 
when it is probable that the economic benefit will flow 
to the company and the amount of income can be 
measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on time 
basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at 
the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate 
that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts 
through the expected life of the financial asset to that 
asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.
(n)	 Taxation
	
Income tax comprises current and deferred tax. It is 
recognised in profit & loss except to the extent that 
it relates to a business combination or to an item 
recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive 
income, in which the current and the deferred tax 
is also recognised directly in equity or in other 
comprehensive income.
	
Current Tax
	
Current tax is measured on the basis of estimated 
income and tax credits computed in accordance with 
the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
	
Current tax assets and current tax liabilities are 
offset only if there is a legally enforceable right to 
set off the recognised amounts, and it is intended to 
realise the asset and settle the liability on a net basis 
or simultaneously.
	
Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It 
establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis 
of amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities. Also 
refer Note 33A for Uncertain Tax Position.
	
The entity shall recognise the income tax consequences 
of dividends in profit or loss, other comprehensive 
income or equity according to where the entity originally 
recognised those past transactions or events.
	
Deferred Tax
	
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the 
corresponding amounts used for taxation purposes. 
Deferred tax liability are generally recognised for all 
taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax asset 
(including in respect of carried forward tax losses and 
tax credits) are recognised to the extent it is probable 
that the taxable profit will be available against which 
deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
	
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply to the period when the asset is 
realised or the liability is settled, based on the laws 
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by 
the reporting date.
	
Uncertain Tax position
	
Management periodically evaluates positions taken 
in the tax returns with respect to situations in which 
applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation 
and establishes provisions where appropriate. The 
provision is estimated based on one of two methods, 
the expected value method (the sum of the probability 
weighted amounts in a range of possible outcomes) or 
the single most likely amount method, depending on 
which is expected to better predict the resolution of 
the uncertainty.
(o)	 Earnings Per Share
	
The group presents basic and diluted earnings per 
share (EPS) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is 
calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to 
ordinary shareholders of the group by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares outstanding during 
the period. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting 
the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 
and the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding after adjusting for the effects of all 
potential dilutive ordinary shares.
(p)	 Provisions and Contingencies
	
A provision is recognized if, as a result of a past event, 
the Company has a present legal or constructive 
obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is 
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation.
	
The amount recognised as provision is the best estimate 
of the consideration required to settle the present 
obligation at the end of the reporting period taking 
into account the risk and uncertainties surrounding 
the obligation. When a provision is measured using the 
cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation its 
carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows 
(where the effect of the time value of money is material).
	
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations that 
arise from past events and whose existence will only 
be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of one or more future events not wholly within the 
control of the Company. Contingent Liabilities are 
not recognised in the financial statements but are 
disclosed in the notes.
	
Contingent assets are disclosed where inflow of 
economic benefit is probable.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
236
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
(q)	 Goodwill On Consolidation
	
Goodwill is deemed to have an indefinite useful life 
and is reported at acquisition value with deduction 
for accumulated impairments. Goodwill is tested for 
impairment on an annual basis and whenever there is 
an indication that the recoverable amount of a cash 
generating unit is less than its carrying amount based 
on a number of factors including operating results, 
business plans, future cash flows and economic 
conditions. The recoverable amount of cash generating 
units is determined based on higher of value-in-use 
and fair value less cost to sell. The goodwill impairment 
test is performed at the level of the cash generating 
unit or groups of cash-generating units which are 
benefitting from the synergies of the acquisition and 
which represents the lowest level at which goodwill is 
monitored for internal management purposes.
	
Market related information and estimates are used to 
determine the recoverable amount. Key assumptions 
on which management has based its determination of 
recoverable amount include estimated long term growth 
rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimated 
operating margins. Cash flow projections take into 
account past experience and represent management’s 
best estimate about future developments.
(r)	 Borrowing Cost
	
Borrowing Cost includes interest, amortization 
of ancillary cost incurred in connection with the 
arrangement of borrowings and exchange difference 
arising from foreign currency borrowings to the extent 
they are regarded as an adjustment to the interest cost.
	
Borrowing cost, if any, directly attributable to the 
acquisition, construction or production of an asset 
that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to 
get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised, 
if any. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the 
period in which they occur.
(s)	 Segment Reporting
	
Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the 
Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Board of Directors 
of the respective group companies assess the financial 
performance and position of the Group and makes 
strategic decisions. The Board of Directors, which have 
been identified as being the Chief Operating Decision 
Maker, consists of the key managerial personnel 
and the directors who are in charge of the corporate 
planning. Transfer prices between operating segments 
are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to 
transactions with third parties.
(t)	 Recent Pronouncements
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standards 
or amendments to the existing standards under Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time 
to time. For the year ended March 31, 2024, MCA has not 
notified any new standards or amendments to the existing 
standards applicable to the Group.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
237
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 3 : PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
` in Lakhs
Gross Block 
(refer note (a))
Freehold 
Land 
(refer note 
(b))
Buildings 
(refer note 
(b))
Plant and 
Machinery 
(refer note 
(c))
Assets-
on lease 
(refer note 
(d))
Electrical 
Installation 
& 
Equipment
Laboratory 
Equipment
Office 
Equipment
Furniture 
and 
Fixtures
Vehicles
Computers
Total
As at 01 April 2022
 6,405.00  
14,710.53  
4,568.36  
- 
 219.94 
 113.30  
83.83  
229.98 
 904.78  
729.39  
27,965.11 
Additions
 -
 102.72  
939.50  
7.19  
61.57  
16.31  
18.11  
43.31  
592.99  
103.01  
1,884.71 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 (237.13)  
-  
(15.07)  
(3.54)  
(8.45)  
(22.06)  
(359.77)  
(24.62)  
(670.64)
As at March 31, 2023
 6,405.00 
 14,813.25  
5,270.73  
7.19  
266.44  
126.07  
93.49  
251.23 
 1,138.00 
 807.78 
 29,179.18 
Additions
 - 
 99.10 
 1,434.94 
 - 
 31.65 
 13.29 
 36.90 
 68.20 
 24.59 
 255.72 
 1,964.39 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 (174.12)  
-  
(18.95)  
(26.78)  
(16.03)  
(28.61)  
(163.53)  
(77.63)  
(505.65)
As at March 31, 2024
 6,405.00  
14,912.35  
6,531.55  
7.19  
279.14  
112.58  
114.36  
290.82  
999.06  
985.87  
30,637.92
Depreciation
As at 01 April 2022
 -  
71.32  
85.70  
-  
5.85  
3.52  
12.29  
19.18  
61.84  
52.77  
312.47 
Charge for the year
 -  
442.13  
765.99  
0.90  
36.61  
23.55  
23.34  
35.94  
356.81  
270.44  
1,955.71 
Deletions
 -  
-  
(228.69)  
-  
(1.83)  
(0.79)  
(1.93)  
(2.74)  
(141.34)  
(8.16)  
(385.48)
As at March 31, 2023
 -  
513.45  
623.00  
0.90  
40.63  
26.28  
33.70  
52.38  
277.31  
315.05  
1,882.70 
Charge for the year
 -  
444.88  
539.38  
1.14  
35.43  
21.72  
20.83  
37.62  
252.92  
267.96  
1,621.88 
Deletions
 -  
-  
(82.80)  
-  
(4.32)  
(9.32)  
(11.34)  
(18.07)  
(79.21)  
(22.08)  
(227.14)
As at March 31, 2024
 -  
958.33  
1,079.58  
2.04  
71.74  
38.68  
43.19  
71.93  
451.02  
560.93  
3,277.44 
Net Block
As at March 31, 2023
 6,405.00  
14,299.80  
4,647.73  
6.29  
225.81  
99.79  
59.79 
 198.85  
860.69  
492.73  
27,296.48 
As at March 31, 2024
 6,405.00  
13,954.02  
5,451.97  
5.15  
207.40  
73.90  
71.17  
218.89  
548.04  
424.94  
27,360.48 
Notes:
a.	
Refer Note 42 for assets pledged as security.
b.	
The Title Deeds in respect of freehold land and buildings which has been acquired in business combination, are held in the name of erstwhile Eureka Forbes 
Limited. The company is in the process of transferring the above freehold land and Buildings in its own name.
c.	
Includes moulds given on Lease has a useful life of 15 years and depreciated accordingly.
d.	
Assets given on Lease have a useful life of 6 years and depreciated accordingly.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
238
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 4 : RIGHT OF USE ASSETS
` in Lakhs
Gross Block
 Leasehold land# 
 ROU Assets–
Buildings 
 Total
As at 01 April 2022
 345.01 
 1,438.52 
 1,783.53 
Additions
 - 
 2,013.94 
 2,013.94 
Deletions
 - 
 (513.27)
 (513.27)
As at March 31, 2023
 345.01 
 2,939.19 
 3,284.20 
Additions
 - 
 549.50 
 549.50 
Deletions
 - 
 (246.76)
 (246.76)
As at March 31, 2024
 345.01 
 3,241.93 
 3,586.94 
Depreciation
As at 01 April 2022
 0.86 
 192.36 
 193.22 
Charge for the year
 5.30 
 1,140.07 
 1,145.37 
Deletions
 - 
 (175.38)
 (175.38)
As at March 31, 2023
 6.16 
 1,157.05 
 1,163.21 
Charge for the year
 5.30 
 1,248.55 
 1,253.85 
Deletions
 - 
 (159.02)
 (159.02)
Adjustments
 - 
 (265.89)
 (265.89)
As at March 31, 2024
 11.46 
 1,980.69 
 1,992.15 
Net Block
As at March 31, 2023
 338.85 
 1,782.14 
 2,120.99 
As at March 31, 2024
 333.55 
 1,261.24 
 1,594.79 
#Refer Note 42 for assets pledged as security.
NOTE 5a : GOODWILL
` in Lakhs
Gross Block
 Goodwill 
on business 
Combination
Total
As at 01 April 2022
 205,581.67 
 205,581.67 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 205,581.67 
 205,581.67 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 205,581.67 
 205,581.67 
Impairment
As at 01 April 2022
 - 
 - 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 - 
 - 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 - 
 - 
Net Block
As at March 31, 2023
 205,581.67 
 205,581.67 
As at March 31, 2024
 205,581.67 
 205,581.67 
Refer Note 33S for Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
239
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 5b: GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION
` in Lakhs
Gross Block
Goodwill on 
Consolidation
Total
As at 01 April 2022
 299.46 
 299.46 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 299.46 
 299.46 
Additions
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 299.46 
 299.46 
Impairment
As at 01 April 2022
 - 
 - 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 - 
 - 
Charge for the year
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 - 
 - 
Net Block
As at March 31, 2023
 299.46 
 299.46 
As at March 31, 2024
 299.46 
 299.46 
NOTE 6a: OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
` in Lakhs
Gross Block
Computer 
Software 
Distributor 
network-
Service 
Distributor 
network-
Product 
Technical 
Knowhow 
Brand Name / 
Trademarks 
Total 
As at 01 April 2022
 126.74 
 20,557.83 
 3,966.24 
 19.79 
 291,119.26 
 315,789.86 
Additions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 126.74 
 20,557.83 
 3,966.24 
 19.79 
 291,119.26 
 315,789.86 
Additions
 1,194.13 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,194.13 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 1,320.87 
 20,557.83 
 3,966.24 
 19.79 
 291,119.26 
 316,983.99 
Depreciation
As at 01 April 2022
 28.44 
 342.63 
 66.10 
 19.79 
 - 
 456.96 
Charge for the year
 92.59 
 2,055.78 
 396.62 
 - 
 - 
 2,544.99 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2023
 121.03 
 2,398.41 
 462.72 
 19.79 
 - 
 3,001.95 
Charge for the year
 74.57 
 2,055.78 
 396.62 
 - 
 - 
 2,526.97 
Deletions
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at March 31, 2024
 195.60 
 4,454.19 
 859.34 
 19.79 
 - 
 5,528.92 
Net Block
As at March 31, 2023
 5.71 
 18,159.42 
 3,503.52 
 - 
 291,119.26 
 312,787.91 
As at March 31, 2024
 1,125.27 
 16,103.64 
 3,106.90 
 - 
 291,119.26 
 311,455.07
Notes:
Refer Note 33S for Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
240
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 6b: INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
` in Lakhs
Movement of intangible assets under development
 As at 
March 31, 2024 
 As at 
March 31, 2023 
Opening balance
 245.93 
–
Add: Additions during the year
 598.71 
 245.93 
Less: Capitalized during the year
 (722.45)
–
Closing balance
122.19 
245.93
` in Lakhs
Amount of intangible assets under development 
for a period of
 As at March 31, 2024
 As at March 31, 2023
Projects in 
progress
Projects 
temporarily 
suspended
Projects in 
progress
Projects 
temporarily 
suspended
Less than 1 year
 122.19 
 - 
 245.93 
 - 
1-2 years
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 122.19 
 - 
 245.93 
 - 
NOTE 7 : INVESTMENTS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Non-current Investments
Unquoted Investments (all fully paid up)
Investments in Equity Instruments
14,286 (March 31, 2023: 14,286) equity shares of ` 10 fully paid up in Water 
Quality Association (Refer Note below)
 1.42 
 1.43 
Total Unquoted Investments at cost
 1.42 
 1.43 
Total Non-current Investment 
 1.42 
 1.43 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments and market value thereof
1.42
 1.43
Note: The Group has invested in 14,286 shares of face value ` 10 each in a non profit making organisation hence the fair 
value has been considered same as the carrying value.
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current Investments
Unquoted Investments in Mutual Funds
Nippon India Liquid Fund - Growth Plan Growth Option: 55,815.86 units 
(March 31, 2023: 55,815.86 units)
 3,261.68 
 3,043.76
Tata Liquid Fund - Regular Plan - Growth: 59,228.91 units (March 31, 
2023: 1,28,929.77 units)
 2,233.16 
 4,536.19
Total Current Investment 
 5,494.84 
 7,579.95
Aggregate value of unquoted investments and market value thereof
 5,494.84 
 7,579.95
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
241
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 8 : TRADE RECEIVABLES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Non-current Trade Receivables
Unsecured, credit impaired
 361.75 
 361.75 
Less: Allowance for doubtful debts
 (361.75)
 (361.75)
Total Non-current Trade Receivables
 - 
 - 
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current Trade Receivables
Unsecured, considered good
 13,751.84 
 12,366.95 
Unsecured, credit impaired
 878.72 
 3,582.15 
Less: Allowance for doubtful debts
 (878.72)
 (3,582.15)
Total Current Trade Receivables
 13,751.84 
 12,366.95 
Ageing for trade receivables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2024:
` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables–
Considered good
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables–
Credit impaired
Disputed Trade 
Receivables–
Considered good
Disputed Trade 
Receivables–
Credit impaired
Not due
 10,481.44 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Less than 6 months
 2,564.47 
 - 
 - 
 - 
6 months–1 year
 501.03 
 56.67 
 - 
 - 
1-2 years
 130.36 
 272.22 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 74.11 
 93.34 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 0.43 
 818.24 
 - 
 - 
Total (A)
 13,751.84 
 1,240.47 
 - 
 - 
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss (B)
 - 
 (1,240.47)
 - 
 - 
Total [(A)–(B)]
 13,751.84 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Ageing for trade receivables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2023:
` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following 
periods from due date of 
payment
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables–
Considered good
Undisputed Trade 
Receivables–
Credit impaired
Disputed Trade 
Receivables–
Considered good
Disputed Trade 
Receivables–
Credit impaired
Not due
 6,006.50 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Less than 6 months
 5,607.49 
 20.28 
 - 
 - 
6 months–1 year
 688.41 
 426.30 
 - 
 - 
1-2 years
 64.55 
 917.88 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 - 
 1,163.04 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 - 
 1,416.40 
 - 
 - 
Total (A)
 12,366.95 
 3,943.90 
 - 
 - 
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss (B)
 - 
 (3,943.90)
 - 
 - 
Total [(A)–(B)]
 12,366.95 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes:
a.	
The Group’s exposure to credit risk and loss allowances related to trade receivables are disclosed in Note 41.
b.	
The Group uses simplified approach for trade receivable for calculating expected credit loss. Accordingly the Group 
does not track changes in credit risk of individual trade receivable.
c.	
Refer Note 42 for receivables pledged as security against borrowings.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
242
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 9 : LOANS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current Loans
Loans to Employees
-	
Unsecured, considered good
 48.07 
 6.52 
Total Current Loans
 48.07 
 6.52 
NOTE 10 : OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Other Non-current Financial Assets
Bank deposits with more than 12 months maturity 
 45.71 
 4.35 
Deposit with Banks held as Margin Money
 801.63 
 804.10 
Security deposits - unsecured considered good
 421.11 
 363.17 
Total Other Non-current Financial Assets
 1,268.45 
 1,171.62 
Other Current Financial Assets
Security deposits–unsecured considered good
 90.70 
 93.82 
Total Other Current Financial Assets
 90.70 
 93.82 
NOTE 11 : INCOME TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Income tax assets (Net)
Advance income-tax (net of Provision for Taxation)
 3,117.80 
 2,429.67 
Total Non-current Income tax assets
 3,117.80 
 2,429.67 
Income tax Liabilities (Net)
Provision for Taxation (net of Advance Tax)
 6,476.65 
 1,886.90 
Total Current Income tax liabilities
 6,476.65 
 1,886.90 
NOTE 12 : OTHER ASSETS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Other Non-current Assets
Unsecured considered good, unless stated otherwise
Capital Advances
 150.24 
 145.96 
Prepaid Expenses
 66.14 
 107.13 
Balance with government authorities
 1,063.03 
 1,051.05 
Total Other Non-current Assets
 1,279.41 
 1,304.14 
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Other Current Assets
Unsecured considered good, unless stated otherwise
Prepaid Expenses
 1,127.18 
 1,226.83 
Right to Recover Returned Goods (Refer Note (a) below)
 94.95 
 96.75 
Balance with government authorities
 2,933.43 
 3,591.50 
Advances recoverable in cash or kind
 2,167.39 
 602.91 
Advances recoverable in cash or kind - considered doubtful
 3,610.01 
 3,610.01 
 9,932.96 
 9,128.00 
Less: Provision for doubtful advances
 (3,610.01)
 (3,610.01)
Total Other Current Assets
 6,322.95 
 5,517.99 
Notes:
a.	
A return right gives the Group a contractual right to recover the goods from a customer (return assets) if the customer 
exercises his right to return the goods and the right to recover returned goods is accounted for the products that are 
expected to be returned.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
243
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 13 : INVENTORIES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Inventories (lower of cost or net realisable value)
Raw Materials, Components and Packing Material (includes in transit ` 
1,790.15 lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 1,236.64 lakhs))
 6,008.69 
 5,127.47 
Finished Goods (includes in transit: ` 513.99 lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 355.62 
Lakhs))
 5,274.62 
 5,141.73 
Stock in Trade (includes in transit ` 1,286.86 lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 216.31 
Lakhs))
 6,441.68 
 5,797.55 
Spares & Accessories (includes in transit: ` 25.89 lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 
157.99 Lakhs))
 7,545.71 
 5,889.90 
Work-in-Progress
 - 
 46.46 
 25,270.70 
 22,003.10 
Refer Note 42 for inventories pledged as security against borrowing.
NOTE 14 : CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND OTHER BANK BALANCES
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and in banks. Cash and 
cash equivalents at the end of the reporting period as shown in the cash flows statement can be reconciled to the related 
items in the balance sheet as follows:
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Balances with Banks in current accounts
 5,546.81 
 1,450.49 
Cheques, drafts on hand
 62.15 
 23.02 
Cash on hand
 95.63 
 356.44 
Deposits with original maturity of less than 3 Months *
 427.58 
 24.59 
Total Cash & cash equivalents
 6,132.17 
 1,854.54 
Bank Balances other than cash & cash equivalents
Deposits with original maturity of more than 12 months *
 7.47 
 62.20 
Deposits with original maturity of more than 3 months but less than 12 months *
 3,615.03 
 192.19 
Total Bank Balances other than cash & cash equivalents
 3,622.50 
 254.39 
Cash and cash equivalents as per cash flow statement
 6,132.17 
 1,854.54 
* Includes a total amount of ` 84.09 Lakhs of deposits lodged as security with Government authorities..
NOTE 15 : EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
Particulars
Number of 
shares
Share capital 
` in Lakhs
Authorised Share capital:
As at April 01, 2022
20,00,00,000
20,000.00
Increase during the year 
5,00,00,000
5,000.00
As at March 31, 2023
25,00,00,000
25,000.00
Increase during the year 
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
25,00,00,000
25,000.00
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
244
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Issued and subscribed capital comprises:
19,34,79,240 (Previous year: 19,34,79,240) fully paid equity shares of ` 10 each
19,347.92
 19,347.92
Movement in equity share capital:
Number of 
shares
Share capital 
` in Lakhs
As at April 01, 2022
193,479,240
19,347.92
Increase during the year 
-
-
As at March 31, 2023
193,479,240
19,347.92
Increase during the year 
-
-
As at March 31, 2024
193,479,240
19,347.92
a.	
Fully paid equity shares have a par value of ` 10. Each holder of equity shares is entitled to one vote per share with a 
right to receive per share dividend declared by the Company. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are 
entitled to receive remaining assets of the Company (after distribution of all preferential amounts) in the proportion of 
equity shares held by the shareholders.
b.	
Details of shares held by the holding Group, the ultimate holding Group, their subsidiaries and 
associates:
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Lunolux Limited, Cyprus (Holding Company)
121,041,730
140,389,654
Total as at the end of the year
121,041,730
140,389,654
c.	
Details of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5% shares:
Particulars
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Lunolux Limited, Cyprus
 121,041,730 
62.56%
 140,389,654 
72.56%
India Discovery Fund Limited
 13,033,916 
6.74%
 16,062,569 
8.30%
Total
 134,075,646 
69.30%
 156,452,223 
80.86%
d.	
Details of shareholdings by the Promoters of the Group:
Promoter Name
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
% Change 
during the year
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Number of 
shares held 
% of holding
Fully paid equity shares
Lunolux Limited, Cyprus 
(Holding Company)
 121,041,730 
62.56%
 140,389,654 
72.56%
 (10.00%)
e.	
For the period of five years immediately preceding the date as at which the Balance Sheet is prepared:
	
i.	
Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up pursuant to contract(s) without payment 
being received in cash: 
	
	
19,34,79,240 Equity shares of ` 10 each allotted as fully paid-up pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement approved 
by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal on January 25, 2022. 
	
ii.	
Aggregate number and class of shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares: Nil
	
iii.	
Aggregate number and class of shares bought back: Nil
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
245
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 16 : OTHER EQUITY
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Retained earnings
Balance at beginning of year
 1,963.88 
 (217.20)
Add/ (less): Profit/ (Loss) for the year
 9,563.86 
 2,655.75 
Other comprehensive income arising from re-measurement of defined benefit 
obligation, net of tax
 (237.27)
 (474.67)
Balance at end of the year
 11,290.47 
 1,963.88 
Securities Premium
Balance at beginning of the year
 387,063.45 
 387,063.45 
Add: Addition during the year
 - 
 - 
Balance at end of the year
 387,063.45 
 387,063.45 
Capital reserve
Balance at beginning of the year
 1,413.14 
 1,413.14 
Add: Addition during the year
 - 
 - 
Balance at end of the year
 1,413.14 
 1,413.14 
Employee stock option scheme reserve 
Balance at beginning of the year
 - 
 - 
Add: Addition during the year (Refer Note 37)
 3,448.76 
 - 
Balance at end of the year
 3,448.76 
 - 
Forex Currency Translation Reserve
Balance at beginning of the year
 (23.95)
 (0.31)
Add: Addition during the year
 24.58 
 (23.64)
Balance at end of the year
 0.63 
 (23.95)
Total Other Equity
 403,216.45 
 390,416.52 
Description of nature and purpose of reserves:
Retained Earnings
This reserve represents the cumulative profits of the Group and the effects of remeasurement of defined benefit obligations. 
The reserve can be utilised in accordance with the provision of the Companies Act, 2013.
Securities premium
Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The reserve can be utilised in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Capital Reserve
The Capital reserve has been created on cancellation of shares held by then existing shareholders of the Group as per the 
composite scheme of arrangement approved by the national Group Law tribunal on January 25, 2022.
Employee stock option scheme reserves
The share-based payments reserve is used to recognise the value of equity settled share-based payments provided to 
employees, including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer to Note 37 for further details of 
these plans.
Forex Currency Translation Reserve
Exchange differences relating to the translation of the results and net assets of Group’s foreign operations from their functional 
currencies to the Group’s presentation currency (i.e. `) are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and accumulated 
in the foreign currency translation reserve. Gain and losses on derivatives that are designated as hedging instruments for 
hedges of net investments in foreign operations are included in the foreign currency translation reserve. Exchange differences 
previously accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve (in respect of translating both the net assets of foreign 
operations and hedges of foreign operations) are reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of foreign operations.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
246
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 17 : BORROWINGS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Non-current Borrowings
Secured – at amortised cost
Term loans
Banks–Rupee Term loan (Refer Note (a) below)
 - 
 2,470.94 
Total Non-current Borrowings
 - 
 2,470.94 
Current Borrowings
Secured – at amortised cost
Term loans
Banks–Rupee Term loan (Refer Note (a) below)
 2,491.97 
 2,517.62 
Loans repayable on demand 
Banks - Cash credit/Buyers credit (Refer Note (b) to (c) below)
 - 
 7,113.78 
Total Current Borrowings
 2,491.97 
 9,631.40 
a.	
Rupee Term loan (RTL) from ICICI Bank amounting to ` 10,000.00 lakhs (Outstanding as on March 31, 2024 
` 2,500.00 lakhs (March 31, 2023: ` 5,000.00 lakhs)) carries interest rate of 1 year MCLR and secured against pari 
pasu charge on tangible assets (Excluding vehicles and two wheelers purchased under Employee Benefit Scheme). 
The outstanding amount is payable in 4 equal quarterly instalment starting from June 19, 2024.
b.	
Secured Short term borrowing from banks is secured by pari-passu charge on hypothecation of stock-in-trade and 
book debts and carries interest @ 7.50% p.a to 10.60% p.a. during FY 2023-24.
c.	
Working Capital term loan, include Guaranteed Emergency Credit Line (GECL) of Nil (March 31, 2023: ` 39.88 lakhs) 
sanctioned and disbursed on December 11, 2020. This loan was sanctioned under Government of lndia Emergency 
Credit Line Scheme by State Bank ofindia SME Branch, Dehradun. GECL is secured by hypothecation of the Group’s 
subsidiary’s entire stock of inventories and receivables and is collaterally charged by movable property, plant and 
equipment of the Group’s subsidiary. Total tenure of GECL was 48 months, with moratorium of 12 months, wherein 
interest at 7.40% p.a is payable for full tenure of 48 months at monthly frequency on closing balance, while principal 
was repayable in 36 monthly instalments from December 2021 onwards. The borrowing has been repaid in full.
d.	
No amount are pending to be utilised from the borrowings outstanding as on March 31, 2024.
e.	
The Group has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or other lender.
NOTE 18 : TRADE PAYABLES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 6,936.87 
 6,774.72 
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than 
micro enterprises and small enterprises  
(Refer Note (a) below for dues to Micro and Small Enterprises)
 12,427.39 
 14,090.85 
Total Trade Payables
 19,364.26 
 20,865.57 
Ageing for trade payables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2024:
` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Undisputed 
dues- MSME
Undisputed 
dues–Others
Disputed 
dues- MSME
 Disputed 
dues–Others
Not due
 6,934.68 
 9,588.75 
 - 
 - 
Less than 1 year
 2.19 
 2,631.75 
 - 
 - 
1-2 years
 - 
 164.47 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 - 
 22.08 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 - 
 14.43 
 - 
 5.91 
Total 
 6,936.87 
 12,421.48 
 - 
 5.91 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
247
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Ageing for trade payables from the due date of payment for each of the category as at March 31, 2023:
` in Lakhs
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Undisputed 
dues- MSME
Undisputed 
dues–Others
Disputed 
dues- MSME
 Disputed 
dues–Others
Not due
 6,771.98 
 8,688.34 
 - 
 - 
Less than 1 year
 2.74 
 5,124.95 
 - 
 - 
1-2 years
 233.87 
 - 
 - 
2-3 years
 - 
 2.01 
 - 
 - 
More than 3 years
 - 
 35.77 
 - 
 5.91 
Total 
 6,774.72 
 14,084.94 
 - 
 5.91 
Note (a): Disclosures required under Section 22 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 
under the Chapter on delayed payments to Micro and Small Enterprises:
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
(i)	
Principal amount remaining unpaid to MSME suppliers as on year end
 6,932.04 
 6,769.84 
(ii)	
Interest due on unpaid principal amount to MSME suppliers as on year 
end
 4.83 
 4.88 
(iii)	 The amount of interest paid along with the amounts of the payment made 
to the MSME suppliers beyond the appointed day
 - 
 - 
(iv)	 The amount of interest due and payable for the year 
(without adding the interest under MSME Development Act)
 - 
 - 
(v)	
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid as on year end
 4.83 
 4.88 
(vi)	 The amount of interest due and payable to be disallowed under 
Income Tax Act, 1961
 4.83 
 4.88 
NOTE 19 : OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Other Current Financial Liabilities
Interest free trade deposits
 5,141.53 
 4,580.01 
Others:
	
Dues to employees
 6,887.57 
 5,356.85 
	
Dues on account of customer rebate schemes and other contractual 
liabilities
 6,387.21 
 5,178.96 
	
Unclaimed dividend
 0.01 
 0.01 
	
Other payables
 - 
 0.47 
Total Other Current Financial Liabilities
 18,416.32 
 15,116.30 
NOTE 20 : LEASE LIABILITIES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Non-current Lease liabilities
 409.66 
 857.15 
Current Lease liabilities
 972.81 
 1,035.13 
Refer Note 35 for detailed components of Lease liabilities.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
248
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 21 : PROVISIONS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Non-current Provisions
Employee benefits–compensated absences
 360.57 
 230.74 
Gratuity payable (Refer Note 36)
 17.10 
 14.74 
Total Non-current Provisions
 377.67 
 245.48 
Current Provisions
Employee benefits–compensated absences
 78.08 
 28.27 
Gratuity payable (Refer Note 36)
 385.04 
 561.56 
Other provisions
	
Warranties (Refer Note 33I - B)
 1,852.09 
 1,787.28 
	
Others (Refer Note 33I - A)
 51.25 
 51.25 
Total Current Provisions
 2,366.46 
 2,428.36 
NOTE 22 : OTHER LIABILITIES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Other Non-current Liabilities
Contract Liabilities - Income received in advance (Refer Note 33J)
 12,879.35 
 11,728.79 
Deductions from employees for Group's assets
 271.33 
 469.15 
Total Other Non-current Liabilities
 13,150.68 
 12,197.94 
Other Current Liabilities
Contract Liabilities - Income received in advance (Refer Note 33J)
 37,707.35 
 39,099.28 
Deductions from employees for Group's assets
 846.43 
 836.64 
Advance from customers
 1,901.67 
 1,297.45 
Contract liabilities - Others (Refer Note (a) below)
 305.42 
 29.63 
Refund liabilities (Refer Note (b) below)
 2,567.28 
 2,092.84 
Statutory liabilities (Contributions to PF, pension, ESIC, 
withholding taxes, VAT, GST, etc.)
 1,765.07 
 1,172.29 
Total Other Current Liabilities
 45,093.22 
 44,528.13 
Notes:
a:	
Contract liability pertains to deferred revenue arising as a separate performance obligation.
b:	
The Group recognises a refund liability for the amount of consideration received when a customer has a right to return 
products within a given period. Refund liabilities also include amount recognised for various discounts and incentives 
payable to customers.
NOTE 23 : DEFERRED TAX BALANCES (NET)
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
The following is the analysis of deferred tax (assets)/liabilities presented in the 
balance sheet:
Deferred tax assets (net)
 125.11 
 127.48 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
 81,135.58 
 81,897.44 
Total Deferred tax balances (net)
 81,010.47 
 81,769.96 
Refer Note 43 for detailed components of Deferred taxes balances.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
249
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 24 : REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Sale of products
 156,808.88 
 145,122.08 
Sale of services
 61,558.96 
 62,835.25 
Other operating revenues
	
Scrap sales
 305.38 
 282.53 
	
Other
 251.80 
 210.65 
Total Revenue from operations
 218,925.02 
 208,450.51 
NOTE 25 : OTHER INCOME AND OTHER GAINS/ (LOSSES)
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Other Income
Interest earned on financial assets that are not designated 
as at fair value through profit or loss:
	
Bank deposits (at amortised cost)
 197.92 
 41.56 
	
Interest Others 
 8.20 
 0.39 
	
Interest income on financial assets at amortised cost
 - 
 2.41 
Others
 186.03 
 207.74 
Total (A)
 392.15 
 252.10 
Other gains/(losses)–net
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment
 60.13 
 516.32 
Gain on disposal of Investments at FVTPL
 47.68 
 133.31 
Net foreign exchange gains
 1.20 
 13.88 
Net gain arising on financial assets measured at FVTPL
 367.21 
 80.33 
Gain on modification/disposal of Right of use assets
 9.58 
 27.40 
Total (B)
 485.80 
 771.24 
Total Other Income and other gains (A+B)
 877.95 
 1,023.34 
NOTE 26 : COST OF GOODS SOLD
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Raw Materials, Components and Packing Materials
Inventory at the beginning of the year
 5,127.47 
 5,422.03 
Less: Disclosed under exceptional item
 - 
 (796.79)
Add: Purchases
 83,009.90 
 63,846.41 
 88,137.37 
 68,471.65 
Less: Inventory at the end of the year
 (6,008.68)
 (5,127.47)
Cost of Raw Materials, Components and Packing Materials consumed
 82,128.68 
 63,344.18 
Purchases of stock-in-trade
 10,382.56 
 14,948.30 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, spares, stock-in-trade 
and work-in-progress 
 (2,386.37)
 3,323.46 
Less: Disclosed under exceptional item (Refer note 33T)
 (1,268.93)
 1,705.01 
Total Changes in inventories of finished goods, spares, stock-in-trade 
and work-in-progress 
 (3,655.31)
 5,028.47 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
250
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 27 : EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Salaries and Wages
 27,838.10 
 28,479.11 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 1,371.62 
 1,431.71 
Staff Welfare Expenses 
 321.60 
 403.21 
Employee stock option scheme (Refer Note 37)
 3,448.76 
 - 
Total Employee benefits expense
 32,980.08 
 30,314.03 
NOTE 28 : FINANCE COSTS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans
 759.78 
 1,796.81 
Interest on Lease Liabilities
 190.99 
 183.60 
Other borrowing costs
 26.68 
 45.51 
Total Finance costs
 977.45 
 2,025.92 
NOTE 29 : DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION EXPENSE
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
 1,621.88 
 1,955.69 
Depreciation of right of use assets
 1,253.85 
 1,145.37 
Amortisation of intangible assets
 2,526.97 
 2,545.00 
Total Depreciation and amortisation expense
 5,402.70 
 5,646.06 
NOTE 30 : OTHER EXPENSES
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Electricity Power and fuel 
 307.67 
 291.70 
Rent 
 517.42 
 727.05 
Repairs and Maintenance:
	
Building
 59.18 
 79.88 
	
Machinery
 35.11 
 45.46 
	
Others
 519.52 
 552.08 
Insurance 
 547.32 
 584.49 
Advertisement
 8,658.52 
 7,602.72 
Selling and Sales Promotion
 12,018.99 
 11,397.17 
Freight, Forwarding and Delivery
 6,493.71 
 5,563.82 
Wages to contractual workers 
 1,543.49 
 1,188.31 
Payment to Auditors (Refer details below)
 111.92 
 127.30 
Printing and Stationery
 103.63 
 113.22 
Communication cost
 756.05 
 1,185.05 
Travelling and Conveyance
 1,682.39 
 1,517.17 
Legal and Professional Fees
 1,478.46 
 4,822.79 
Vehicle Running Expenses
 346.72 
 856.89 
Rates and taxes, excluding taxes on income 
 205.87 
 361.03 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
251
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Conference Expenses
 914.70 
 1,934.52 
Service Charges
 30,027.98 
 29,599.42 
Information Technology Expenses
 5,405.87 
 5,306.31 
Logistics Expenses 
 1,974.53 
 2,003.97 
Other Establishment Expenses
 2,904.44 
 3,311.22 
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses (Refer Note 33K)
 51.00 
 21.00 
Directors' Sitting Fees
 13.05 
 20.90 
Bad Debts/Advances Written-Off
 38.14 
 13.79 
Provision for Doubtful Debts / Advances
 123.85 
 795.15 
Commission to Directors 
 385.00 
 291.50 
Total Other expenses
 77,224.53 
 80,313.91 
Payment to Auditors 
As Statutory auditor 
	
For Audit fee (includes Limited Review fees)
 100.61 
 105.00 
	
For other services
 0.50 
 10.29 
	
For reimbursement of expenses 
 1.56 
 1.76 
As Cost auditor 
 7.00 
 5.75 
As Tax auditor
 2.25 
 4.50 
 111.92 
 127.30 
NOTE 31 : INCOME TAX RECOGNISED IN STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Current tax
In respect of the current year
 4,084.65 
 2,077.62 
In respect of prior years
 (1.30)
 3.07 
 4,083.35 
 2,080.69 
Deferred tax
In respect of the current year
 (800.95)
 (876.75)
 (800.95)
 (876.75)
Total income tax expense recognised in the current year
 3,282.40 
 1,203.94 
NOTE 32 : EARNINGS PER SHARE
The calculations of profit attributable to equity shareholders and weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 
for purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share calculation are as follows:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Profit/(Loss) for the year attributable to equity share holders
9,563.86
2,655.75
Face value per equity shares
10
10
Weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of basic 
earnings per share (Nos.)
19,34,79,240
19,34,79,240
Weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of basic 
earnings per share (Nos.)
19,40,49,754
19,34,79,240
Basic earnings per share (`)
4.94
1.37
Diluted earnings per share (`)
4.93
1.37
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
252
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Basic Earnings per share
The earnings and weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share are 
as follows.
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company
9,563.86
2,655.75
Weighted average number of equity shares for the purposes of basic earnings 
per share (Quantity in numbers)
19,34,79,240
19,34,79,240
Diluted Earnings per share
The earnings and weighted average number of equity shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share are 
as follows.
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 
9,563.86
2,655.75
Weighted average number of equity shares for the purposes of basic earnings 
per share (quantity in numbers) 
19,34,79,240
19,34,79,240
Add: Share deemed to be issued in respect of employee stock option scheme
5,70,514
-
Weighted average number of equity shares for the purposes of diluted earnings 
per share (quantity in numbers) 
19,40,49,754
19,34,79,240
NOTE 33 : ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
33A		
Contingent liabilities and commitments (to the extent not provided for)
	
	
(a)	 Contingent liabilities:
	
	
	
(i)	
Disputed Income Tax demands*–` 2,220.59 lakhs (previous year ` 2,303.15 lakhs)
	
	
	
(ii)	
Disputed Central Excise demands–` 1,551.09 lakhs(previous year ` 1,551.09 lakhs)
	
	
	
(iii)	 Disputed Sales Tax demands–` 3,412.98 lakhs (previous year ` 3,397.65 lakhs)
	
	
	
(iv)	 Disputed Service Tax demands–` 858.03 lakhs (previous year ` 1,945.68 lakhs)
	
	
	
(v)	
Disputed civil suit–` 90.84 lakhs (previous year–` 33.73 lakhs)
	
	
	
(vi)	 Disputed claims against the Group not acknowledged as debt ` 42.85 lakhs (Previous Year ` 42.85 
lakhs)
	
	
	
(vii)	 Disputed Goods and Services Tax demand–` 1,602.93 lakhs (previous year ` 877.39 lakhs)
	
	
	
(viii)	 Disputed claims against the Group for certain Labour Law & related matters estimated at ` 42.50 lakhs 
(previous year ` 42.50 lakhs)
	
	
	
	
* In calculating the tax expense for the current year, the Group has considered taxability of certain 
income and allowability of certain expenditure for tax purpose based on the orders/judgments passed 
in further appeals in its own assessment of earlier year. Based on the same, no additional provision is 
envisaged necessary as on March 31, 2024 in respect of earlier years and current year.
	
	
	
	
In respect of all items mentioned above, till the matter are finally decided, the timing of outflow of 
economic benefit cannot be ascertained.
	
	
(b)	 Commitments:
	
	
	
(i)	
Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided 
for–` 491.73 lakhs (previous year ` 172.81 lakhs).
	
	
	
(ii)	
Towards product performance ` 269.55 lakhs (previous year ` 272.69 lakhs)
	
	
	
(iii)	 Towards service performance ` 65.28 lakhs (previous year ` 145.09 lakhs)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
253
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
33B	a.)	 The Group has given certain office / factory premises and moulds on operating lease basis. 
Details of which are as follows -
Particulars 
Building
Plant and Machinery (Moulds)
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
 ` in Lakhs
 ` in Lakhs
 ` in Lakhs
 ` in Lakhs
Gross Amount
 481.49 
 481.49 
 35.66 
 35.66 
Accumulated Depreciation
 179.20 
 159.56 
 31.50 
 29.80 
Depreciation
 19.64 
 19.64 
 1.70 
 1.70 
	
b.)	 The Group has given commercial premises under cancellable operating lease. Lease rental income included in 
the statement of profit and loss for the year is ` nil Lakhs (Previous Year ` nil Lakhs) for Premises. 
33C		
The Group is primarily engaged in the business of Health, Hygiene products and its services. Information 
reported to and evaluated regularly by chief operating decision maker for the purpose of resource allocation and 
assessing performance focuses on the business as a whole. Accordingly there is no other separate segment 
as per Indian Accounting Standard 108 dealing with “Operating Segment”. The geographical segmentation is 
insignificant as the export turnover is less than 10% of the total turnover and also Group’s Non Current assets 
(other than Financial Instrument, deferred tax, post employment benefits and rights arising under insurance 
contracts) are located in India.
	
	
Revenue from transactions with a single external customer did not amount to 10% or more of the Group’s 
revenue from external customers for current and previous year.
	
	
The Group’s main revenue is from sale of water purifiers, spares and servicing.
Revenue from External Customers:
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
India
 218,790.18 
 207,664.47 
Outside India
 134.84 
 786.04 
Total Revenue
 218,925.02 
 208,450.51 
33D		
The Group did not have any material transactions with companies struck off under section 248 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 or section 560 of Companies Act, 1956 during the current year and previous year.
33E		
The Group has not advanced or loaned or invested funds to any other person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (intermediaries) with the understanding that the intermediary shall:
	
	
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or
	
	
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
33F		
The Group has not received any fund from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (funding party) 
with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the Group shall:
	
	
(a)	
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on 
behalf of the funding party (ultimate beneficiaries) or
	
	
(b)	
provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
33G		
` 1,600.82 lakhs (Previous year ` 955.34 lakhs) revenue expenses incurred during the year on Research and 
Development has been charged to the respective heads of accounts.
33H		
There are no scheme of arrangements which have been approved by the Competent Authority in terms of 
sections 230 to 237 of the Companies Act, 2013 during the current year.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
254
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
33I	 	
Disclosures required by Indian Accounting Standard 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”
	
	
A)
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Excise Duty
Sales Tax
Excise Duty
Sales Tax 
At the beginning of the year 
 49.96 
 1.29 
 49.96 
 1.29 
Additional provision during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Write back during the Year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
At the end of the year 
 49.96 
 1.29 
 49.96 
 1.29 
	
	
B) 	 Warranty provision
	
	
	
The  Group gives  warranty on certain products, towards satisfactory performance of products during the 
warranty period. Warranty provisions are made for expected future outflows where no reimbursements are 
expected and  estimated based on  using historical information on the nature frequency and average cost 
of warranty claims. The table given below gives information about movement in warranty provisions:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
At the beginning of the year 
 1,787.28 
 1,786.61 
Add: Additions during the year*
 1,852.09 
 1,787.28 
Less: Utilization during the year 
 (1,787.28)
 (1,786.61)
At the end of the year 
 1,852.09 
 1,787.28 
	
	
	
*Included in Service Charges under Other Expenses.
33J		
Remaining performance obligation towards rendering of maintenance contracts as at the year end is recognized 
as “Income received in advance” and presented in “Other liabilities”. This obligation pertains to maintenance 
services that would be carried out over the contract period for which Group has received the advance. The 
service period ranges from 1 year to 4 year Management believes that 75% pertaining to remaining obligation 
as of the year ended 31 March 2024 will be recognised as revenue during the next financial year, 20% will be 
recognized as revenue in FY 25-26 and 5% will be recognised in FY 26-27.
	
	
Reconciliation of Revenue Recognised with contract price:
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Contract Price *
 219,200.59 
 206,250.71 
Adjustment for 
Less:
Refund Liabilities - Sales Return estimate
 211.52 
 215.00 
Performance Liabilities 
 305.42 
 29.63 
Unperformed performance obligation at the end the year
 50,586.70 
 50,828.07 
Unperformed performance obligation at the beginning of the year
 (50,828.07)
 (53,272.50)
Revenue from continuing operations 
 218,925.02 
 208,450.51 
	
	
* Net of Taxes
33K		
Corporate social responsibility expenditure:-
Particulars
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
 ` in Lakhs
a)	
Gross amount required to be spent by 
the Group
50.94
20.96
b)	
Amount spent during the year on:
Paid in 
cash 
Yet to be 
paid
Total
Paid in 
cash 
Yet to be 
paid
Total
	
(i)	
Construction/acquisition of any 
asset
–
–
-
–
–
 -
	
(ii)	
Purposes other than (i) above
51.00
–
51.00
21.00
–
21.00
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
255
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
33L		
The Group has not traded or invested in Crypto currency or Virtual Currency during the financial year or previous 
financial year.
33M	
The Group does not have any benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the 
Group for holding any benami property.
33N		
The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under clause (87) of section 2 of the Companies 
Act read with Companies (Restriction on number of Layers) Rules, 2017.
33O		
The Group does not have any investment property during any reporting period, the disclosure related to fair 
value of investment property is not applicable.
33P		
The Group is not covered under Section 8 of the Companies Act, thus related disclosure is not applicable.
33Q	
The Code on Social Security, 2020 (‘Code’) relating to employee benefits during employment and 
post-employment benefits received Presidential assent in September 2020. The Code has been published in the 
Gazette of India. However, the date on which the Code will come in to effect has not been notified. The Group 
will assess the impact of the Code when it comes into effect and will record any related impact in the period 
when the Code becomes effective.
33R		
The Group does not have any transaction which is not recorded in the books of accounts that has been 
surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 
(such as, search or survey or any other relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961).
33S		
Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life:
	
	
The Group has identified its business of Health, Hygiene products and its services as a single Cash Generating 
Unit (CGU).
	
	
The recoverable amount of the CGU has been calculated based on its value in use, estimated as the present 
value of projected future cash flows.
	
	
The values assigned to the key assumptions represent management’s assessment of future trends in the relevant 
industries and have been based on historical data from both external and internal sources. Market related 
information and estimates are used to determine the recoverable amount.
	
	
Key assumptions on which management has based its determination of recoverable amount include estimated 
long-term growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and estimated operating margins. Cash flow projections 
take into account past experience and represent management’s best estimate about future developments.
	
	
The key assumptions used in the estimation of the recoverable amount are set out below:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
Discount rate
11.57%
Terminal value growth rate
5.50%
	
	
The discount rate was derived basis the weighted-average cost of capital of debt and equity.
	
	
The cash flow projections included specific estimates for five years and a terminal growth rate thereafter. The 
terminal growth rate was determined based on management’s estimate of the long-term EBITDA growth rate, 
consistent with the assumptions that a market participant would make. Budgeted EBITDA was estimated taking 
into account past experience, adjusted for future expectations.
	
	
The Group has performed a sensitivity analysis and has concluded that there are no reasonably possible changes 
to key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of a CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
256
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
33T		
(a)	
Exceptional items for the year ended March 31, 2024 amounting to ` 1,514.90 lakhs pertains to the following:
	
	
	
An amount of ` 1,514.90 lakhs (including GST) for the quarter and year ended March 31, 2024 which is 
charged to Statement of Profit & Loss, on account of a fire at its Delhi warehouse location, resulting in 
damage to inventory, including raw materials, components, and finished goods. An insurance claim has 
been filed to cover the losses sustained from this incident.
	
	
(b)	
Exceptional items for the year ended March 31, 2023 amounting to ` 4,001.80 lakhs pertains to the following:
	
	
	
An amount of ` 2,501.80 lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2023, which is charged to Statement of Profit 
& Loss, on account of phasing out of certain non-moving models and product including its raw material 
and components, due to change in economic conditions and technological obsolescence. An amount of 
` 1,500.00 lakhs which represents stamp duty paid / payable for transfer of title of immovable property 
in the name of the Group pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement for merger of Aquaignis Technologies 
Private Limited and Euro Forbes Financial Services Limited into erstwhile Eureka Forbes Limited, followed 
by the merger of erstwhile Eureka Forbes Limited into Forbes & Group Limited and demerger of demerged 
undertaking (as defined in the scheme) of Forbes & Group Limited into the Group.
33U		
Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires determination of the most appropriate 
valuation model, which depends on the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also requires 
determination of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of the share option 
or appreciation right, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions about them.  For the measurement 
of the fair value of equity-settled transactions with employees at the grant date, the Group uses a Black Scholes 
model and Monte-Carlo simulation model basis the type of option granted. The assumptions and models used 
for estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions are disclosed.
33V		
Figures for the previous year are re-arranged/regrouped, wherever necessary, to correspond with the current 
year disclosure.
33W	
The Financial Statements for the year ended March 31, 2024 were approved for issue by Group’s Board of 
Directors on May 28, 2024.
34	 Additional information to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024
	
(I)	
Related Party Disclosures as at and for the year ended 31 March 2024
Particulars 
 Country
A
 
 Holding Company 
1	
Lunolux Limited (Ultimately controlled and 100% owned by funds managed by 
Advent International Corporation (“AIC”))
 Cyprus
B
Subsidiaries
1	
Forbes Aquatech Limited 
 India
2	
Infinite Water Solutions Limited 
 India
3	
Forbes Lux FZE–Dubai 
 Dubai
4	
Euro Forbes Limited–Dubai 
 Dubai
C
Name of Post employment benefit plans with whom transactions were carried out 
during the year:
1	
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Provident Fund 
 India
2	
Eureka Forbes Limited Managing Staff Superannuation Scheme 
 India
3	
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Gratuity Fund 
 India
D
 Key Managerial Personnel 
1	
Mr. Arvind Uppal–Non executive director
2	
Mr. Pratik R Pota- Managing director & CEO
3	
Mr. Homi Katgara –Non executive Independent director
4	
Mr. Vinod Rao–Non executive Independent director
5	
Mrs. Gurveen Singh–Non executive Independent director
6	
Mr. Shashank Samant–Non executive Independent director
7	
Mr. Sahil Dalal–Non executive director
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
257
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
(II)	 Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2024 
` in Lakhs
Nature of Transaction
Eureka Forbes 
Limited Employees 
Provident Fund 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited Managing 
Staff Superannuation 
Scheme 
Eureka Forbes 
Limited Employees 
Gratuity Fund
Expenses 
Contributions (Employer’s) to Post 
Retirement Funds
 1,564.08 
 187.43 
 714.11 
Outstanding 
Other payables to the Trust
 98.41 
 13.02 
 347.59 
	
(III)	 Transaction with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2024
	
	
Parties in D : Key Managerial Personnel Remuneration
	
	
Managing Director & CEO
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Pratik R Pota
Short-term employee benefits
 647.38
Post-employment benefits *
 22.92
Share -based payments #
 -
Total
 670.30
	
	
* The above amounts do not include expenses for gratuity and leave encashment since actuarial valuation is carried out at an 
overall level.
	
	
# The company has recognised a provision of ` 2,142.36 Lakhs (previous year Nil) towards employee stock options granted 
to key managerial personnel. The said amount represent fair value of option granted. The same has not been considered as 
managerial remuneration for the current year as defined under section 2(7B) of the Companies Act, 2013 as the options have 
not been vested.
	
	
Aggregate remuneration paid/payable to managing director & CEO does not exceed the limit prescribed under section 197 of 
the Companies Act, 2013.
	
	
Directors Sitting Fees and Commission
` in Lakhs
Name
Amount
Outstanding 
Amount as at 
March 31, 2024
Mr. Homi Katgara
 29.55 
 27.40
Mr. Arvind Uppal
 29.55 
 27.40
Mr. Vinod Rao
 29.90 
 27.40
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
 29.50 
 27.40
Mr. Shashank Samant
 29.55 
 27.40
Total
 148.05 
 137.00
	
	
Aggregate remuneration paid/payable to non-whole time directors does not exceeds the limit prescribed under 
section 197 of companies act, 2013.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
258
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
(i)	
Related Party Disclosures as at and for the year ended 31 March 2023
Particulars 
 Country
A
 Holding Company 
1	
Lunolux Limited (Ultimately controlled and 100% owned by funds managed by Advent 
International Corporation (“AIC”)) (w.e.f April 25, 2022)
 Cyprus
B
 Entities with joint control or significant influence over the entity 
1	
Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Private Ltd (upto April 25, 2022)
 India
2	
Lunolux Limited (upto April 25, 2022) 
 Cyprus
C
Subsidiaries
1	
Forbes Aquatech Limited 
 India
2	
Infinite Water Solutions Limited 
 India
3	
Forbes Lux FZE–Dubai 
 Dubai
4	
Euro Forbes Limited–Dubai 
 Dubai
D
Name of Post employment benefit plans with whom transactions 
were carried out during the year:
1	
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Provident Fund 
 India
2	
Eureka Forbes Limited Managing Staff Superannuation Scheme 
 India
3	
Eureka Forbes Limited Employees Gratuity Fund 
 India
E
Key Managerial Personnel 
1	
Mr. Arvind Uppal–Non executive director (w.e.f. April 26, 2022)
2	
Mr. Pratik R Pota- Managing director & CEO (w.e.f August 16, 2022)
3	
Mr. Marzin R. Shroff–Managing director & CEO (upto August 15, 2022)
4	
Mr. Homi Katgara –Non executive Independent director
5	
Mr. Anil Kamath–Non executive Independent director (upto April 26, 2022)
6	
Mr.D. Sivanandhan–Non executive Independent director (upto April 26, 2022)
7	
Dr. Mrs. Indu Shahani–Non executive Independent director (upto April 26, 2022)
8	
Mr. Jai Mavani–Non executive director (upto April 26, 2022)
9	
Mr. Pallon Shapoor Mistry–Non executive director (upto April 26, 2022)
10	
Mr. Vinod Rao–Non executive Independent director (w.e.f. April 26, 2022)
11	
Ms. Gurveen Singh–Non executive Independent director (w.e.f. April 26, 2022)
12	
Mr. Shashank Samant–Non executive Independent director (w.e.f. October 10, 2022)
13	
Mr. Sahil Dalal–Non executive director (w.e.f. April 26, 2022)
14	
Mr. Shapoorji Mistry–Non executive director (upto April 26, 2022)
15	
Mr. Shankar Subramanian–Non executive director (upto April 26, 2022)
F
Enterprises under Common Control–(where there are transactions) 
1	
Afcons Infrastructure Ltd. (upto April 25, 2022)
 India
2	
Jaykali Developers Pvt. Ltd (upto April 25, 2022)
 India
3	
SD Corporation Private Limited (upto April 25, 2022)
 India
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
259
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
(II)	 Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2023
` in Lakhs
Nature of 
Transaction 
Shapoorji 
Pallonji and 
Company 
Private Ltd 
 Afcons 
Infrastructure 
Ltd. 
 Jaykali 
Developers 
Pvt. Ltd 
 SD 
Corporation 
Private 
Limited 
 Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited 
Employees 
Provident 
Fund 
 Eureka 
Forbes Limited 
Managing Staff 
Superannuation 
Scheme 
 Eureka 
Forbes 
Limited 
Employees 
Gratuity 
Fund
Sales / 
(Sales Return)
Goods and 
Materials 
 0.05 
 0.17 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Services 
Rendered 
 - 
 0.08 
 0.02 
 0.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.05 
 0.25 
 0.02 
 0.34 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Expenses 
Contributions 
(Employer's) 
to Post 
Retirement 
Funds 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,387.34 
 205.41 
 463.77 
Outstanding 
Other payables 
to the Trust 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 84.79 
 36.10 
 530.68 
	
(III)	 Transactions with Related Parties for the year ended 31 March 2023
	
	
Parties in E : Key Managerial Personnel Remuneration
	
	
Managing Director & CEO
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Marzin R Shroff
Pratik R Pota
Short-term employee benefits
 120.81 
 699.79
Post-employment benefits *
 3.95 
 14.35
Long-term employee benefits
 4.94 
 -
Total
 129.70 
 714.14
	
	
*The above amounts do not include expenses for gratuity and leave encashment since actuarial valuation is carried out at an 
overall level.
	
	
Company has paid/provided for managerial remuneration which exceeds the limits / approvals mandated by the provisions of 
section 197 read with Schedule V to the Companies Act, 2013 aggregating ` 600.00 Lakhs as at March 31, 2023. The excess 
remuneration is subject to the approval of shareholders. Pending such approval, the remuneration already paid in excess of 
the limit is being held in the trust.
	
	
Directors Sitting Fees and Commission
` in Lakhs
Name 
Amount
Outstanding 
Amount as at 
March 31, 2023
Mr. Anil Kamath
 1.00 
 -
Mr. D. Sivanandhan
 1.00 
 -
Dr. Indu Shahani
 1.50 
 -
Mr. Homi Katgara
 28.90 
 24.75
Mr. Jai Mavani
 0.20 
 -
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
260
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
` in Lakhs
Name 
Amount
Outstanding 
Amount as at 
March 31, 2023
Mr. Shankar Krishnan
 0.20 
 -
Mr. Pallon Shapoor Mistry
 0.20 
 -
Mr. Arvind Uppal
 28.10 
 24.75
Mr. Vinod Rao
 28.70 
 24.75
Mrs. Gurveen Singh
 28.70 
 24.75
Mr. Shashank Samant
 23.30 
 22.50
Total
 141.80 
 121.50
	
	
Aggregate remuneration payable to non-whole time directors exceeds the limit prescribed under section 197 by 
Rs 72.73 lakhs and is subject to shareholders approval. The company has charged off the excess remuneration 
payable in the Statement of Profit and loss account for the year ended March 31, 2023.
NOTE 35 : LEASES
The break-up of current and non-current lease liabilities as at March 31, 2024 is:
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Current lease liabilities
972.81
1,035.13
Non-current lease liabilities
409.66
857.15
Total
1,382.47
1,892.28
The following is the movement in lease liabilities during the year ended March 31, 2024:
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Balance at the beginning of the year
 1,892.28 
 1,344.13 
Additions
 549.50 
 2,013.94 
Finance cost accrued during the year
 190.99 
 183.60 
Adjustments
 265.89 
 - 
Deletions
 (87.74)
 (337.89)
(Gain)/Loss on Modification/Disposal of Right of use assets 
 (9.58)
 (28.57)
Payment of lease liabilities
 (1,418.87)
 (1,282.93)
Balance at the end of the year
 1,382.47 
 1,892.28 
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of lease liabilities as at 
March 31, 2024 on an undiscounted basis:
` in Lakhs
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
Less than one year
 1,016.26 
 1,164.52 
One to five years
 632.35 
 902.30 
More than five years
 10.46 
 31.28 
Total
 1,659.07 
 2,098.10 
Rental expense recorded for short-term leases was ` 517.42 Lakhs for the year ended March 31, 2024. (Previous Year: 
` 727.05 Lakhs).
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
261
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Ind AS 116 requires lessees to determine the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease adjusted with any option 
to extend or terminate the lease, if the use of such option is reasonably certain. The Group makes an assessment on the 
expected lease term on a lease-by-lease basis and thereby assesses whether it is reasonably certain that any options to 
extend or terminate the contract will be exercised. In evaluating the lease term, the Group considers factors such as any 
significant leasehold improvements undertaken over the lease term, costs relating to the termination of the lease and the 
importance of the underlying asset to the Group’s operations taking into account the location of the underlying asset and 
the availability of suitable alternatives. The lease term in future periods is reassessed to ensure that the lease term reflects 
the current economic circumstances. After considering current and future economic conditions, the Group has concluded 
that no changes are required to lease period relating to the existing lease contracts.
Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss
` in Lakhs
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Depreciation expense on right-of-use assets
 1,253.85 
 1,145.37 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 190.99 
 183.60 
Expense relating to short-term leases
 517.42 
 727.05 
NOTE 36 : EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
(a)	 Provident Fund
	
The details of Eureka Forbes Limited Employees’ Provident Fund and planned assets position as at March 31, 2024 
is given below:
Particulars
Valuation as at
March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
Present value of benefit obligation at year end 
 15,950.48 
 15,391.19 
Planned Assets at the year end
 18,877.41 
 17,885.23 
Discounting Rate 
7.22%
7.50%
Expected Guaranteed interest rate
8.25%
8.15%
Average Expected Future Service
 16 years 
 14 years 
(b)	 Gratuity Fund
	
The principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuations were as follows.
Particulars
Valuation as at
Valuation as at
March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
Funded
Unfunded
Discount rate(s)
7.22%
7.50%
7.21%
 7.34% - 7.49% 
Expected rate(s) of salary increase
5.00%
4.50%
 5.00% - 5.50% 
 4.50% - 5.50% 
Mortality rates
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
2012-14 (Urban)
Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
2012-14 (Urban)
 Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
2012-14 (Urban) 
 Indian Assured 
Lives Mortality 
2012-14 (Urban) 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
262
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Amounts recognised in statement of profit and loss/ other comprehensive income in respect of these defined benefit plans 
are as follows.
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Funded
Unfunded
Service cost:
Current service cost
 176.18 
 142.50 
 1.21 
 1.33 
Net interest expense
 39.80 
 14.81 
 1.13 
 1.05 
Components of defined benefit costs 
recognised in profit or loss
 215.98 
 157.31 
 2.34 
 2.38 
Remeasurement on the net defined 
benefit liability:
Return on plan assets (excluding 
amounts included in net interest 
expense)
 (33.58)
 40.55 
 - 
 - 
Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from 
changes in financial  assumptions
 107.56 
 35.64 
 1.19 
 (0.31)
Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from 
experience adjustments
 241.06 
 555.60 
 0.25 
 2.90 
Components of defined benefit costs 
recognised in other comprehensive 
income
 315.04 
 631.79 
 1.44 
 2.59 
Total
 531.02 
 789.10
 3.78
 4.97
The current service cost and the net interest expense for the year are included in the ‘Employee benefits expense’ line item 
in the statement of profit and loss.	
The remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability is included in other comprehensive income.
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the entity’s obligation in respect of its defined benefit plans is 
as follows.
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Funded
Unfunded
 Present value of funded defined benefit 
obligation 
 (1,993.97)
 (2,144.19)
 (18.95)
 (15.18)
 Fair value of plan assets  
 1,657.14 
 1,624.27 
 - 
 - 
 Total 
 (336.83)
 (519.92)
 (18.95)
 (15.18)
 Restrictions on asset recognised  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Others 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 Net liability arising from defined 
benefit obligation 
 (336.83)
 (519.92)
 (18.95)
 (15.18)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
263
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
Movement in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows:
Particulars
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs
Funded
Opening fair value of plan assets 
 1,624.27 
 1,864.45 
Interest income 
 120.25 
 133.28 
Remeasurement gain/(loss):
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense)
 33.58 
 (40.55)
Contributions from the employer
 714.11 
 463.77 
Assets Transferred In/Acquisition 
 - 
 - 
Benefits paid
 (835.07)
 (796.68)
Other
 - 
 - 
Closing fair value of plan assets
 1,657.14 
 1,624.27 
The fair value of the plan assets at the end of the reporting period for each category, are as follows.
Particulars
Fair Value of plan asset as at
March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Funded
Government Of Indian Assets 
 296.82 
 561.32 
State Government Securities 
 317.64 
 131.74 
Special Deposit Scheme
 41.03 
 41.03 
Debt Instrument 
 712.35 
 516.58 
Corporate Bond
 104.05 
 297.50 
Cash and cash equivalents
 87.13 
 - 
Others
 20.97 
 20.96 
Mutual Funds
 77.15 
 55.14 
Total
 1,657.14 
 1,624.27 
Maturity Analysis of the Benefits Payments from the Fund 
Particulars 
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Funded
Projected Benefits payable in future years from the date of reporting
1st Following Year
 187.39 
 184.63 
2nd Following Year
 141.56 
 151.11 
3rd Following Year
 183.65 
 177.76 
4th Following Year
 256.11 
 236.15 
5th Following Year
 195.44 
 314.41 
Sum of years 6 to 10
 763.88 
 930.01 
Sum of years 11 and above 
 2,121.07 
 2,144.35 
Sensitivity Analysis
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
 Funded 
 Unfunded 
Presented benefit obligation on 
current assumptions
 1,993.97 
 2,144.19 
 11.72 
 8.94 
Discount rate (1% increase)
 (133.63)
 (138.49)
 (1.06)
 (1.01)
Discount rate (1% decrease)
 152.92 
 157.52 
 1.26 
 1.22 
Future salary growth (1% increase)
 154.80 
 160.71 
 1.29 
 1.24 
Future salary growth (1% decrease)
 (137.49)
 (143.50)
 (1.09)
 (1.04)
Attrition movement (1% increase)
 22.23 
 33.84 
 0.40 
 0.37 
Attrition movement (1% decrease)
 (25.24)
 (37.95)
 (0.46)
 (0.43)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
264
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
Sensitivity Analysis
Particulars 
 March 31, 2024 
 March 31, 2023 
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Unfunded
Presented benefit obligation on current assumptions
 7.23 
 6.24 
Discount rate (0.50% increase)
 (0.26)
 (0.25)
Discount rate (0.50% decrease)
 0.28 
 0.27 
Future salary growth (0.50% increase)
 0.28 
 0.27 
Future salary growth (0.50% decrease)
 (0.26)
 (0.25)
The sensitivity analysis have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions 
occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation 
as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may 
be correlated.
Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been 
calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same method as applied 
in calculating the defined benefit obligation as recognised in the balance sheet.
There was no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis from prior year.
In respect of foreign subsidiaries of the group, retirement benefits are governed and accrued as per local statutes and 
there are no defined benefit plans. The amount contributed to the defined contribution plan is charged to the Consolidated 
Statement of Profit & Loss on accrual basis. Hence the above table includes the details of Company’s incorporated in 
India only.
NOTE 37 : EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION SCHEME
A	
Employees Stock Option Plan (ESOP 2022)
	
The Company instituted an Employee Stock Option Scheme 2022 (“ESOP”) for certain employees which provides 
for a grant of 1,75,21,597 options (each option convertible into shares) to employees. During the year, company has 
made grant of total 1,56,79,262 options.
	
The first grant was made on May 29, 2023 for 1,35,95,130 shares, second grant was made on June 21, 2023 for 
13,54,685 options, third grant was made on November 09, 2023 for 4,54,994 options and fourth grant was made on 
March 21, 2024 for 2,74,453 options.
	
Scheme Details
	
The Company has granted two categories of ESOP. The detail of options granted under the plan are as under:
	
Terms of Category 1 (Service based) options
	
9,79,972 tenure based options to vest as under:
Vesting period
Type 1
Type 2
On completion of 1 year period
55% on completion of 1 year period 
and 45% on completion on 2nd Year
Grant date
May 29, 2023
May 29, 2023
Exercise price
210
400.93
No. of Options
 9,67,396 
 12,576 
Exercise period 
Maximum period of 4 years from the date of Vesting. 
Method of settlement (cash/equity)
Equity shares
	
The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using Black Scholes Option Pricing (“BSOP”) method, 
taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
265
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
	
Terms of Category 2 (Performance based) options
	
14,699,290 tenure and performance based options to vest only upon the following conditions being met 
1	
If 6 months Volume weighted average price of the share (VWAP) > 2.5x/ 3x/ 4.5x USD Multiple of Money (MoM) then 
employee will get variable number of ESOP depending on various range of MoM. (Range- minimum 2.5X MoM till 
more than 5X MoM).
2	
If investor sales the stake and  Internal Rate of Return (IRR)/ MoM /VWAP achieved, employee will get variable number 
of ESOP which will vest in proportion to stake sale and range of MoM/ IRR.
Grant date
May 29, 
2023
May 29, 
2023
June 21, 
2023
June 21, 
2023
November 
09, 2023
March 21, 
2024
Exercise price
210
400.93
210
586.09
505.06
446.8
No. of Options
Minimum 
- 4281697; 
Maximum 
- 9927421
Minimum 
-379726; 
Maximum- 
2687737
Minimum - 
779000;
Maximum- 
804719
Minimum- 
469813; 
Maximum- 
549966
Minimum- 
384413 
Maximum- 
454994
Minimum- 
244254 
Maximum- 
274453
Vesting Period
Maximum period of vesting is 7 years from the date of Grant 
Exercise period 
Maximum period of 4 years from the date of Vesting. 
Method of settlement 
(cash/equity)
Equity shares
	
The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using Monte Carlo Simulation Pricing (“MCS”) method 
so as to evaluate whether the performance conditions have been achieved.
	
The details of the activity has been summarised below:
Description
March 31, 2024
Outstanding at the beginning of the year
–
Exercisable at the beginning of the year
–
Granted during the year *
 1,56,79,262 
Forfeited during the year
 (3,82,781)
Exercised during the year
–
Vested during the year
–
Expired during the period
–
Transferred during the period
–
Outstanding at the end of the year
 1,52,96,481 
Exercisable at the end of the year
–
Weighted average remaining contractual life (in years)
 3.36 years
	
*Considering variable number of options, the maximum number of options are considered for the purpose of disclosure.
	
Valuation of ESOP Scheme
	
The Black Scholes valuation model has been used for computing the weighted average fair value for Category 1 stock 
options considering the following inputs:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
Grant date
May 29, 2023
Weighted average share price/ market price per share (` per share)
401.10
Exercise price (` per share)
210-400.9
Dividend yield
1.80%
Expected Life of options granted (vesting and exercise price in years)
1- 2 years
Average risk free interest rate
 6.7%–6.8% 
Expected Volatility
 25.2%–27.6% 
Fair value of option per equity share
 49.1–197.90
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
266
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
The Monte Carlo Simulation Pricing (“MCS”) method has been used for computing the fair value for 
Category 2 stock options considering the following inputs:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
Grant date
May 29, 2023
June 21, 2023
November 09,2023
March 21, 2024
Weighted average share price/ market 
price per share (` per share)
401.10
587.40
500.30
449.50
Exercise price (` per share)
210-400.9
 210-586 
505.10
446.80
Dividend yield
1.80%
1.80%
2.00%
2.00%
Expected Life of options granted  
(in years)
 4.9 - 7 
4.85
4.46
4.10
Average risk free interest rate
6.70%
6.70%
 6.9% - 7.3% 
 6.8% - 7.1% 
Expected Volatility
25.00%
25.00%
25.00%
25.00%
Fair value of option per equity share
 43.07-661.47 656.37-919.63
714.13
769.17
B	
Effect of employee stock option plan on the Statement of Profit and Loss and on its financial 
position:
Particulars
March 31, 2024
(` in lakhs)
Total employee compensation cost pertaining to stock option plan
 3,448.76 
Employee Stock option plan (ESOP) reserve
 3,448.76
NOTE 38 : FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to:
-	
safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern, so that they can continue to provide returns for shareholders 
and benefits for other stakeholders, and	
	
	
	
-	
Maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell 
assets to reduce debt.
Consistent with the industry, the Group, primarily, uses the gearing ratio to monitor and maintain the capital structure which 
is as follows:
Net debt (total borrowings net of cash and cash equivalents) divided by ‘total equity’ (as shown in the balance sheet).
The gearing ratios were as follows:
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Borrowings
 2,491.97 
 12,102.34 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
 6,132.17 
 1,854.54 
Net debt
 (3,640.20)
 10,247.80 
Total equity
 422,684.34 
 409,883.30 
Net debt to equity ratio
(0.86%)
2.50%
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
267
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 39 : FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – FAIR VALUES
Accounting classification and fair values
As at March 31, 2024
As at March 31, 2023
FVTPL*
FVTOCI**
Amortised Cost
FVTPL*
FVTOCI**
Amortised Cost
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Financial assets 
Cash and Bank Balances
 - 
 - 
 9,754.67 
 - 
 - 
 2,108.93 
Short-term loans and 
advances
 - 
 - 
 48.07 
 - 
 - 
 6.52 
Trade and other 
receivables
 - 
 - 
 13,751.84 
 - 
 - 
 12,366.95 
Current Investments
 5,494.84 
 - 
 - 
 7,579.95 
 - 
 - 
Non Current Investments
 - 
 1.42 
 - 
 - 
 1.43 
 - 
Other Current financial 
Asset 
 - 
 - 
 90.70 
 - 
 - 
 93.82 
Other Non Current 
financial Asset
 - 
 - 
 1,268.45 
 - 
 - 
 1,171.62 
Total Financial Asset 
 5,494.84 
 1.42 
 24,913.73 
 7,579.95 
 1.43 
 15,747.84 
Financial liabilities 
Trade and other payables
 - 
 - 
 19,364.26 
 - 
 - 
 20,865.57 
Other Current financial 
liabilities
 - 
 - 
 19,389.13 
 - 
 - 
 16,151.43 
Other Non Current 
financial liabilities
 - 
 - 
 409.66 
 - 
 - 
 857.15 
Current Borrowings 
 - 
 - 
 2,491.97 
 - 
 - 
 9,631.40 
Non Current Borrowings 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,470.94 
Total Financial Liabilities
 - 
 - 
 41,655.02 
 - 
 - 
 49,976.49 
*Mandatorily measured at fair value in accordance with Ind AS 109
** Investments in equity instruments designated as such upon initial recognition in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of Ind AS 109.
These investments in equity instruments are not held for trading. Instead, they are held for medium or long term strategic purpose. Upon 
the application of IND AS 109, the Group has chosen to designate these investments in equity instruments at FVTOCI as it is believed 
that this provides a more meaningful presentation for medium or long term strategic investment than reflecting changes in fair value 
immediately in profit and loss Account.
Fair value Hierarchy
This section explains the judgement and the estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that 
are recognised and measured at fair value.
` in Lakhs
Financial assets and liabilities measured at 
fair value–recurring fair value measurements  
at 31 March 2024 (Refer note Below)
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets 
Financial investment at FVTPL
Listed Equity Investment 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted Investments in Mutual funds
 5,494.84 
 - 
 - 
 5,494.84 
Financial investment at FVTOCI 
Quoted Investments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted Investments
 - 
 - 
 1.42 
 1.42 
Total Financial Asset 
 5,494.84 
 - 
 1.42 
 5,496.26 
Financial Liabilities
Derivatives accounted at FVTPL
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total Financial Liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
268
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
` in Lakhs
Financial assets and liabilities measured at 
fair value–recurring fair value measurements At 
March 2023 (Refer note Below)
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial assets 
Financial investment at FVTPL
Listed Equity Investment 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted Investments in Mutual funds
 7,579.95 
 - 
 - 
 7,579.95 
Financial investment at FVTOCI 
Quoted Investments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted Investments 
 - 
 - 
 1.43 
 1.43 
Total Financial Asset 
 7,579.95 
 - 
 1.43 
 7,581.38 
Financial Liabilities
Derivatives accounted at FVTPL
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total Financial Liabilities 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Reconciliation of level 3 fair value measurement of financial Instruments
Particulars 
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
Opening Value of Fair Value 
 1.43 
 1.43 
Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in statement of Profit or Loss 
 - 
 - 
Fair value gain/(loss) recognised in Other Comprehensive Income 
 - 
 - 
Purchases made during the year 
 - 
 - 
Sales made during the year 
 - 
 - 
Closing balance of fair value 
 1.43 
 1.43 
Description of significant unobservable inputs to valuations for level 3 items
Significant unobservable Inputs 
Relationship of unobservable Inputs to fair value 
Long term revenue growth rates taking into accounts 
managements experience and knowledge of market conditions 
of the specific industries.
A slight increase in the long term revenue growth rates 
used in isolation would result in increase in fair value.
Long term pre tax operating margin taking into account 
managements experience and knowledge if market conditions 
of the specific industries.
A significant increase in the long term pre tax operating 
margin used in isolation would result in increase in fair 
value.
Weighted average cost of capital (WACC), determined using a 
Capital Asset pricing Model 
A slight increase in the WACC used in isolation would 
result in decrease in Fair value.
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
•	
the use of quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments.
•	
All of the resulting fair value estimates are included in level 1 except for unlisted equity securities where the fair values 
have been determined based on present values and the discount rates used were adjusted for counterparty or own 
credit risk.
•	
The carrying amount of Trade receivables, Trade payables, cash and Cash Equivalents are considered to be the same 
as their Fair Values, due to their short term in nature.
•	
The Fair value of financial Instrument that are not traded in an active market is determined using valuation technique. 
The company uses its Judgement to select a variety of methods and make assumptions that are mainly based on 
market conditions existing at the end of each reporting period.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
269
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 40 : FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
The Group’s activities expose it to market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. In order to minimise any adverse effects on 
the financial performance of the Group, such as foreign exchange forward contracts are entered to hedge certain foreign 
currency risk exposure.	
This note explains the sources of risk which the entity is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk in the 
financial statements.
Risk 
Exposure Arising from 
Measurement 
Management
Credit Risk 
Cash and Cash Equivalents, trade receivables, 
financial assets measured at amortised cost 
and fair value through profit or loss
Aging analysis, 
Credit Rating 
Diversification of bank 
deposits, credit limits and 
letter of credit 
Liquidity Risk 
Borrowing and other liabilities
Rolling cash 
flow Forecast 
Availability of committed 
credit lines and borrowing 
facilities 
Market Risk- 
Foreign Currency
Future commercial Transactions Recognised 
financial assets and liabilities not denominated 
in Indian rupee (`)
Cash flow 
Forecasting 
Sensitivity 
analysis
Forward foreign currency 
Contracts Foreign currency 
option 
Market Risk- 
Interest rate
Long-term borrowings at variable rate 
Sensitivity 
analysis
Interest rate Swaps 
Market Risk- 
Security prices
Investment in equity securities 
Sensitivity 
analysis
Portfolio diversification 
The Group’s risk management is carried out by the Treasury team under policies approved by the  Finance committee. 
Treasury team identifies, evaluates and mitigates the financial risks.
NOTE 41 : FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS – FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(a)	 Credit risk
	
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, investments and deposits with banks, as well as credit exposures 
to customers including outstanding receivables.	
	
The carrying amounts of financial assets represent the maximum credit risk exposure. The maximum exposure to 
credit risk at the reporting date was:
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Investments
 5,494.84 
 7,579.95 
Trade receivables
 13,751.84 
 12,366.95 
Cash and cash equivalents
 6,132.17 
 1,854.54 
Other bank balances 
 3,622.50 
 254.39 
Loans
 48.07 
 6.52 
Other financial assets
 1,359.15 
 1,265.44 
	
Trade Receivables
	
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables by geographic region was as follows.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
India
 13,718.26 
 12,273.17 
Other regions
 33.58 
 93.78 
Total
 13,751.84 
 12,366.95 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
270
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
	
Impairment
	
The ageing of trade and other receivables that were not impaired was as follows.
Ageing
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
0-1 Year 
 13,546.94 
 12,302.40 
1-2 Year 
 130.36 
 64.55 
2-3 Year 
 74.11 
 - 
More Than 3 Yrs 
 0.43 
 - 
Total
 13,751.84 
 12,366.95 
	
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade and other receivables during the year was as follows.
Particulars
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Opening Balance
 3,943.90 
 3,318.42 
Amounts written off during the year as uncollectible
 161.99 
 - 
Impairment loss recognised/(released)
 (2,865.42)
 625.48 
Balance
 1,240.47 
 3,943.90 
	
The Group held cash and cash equivalents of ` 6,132.17 lakhs at March 31, 2024 (March 31, 2023: ` 1,854.54 
lakhs). The cash and cash equivalents are held with bank ` 5,546.81 lakhs at March 31, 2024 (March 31, 2023: 
` 1,450.49 lakhs).
(b)	 Liquidity risk
	
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial 
liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Company’s approach to managing liquidity 
is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they are due, under both 
normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Company’s reputation.
	
Exposure to liquidity risk
	
The following are the remaining contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the reporting date. The amounts are 
gross and undiscounted:
` in Lakhs
Non-derivative 
financial liabilities
Contractual maturities of financial liabilities 
Carrying amount
On Demand 
0- 1 year
1-5 years
> 5 years
Total
As at March 31, 2024
Banks - Long term loans
 2,491.97 
 - 
 2,491.97 
 - 
 - 
 2,491.97 
Trade payables
 19,364.26 
 - 
 19,364.26 
 - 
 - 
 19,364.26 
Lease Liabilities
 1,382.47 
 - 
 1,016.26 
 632.35 
 10.46 
 1,659.07 
Other Payable
 18,416.32 
 - 
 18,416.32 
 - 
 - 
 18,416.32 
As at March 31, 2023
Banks - Long term loans
 4,988.56 
 - 
 2,517.62 
 2,470.94 
 - 
 4,988.56 
Loans from banks
 7,113.78 
 7,113.78 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7,113.78 
Trade payables
 20,865.57 
 - 
 20,865.57 
 - 
 - 
 20,865.57 
Lease Liabilities
 1,892.28 
 - 
 1,164.52 
 902.30 
 31.28 
 2,098.10 
Other Payable
 15,116.30 
 - 
 15,116.30 
 - 
 - 
 15,116.30 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
271
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
(c)	 (i)	
Market Risk- Foreign currency
	
	
Exposure to currency risk
	
	
The currency profile of financial assets and financial liabilities as at March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023:
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2024
USD in Lakhs
EUR in Lakhs
SGD in Lakhs
Financial assets
Other Non-current financial assets
 1.30 
–
–
Trade and other receivables
 47.42 
 0.06 
–
 48.72 
 0.06 
–
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
 16.41 
 0.18 
 0.09 
 16.41 
 0.18 
 0.09 
Net Exposure
 32.31 
 (0.12)
 (0.09)
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2023
As at 
March 31, 2023
USD in Lakhs
EUR in Lakhs
SGD in Lakhs
Financial assets
Short-term loans and advances
 10.00 
–
–
Trade and other receivables
 10.81 
–
–
 20.81 
–
–
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
 14.37 
 0.07 
 - 
 14.37 
 0.07 
 - 
Net Exposure
 6.44 
 (0.07)
 - 
	
	
The following significant exchange rates have been applied.
Year-end spot rate
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
USD / `
 83.34 
 82.16 
EUR / `
 89.93 
 89.37 
SGD / `
 61.68 
 61.80 
	
	
Sensitivity analysis
	
	
The Sensitivity of profit or loss to changes in the exchange rates arises mainly from foreign currency denominated 
financial instruments.
Effect in `
Profit or (loss)
Strengthening
Weakening
As at March 31, 2024
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
USD 5% movement 
 (134.62)
 134.62 
EUR 5% movement 
 0.54 
 (0.54)
SGD 5% movement 
 0.29 
 (0.29)
 (133.79)
 133.79 
Effect in `
Profit or (loss)
Strengthening
Weakening
As at March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
USD 5% movement 
 (26.47)
 (26.47)
EUR 5% movement 
 0.30 
 0.30 
 (26.17)
 (26.17)
	
	
In management’s opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk because 
the  exposure at the end of the reporting period does not reflect the exposure during the year.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
272
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
(c)	 (ii)	 Market Risk- Interest rate
	
	
The Exposure of the Group borrowing to interest rate changes at the end of the reporting period are as follow:
Particulars 
As at 
March 31, 2024
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Variable Rate Borrowing 
 2,491.97 
 4,966.48 
	
	
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative 
instruments at the end of the reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the 
amount of the liability outstanding at the end of the reporting period was outstanding for the whole year. A 50 
basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel 
and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
	
	
If interest rates had been 50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s:
	
	
profit for the year ended March 31, 2024 would decrease/increase by ` 13.87/- lakhs (2023: decrease/increase by 
` 25.43/- lakhs). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.
	
	
The assumed movement in basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable 
market environment, showing a significantly higher volatility than in prior year.
NOTE 42 : ASSETS PLEDGED AS SECURITY
The carrying amounts of assets pledged as security for current and non-current borrowings are:
Particulars 
Notes
As at 
March 31, 2024 
As at 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Current
Financial Assets
Trade Receivable 
 8
 13,718.38 
 14,648.50 
Inventories
13
 24,368.54 
 21,913.37 
Other Current Assets
12
 - 
 65.74 
Total Current assets pledged as security
 
 38,086.92 
 36,627.61 
Non-current
Land–Freehold
3
 6,405.00 
 6,405.00 
Buildings 
3
 13,954.02 
 14,299.80 
Other Property, plant and equipment *
3
 6,707.35 
 6,444.42 
Land - Leasehold 
4
 333.55 
 338.85 
Total Non Current assets pledged as security
 27,399.92 
 27,488.07 
Total assets pledged as security
 65,486.84 
 64,115.68 
* Property, plant and equipment as per Note 3 includes moveable asset for employee benefits, which has not been pledged.
No charges or satisfaction are pending to be registered with ROC beyond the statutory period.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
273
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 43 : MOVEMENT IN DEFERRED TAX BALANCES
Particulars
As at April 1, 2023
For the year 2023-24
As at March 31, 2024 
 Deferred 
tax asset 
 Deferred 
tax liability 
Recognised 
in profit or 
loss 
Recognised 
in OCI
Deferred 
tax asset 
Deferred 
tax liability
 ` in Lakhs 
` in Lakhs
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
Deferred Tax Assets/
Liabilities
Property, plant and 
equipment
 (10.63)
 4,637.80 
 120.99 
 - 
 (10.63)
 4,758.79 
Provisions
 5.11 
 (1,378.10)
 55.48 
 - 
 7.43 
 (1,324.94)
Lease Liabilities 
 4.35 
 58.27 
 (4.10)
 - 
 8.45 
 58.27 
Merger expenses 
 - 
 (27.97)
 (310.05)
 - 
 - 
 (294.21)
Amortisation of Processing 
fees
 - 
 8.44 
 (6.42)
 - 
 - 
 2.02 
Fair Valuation 
 - 
 78,721.02 
 (617.19)
 - 
 - 
 78,103.83 
Expenses allowed on 
Payment
 1.99 
 (122.02)
 (48.44)
 (0.04)
 1.99 
 (170.50)
Tax - Loss carry forwards
 23.81 
 - 
 9.08 
 - 
 14.73 
 - 
Others (Including MAT Credit)
 102.85 
 - 
 (0.30)
 - 
 103.15 
 - 
Deferred Tax Assets/
Liabilities
 127.48 
 81,897.44 
 (800.95)
 (0.04)
 125.12 
 81,133.26
Particulars
As at April 1, 2022
For the year 2022-23
As at March 31, 2023 
 Deferred 
tax asset 
 Deferred 
tax liability 
Recognised 
in profit or 
loss 
Recognised 
in OCI
Deferred 
tax asset 
Deferred 
tax liability
 ` in Lakhs 
` in Lakhs
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
 ` in Lakhs 
Deferred Tax Assets/
Liabilities
Property, plant and 
equipment
 (17.85)
 4,542.14 
 88.45 
 - 
 (10.63)
 4,637.80 
Provisions
 2.64 
 (1,058.55)
 (321.51)
 0.51 
 5.11 
 (1,378.10)
Lease Liabilities 
 3.53 
 62.58 
 (5.13)
 - 
 4.35 
 58.27 
Merger expenses 
 - 
 (41.58)
 13.60 
 - 
 - 
 (27.97)
Amortisation of Processing 
fees
 - 
 16.22 
 (7.78)
 - 
 - 
 8.44 
Fair Valuation 
 - 
 79,338.23 
 (617.22)
 - 
 - 
 78,721.02 
Expenses allowed on 
Payment
 1.95 
 (118.56)
 (3.35)
 0.15 
 1.99 
 (122.02)
Tax - Loss carry forwards
 - 
 - 
 (23.81)
 - 
 23.81 
 - 
Others (Including MAT Credit)
 102.85 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 102.85 
 - 
Deferred Tax Assets/
Liabilities
 93.12 
 82,740.48 
 (876.75)
 0.66 
 127.48 
 81,897.44 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
274
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
NOTE 44 : INCOME TAX EXPENSE
(a)	 Amounts recognised in profit and loss
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Current income tax
 4,084.65 
 2,077.62 
Earlier year tax
 (1.30)
 3.07 
Deferred tax expense
 (800.95)
 (876.75)
Tax expense for the year
 3,282.40 
 1,203.94 
(b)	 Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
 ` in Lakhs 
Particulars 
Year ended March 31, 2024
Year ended March 31, 2023
Before tax
Tax (expense) 
benefit
Net of tax
Before tax
Tax (expense) 
benefit
 Net of tax
Items that will not be 
reclassified to profit or 
loss
Remeasurements of the 
defined benefit plans
 (315.04)
 77.76 
 (237.28)
 (634.38)
 159.67 
 (474.71)
Total
 (315.04)
 77.76 
 (237.28)
 (634.38)
 159.67 
 (474.71)
(c)	 Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Particulars
Year ended 
March 31, 2024
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
` in Lakhs
` in Lakhs
Profit before tax
 12,847.37 
 3,851.16 
Tax using the Company’s domestic tax rate : 25.168%
 3,233.43 
 969.26 
Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible (taxable) in calculating 
taxable income
 12.83 
 53.43 
Other tax adjustment (including re-assessment of deferred taxes post 
business combination)
 2.28 
 254.85 
Effect of Income that is exempted from Tax
 30.92 
 157.36 
Adjustments for taxes of prior periods 
 (1.30)
 3.07 
Effect of difference in tax rates in companies (net of impact of elimination 
and adjustments on consolidation)
 4.24 
 (234.03)
Total
 3,282.40 
 1,203.94 
	
The tax rate used for the year 2023-24 and 2022-23 reconciliations above is the corporate tax rate of 25.168% payable 
by corporate entities in India on taxable profits under the Indian tax law.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
275
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Corporate Overview
Statutory Reports
Financial Statements
NOTE 45 : ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AS REQUIRED UNDER SCHEDULE III TO THE COMPANIES ACT 2013, OF ENTERPRISE 
CONSOLIDATED AS SUBSIDIARY:
2023-24
Particulars
Name of the Company
 Net Assets, i.e., total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit or loss
Share in other comprehensive 
income
Share in total comprehensive 
income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
` in Lakhs
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
` in 
Lakhs
As % of 
consolidated other 
comprehensive 
income
` in 
Lakhs
As % of 
consolidated total 
comprehensive 
income
` in 
Lakhs
Parent
Eureka Forbes Limited
99.44%
 420,302.71 
95.73%
 9,156.85 
110.90%
 (235.88)
95.39%
 8,920.97 
Subsidiaries
Indian
Forbes Aquatech Limited 
0.25%
 1,042.19 
0.09%
 8.58 
0.05%
 (0.10)
0.09%
 8.48 
Infinite Water Solutions 
Private Limited
0.83%
 3,514.99 
5.85%
 559.31 
0.46%
 (0.97)
5.97%
 558.34 
Foreign
Euro Forbes Limited, Dubai
0.00%
 3.32 
0.00%
 0.38 
0.00%
 - 
0.00%
 0.38 
Forbes Lux FZE
-0.18%
 (750.30)
-1.29%
 (123.24)
0.00%
 - 
-1.32%
 (123.24)
Adjustment/ elimination on 
consolidation
-0.37%
 (1,548.54)
-0.40%
 (38.02)
-11.41%
 24.26 
-0.15%
 (13.75)
Non-controlling Interest in all 
subsidiaries
0.03%
 119.97 
0.01%
 1.11 
0.01%
 (0.01)
0.01%
 1.10 
Total
100.00%
 422,684.34 
100.00%
 9,564.97 
100.00%
 (212.70)
100.00%
 9,352.27
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the year ended on March 31, 2024
276
Integrated Annual Report 2023-24
Eureka Forbes Limited
2022-23
Particulars
Name of the Company
 Net Assets, i.e., total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit or loss
Share in other comprehensive 
income
Share in total comprehensive 
income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
` in Lakhs
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or loss
` in 
Lakhs
As % of 
consolidated other 
comprehensive 
income
` in 
Lakhs
As % of 
consolidated total 
comprehensive 
income
` in 
Lakhs
Parent
Eureka Forbes Limited  
(formerly Forbes Enviro 
Solutions Limited)
99.52%
 407,932.98 
64.52%
 1,708.02 
94.87%
 (472.78)
57.48%
 1,235.24 
Subsidiaries
Indian
Forbes Aquatech Limited 
0.25%
 1,039.57 
-2.48%
 (65.61)
0.08%
 (0.38)
-3.07%
 (65.99)
Infinite Water Solutions Pvt 
Limited
0.72%
 2,956.64 
26.50%
 701.51 
0.30%
 (1.51)
32.58%
 700.00 
Foreign
Euro Forbes Limited, Dubai
0.00%
 2.96 
-0.28%
 (7.38)
-0.17%
 0.86 
-0.30%
 (6.52)
Forbes Lux FZCO
-0.15%
 (618.30)
-23.34%
 (617.84)
2.40%
 (11.95)
-29.31%
 (629.79)
Adjustment/ elimination on 
consolidation
-0.38%
 (1,549.41)
35.40%
 937.05 
2.52%
 (12.55)
43.02%
 924.50 
Non-controlling Interest in all 
subsidiaries
0.03%
 118.86 
-0.32%
 (8.53)
0.01%
 (0.04)
-0.40%
 (8.57)
Total
100.00%
 409,883.30 
100.00%
 2,647.22 
100.00%
 (498.35)
100.00%
 2,148.87 
EUREKA FORBES LIMITED
CIN: L27310MH2008PLC188478
Registered Office
B1/B2, 7th Floor, 701, Marathon Innova,
Ganpatrao Kadam Marg,
Lower Parel, Mumbai – 400 013.
Phone No: +91 22 4882 1700 I Fax No: +91 22 4882 1701
Website: www.eurekaforbes.com
